12-04-2021||First Edit||Court order on Gyanvapi flawed||The order passed by a civil court in Varanasi, directing the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to conduct a survey at the Gyanvapi mosque which lies close to the Kashi Vishwanath temple, is apparently legally flawed. There is a long-standing claim that the mosque was built after demolishing a temple which stood there in the 17th century, and the survey ostensibly is intended to find out the veracity of the claim. Sangh Parivar organisations, including the BJP, have demanded that the temple should be reclaimed, and clubbed the matter with the Babri Majid dispute. The claim has got a new life after the Supreme Court in 2019 awarded the site on which the Babri Masjid stood to the Hindu side. The Varanasi court’s order would bring the issue back into focus.  The court’s order seems to go against the intent of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, which froze the status of all places of worship, except the Babri Masjid, as it existed on August 15, 1947. As the law provided that all cases for change of status shall abate, the civil court’s order to the ASI would be considered as contrary to the law. There is also a stay, given by the Allahabad High Court, on a suit seeking the reopening of the issue. The High Court has only last month reserved its orders on the maintainability of the suit. It is odd for a lower court to pronounce an order on a matter when the High Court is yet to decide on it and its stay is in operation. In a case relating to the Places of Worship Act, a different court had observed that the matter should be decided ‘’only after taking fresh evidence’’. It is this that has perhaps been used by the Varanasi court to tell the ASI to look for evidence of a shrine, but its legality is in doubt.  The issue of legality aside, the politics surrounding the temple issue is worrying and sends out signs of coming troubles as it may become disruptive and provocative. The Ayodhya campaign was polarising and did much damage to the country’s social harmony and communal peace. It gave rise to a more confrontationist and majoritarian politics. The divisions created then have widened since, and new issues are being brought up to keep the pot boiling. The country does not gain by resurrecting old disputes and trying to correct history’s excesses and mistakes, even if they had happened. In fact, the issue that is sought to be made out over the Gyanvapi mosque is not about history or religion but about politics. The civil judge’s order will be challenged, but it has fore-fronted another divisive issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/court-order-on-gyanvapi-flawed-973638.html
12-04-2021||In Perspective||Deviating from the aim of reservation||Reservation in India has always been considered as a powerful tool to provide power in form of representation to the marginalised caste groups which include Schedule Cast (SC), Schedule Tribe (ST) and the Other Backward Classes (OBC) who have suffered historic injustice because of the caste hierarchy that has persisted in the Indian society. However, in January 2019, the Central Government passed the 103rd Constitutional amendment which added Article 15(6) and Article 16(6) to the Constitution of India 1950. It allowed the state to make “any special provision for the advancement of any economically weaker sections (EWS) of citizens” other than the classes mentioned in Article 15 (4), 15(5), 16(4) and 16(5), which essentially excluded ST, SC and OBC’s from claiming reservation as EWS. Article 15(6) allowed the State to make special provision for EWS with respect to admission to educational institutions and Article 16(6) provided reservation in appointments and post for EWS. As per Robert Hale, law plays an important role in the distribution of resources among social classes. In every distributive action, there exists a group that has a coercive capacity that enables it to exercise withholding power over every action that is taken. Such a group always has higher bargaining and simply leaves a volitional choice for the remaining group, which means their choice is limited and decided by the group having higher withholding power. This results in an asymmetry in the structure of mutual coercion where irrespective of whether you keep two groups at the same position they will end up having unequal power and imbalanced distribution of resources. Such asymmetry in the distribution of resources is very evident in the Indian context wherein the rigid caste structure has always discriminated against the marginalised caste groups which have led to unequal distribution of resources.  As per the amendment, the EWS are entitled to 10% reservation in educational institutions and government jobs. The criteria for determining the EWS is that the family must have an annual gross income below 8 lakh rupees, the agriculture land ownership must be less than five acres and the area of the house must not be above 1,000 sqft.  As per the Union Cabinet note this criteria was set based on the report of the expert committee in 1983 that decided the fixed limit for identifying creamy layer among the Socially Backward Classes and is presently the income limit for OBCs.  However, it is important to note that this limit was set up for OBCs who as a collective group were entitled to the reservation because of their social and economic backwardness and then Rs 8 lakh income limit was carved out as a creamy layer because they were considered to have overcome economic backwardness, but in the present case, reservation is claimed solely on economic backwardness basis and the general category does not constitute a class collectively entitled to reservation, therefore, an attempt to draw parity between economically disadvantaged sections and socially discriminated classes is completely misleading.  In addition to this, the official documents have cited 2011-12 NSSO survey stating that the survey found out that people spending less than average per capita monthly expenditure belong not only to SC, ST and OBC categories, but also include the general category. Even if this survey is considered, it does not explain why Rs 8 lakh was chosen as the limit in the case of the general category. The main problem with the Rs 8 lakh limit is that it would cover almost 90% of the general category which in a way deviate from the very object of affirmative action, which is the upliftment of the economically weaker sections and not almost the entire population. Because of the Rs 8 lakh income cap, the high-income households would be the ones receiving the highest benefits in both education/employment as compared to the low-income groups.  According to the Human Development Survey conducted in 2012, it was highlighted how there exists unequal opportunities in education and employment across caste and classes due to economic and social backwardness. A low-income household chance of getting opportunities through reservation is 30% less than that of high-income households. It is ironic how the government has set Rs 2.5 lakh income per annum as the limit for paying income tax and consider this limit high enough to make people eligible to pay tax and on the other side considers Rs 8 lakh family income as economic backwardness.  As per the income tax returns data from 2019-20, only 50 lakh people declared their income to be above 9.5 lakh which constitutes approximately, 1.5% of the country’s population. Although the precise number of people earning less than Rs 8 lakh is not known, the percentage cannot be less than 90%. In such a case, the cap of Rs 8 lakh is too broad and unfair for the people at the lower strata of Rs 8 lakh income cap among the general category. Accordingly, it is concluded that EWS would end up benefitting those having income closer to the Rs 8 lakh limit amongst the EWS and would result in increase in inequality. (The writer is with National Law School India University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/deviating-from-the-aim-of-reservation-973639.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Active Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada crosses 1,000-mark||Dakshina Kannada district registered a total of 133 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday and the active cases in the district reached 1,072. The total positive cases in the district currently stand at 36,785 while 34,970 have recovered and discharged. Out of 1,072 cases, only 144 are undergoing treatment in hospitals and the remaining are in home isolation. District nodal officer Dr Ashok said that 31 patients have been admitted to Wenlock Hospital while 10 are in government hospitals in Bantwal, Belthangady and Puttur. The remaining are undergoing treatment at private hospitals. The district has sufficient beds. DHO Dr Kishore Kumar said that the vaccination festival (Lasika Utsav) will be held across the district till April 14. A special vaccination campaign will be held across the district on April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/active-covid-19-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-cross-1000-mark-973335.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Night curfew violations: 68 vehicles seized in Mangaluru||A total of 68 vehicles were seized on the first day of night curfew, announced by the state government, in Mangaluru city corporation limits on Saturday. According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, 64 two-wheelers and 4 four-wheelers were seized. The night curfew was announced in eight cities in Karnataka as a measure to check the spread of Covid-19. All vehicles plying after 10 pm were checked and unnecessary movement of people was brought under control during the curfew hours between 10 pm and 5 am. The police were seen warning those who were found loitering. At several places, including Kadri, Ladyhill and Kankanady, the police had stopped the employees from returning home after the night shift as well. People were also found arguing with the police. Those with bus tickets to travel at night were allowed to move. The hotels and restaurants had closed down their businesses earlier than usual. Shashi Kumar and DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar too visited a few checkpoints to monitor the enforcement of the curfew. When asked about police stopping the vehicles in spite of possessing valid ID, the police commissioner said, “Some inconveniences were experienced on Day One. I have seen public also behaving rudely with the police.” The city police had set up 45 checkpoints in Mangaluru city limits. A large number of police personnel, including four assistant commissioners, two deputy commissioners, 18 inspectors and 40 sub-inspectors, were deployed in the city to monitor the situation. Meanwhile, the Mangaluru City Corporation in association with Dakshina Kannada district administration has deployed Covid marshals across the city to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in public places. About 50 marshals have been deployed. The marshals will sensitise people in preventing the spread of the pandemic by taking precautionary measures like the use of masks and maintaining social distance. The marshals, along with officials, will visit various places to create awareness. In case of violations, officials will slap fines for violating the guidelines, said sources. District Home Guards Commandant Dr Muraleemohan Choontar said that to effectively implement the Covid-19 guidelines, 125 Home Guards would be deployed as Marshals to implement Covid appropriate behaviour. This comprises 60 wards in MCC, 10 each in Ullal and Puttur CMC limits, 45 in Bantwal, Moodbidri, Someshwara TMC, Kotekar, Mulki, Belthangady, Vittal, Sullia and Kadaba town panchayats. Former Minister B Ramanath Rai expressed displeasure at the police personnel for blocking the vehicles by placing barricades at Padil, on the outskirts of Mangaluru. As there was traffic congestion on the road following the police enforcing night curfew, Rai alighted from the car and spoke to police and urged the police to remove the barricades to facilitate easy movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/night-curfew-violations-68-vehicles-seized-in-mangaluru-973338.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Labourer found murdered in Mangaluru||A labourer was found murdered with his throat slit near the railway track at Baikampady on Monday morning. According to DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar, the deceased is Yallappa (47), a native of Bagalkot, who was working in Baikampady Industrial Area. Fingerprint experts and dog squad have rushed to the spot and an investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/labourer-found-murdered-in-mangaluru-973459.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||11 child labourers rescued in Udupi since 2015||A total of 11 child labourers have been rescued in Udupi district since 2015. According to the information obtained under RTI from the labour officer in Udupi, five child labourers were rescued in 2015, one in 2018, three in 2019 and two in 2020. No child labourer has been rescued till February-end of 2021. According to the available information, two among the 11 child labourers were directly handed over to their parents while nine were produced before Child Welfare Committee (CWC). As per the CWC order, the rescued children were handed over to their parents. Information sought under RTI revealed that convictions have happened in all 11 cases. The Rehabilitation Society has conducted two meetings in Udupi between 2015 and 2021. A total of Rs 24,91,902.61 Child Labour Corpus Fund is available in Udupi. The corpus fund of Rs 9,80,000 was collected from the accused employers of 49 child labourers rescued in Udupi district since the institution of the corpus fund. The government had released Rs 1 lakh for the fund in 2016-17. The interest earned so far is Rs 14,91,902.61. In fact, the corpus fund was established for rescued child labourers in the name of Deputy Commissioners in every district as per the Supreme Court’s direction in the M C Mehta vs Government of Tamil Nadu case in 1996. Deputy Commissioner of each district is the sole signatory of the corpus fund account and on the basis of directions from the Supreme Court, the state government had issued circular to use the funds for the education, welfare and rehabilitation of the rescued children.  The state government in the year 2016-17 had released Rs one lakh each for the corpus funds in 15 districts in Karnataka—Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Gadag, Hassan, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Udupi, Ramanagara, Yadgiri, Chikkaballapura, Kodagu, Ballari and Bagalkote. In its order, the government had directed to use the corpus funds for supplying food for the rescued children, to meet educational needs of the kids and reimbursement of petrol, diesel spent on the vehicle used for tracing the child labourers in case the labour department’s vehicle was not available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-child-labourers-rescued-in-udupi-since-2015-973462.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||TAPMI achieves 100% placement with highest package of Rs 25 lakh||T A Pai Management Institute (TAPMI) successfully completed placements for its flagship PGDM – General batch of 2019-21 with an average salary of Rs 11.1 lakh. This year, the highest package offered was Rs 25 lakh per annum. TAPMI has achieved an almost 2.7 times increase in post-programme salary in comparison to the pre-programme salary. This year, 338 students were eligible for placements. Six students among them opted to launch their own initiatives. A total of 332 students were placed in 139 companies. As many as 65 students were offered pre-placement through summer internships with an average package of Rs 12.6 lakh. The Banking, financial services, and insurance (BFSI) sector was the biggest recruiter (36 per cent) followed by IT, Analytics, and E-commerce (33 per cent), and consulting (21 per cent). Key recruiters included Lowe's India, BYJU's, Bajaj Finserv, Salesforce, Deloitte USI, TITAN Company Limited, Larsen and Toubro Limited, HP Inc, Nestlé India Limited, Brillio, ITC, Capgemini, GEP Worldwide, J P Morgan Services India Pvt Ltd, Virtusa Polaris, EY India, Citibank, Grant Thornton, Accenture, Airtel Payments Bank, CRISIL, Dell Technologies, Decathlon, Godrej & Boyce, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Infosys, KPMG, Michael Page, Oracle, PhonePe, Mindtree, Lenskart, Teamlease, TVS Motors, Wells Fargo, SBI Capital Markets Limited, Wipro Consumer Care and Lighting, Sequel Logistics, Shemaroo Entertainment Ltd, Tresvista Financial Services Ltd. TAPMI Director Prof Madhu Veeraraghavan said TAPMI’s strong placement is an "outcome of our industry-relevant curriculum that focuses on imparting skills and competencies to contend with challenges and opportunities in today’s complex environment. The performance of our students has been extraordinary given the challenges thrown at them by the pandemic.”  TAPMI has also successfully placed 100 per cent of students in its specialist PGDM – Banking and Financial Services (PGDM-BKFS) and PGDM – Marketing Programme. The average salary of the PGDM – BKFS programme is Rs 10.3 lakh. The average salary of PGDM - Marketing is Rs 10 lakh. The placements for the specialist PGDM – HR are on track with 80 per cent of the batch already placed, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tapmi-achieves-100-placement-with-highest-package-of-rs-25-lakh-973465.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Eight members of highway robbery gang arrested in Mangaluru||The Mangaluru CCB sleuths arrested eight members of notorious TB gang that was planning highway robbery in Mangaluru city and in Dakshina Kannada. The arrested are Tauseer alias Pathonji Tauseer (28) from Marnamikatte, Mohammed Arafat alias Arafa (29) from Farangipet, Taslim (27) from Ammemar, Naseer Hussain (20) from Bantwal, Mohammed Rafeeq (37) from Pudu, Mohammed Safwan alias Safwan (25) from Pudu, Mohammed Jainuddin (24) from Ammemar and Unaiz alias Mohammed Unaiz (26) from Pudu. The CCB sleuths who were on special rounds for night curfew, arrested the gang members holding lethal weapons while trying to waylay the vehicles at Parari near Ulaibettu in Mangaluru Rural Police Station jurisdiction, said City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. The police have recovered two swords, two knives, one dragon knife, eight mobile phones, five monkey caps, three packets of chilly powder, and one Innova car. The value of the total seized properties is Rs 10,89,490, informed the Police Commissioner. Explaining the activities of the gang, the Commissioner said that the gang was led by Tauseer and history-sheeter Bathish (TB) who is absconding in foreign country. On the directions of Bathish, the gang members were involved in extortion in Mangaluru. The gang was engaged in the settlement of financial deals of members of Muslim community in Mangaluru. Further, the Commissioner said on the direction of Bathish, the gang was conspiring to extort money from many, and even engage in kidnapping. The gang members had been to Bengaluru to kidnap Ziyad, a businessman. As they could not trace him, they returned back to Mangaluru and planned highway robbery. Among the arrested, Tauseer had made a futile robbery attempt in a house in Dharmasthala in 2020 and had killed a dog in the house. There are six cases including murder attempt, dacoity, assault against him in various police stations in Dakshina Kannada. Taslim was involved in the double murder of Riyaz and Fayaz at Farangipet in 2017. In addition, there are 12 cases against him. He was absconding after the robbery attempt in a house at Dharmasthala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eight-members-of-highway-robbery-gang-arrested-in-mangaluru-973476.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC employee consumes poison at bus stand||With the KSRTC workers intensifying the protest seeking implementation of 6th Pay Commission recommendations, an employee attempted suicide by consuming poison at the bus depot in Hassan, on Monday. The person was Palaksha, 40, vice president of Hassan-Chikkamagaluru KSRTC Employees Cooperative Society. Seeking justice for the protesting KSRTC employees, Palaksha alleged that the government is harassing them by issuing transfers and also by filing FIR against the protesters. The government has turned blind over the issue, he alleged. He has been admitted to the district hospital in Hassan for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-employee-consumes-poison-at-bus-stand-973552.html
12-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two killed, six injured as SUV runs over a group of pedestrians in Dharwad||Two pedestrians were killed on the spot and six others injured when a speeding SUV ran over them. The accident occurred near the head office of Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank on Dharwad-Belagavi road here on Monday afternoon. Police said the injured have been admitted to the hospital where the condition of one of them is critical. The deceased have been identified as Shekhar Huddar (37) and Charan Nayak (17). Six persons were standing outside the KVG Bank compound and a speeding SUV ran over them, the police said. Vijay Kulkarni, brother of former minister Vinay Kulkarni was travelling in the SUV. Following the accident people who had gathered staged a protest and demanded action against the rash and negligent driver. Dharwad traffic police have registered a case and seized the vehicle involved in the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-killed-six-injured-as-suv-runs-over-a-group-of-pedestrians-in-dharwad-973561.html
12-04-2021||Main Article||Making support systems responsive is crucial||Sexual abuse is traumatic and its impact is lifelong. With the perpetrator often known to the victim, cases of sexual abuse remain wrapped in an insidious silence and for the same reason, are difficult to tackle. When abuse is severe the mind is humiliated fearful and lonely. “I feel like committing suicide...I keep weeping inside” a 16-year-old summarised her feelings.  Often, the family restricts the movement of the victim due to threat from the abuser and his family members, fear of further abuse or humiliation by society. The child tends to feel the loss of freedom and punished for the assault. In addition, the glacial pace of the justice delivery system and lack of effective support services further aggravate the trauma faced by the child. The victim remains victimised making it difficult to return to normal life. Let us understand which are those essential services that a child needs to overcome the trauma other than of course the conviction of the accused. The trauma faced by a child has two main aspects, physical injury and psychological trauma. While the law mandates that medical treatment of the victim should be free, but costly procedures and proper facilities are not available with government hospitals. There is an urgent need to improve medical services for victims of sexual abuse and this can be guaranteed by setting up a dedicated unit in every district hospitals and community health centres.  The other aspect of psychological impact is much severe and requires special skills and techniques. The immediate impact of abuse on the child may include extreme emotional disturbance such as anxiety, nervousness, depression, anger, and low self-esteem whereas long-term effects can include negative perception of the self, confusion of sexual identity and preferences, self-destructive behaviour, inability to form productive relationships, etc. Sometimes the wrath of social discrimination, exclusion and stigma break their self-confidence, self-respect and self-esteem. This also makes it difficult for them to regain trust in people. Along with the child, the family too needs help and counselling. Although, these children initially go through trauma but later emerge out of it with the support of their family and friends.  However, where families are not supportive or are unable to deal with trauma and lack access to support services, children continue to suffer and are denied opportunities to heal and recover from the trauma. In view of these needs, the role of mental health professionals is of critical importance. It is not only essential to provide services of such professionals to every child but it’s cost must also be borne by the government.  Another essential service is legal help (lawyer). In every case of child sexual abuse, Section 32(1) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act mandates that the State Government appoints a Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) for every Special Court. Although the wording of the section in the law implies that these are to be exclusive SPPs to handle POCSO cases. However, in practice, they handle other cases as well and due to heavy workload, the POCSO cases are delayed. In 2019, 1.33 lakh cases were pending in courts with a pendency percentage of 88.8%. In 389 districts across the country the number of pending cases under POCSO Act exceeds 100. This is a matter of grave concern and there is a need for dedicated SPPs to deal with POCSO cases. The other important person in POCSO cases is the support person. A support person is assigned by the Child Welfare Committee to render assistance to the child throughout the process of investigation and trial. This person is a link between the child and the justice delivery system and also prepares the child for court proceedings and ensures child’s interest and views are heard and taken into account at every step of the process. Unfortunately, the States have not prioritised their appointments. A Study conducted by National Law School in five states (Delhi, Assam, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka) revealed that in a majority of districts in these states support persons are limited, wherever they exist there is significant overlap and confusion about their nature of work. No data is available at the national level to suggest in how many of the 69,000 POCSO cases registered in 2019, support persons were provided. No urgency is seen by the government in addressing this important aspect. A victim of sexual abuse is not a victim of one abuse but multiple abuses - physical abuse, emotional abuse, mental abuse, stigma, neglect and overall deprivation of the right to live with dignity. While a time-bound legal process and child-centric jurisprudence is non-negotiable, the role of experts in helping him walk this arduous journey is equally essential. The Supreme Court has recognised the urgency and given orders to set up Fast Track Courts and exclusive POCSO Courts, it is now time for the State Governments to match the efforts by providing support services.  (The writer is Director of Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/making-support-systems-responsive-is-crucial-973640.html
12-04-2021||National||Covid-19 overwhelms healthcare system in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh||The second wave of Covid-19 has begun to overwhelm the healthcare systems as shortage of staff, oxygen, ventilator and ICU beds are being reported from some of the worst hit districts of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab where daily Covid-19 count and toll are on a steady rise. The central teams visiting Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab reported multiple loopholes ranging from lack of oxygen and ambulance services to poor perimeter control in the containment zones that the state administrations need to plug. In Maharashtra – hardest hit by the epidemic in the second surge - testing capacity has been overwhelmed in six districts, oxygen supply is an issue in four and healthcare staff is in short supply in seven districts affecting services like monitoring of patients at home.+ In Chhattisgarh that reported more than 14,000 new Covid-19 cases and 123 deaths in the last 24 hours, emergency beds have been exhausted in the worst affected districts. There is 100 per cent occupancy of ICU beds in eight out of ten districts and 80-100 per cent ventilator occupancy in four out of six districts. The situation is similar in two Maharashtra districts (Ahmednagar, Nandurbar) where barely any ICU and ventilator beds are available because of 100 per cent occupancy.  The central Indian state that reported more than 10,000 new cases daily for the last four consecutive days has a shortage of ambulances, delaying arrival of the patients in hospitals. In Korba, Durg, Balod districts there are very few RT-PCR tests, which according to the central guideline should be 70 per cent of all the tests in order to find out the hidden infections. In Punjab, which continues to report high Covid-19 mortality, lack of dedicated hospitals and Covid care facilities combined with staff shortage are key issues in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar (Ropar) districts that are among the hardest hit. These are some of the findings of the central teams visiting 30 districts of Maharashtra, 11 districts of Chhattisgarh and nine districts Punjab for an on-the spot assessment of the ground situations to aid the state administration. Based on their reports, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the states flagging the gaps. Lack of adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour has been found in all the three states that need to enhance the level of enforcement. With more than 11.08 lakh active cases, the peak in active cases in the second surge overtook the first peak reported on September 18. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 71 per cent of total active cases with Maharashtra alone accounting for nearly half of the total active cases. In the last 24 hours, 1,52,879 new cases and 839 Covid-19 deaths were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-overwhelms-healthcare-system-in-maharashtra-chhattisgarh-973349.html
12-04-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Tika Utsav' marks second-biggest war on Covid-19||Asserting that the 'Tika Utsav', a vaccination drive between April 11 and 14, marks the beginning of the second big war on Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made several suggestions to people on tackling the virus and urged them to focus on personal and social hygiene. In a statement, he urged people to keep four things in mind, including "each one, vaccinate one", "each one, treat one" and "each one, save one".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-tika-utsav-marks-second-biggest-war-on-covid-19-973354.html
12-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 12||India surpassed 1.35 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 29 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,35,27,717 as of April 12, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,70,179 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->        No. of people discharged: 1,21,56,529 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-12-973385.html
12-04-2021||National||SC stops physical hearing of cases after several staff members test Covid-19 positive||The Supreme Court on Monday delayed sittings of courts by one hour and stopped physical mentioning of matters for urgent hearing, due to high incidences of Covid-19 cases among staff. As many as 44 staff were found positive of Covid-19, forcing the administration to sanitise the apex court's premises. It was also decided for judges to hold the virtual courts from their residences only, sources said. Two notifications were issued stating that the courts would take up matters from 11.30 am instead of usual timing of 10.30 am. The bench led by CJI which starts normally on all working days from 11 am also rescheduled its sitting after one hour. Meanwhile, physical mentioning of the matters before the SC official for urgent listing was suspended. Lawyers were allowed to mention the matters by virtual mode before the court. The top court has been holding virtual hearings of cases since March, 2020 after emergence of Covid-19 pandemic. Newly elected office bearers, including President of Supreme Court Bar Association, Vikash Singh has repeatedly made demands to start physical hearings of the matters due to hardships faced by young and junior counsel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stops-physical-hearing-of-cases-after-several-staff-members-test-covid-19-positive-973408.html
12-04-2021||National||India logs nearly 1.7 lakh new Covid-19 cases in a fresh peak, over 900 deaths||India hit a new coronavirus infection record with 1,68,912 new cases, the highest single-day rise so far, taking the total tally of cases to 1,35,27,717, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has fallen below 90 per cent. The active cases have surpassed the 12-lakh mark, while the death toll increased to 1,70,179 with 904 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 33rd day in row, the active cases have increased to 12,01,009 comprising 8.88 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 89.86 per cent.   The active caseload was at its lowest at  1,35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,21,56,529, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.26 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,78,06,986 samples have been tested up to April 11 with 11,80,136 samples being tested on Sunday. The 904 new fatalities include 349 from Maharashtra, 122 from Chhattisgarh, 67 from Uttar Pradesh, 59 from Punjab, 54from Gujarat, 48 from Delhi, 40 from Karnataka, 24 from Madhya Pradesh, 22 from Tamil Nadu, 21 from Jharkhand, 16 each  from Kerala and Haryana and 10 each from Rajasthan and West Bengal. A total of 1,70,179 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 57,987 from Maharashtra, 12,908 from Tamil Nadu, 12,889 from Karnataka, 11,283 from Delhi, 10,400 from West Bengal, 9,152 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,507 from Punjab and 7,300 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-nearly-17-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-fresh-peak-over-900-deaths-973410.html
12-04-2021||National||India overtakes Brazil to become world's second worst-hit country by Covid-19||India on Monday overtook Brazil as the country with the second-highest number of coronavirus infections, as it reported a new daily record of more than 168,000 cases. The vast nation of 1.3 billion people has been reporting a rapid increase in new infections in recent weeks, with the surge taking the total toll to 13.5 million cases, above Brazil's 13.48 million. Experts have warned that huge, mostly maskless and tightly packed crowds at political rallies in poll-bound states, mass religious festivals and at other public places were fuelling the new wave of infections. "The whole country has been complacent -- we allowed social, religious and political congregations," Rajib Dasgupta, a health professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, told AFP. "No-one queued up (for social distancing) anymore." The country has recorded more than 873,000 cases in the last seven days -- an increase of 70 percent compared to the previous week, according to data compiled by AFP. In comparison, Brazil recorded just over 497,000 cases with an increasing trend of 10 percent from the previous week. The United States -- the worst-hit country -- reported just under 490,000 cases with a rising trend of nine percent. The spike in India, after daily rises in cases fell below 9,000 in early February, has seen many badly affected states and territories impose restrictions on movement and activities. India's wealthiest state Maharashtra, which has been the main driver of the infection spike, last week imposed a weekend lockdown and night curfew. But Maharashtra has warned that a complete lockdown -- a drastic measure that national and state governments have tried to avoid to protect the already devastated economy -- could be imposed within the next few days as cases continue to rise. "The solution is for everyone to stay home for two months and end this (pandemic) once and for all. But the public doesn't listen," said Rohit, 28, a waiter at a popular Mumbai restaurant who moved to the financial hub for work from the northern state of Punjab. "Nobody follows the rules in the restaurant... If we tell customers to wear masks, they are rude and disrespectful to us." The chief minister of India's capital New Delhi, where a night curfew is in place, said Sunday that 65 percent of new Covid-19 patients were less than 45 years old. His government was not in favour of a lockdown, but said it would consider imposing one if hospital beds start running out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-overtakes-brazil-to-become-worlds-second-worst-hit-country-by-covid-19-973411.html
12-04-2021||National||Dr Batra's to offer free homeopathy treatment to 50,000 people in 2021||Indian homeopathy brand Dr Batra’s has decided to give free treatment to 50,000 persons this year.The announcement comes at a time when India is reeling under the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Making the announcement, Mukesh Batra, Founder, Dr Batra’s Group of Companies, said, “We promise to provide free homeopathic treatment to over 50,000 underprivileged patients this year. Additionally, as we battle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, we will also be distributing free doses of Arsenic Album 30 to patients who visit the clinics.” The announcement was made at the online release of ‘Healing People, Changing Lives’, a coffee table book by Dr Batra, Rajiv Bajaj, Managing Director, Bajaj Auto and Sharad Marathe, Chairman, AYUSH Taskforce. “Homeopathy has always been thought of in a way that it is not evidence-based. But life doesn’t always come with evidence first, for example, gravity was always experienced but its evidence came into being when an apple fell on Newton’s head. So, even though evidence-based science is of course important, homeopaths need to lead with experience and the evidence will follow in the due course of time,” said Bajaj. “I believe it is time India is put on the world map for its healthcare which has quality and is cost-effective and homeopathy is a very big way to do it. Covid-19 has actually given us an opportunity to help make a breakthrough in the homeopathic world.” “As leaders in the field of homeopathy in India, I am delighted to present Healing People, Changing Lives that is an amalgamation of rare and difficult to treat cases that our team of over 400 doctors across 7 countries has treated successfully. As a contribution to the field of homeopathy, we will also be distributing copies of the book to medical libraries, institutions and colleges across the country,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-batras-to-offer-free-homeopathy-treatment-to-50000-people-in-2021-973413.html
12-04-2021||National||Former BJP MLA Pascal Dhanare passes away due to Covid-19||Former BJP MLA Pascal Dhanare died at a hospital in Mumbai on Monday, party sources said. Dhanare (49), who was an MLA from Dahanu in Palghar district of Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019, was suffering from Covid-19 and was earlier admitted to a hospital at Vapi in Gujarat, they said. After his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to a hospital in neighbouring Mumbai on Sunday night. Dhanare died in the early hours of Monday, the sources said. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-bjp-mla-pascal-dhanare-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-973416.html
12-04-2021||National||India will come out of Covid-19 crisis with flying colours, says Deloitte CEO||India will come out of the Covid-19 crisis that has impacted the entire world with flying colours, Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen has said, asserting that the 21st century is "India’s century". Renjen said the Indian government has performed well in addressing the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. "This is India’s century and I'm convinced about it,” the 60-year-old prominent Indian-American business leader told PTI in an interview. "I am certainly a little biased given my (Indian) heritage but I'm actually convinced that this is India’s century because of just the raw talent that exists in India, the number of people that comprise India, the democratic tradition that has been around for 75 years,” he said. Observing that the pandemic impacted everyone, Renjen said the pandemic impacted India very hard, given the lockdown that the government had to put in place, given the size of the population and what the virus potentially could do to India. The Rohtak-born Indian-American CEO, who has been heading Deloitte since 2015, described as “remarkable” a recent report from the International Monetary Fund which projected 12.5 per cent growth rate for the country. “Nobody can say with precision, but I really believe that India is going to come out of this pandemic growing at the fastest rate;… definitely the fastest large economy,” he said. “I think the recovery is going to be very strong. The fundamentals (of Indian economy) are there and I'm very bullish as is Deloitte on India,” said Renjen, also a member of the Deloitte Global Board of Directors. This was a very unpredictable virus. India is a country of 1.3 billion people and there are communities in India like Dharavi in Mumbai that are highly congested areas, which are really prime areas for the virus to spread, he said. “Given all of those conditions, I believe that the Indian economy, the Indian people have weathered this as well as they possibly could,” he said, adding that, however, there have been difficult times but that is not just unique to India. “It has been very difficult here in the United States. It's been difficult in Western countries. I'm confident and optimistic there with the vaccines in place, some of the learnings that we've had in the last year that we can actually see a light at the end of the tunnel,” Renjen said. When asked about the foreign direct investment in India, he said the foreign investors look at a number of parameters. "First that look at stable governance. India certainly has that. They look at democratic traditions in the rule of law. India has that. They look at a large consumer base. 1.3 billion people aspiring to come out and be in the middle class or above, India has that in droves. Then it looks at the core comparative advantage. India's comparative advantage of highly talented individuals is second to none,” he said. Deloitte, which provides industry-leading audit, consulting, tax and advisory services to many of the world’s most admired brands, operates in more than 150 countries, with approximately 300,000 professionals. It has 50,000 individuals in India at various centers. “I've committed that over the next few years, we will hire 75,000 additional individuals. And the reason why Deloitte as an entity is looking at India, is because the talent that exists in India. With all of that, I believe that all the makings are there for this to be India century,” he said. Renjen said India needs to ensure that the means of doing business in the country are open, that there is an attraction for foreign investment coming to India to invest in sectors that are important not only for India but also for India being the base to serve the rest of the world. India dominates in terms of vaccine production and there is no reason why the country cannot be the pharmaceutical engine for the rest of the world. India dominates in technology some iconic Indian companies that really operate globally. There's no reason why that can't be expanded, he said. “And why some of the new things that have come out of the pandemic, the silver linings that have come out of the pandemic - digitization, cloud, the technology-enabled secular growth - why India can't drive those areas? I think this is a great opportunity,” he said. Renjen was born and raised in India. He moved to the United States after receiving a Rotary Foundation Scholarship to Willamette University. He has served on the board of trustees of Willamette University and was named among the 100 most influential business leaders who have graduated from the schools accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business International. In 2019, Willamette University conferred upon him an honorary doctorate. Considered to be one of the highly influential CEOs, Renjen is a member of The Business Roundtable, The International Business Council of the World Economic Forum, and serves as the member of several not-for-profit boards including at the United Way Worldwide (chairman) and the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum as its vice-chairman. He was named an honoree to 2012, 2013 and 2014 National Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) “Directorship 100.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-come-out-of-covid-19-crisis-with-flying-colours-says-deloitte-ceo-973426.html
12-04-2021||National||Neuberg Diagnostics organises Covid-19 tests for members of all teams participating in IPL 2021||Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited, one of India’s leading pathology players, has organised Covid-19 RT-PCR tests for members of all the teams participating in IPL 2021. The screening has already started in Mumbai and Chennai where the initial matches are scheduled to be played. Earlier, Neuberg Diagnostics had conducted screening during the IPL auction in Chennai. As per the guidelines, all the players, management team, broadcasting crew, state and central cricket committee members, groundskeepers, hotel staff, and the event management team are being tested. The tests are conducted at various hotels where the teams are stationed in the bio-bubble and at the stadiums for the other staff members at regular intervals. In a press statement, Aishwarya Vasudevan, Group Chief Operating, Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited said, “For the smooth functioning of IPL 2021, we are happy to undertake testing for all team members on the ground and help them curtail the spread of the virus.” Neuberg will be conducting tests at all the venues where the matches are scheduled to be played - Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Delhi and Kolkata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neuberg-diagnostics-organises-covid-19-tests-for-members-of-all-teams-participating-in-ipl-2021-973441.html
12-04-2021||National||Supreme Court turns down plea to stop dismantling of 'INS Viraat'||The Supreme Court on Monday turned down a plea to stop dismantling of decommissioned aircraft carrier 'INS Viraat' for preserving it as a maritime museum. "You have come too late," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told petitioner-in-person Rupali Sharma, who pleaded for the aircraft carrier to be handed over for turning into a national treasure. "We are with you as far as the spirit of nationalism is concerned, but you are too late in this case. We cannot interfere now. Government has already made the decision," the bench told her. The court dismissed the special leave petition against the Bombay High Court's judgement of November 27, 2020. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan contended that the High Court allowed the petitioner to approach the Ministry of Defence which had refused their plea and the matter should end there. On February 10, 2021, the top court ordered status quo on INS Viraat following its decommissioning by Indian Navy in 2017. The court had then passed the interim order on a plea by M/s Envitech Marine Consultants Private Ltd. The petitioner-firm led by Sharma contended it wanted to preserve the ship as a maritime museum. It offered upto Rs 100 crore for the ship, which it claimed has been ordered for dismantling for just Rs 38 crore. INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier, was decommissioned in 2017 after 30 years service to Indian Navy. It was subsequently sold to a ship breaking company as scrap for dismantling at Alang in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-turns-down-plea-to-stop-dismantling-of-ins-viraat-973454.html
12-04-2021||National||SC dismisses plea on removal of verses from Quran with Rs 50,000 cost||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a PIL filed by former chairman of Uttar Pradesh Central Waqf Board Syed Wasim Rizvi, on the removal of certain verses from 'Holy Quran' for allegedly promoting extremism and terrorism with Rs 50,000 cost. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman termed the plea as "absolutely frivolous". At the start, the bench asked the petitioner's counsel, senior advocate R K Raizada if he was pressing for the prayers. The counsel said the Holy book was part of the curriculum in Madrasas where children at the tender age were getting indoctrinated. This was not permissible under Article 25 (right to practise religion) of the Constitution as it has resulted in terror, he claimed. The bench, however, dismissed the plea with the cost. The plea contended 26 verses in the Holy Quran, which violated law of the land, promoted extremism and terrorism and posed a serious threat to the sovereignty, unity and integrity of the country, should be declared as unconstitutional, non-effective and non-functional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-on-removal-of-verses-from-quran-with-rs-50000-cost-973463.html
12-04-2021||National||10 states show a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Ten states — Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 83.02 per cent of the new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. India's daily cases continue to rise and 1,68,912 fresh coronavirus infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise since the outbreak of the pandemic. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily cases at 63,294. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 15,276 while Delhi reported 10,774 new cases.  Sixteen states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 12,01,009 and now comprises 8.88 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 92,922 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a day. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.16 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 47.22% of the total active caseload of the country. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,21,56,529 with 75,086 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, the daily deaths continue to show an upward trend with 904 deaths being reported in a day. Ten States account for 89.16 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (349). Chhattisgarh follows with 122 daily deaths. Nine states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh (UT), D&D and D&N, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10.45 crore as India marks day-2 of the countrywide 'Tika Utsav'. Cumulatively, 10,45,28,565 vaccine doses have been administered through 15,56,361 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am, according to the ministry. These include 90,13,289 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 55,24,344 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 99,96,879 FLWs who have received the 1st dose and 47,95,756 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose. Besides, 4,05,30,321 and 19,42,705  beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the 1st and 2nd dose respectively while 3,20,46,911 and 6,78,360 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the 1st and 2nd dose respectively. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala account for 60.13 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. Nearly 30 lakh vaccination doses were administered on Day 1 of the 'Tika Utsav' on Sunday. Day 1 of the countrywide 'Tika Utsav saw 63,800 Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) operational, which is a rise of an average of 18,800 operational CVCs, the ministry highlighted. Most CVCs were operational in private workplaces. Additionally, despite being a Sunday, which generally witnesses lower vaccination numbers, the first day of the 'Tika Utsav' clocked nearly 30 lakh vaccination doses, the ministry said. As on day-86 of the vaccination drive (April 11), 29,33,418 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 27,01,439 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,398 sessions for 1st dose and 2,31,979 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine. "In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 40,55,055 doses administered per day. The corresponding figure on Sunday was 38,34,574," the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-show-a-steep-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-973467.html
12-04-2021||National||Centre approves Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||Russia’s Sputnik-V vaccine against Covid-19 on Monday was recommended for emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India by a panel of experts of the country’s drug regulator. The recommendation by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) came on a day when India reported the highest ever – 1.68 lakh – Covid-19 cases in a single day and amid opposition clamour for approval for more vaccines to bridge the demand-supply gap. If approved by the Drug Controller General of India, Sputnik-V would be the third Covid-19 vaccine to be deployed in the country’s vaccination drive to control the raging pandemic that has claimed more than 1.70 lakh lives across the country. The health ministry also said India now had 948 cases of the UK, South Africa, and Brazil strains of the coronavirus. Developed by Gamaleya Research Institute of Russia, the Sputnik-V vaccine has 91.6 per cent efficacy as per the interim results of the Phase-3 trials published in The Lancet medical journal. While government sources confirmed the SEC go-ahead for EUA to Sputnik-V, there was no official statement from the Health Ministry in this regard. However, BJP General Secretary B L Santosh took to Twitter to announce the recommendation for EUA for Sputnik-V. “SputnikV vaccine has been approved for emergency use in India after bridge study by Reddy Labs,” Santosh said. In its last meeting on April 1, the SEC of CDSCO sought more data on Sputnik’s clinical trial in India conducted by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. The data was sought on six specific points including “unblinded data of all Serious Adverse Events and RT-PCR Covid-19 positive cases along with causality analysis reported till date for further examination”. In addition, the regulators sought data on “package insert, fact sheet including indication, dosage, schedule, contra-indications, warning, precautions and storage conditions.” Last year, the Russian manufacturers signed their first agreement with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct the clinical trial in India and distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine that would be shipped to the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company. Subsequently, the Russians have signed agreements with Hetero Biopharma, Virchow Biotech, Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, and Panacea Biotech to use their vaccine manufacturing capacity for the production of 950 million doses of Sputnik vaccine in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-russias-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-973492.html
12-04-2021||National||Remdesivir shortage amid Covid surge: How India plans to deal with the crisis||India on Sunday banned the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and its active pharmaceutical ingredients as demand rocketed due to a record surge in Covid-19 infections, leading to shortages in many parts of the country.  "There is a potential of further increase in this demand in the coming days," the ministry said in a statement, adding that the export ban would be in place "till the situation improves". "India is witnessing a recent surge in Covid cases. This has led to a sudden spike in demand for Remdesivir injection used in treatment of Covid patients," the ministry had said. India recorded its highest-ever spike of nearly 1,70 lakh new Covid-19 infections on Monday, April 12. The active cases have crossed 12 lakh. What is Remdesivir? Remdesivir, made by US pharma giant Gilead, was one of the first drugs to show relative promise in shortening the recovery time for some Covid-19 patients. In India, the Union Health Ministry in its 'Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19' last year had recommended the use of Remdesivir in Covid-19 patients in the moderate stages of the illness. The drug was included as an "investigational therapy" and recommended only for restricted emergency use purposes. However, the World Health Organization in November 2020 had issued a conditional recommendation against the use of Remdesivir in hospitalised patients, saying there was no evidence that the drug improved survival and other outcomes. What is the crisis that we're staring at? Several states in India are experiencing shortages of Remdesivir. Additionally India is also seeing an acute scarcity of Covid-19 vaccines with several states having barely enough stocks to last them a few days. Maharashtra, currently the worst-affected state, is facing multiple issues pertaining to the drug, including demand-supply gap, its hoarding and black-marketing by stockists and pharmacy shops, unaffordable prices and irrational prescription by some doctors, among others. "Pharmacists and stockists might be doing black marketing and that needs to be checked," Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Several cities in MP have also reported a shortage of Remdesivir injections that are used in the treatment of infected patients.  “Around 70% of total production is diverted towards Maharashtra. The remaining 30% is distributed to other states. If we need 7,000 vials, we get only 1,500-2,000,” Food and Drug Inspector in MP Shobhit Kosta told the publication. Some other state governments have also raised concerns over hoarding and black marketing of Remdesivir, which in some instances is being sold at over 10 times the maximum retail price, said a Reuters report.  Production slump A lull in demand from December to February led to low or zero production for three months, The Indian Express cited Remdesivir manufacturers as saying. “Government had asked us to reduce manufacturing because Covid-19 cases were reducing and there was no demand,” Dr D J Zafar, MD in Kamla Lifesciences told the publication. According to the report, Hetero Healthcare scaled down production to 5-10%. Kamla Lifesciences, which supplies Remdesivir to Cipla, stopped manufacturing from January 31 to March 1. Currently, Hetero is pushing out 35,000 vials a day while Zydus plans to increase its production to 12 lakh vials a day. Former Joint Commissioner of Drugs, FDA (Maharashtra), J B Mantri even told the publicaton that a few suppliers had to destroy expired stocks. What next? "I have asked all players to ramp up production to full capacity by next week. The drug's API is manufactured in India so there won't be a problem," Mandaviya had said. Seven firms in the country — Mylan, Hetero, Jubiliant Life Sciences, Cipla, Dr Reddy's, Zydus Cadila and Sun Pharma — are licensed to manufacture Remdesivir and have a monthly production capacity of 31.60 lakh vials. Of the 31.60 lakh vials, Hetero produces 10.50 lakh vials a month, Cipla makes 6.20 lakh vials, 5 lakh vials are produced by Zydus Cadila and 4 lakh vials are produced by Mylan.  In addition to that, to ensure easy access of the drug to hospitals and patients, all domestic manufacturers of the drug have been advised to display on their website details of their stockists and distributors, the Union Health Ministry had said.  Zydus Cadila had reduced the price of its generic version of Remdesivir to Rs 899 from 2,800 for a 100 mg vial. Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd has priced the drug at Rs 4,700 per 100 mg vial. Mylan sells it at Rs 4,800 per 100 mg vial while Cipla sells it for Rs 4,000. Hetero, the largest producer of the drug in the country, sells it at Rs 5,400 per 100 mg vial. While Dr Reddy’s said that the company was “preparing to meet additional demand”, Cipla said that it has “have serviced all orders and are in the process to optimise supplies further”.  “We are closely partnering with the government to meet the patient needs in India and ensure access,” a Mylan spokesperson told the publication. (With Agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-shortage-amid-covid-surge-how-india-plans-to-deal-with-the-crisis-973516.html
12-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: India approves Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for emergency use||In your evening news brief, Subject Expert Committee approves Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for emergency use; Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa says state government could impose lockdown if the necessity arises and Guillermo Lasso wins Ecuador's presidential election.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 12, 2021: India's Subject Expert Committee on Monday have approved Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for emergency use, sources told Deccan Herald. The approval comes in the midst of an acute vaccine shortage that have states writing to the Central government as stocks run low. India's Covid surge has raised an alarm as the country reported over 1 lakh cases for the sixth straight day on Monday. India is now the second worst-hit nation, surpassing Brazil.   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the state government could impose lockdown if the necessity arises. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't heed then we may have to take stringent measures. If required and if necessity arises, we will impose lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar. Reacting to queries on the growing coronavirus cases in the state, which saw the numbers breaching 10,000 on Sunday, he said the Prime Minister had also spoken to him about the measures taken by his government.   Former banker Guillermo Lasso won Ecuador's presidential election Sunday, pledging "opportunities and prosperity" despite a pandemic-battered and debt-laden economy and a political system riven by gridlock. Conservative Lasso declared himself president-elect after his socialist opponent Andres Arauz conceded. With 93 per cent of votes counted, the 65-year-old held a lead of almost five percentage points over economist Arauz.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-approves-russias-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-for-emergency-use-973522.html
12-04-2021||National||Centre suspends meals on flights having duration of less than 2 hours||As Covid-19 cases spiked, the Civil Aviation Ministry on Monday asked airlines not to serve meals on domestic flights having a duration of less than two hours. “The airlines operating flights on domestic sectors may provide meals services on board where flight duration is two hours or more,” the ministry said, updating the guidelines for domestic flight operations. The ministry also suggested staggering of inflight meals among adjacent seats as far as possible, apparently to ensure that not all passengers remove their face masks to eat at the same time. The new guidelines will come into effect from Thursday April 15. The decision comes amid reports of passengers violating Covid-19 protocols on board flights, particularly after meals were served. The ministry, while resuming the scheduled domestic flights post-lockdown last year, had allowed airlines to serve in-flight meals with certain conditions such as use of disposable cutlery, plates and glasses for such service. The ministry had clearly banned re-use of disposable trays, crockery and cutleries with elaborate directions for disposing of such items in trash cans. The ministry said a decision to review the on-board meal services in domestic flights had to be taken considering “the increasing threat of Covid-19 and its variants”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-suspends-meals-on-flights-having-duration-of-less-than-2-hours-973525.html
12-04-2021||National||India's economic fallout from second virus wave may be limited: Barclays||India's accelerated vaccination drive may limit the economic disruption caused by a resurgence in Covid-19 cases, Barclays said in a note on Monday, although it warned that shortages in vaccine supply could weigh on the campaign's progress. India racked up the world's highest daily tally of coronavirus infections with 168,912 new cases on Monday, overtaking Brazil as the second-most affected country by the pandemic and causing a plunge in Indian stocks and the rupee. Officials in the worst-hit state of Maharashtra, home to the financial capital of Mumbai, said they were considering a broader lockdown this week after large closures at the weekend. India will be broadly on track to vaccinate 300 million people by August and 500 million by end-2021, Barclays said. "Given the increasingly faster vaccine rollout, the disruption from rising infections and related lockdowns might be limited ... risks to our growth outlook are balanced for now." Some states, including Maharashtra and Odisha, have complained of a scarcity of vaccines during the second wave that has forced some centres to turn away people. "India's ability to continue the current run rate may be at risk, given incremental news flow of supply shortages and vaccine bottlenecks," Barclays said, adding that the constraints were likely to remain given surging demand. Barclays said that if current restrictions remain in place for two months, it could hit nominal gross domestic product by 0.34 percentage points and real GDP by less than 0.20 percentage points, almost twice the impact it calculated previously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-economic-fallout-from-second-virus-wave-may-be-limited-barclays-973527.html
12-04-2021||National||Several parts India to receive rainfall in next 4-5 days: IMD||Several parts of the country are likely to receive rainfall in the next five days due to different cyclonic circulations, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, under the influence of trough and cyclonic circulations over the south peninsula, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds of 30-40 kilometres per hour are very likely over southwest peninsular India in the next five days. The IMD said isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over south and ghat areas of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Mahe, coastal and south interior Karnataka during April 14-16. Another cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring areas. Under its influence, isolated rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning, and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha during next 4-5 days and over Jharkhand during next 24 hours. The IMD said a fresh active western disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region during April 14-17 and adjoining plains during April 15-17. It is very likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) during April 14-17 over western Himalayan region, and light, isolated to scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) over adjoining plains during April 15-17. Isolated hailstorms are also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on April 14-16. Thunderstorm/dust storms at isolated places are also likely over west Rajasthan on April 14 and 15, it added. "Due to thunderstorm activities over most parts of the country, no significant change in maximum temperatures are likely over most parts of the country during next 4-5 days,” the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/several-parts-india-to-receive-rainfall-in-next-4-5-days-imd-973528.html
12-04-2021||National||SC refuses to entertain plea seeking uniform retirement age for judges||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to hear a plea for fixing uniform retirement age of 65 years for both the apex court and high court judges.   A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked petitioner, BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay why he wanted all high court judges to work upto 65 years. The petitioner contended there should not be disparity in the age as both the high courts and the Supreme Court were constitutional courts. He also claimed it was irrational and arbitrary to have different age of retirement. The court, however, asked him to approach the Law and Justice Ministry with his plea. Upadhyay finally preferred to withdraw the plea. The petitioner claimed retirement age of higher court judges varied from 70-80 years in developed countries. For example, judges retire at the age of 75 years in the UK and Canada, and at the age of 70 years in Australia, Netherlands, Ireland, Belgium, Norway. Moreover, the judges work for lifetime in the United States, Russia, New Zealand and Iceland, subject to their physical-mental fitness.  The plea contended that uniformity in the retirement age was necessary to reduce pendency of cases.  At present, the retirement age for the apex court judges is 65 years, whereas for the high court judges, it is 62 years.  He also claimed finest lawyers do not want to become judge of the high courts because they are compelled to retire at an early age of 62 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-uniform-retirement-age-for-judges-973535.html
12-04-2021||National||Scholarship for IISc women students from Sony India Software||Sony India Software Centre Pvt Ltd (SISCPL) has established five fellowships in the broad area of computing sciences for women M Tech students at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). As part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) commitment, the initiative from SISCPL aims to encourage women students seeking to pursue careers in the technology sector, Bengaluru-based IISc said in a statement. I hope we can grow this partnership and have many more women opting for sciences and this in turn contributes to improving gender diversity in organisations, said Masayuki Toriumi, Managing Director of SISCPL. The fellowships would be awarded to students pursuing M Tech programmes in Robotics and Autonomous Systems, Artificial Intelligence, Computational and Data Science, Computer Science and Engineering, and Electronics and Communication Engineering. The fellowship would include a monthly scholarship for the entire course period as well as an unrestricted research grant including travel expenses, purchase of laptops and other consumables, it was stated. The goal of the fellowships is to encourage more women candidates to pursue higher studies at IISc, especially in engineering and technology, in order to address the gender inequality in these areas, and increase the number of women students, the statement said. The fellowships would be awarded from August 2021 academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scholarship-for-iisc-women-students-from-sony-india-software-973541.html
12-04-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti's daughter tests positive for Covid-19||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti's younger daughter Iltija tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, her mother said. "Want to confirm media reports that my younger daughter Iltija tested positive for Covid today," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister wrote on Twitter. Want to confirm media reports that my younger daughter Iltija tested positive for COVID today. As advised by doctors she is now self isolating & taking all the necessary precautions. She said Iltija has isolated herself on the advice of doctors. "As advised by doctors she is now self isolating & taking all the necessary precautions," the People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief said. National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah also tested positive for the disease recently as Jammu and Kashmir has been witnessing a spike in the number of fresh coronavirus cases over the last few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-muftis-daughter-tests-positive-for-covid-19-973565.html
12-04-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi urges Narendra Modi to allow emergency use of more Covid-19 vaccines||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases in the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow emergency use of all the vaccine candidates having required clearances. In a letter to the Prime Minister after her meeting with chief ministers of Congress-ruled states, she also sought expansion of categories of people eligible for vaccination on the basis of need and exposure rather than age. "While it will be necessary on one hand to substantially ramp up our domestic production capacity, it will also be prudent to allow emergency use authorisation of all the vaccine candidates that have the required clearances, without any further delay," she told the prime minister in her letter. "Accordingly, with enhanced availability, categories eligible for vaccination should be expanded on the basis of need and exposure rather than just age. In the same vein, the numbers allocated to a state has to be based on the prevalence and projection of infection in that particular state," she said, noting that some states have vaccines for three to five days left. The Congress chief appealed to the Prime Minister that with restrictions being imposed to stop the spread of the virus, he should put in place a minimum monthly guaranteed income scheme and transfer a sum of Rs 6,000 into every eligible citizen's account. She also called for exemption from Goods and Services Tax (GST) for all equipment, instruments, medicines being used in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. India hit a new coronavirus infection record with 1,68,912 new cases, the highest single-day rise so far, taking the total tally of cases to 1,35,27,717, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-urges-narendra-modi-to-allow-emergency-use-of-more-covid-19-vaccines-973575.html
12-04-2021||National||Sushil Chandra appointed Chief Election Commissioner||Sushil Chandra will take over as the new Chief Election Commissioner on Tuesday succeeding Sunil Arora, who completed his term at the Nirvachan Sadan on Monday. The Election Commission is set to witness the change of guard even as it is in the middle of conducting the assembly polls in the four states – Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam, and West Bengal – as well as the Union Territory of Puducherry. Chandra has been an Election Commissioner since February 2019. President Ram Nath Kovind appointed him as the next Chief Election Commissioner, the Ministry of Law and Justice stated in a press release issued on Monday. Arora was appointed as an Election Commissioner in September 2017, after his retirement from the Indian Administrative Service, which he had joined in 1980. He was appointed as the Chief Election Commissioner in December 2018. His term at the helm of the commission came to its end on Monday. Chandra, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer of 1980 batch, was appointed as the Election Commissioner on February 15, 2019, after his superannuation as the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). He was “at the forefront” of the Modi Government’s “fight against black money” and “spearheaded” action against “tax evasion in the wake of November 2016 demonetization”, according to his profile on the official website of the EC. He held “sensitive posts in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi” during his 38-year-long stint in the Indian Revenue Service. He will now lead the EC in concluding the assembly elections in Kerala, West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry. Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur, and Goa will also witness polls in February-March in 2022 with Chandra as the Chief Election Commissioner. With Arora demitting office on Monday, the EC at present consists of Chandra and Rajiv Kumar, who was appointed as the Election Commissioner in August 2020 after his retirement as the Finance Secretary of the Union Government. The government will now have to appoint a second Election Commission to fill in the vacancy in the three-member panel. Ashok Lavasa was senior to Chandra and was next in line to take over as the Chief Election Commissioner after Arora. He, however, resigned in August 2020 to join the Asian Development Bank as a vice-president. Lavasa had a run-in with Arora and Chandra over enforcing Model Code Conduct during Lok Sabha polls 2019. His disagreement with other two members of the EC on the issue of enforcement of the poll code during the parliamentary polls last year had come to public domain. He had written a letter to the Chief Election Commissioner protesting against his dissenting minority views not being recorded in the decisions taken by the EC on notices or orders issued by it in the cases related to alleged flouting of the poll code, particularly on giving clean chits to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the then president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Amit Shah, who later took over as Union Home Minister. The BJP-led Government later launched a probe against Lavasa, asking 11 public sector undertakings to verify if he had exercised “undue influence” during his tenure at the Ministry of Power from 2009 to 2013. The Income Tax department had also sent notices to his wife, sister and son. He, however, chose to resign and join the ADB as the Vice President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushil-chandra-appointed-chief-election-commissioner-973586.html
12-04-2021||National||SC issues notice to Centre on plea for protecting transgenders||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre and others on a plea for establishing a welfare board for transgenders and to appoint a committee to promptly probe reports of their alleged gross abuse by the police. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Union government and others on a PIL by a Mumbai-based organisation, Kinner Ma Ekamajik Sanstha Trust. The petitioner led by advocate C R Jaya Sukin contended that transgenders should be treated with the same dignity and respect as others since they suffered discrimination for ages and were deprived of social and cultural participation. The counsel said that it was a sensitive matter and the welfare board for transgenders was needed to address their social welfare issues. The plea has said that according to the 2011 Census, the total population of transgenders is around 4.87 lakh with literacy rate of 57.06 per cent. Referring to the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019, the plea said Parliament had passed the bill to protect transgender rights but the new law was inadequate on several fronts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-protecting-transgenders-973588.html
12-04-2021||National||HC grants time to Sonia, Rahul Gandhi, others to file replies on Swamy's plea in Herald case||The Delhi High Court Monday granted time to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul and others accused in the National Herald case, to file replies on a plea by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy seeking to lead evidence before the trial court. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait listed the matter for further hearing on May 18. Senior advocate R S Cheema and Tarannum Cheema, representing the Congress leaders, told the court that they could not file replies as their office was closed due to COVID-19 and sought more time. The high court had on February 22 issued notices and sought responses of Gandhis, AICC general secretary Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda and Young Indian (YI) on Swamy's plea and had stayed the trial court proceedings in the case till then. Swamy has moved the high court against a trial court order of February 11 declining his plea to lead evidence to prosecute the Gandhis and the other accused in the case. The trial court had said that Swamy's application under section 244 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to lead evidence would be considered after his examination in the case was over. Swamy has sought summoning of certain witnesses, including the secretary-general (registry officer) of the Supreme Court, a deputy land and development officer, and a deputy commissioner of Income Tax, and also directions to them to prove certain documents which are part of the case. In a private criminal complaint in the trial court, the BJP leader had accused the Gandhis and others of conspiring to cheat and misappropriate funds by paying only Rs 50 lakh, through which Young Indian Pvt Ltd (YI) obtained the right to recover Rs 90.25 crore that Associate Journals Ltd, owner of National Herald, owed to the Congress. All the seven accused - the Gandhis, AICC treasurer Motilal Vora, AICC general secretary Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda and YI - had denied the allegations. Proceedings against Vora abated subsequent to his death, while the others were summoned by the trial court in 2014 for the alleged offences of misappropriation of property, criminal breach of trust and cheating, read with criminal conspiracy of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-time-to-sonia-rahul-gandhi-others-to-file-replies-on-swamys-plea-in-herald-case-973600.html
12-04-2021||National||Don't take action on diesel generator emission till CPCB finalises guidelines, NGT tells states||The National Green Tribunal has asked the all state pollution control boards not to take any coercive action against the existing diesel generator sets till the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) finalises its guidelines for retrofitting emission control equipment. The CPCB has already formed a committee to recommend the modes to retrofit emission control equipment by existing diesel generator manufacturers to ensure they follow emission norms. The NGT Principal bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel passed the order following a complaint from the Indian Diesel Engine Manufacturer Association that despite the CPCB in the process of framing guidelines, the states are issuing orders on retrofitting emission control devices by existing generator sets. Earlier, the NGT had ordered that the states have to prepare an action plan to control air pollution including that from diesel generator sets. The NGT had also asked the states to submit their compliance report to the CPCB on the issue of control of pollution by diesel generator sets. Following this, the states started issuing notices to manufacturers asking them to retrofit emission control equipment and recommended shifting to gas-based generators. To check increasing air pollution, the NGT had earlier ordered that at least one air quality monitoring station should be set up in each district to monitor the quality of air. Noting that dust is a significant component of air pollution, the NGT also directed all municipal corporations and local bodies to ensure that water is sprinkled on roads before sweeping them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-take-action-on-diesel-generator-emission-till-cpcb-finalises-guidelines-ngt-tells-states-973601.html
12-04-2021||National||Sunanda Pushkar death case: Court reserves order on framing of charges against Tharoor||A Delhi court on Monday reserved its order on the issue of framing of charges against Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Special Judge Geetanjli Goel, who is likely to pronounce order on April 29, heard arguments from the counsel appearing for Delhi Police as well as Tharoor. During the arguments, while police sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pahwa sought Tharoor's discharge in the case, saying there was no evidence against him to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of IPC. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under sections 498A and 306 of the Indian Penal Code by Delhi police, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sunanda-pushkar-death-case-court-reserves-order-on-framing-of-charges-against-tharoor-973603.html
12-04-2021||National||President Kovind returns to Rashtrapati Bhavan after bypass surgery at AIIMS||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday said he has returned to Rashtrapati Bhavan after bypass surgery at the AIIMS. "I have returned to Rashtrapati Bhavan after my surgery. My speedy recovery is thanks to wishes and prayers of all of you and exceptional care given by doctors and nursing staff at AIIMS and Army's RR hospital. I am thankful to everyone! I am glad to be back home,” Kovind tweeted. Kovind, 75, had on March 30 underwent a cardiac bypass surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). In a tweet on April 3, the Rashtrapati Bhavan had said, "President Kovind was shifted from the ICU to a special room in the AIIMS today. His health has been improving continuously. Doctors are constantly monitoring his condition and have advised him to take rest."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-returns-to-rashtrapati-bhavan-after-bypass-surgery-at-aiims-973605.html
12-04-2021||National||SC judge V Ramasubramanian recuses himself from hearing 2008 Bengaluru blasts accused's plea||Supreme Court judge Justice V Ramasubramanian Monday recused himself from hearing a plea of Kerala’s People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leader Abdul Nazir Maudany, who is an accused in the 2008 Bengaluru serial blasts case, seeking to allow him to go to Kerala and stay there till the trial is concluded. “List the matter next week before another bench of which one of us (V Ramasubramanian, J.) is not a member,” a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said in its order. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Justice Ramasubramanian said that as a lawyer earlier, he had appeared for Maudany before the Madras High Court. Maudany, who has filed an application in the top court seeking relaxation in bail condition and permit him to go to Kerala, is an accused in the case of serial blasts that had rocked Bengaluru in July 2008. Two people were killed and 20 were injured in the blasts. While hearing the application on April 5, Justice Ramasubramanian had said that he might have appeared for Maudany as a counsel earlier and he would not be able to hear the matter. Maudany’s lawyer had then said that he would verify the same. The PDP leader has said that he was granted bail in July 2014 with a condition that he would not leave Bengaluru without the permission of the court. In his fresh application, he has said that trial in the case has not concluded yet and cited health ground to seek permission to go to Kerala and stay there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-judge-v-ramasubramanian-recuses-himself-from-hearing-2008-bengaluru-blasts-accuseds-plea-973634.html
12-04-2021||National||BJP moves to NCSC against Trinamool Congress candidate||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has now lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) over a purported comment made by Sujata Mondal Khan, the candidate of Trinamool Congress (TMC) at Arambagh in West Bengal. The BJP earlier lodged a complaint with the EC over Khan's statement, who allegedly called people of the Scheduled Castes “beggars by nature”. The party alleged that Khan's “shocking statement” intentionally insulted the entire Scheduled Caste population of West Bengal “with the intent to humiliate” them and amounted to promoting “enmity, hatred and ill-will” against them. It requested the NCSC to act against Khan and the leadership of the TMC. The BJP also urged the NCSC to request the EC to withdraw the recognition of TMC as a political party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-moves-to-ncsc-against-trinamool-congress-candidate-973649.html
12-04-2021||National||Need to study human-animal interactions to prepare for future emergencies: Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday made a strong pitch to study the increased interaction between humans and animals to prepare for future emergency preparedness against emerging and re-emerging infections. “With increased interaction between humans and animals, human health can't be seen in isolation and Covid-19 is more than a reminder,” Harsh Vardhan said speaking at the ‘One Health in India: Research Informing Biosafety, Preparedness and Response’ symposium organised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He also announced the commencement of the constitution of a high-level steering committee for Eco Health Initiatives in India. This committee will have its secretariat hosted at the ICMR, and will also be supported by the upcoming National Institute of One Health which is planned to be set-up in Nagpur, the minister said. He said the health of a population was closely connected to the health of animals and the shared environment. “There is a significant increase in human-animal interaction at the domestic level, particularly through the adoption of animals as pets, including otherwise non-domesticated species. Exotic food fetishes in many parts of the world and medicinal beliefs are also driving increased human entry into the animal space in the wild,” the minister observed. He said these changes have led to the spread of existing or known and new or emerging zoonotic diseases. “More than half of all infections that people can get can be spread by animals. Each year around the world, it is estimated that zoonoses (diseases shared between people and animals) cause 2.5 billion cases of sickness and 2.7 million deaths,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-study-human-animal-interactions-to-prepare-for-future-emergencies-harsh-vardhan-973650.html
12-04-2021||National||Atishi Marlena appointed Global Vice President of ICLEI||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi said she has been appointed Global Vice President of ICLEI, a global network of over 1,750 cities and towns that work for a sustainable future. She said it is in recognition of the work done by the Arvind Kejriwal government for sustainable development of the national capital. "I feel honoured to be appointed as Vice President of @ICLEI - a global network of more than 1750 cities for sustainable devt. This is global recognition of work done by @ArvindKejriwal govt for sustainable development of Delhi, since @ICLEI has an Indian VP for the first time!" Atishi tweeted. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal congratulated her. "Congratulations Atishi. Keep shining, we are very proud of you," he tweeted. In a statement, the AAP said the annual ICLEI World Congress 2021-2022 meeting will take place from April 13-15, and Atishi will speak on “Shaping our Sustainable Urban Future for All”, about the future of equitable and people-centred development -- an area she has had immense experience in while enacting regular on-ground changes in Delhi. She will also discuss the economic and environmental aspects of the three-pronged approach to sustainable development, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atishi-marlena-appointed-global-vice-president-of-iclei-973652.html
12-04-2021||National||37.63 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses given on day 2 of Tika Utsav||Vaccinators administered more than 37.63 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines on day two of 'Tika Utsav', taking the total jabs given so far to 10.82 crore. Vaccination centres were set up at government and private sector workplaces to step up the mega vaccination drive from April 11 to 14. Health Ministry officials said that 71,000 vaccination centers were functional on Monday, against an average of 45,000 such centres every day -- marking an increase of 26,000 centres. "Total  37,63,858 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Monday, the 87th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination," a health ministry statement said. On the first day of 'Tika Utsav' on Sunday, 30 lakh doses of vaccines were administered by vaccinators. On April 5, vaccinators had administered more than 43 lakh doses of vaccines in a single day, which is a record till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3763-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-on-day-2-of-tika-utsav-973653.html
12-04-2021||National||Delhi records 11,491 Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike; 72 deaths||Delhi recorded 11,491 Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date, while 72 more people died due to the disease, according to data shared by the health department. The positivity rate rose to 12.44 per cent from 9.43 per cent a day ago. The 72 deaths are the highest since December 5 when 77 deaths were recorded. The city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths on November 19, the highest single-day fatality count till date. The cumulative coronavirus case count stands at 7,36,688, and the death toll is now 11,355, according to the latest health bulletin. The fresh cases came out of the over 92,397 lakh tests conducted the previous day. On Sunday, the city had reported 10,772 cases and 48 deaths. Delhi recorded 7,897 Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths on Saturday. The positivity rate had also mounted to 10.21 per cent, breaching the 10-per cent mark for the first time this year. The positivity rate was above 15 per cent in mid-November last year. On Friday, 8,521 Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths were recorded in the national capital. This was also the first time that more than 8,000 cases were recorded in a day this year amid a massive spike in cases over the last few weeks. On Thursday, the city recorded 7,437 cases. On the two preceding days, the number of cases stood above 5,000. The number of active cases rose to 38,095 from 34,341 a day before. The number of people under home isolation increased to 19,354 from 17,093 on Sunday while the number of containment zones increased to 6,175 from 5,705, the bulletin said. The Delhi government on Monday declared 14 private hospitals in the city as "full Covid-19" hospitals and directed them not to admit any non-Covid patients till further orders. These include the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Sarita Vihar, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Holy Family Hospital, and Max SS Hospital and Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh. Nineteen private hospitals have been directed to reserve at least 80 per cent of their ICU beds for Covid-related treatment. Eighty-two private hospitals have been asked to set aside at least 60 per cent of their ICU beds for coronavirus patients, according to the order issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS).    "Furthermore, 101 private hospitals are directed to reserve at least 60 per cent of their ward bed capacity for Covid-related treatment," the order read. The Health Department, in another order, said the number of ICU beds without ventilator in six Delhi government-run hospitals has been increased to 487. There are now 1,913 non-ICU Covid beds in these hospitals as against 1,320 earlier.   The six government hospitals are Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, Burari Hospital, DDU Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and Ambedkar Nagar Hospital. The government issued another order, engaging AYUSH students currently in their fourth and fifth years as interns to meet the increased demand of manpower considering the surge in coronavirus cases. Asserting that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi is "very serious", the chief minister had on Sunday said the government is closely monitoring the situation and is not in favour of complete lockdown. In just a few weeks, Delhi has gone from near-normalcy -- with less than 100 cases reported on a single day on February 16 -- to an exploding pandemic, a grim reminder that the virus is continuing to extract its toll. The CM had said his government does not want to impose lockdown in Delhi, but such a situation may arise if there is a rush to hospitals and beds are unavailable for serious patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-records-11491-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-72-deaths-973658.html
12-04-2021||National||SC agrees to hear fresh plea for probe into Rafale deal||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear a fresh petition for a probe into the 2016 Rafale fighters jet deal on the basis of "new revelations" by a French portal that claimed manufacturer Dassault Aviation paid approximately one million Euros to middlemen.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that the matter would be posted for hearing after weeks as per the rules. The court passed its order on a mentioning for urgent listing by petitioner, advocate M L Sharma. In his petition, Sharma made the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sushen Mohan Gupta of Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd, and Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL) as parties in the matter.  The top court had earlier on December 14, 2018 dismissed a batch of petitions, including by Sharma, seeking probe into the deal, and also rejected the review petitions against the judgement on November 14, 2019.  In his plea, Sharma sought a direction of the court for registration of FIR against the accused persons under Sections 420 (Cheating), 120-B (Criminal Conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with for offences with Prevention of Corruption Act.  He alleged that certain accused persons had illegally engaged themselves to secure secret papers from the defence ministry to secure the Rafale deal on September 23, 2016. He said the cause of action arose on April 5, 2021 as an investigation report by the AFA (France CAG) declared that Dassault gave one million euros to middlemen of India as bribe. Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA) functioned in a capacity similar to India’s Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), with the aim of checking whether large companies implemented the anti-corruption procedures. However, unlike the CAG, the AFA also audited private firms. In its report, the AFA did disclose corruption in the Rafale deal, he claimed. He sought an independent probe into the case under the supervision of the top court for prosecution of the accused. The petitioner sought a direction for cancelling the 2016 agreement for purchase of 36 Rafale fighter jets from Dassault France for the alleged "fraud, corruption and the offence under the Official Secret Act". He also contended that a direction must be issued by the court to recover the entire advance money with penalty and to blacklist the Dassault Aviation in future defence deals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-hear-fresh-plea-for-probe-into-rafale-deal-973666.html
12-04-2021||National||Historian Yogesh Praveen dies||Noted historian Yogesh Praveen died on Monday after a brief illness, according to his family. He was 82. "He had mild fever this morning after which he took medicines. At about 2 pm, he suddenly became unconscious after which we took him to a hospital where he was declared dead," Yogesh Praveen's brother Kaamesh Shrivastava told PTI. He will be cremated on Tuesday morning, Shrivastava said. Praveen, a bachelor, wrote more than 30 books on Awadhi culture and Lucknow and contributed several articles in newspapers and magazines, and was given the Padma Shri award. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the demise of the historian. In a condolence message, he said that Yogesh Praveen had a deep knowledge of the culture and history of Awadh, especially Lucknow. Through his books and articles, he enabled the public to know about the rich heritage and culture of Awadh, he said. Praying for peace to the departed soul, the chief minister also conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Praveen's brother dismissed reports that he died due to a delay in the arrival of ambulance. "Due to the pandemic, ambulance could take some time so we took him to hospital on our vehicle. We don't have complaint in this regard," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/historian-yogesh-praveen-dies-973668.html
12-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi asks for Covid-19 vaccines for all||Stepping up pressure, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “stop eventbaazi” and make available Covid-19 vaccines to all those who need it. Congress President Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him to exempt all equipment, instruments, medicines, and support infrastructure required to deal with the Covid-19 crisis from GST. Pitching for greater accessibility to vaccines, Gandhi said it would be prudent to allow emergency use authorisation of all vaccine candidates that have the required clearances, without any further delay. She also urged the Prime Minister to put in place a scheme to transfer Rs 6,000 every month to every eligible citizen’s bank accounts as monthly income support initiative in the time of crisis. Congress also launched a social media campaign with leaders and party workers posting short videos and messages asking the Modi government to better manage the Covid-19 situation, spiralling after the massive spike in cases in the second wave of the pandemic. “Modi ji .. you made us ring bells, bang thaalis, and flash mobile phone lights, but Covid-19 has been marching ahead and lakhs have fallen prey to it,” Rahul said in a video message. “You stop eventbaazi and make available vaccines to those who need them. Stop export of vaccines and give income support to the poor,” Rahul said. “There is an urgent need for Indians of all age groups to be vaccinated so they’re safe from Covid-19. The BJP government must stop squandering the limited stock of vaccines & ensure vaccines for all. PM should have the priority of the nation first,” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said. AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also asked Modi to stop export of vaccines and make them available for Indian citizens first. She also sought to know where the monies raised through PM CARES fund was being spent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-asks-for-covid-19-vaccines-for-all-973448.html
12-04-2021||National Politics||UP man kills self after cop refuses to lodge daughter's missing report||A man who was shooed away from a police station when he approached the cops to file his daughter's missing report died by suicide in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly district on Monday. According to sources, the man was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room at his village in the Aonla area of the district. A suicide note which was found near his body allegedly mentioned that he was 'humiliated' by the police station in-charge when he approached him to lodge the missing report of his daughter. ''The in-charge demanded a bribe to lodge the report,'' the man claimed in the suicide note, adding that he had lost all hope of getting his daughter back and that he did not want to live anymore. Sources said that the SHO of the concerned police station who reached the spot after getting the information allegedly tore the suicide note. Enraged over the act of the SHO, a mob of locals held the police team hostage and also allegedly assaulted the cops. They also pelted stones at the cops who reached the spot to rescue their colleagues. ''We are investigating the matter...we will take action against the cops if they are found to be guilty,'' a senior police official said in Bareilly. Sources said that the daughter of the deceased had gone missing on Thursday and her father had alleged that a resident of the village had 'kidnapped' her. Police, however, claimed that it could be a case of love affair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-man-kills-self-after-cop-refuses-to-lodge-daughters-missing-report-973495.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Second wave of Covid-19 worrying, people need to be extra cautious: Adityanath||The current Covid-19 wave is worrying and people need to take all precautions and follow protocols, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday at an all-party meeting, which was not attended by Samajwadi Party, the main opposition in the state. The meeting was held at the Raj Bhawan here, and Governor Anandiben Patel said the situation was grim and vaccination against Covid-19 should be ramped up. An invitation was extended to Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Leader of Opposition in UP Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary for the all-party meeting, but they did not turn up, according to sources. "In the past one year, speedy action was taken to combat the Covid-19 pandemic in a planned manner. The fight was fought with joint efforts of everyone and in this, UP was fully successful. UP has done the best work in waging war against Covid-19. This had put an effective control over Covid, and the number of cases had become negligible," Patel said at the meeting. "Now, the novel coronavirus has returned after changing its form, due to which the situation has become grim. Now, we have to take benefit of our past experience, and soon control the phase-2 of Covid-19, so that its spread can be curtailed. It is good that anti-Covid vaccine is available now, and the vaccination has to be effectively done," the governor said. She also said that vaccination of students of the colleges and universities in the state should be considered. Chief Minister Adityanath said the current wave of Covid-19 is worrying and people need to exercise caution and follow all Covid protocols religiously. He appealed to people to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour during the panchayat polls. "The state government is committed to save lives and livelihood of people," Adityanath said. Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, Congress leader Sohail Akhtar Ansari and BSP leader Lalji Verma also addressed the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-wave-of-covid-19-worrying-people-need-to-be-extra-cautious-adityanath-973353.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Farmers ready to talk if govt invites, no change in demands: Rakesh Tikait||Farmers protesting the contentious new farm laws are ready to talk if the Centre invites them, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday, maintaining that the dialogue would resume where it had ended on January 22 and the demands remain unchanged. He said for the talks to resume, the government should invite the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body representing the protestors who are camping at the three border points of Delhi at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020. “The talks with the government would resume from the same point where it had ended on January 22. The demands are also the same -- all three 'black' farm laws should be repealed, a new law made to ensure MSP (minimum support price) for crops,” Tikait was quoted as saying in a statement issued by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik. The BKU national spokesperson's remarks came in response to Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij urging Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to resume talks with protesting farmers amid the coronavirus scare looming large. Maintaining that a surge in the coronavirus cases is being seen across the country and the situation is turning bad in Haryana too, Vij said he is worried about the farmers protesting on the state borders with Delhi. The protestors and the government last had a formal dialogue over the contentious issue on January 22 but the impasse continued. On January 26, the protestors had carried out a 'tractor parade' in Delhi which had escalated into a violence involving farmers and the police in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-ready-to-talk-if-govt-invites-no-change-in-demands-rakesh-tikait-973359.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal to hold meeting to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will review the Covid-19 situation in the national capital in a meeting on Monday noon, officials said. On Sunday, the daily coronavirus cases in Delhi crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time since the pandemic began. The chief minister termed the situation "very serious" and appealed to people not to step out of houses unless it was urgent. The officials said the review meeting to be held at 12 pm is likely to be attended by ministers and top officers of the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-to-hold-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-973432.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Satyendar Jain writes to Centre to scale up Covid-19 beds in Delhi hospitals||Amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday that the city government has written to the Centre to again scale up Covid beds in its hospitals here. Interacting with reporters, he also appealed to people to step out of their homes only if necessary and wear masks all the time. Asked about beds' requirements in view of escalating cases, Jain said, "We are ramping up medical infrastructure post the surge in cases and 5,000 beds have been added in last one week". Delhi recorded 10,774 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date, according to data shared by the Health Department. As per the Sunday bulletin, 48 new fatalities were also recorded, pushing the death toll to 11,283. "We have also written to the Centre to again scale up Covid beds in its hospitals in Delhi in view of the massive surge. As of now, about 1,090 beds are there in their hospitals, which was above 4,000 during last surge. So, our request is to scale up back to that level," the minister said. Asked about ventilators requirements, Jain said, "About 50 per cent Covid beds in total are still available in hospitals. And, ventilator beds may be occupied, but very few patients are actually on a ventilator".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/satyendar-jain-writes-to-centre-to-scale-up-covid-19-beds-in-delhi-hospitals-973436.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Avoid rushing to hospitals: Kejriwal says after Covid-19 meet||With healthcare services stretched in the national capital after a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said steps were being taken to increase hospital beds and urged people to avoid rushing to hospitals. Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital a day after new patients of the infectious disease crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak last year. The Delhi government was planning to convert some government and private hospitals into dedicated Covid-19 facilities. “Do not rush to hospitals unless necessary,” Kejriwal said after the review meeting. He said the government was taking several steps to increase beds in government and private hospitals and urged people to cooperate with healthcare authorities. “Please follow Covid protocol… Go and vaccinate if you are eligible,” Kejriwal said. Held review meeting. We r taking several steps to increase beds in both pvt and govt sectors. Urge everyone to cooperate. 1. Pl pl follow covid protocols 2. Don’t rush to hospital unless necessary 3. Go n vaccinate if u r eligible The government is alert and taking all necessary steps in view of the growing numbers of Covid-19 patients, officials said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain said the government had added 5,000 more beds last week and would add more. “At present, there are 5,525 beds in Delhi. 190 beds are occupied which amounts to 2 per cent. We have also requested the central government to increase beds to their current tally of 190,” Jain said. Recently, the Delhi government had asked 115 private hospitals, registered for Covid-related treatment, to reserve at least 50 per cent of their total ICU and wards bed exclusively for Covid patients. These hospitals have the liberty to reserve more beds than required, a government order said. Another order directed medical superintendents, medical directors and directors of Covid hospitals to depute sufficient manpower and infrastructure in the holding or triage area with enough oxygen facility to avoid unnecessary wait for completing the admission procedure which may lead to increase in chance of spread of infection further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avoid-rushing-to-hospitals-kejriwal-says-after-covid-19-meet-973451.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||J&K to come up with a new film policy within 10 days: J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha||To woo Bollywood filmmakers back to the Valley, the Jammu and Kashmir government is set to roll out a new film policy within 10 days. “J&K government has almost finalized the new film policy after thorough deliberations with the stakeholders and the same will be announced within ten days,” J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said while addressing a two-day conference titled ‘Tapping the Tourism Potential of Kashmir' here. He said that the policy entails a road map on how they can bring back the golden era of the '70s and '80s on the silver screen. “We have been reading and hearing that Kashmir used to be the favorite Bollywood destinations of the film makers in the '60s, '70s and '80s. We, as a team, will work to bring back the same culture,” Sinha said, adding that the policy had been framed after consultations with stakeholders within J&K and also other parts of the country. Owing to its natural beauty, Kashmir was an integral part of Bollywood films until militancy erupted in late 1980s and the latter lost its connection with the Valley. As the situation improved over the years, Bollywood returned to its favourite locations in Kashmir. Legendary Bollywood filmmaker Yash Chopra shot his last film ‘Jab Tak Hai Jaan’ in Kashmir in 2012. However, civilian unrest, which broke out in the Valley after the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani in July 2016, not only dropped the arrival of tourists to Kashmir, but also the Bollywood crews. The J&K government believes that the return of Bollywood to Kashmir this time will encourage tourism and send a message of peace in the Union Territory, especially in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-to-come-up-with-a-new-film-policy-within-10-days-jk-lieutenant-governor-manoj-sinha-973461.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Kumbh Mela: Thousands take dip in Ganga on 'Shahi Snan' amid Covid-19 spike||Amid rising coronavirus cases in the country, thousands of saffron-clad seers and ash-smeared Nagas flouted Covid-19 norms and converged at Har Ki Pairi here for a holy dip in the Ganga during the second royal bath of the Kumbh Mela on Monday.  The seers of different akhadas, led by their Mahamandaleshwaras, by turns took out grand Shobha Yatras through the main thoroughfare of the pilgrimage city to gather at Brahma Kund, Hari ki Pairi for the holy bath on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya.  Marching barefoot to their destination with many of them not wearing masks or observing social distancing, the seers took a dip in the river as they were showered with flower petals from helicopters flying above on behalf of the Uttarakhand government.   While Har ki Pairi, considered the holiest of the Ghats was reserved exclusively for the akhadas from 7 am onwards, common people also took the holy dip on the other ghats of the Ganga, revered by millions as a goddess. The mela administration claimed that approximately 17.31 lakh devotees had taken the holy dip in the Ganga till 10 am.  Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said the Shahi Snan was being conducted smoothly throughout the Mela Kshetra from Haridwar to Devprayag. So far, seers of three out of a total of 13 akhadas have bathed in the river at Har ki Pairi while bathing by devotees is underway at the other ghats, the DGP said.   Seers of Niranjani Akhada led by their Mahamandaleshwar Acharya Kailashanand Giri were the first to take a dip in the river on the occasion. Seers of Ananda Akhada also took bath along with them.  They were followed by the Joona Akhada saints led by Acharya Kailashanand.  Former King of Nepal Gyanendra Bir Bikram Shah was also among those who took a dip in the Ganga on the occasion. It was his maiden visit to Haridwar. It was the second Shahi Snan during the ongoing Kumbh Mela which has been limited to just one month due to the rising cases of coronavirus.  The last Shahi Snan or royal bath was conducted on the occasion of Mahashivratri on March 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kumbh-mela-thousands-take-dip-in-ganga-on-shahi-snan-amid-covid-19-spike-973470.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||AI cameras to spot mask defaulters at Kumbh Mela but crowds continue to swell||At a time when Covid-19 cases are surging in India, Kumbh Mela still continues to proceed with hoards of people arriving at Haridwar.  In order to tackle rising cases, Uttarakhand police said that they have put up CCTV cameras with Artificial Intelligence technology  that can zoom in on people who have removed their masks, or are not wearing them correctly. How it works Once a camera spots someone without a mask, it will alert the officers police surveillance control room which is located in Mela Bhawan near Har Ki Pauri, the publication reported. They will share the information with the nearest enforcement officer who will not only hand the violator a free mask, but also, issue a punishment as per regulations. "On April 2, over 1,500 people were issued challans for not wearing a mask, of whom around 350 were caught on camera in just four hours" Kumbh Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal told the publication. “When a site identified as vulnerable gets crowded beyond 75 per cent of its capacity, the control room gets an alert, at which point, entry of people to these sites will be immediately stopped,” said Mukesh Thakur, Additional SP in charge of the Police Surveillance Control Room at Kumbh. Will it help? However, as the Kumbh began, images of the festival showed a complete lack of adherence to Covid norms. People were seen taking a dip, standing in close proximity and wearing no masks. The ghats swelled with people, especially naga sadhus, causing one to worry if this might prove be a super spreader event in the coming days. "We are continuously appealing to people to follow COVID appropriate behaviour. But due to the huge crowd, it is practically not possible to issue challans today. It is very difficult to ensure social distancing at ghats," Kumbh Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal told ANI. A daily average of people going for Kumbh is at 3 lakh persons, with the number surging 10 times during the 'shahi snans.' The Uttarakhand High Court had recently directed the state government to depute people at the entry point of each ghat to screen pilgrims and visitors, and to ensure that they use sanitisers and wear masks. So far 10,000 people have been deployed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ai-cameras-to-spot-mask-defaulters-at-kumbh-mela-but-crowds-continue-to-swell-973471.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||5-year-old girl raped, killed in Uttar Pradesh's Budaun district||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Badaun district, police said on Monday. The incident occurred in the Civil Lines police station area on Sunday night when the girl went to the fields with her family to collect wheat, they said. The accused, who was hiding in the fields, raped the girl and then killed her when she tried to scream, they added. The accused, in his mid-twenties, is a resident of Uttarakhand's Udham Singh Nagar district. His family had brought him to a religious place here for some kind of treatment but he ran away, according to the police. Meanwhile, upon realising that the girl is missing her family started looking for her. During their search, they stumbled upon the youth along with the girl's body following which they thrashed him, the police added. After that police reached the spot and arrested him, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said. "The body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem examination and the matter is being probed," the SSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-year-old-girl-raped-killed-in-uttar-pradeshs-budaun-district-973483.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi's waste storage facilities need to be compliant with rules, says National Green Tribunal||Delhi's waste storage facilities, Dhalaos, need to be compliant with Solid Waste Management Rules, the National Green Tribunal has said while directing a committee to hold a meeting on the issue within a month. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel formed the committee comprising Secretary, Urban Development, Delhi; Central Pollution Control Board; Delhi Pollution Control Committee and local bodies in the national capital. The bench said, "The meeting may be presided over by the Secretary, Urban Development, Delhi. The nodal agency will be CPCB and DPCC for coordination and compliance. Further action may be taken in accordance with the decision taken in the said meeting. If necessary, CPCB may issue an appropriate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on the subject applicable in all States/UTs." The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Delhi resident Anubhav against non-removal of garbage from Military Road, Bapa Nagar side, Karol Bagh. The petition stated that the garbage pit where the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) used to collect the garbage is situated in the middle of the residential area and it is causing acute respiratory health problems to the residents of the area. "The heap of garbage smells out toxic gases which are very harmful in nature, making the whole area inhabitable. Air pollution is causing pulmonary diseases like asthma, lung cancer, etc. The Covid patients are the worst sufferers due to the act of NrDMC," the plea said. The tribunal noted that though the site in question is claimed to have been now cleaned, only an advisory has been issued to the waste handler for removing the waste twice and thrice in a day with no accountability for the past failures. "We find that as per Rule 15 of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the requirements of storage facility for the solid waste are specified. The Dhalao system currently in use in Delhi needs to be compliant with the said Rules," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-waste-storage-facilities-need-to-be-compliant-with-rules-says-national-green-tribunal-973497.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh takes second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday took his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine here, and appealed to all eligible people to get inoculated. Singh had taken his first dose of the vaccine last month. “Punjab CM @capt_amarinder gets his 2nd #COVID19 vaccine shot. Appeals again to all eligible to come forward to get themselves vaccinated for their own protection and that of their families and the society,” the chief minister's media advisor tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-takes-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-973501.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba appeals to Kashmir youth to stay away from guns||PDP president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti on Monday appealed to youth to stay away from guns and fight for their rights in a democratic way. “Any movement with guns is bound to fail. This is the reason I have been appealing to the Kashmiri youth not to lose their lives due to bullets,” she told reporters on the sidelines of a party’s membership drive, here. “Some people want Kashmiri youth to pick up arms to show the world that they (Kashmiris) are terrorists. (But) we need to follow democratic means to resolve our issues,” she said. “If we want to resolve the Kashmir issue, we need to follow democratic way and force India and Pakistan to hold dialogue.” The firebrand PDP president claimed that the accession between J&K and Union of India had been trashed in August 2019 by the BJP-led regime at the Centre. “5 August 2019 decision is not acceptable and the rights and identity snatched from the people here must be restored. We will fight for our rights till our last breath,” Mehbooba vowed. The former chief minister said that it was not Pakistan but India which had given J&K special status. “I don’t understand why BJP is getting angry when I am asking my country to restore the identity and special status of Jammu and Kashmir,” she said. “The government has put an end to the agreement between J&K and Union of India, but still it is the people of J&K who are holding the hand of India. And when we raise any objection, we are being asked to stay calm,” she said, adding that the situation in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh is very critical. Mehbooba hoped that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the SAARC summit to be held in Pakistan. “There is no other way besides dialogue to resolve the issues,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-appeals-to-kashmir-youth-to-stay-away-from-guns-973502.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||BJP leader seriously injured after getting shot in UP||A BJP leader was shot at and seriously injured by unidentified assailants in Chandapur area of the district, police said on Monday. The 48-year-old BJP leader Neeraj Pandey was shot at on Sunday night while he was returning home after seeking votes for a panchayat poll candidate. Superintendent of Police, Prashant Verma, said a case has been registered. Pandey was initially admitted to the district hospital, and later referred to a Kanpur hospital. Four-phase panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh will start on April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-seriously-injured-after-getting-shot-in-up-973504.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Online registration for Amarnath yatra to begin from April 15||The online registration process for Amarnath yatra 2021 will start from April 15, simultaneously for both the Baltal and Chandanwari routes, through 446 designated branches of Punjab National Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank and YES Bank all over the country. The 56-day-long yatra to 3,888-metre-high Amarnathji cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas will start on June 28 and conclude on August 22, the day of Raksha Bandhan. “Yatris who wish to undertake this year’s pilgrimage can register themselves from registration counters located all across the country through 446 designated bank branches spread over all the country,” said Nitishwar Kumar, Chief Executive Officer of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB). The intending pilgrims shall have to visit the URL: www.jksasb.nic.in and click on REGISTER. The yatris will have to fill up their details in the online application form and attach a photograph and a Compulsory Health Certificate (CHC). The CEO said that for preventing fraudulent health certificates, only such certificates which are issued by doctors/medical Institutes authorized by the concerned state government/UT administrations shall be accepted for the online registration.   For Yatra 2021, only those health certificates which have been issued after March 15 shall be valid. The steps which yatris need to follow for online registration in order to register for the Yatra, have been put on the Board’s website www.shriamarnathjishrine.com. The CEO informed that the yatris shall be able to download the Yatra Permits after their applications have been duly processed. The yatris will have to carry their original photo ID and CHC with them during the yatra.   Children under the age of 13 years or elderly above 75 years of age and women who are more than six weeks pregnant will not be registered for the yatra. Yatris who propose to travel by helicopter do not require advance registration as their helicopter tickets shall suffice for this purpose. However, they shall be required to produce the health certificate, in the prescribed format and issued by an authorized doctor, before they are allowed to travel by helicopter. Yatris are usually asked to take precautions for high altitude sickness with symptoms like loss of appetite, nausea, fatigue, lightheadedness and difficulty in sleeping and tightness in the chest as the pilgrimage to the holy cave involves trekking at altitudes as high as 14,000 feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/online-registration-for-amarnath-yatra-to-begin-from-april-15-973546.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi University issues fresh Covid-19 guidelines, online classes to continue||The Delhi University (DU) issued a set of guidelines with immediate effect on Monday in the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the national capital. In a notice, the university said the classes for the undergraduate and postgraduate students will continue in the "online mode only" in all the colleges, while the research scholars may continue their academic work with the consent of their supervisors. "Teaching/learning for undergraduate and postgraduate students will continue in the online mode only in all the colleges, centres and departments of the University of Delhi. "The research scholars may continue their academic work with the consent of the respective supervisor/head of the department, strictly adhering to the prescribed SOP for Covid-19 issued by the Government of India and the DDMA," it said. The final-year students will be allowed in "small batches" to visit their "respective colleges/centres/departments for their laboratory/practical/skill/library and related activities", in accordance with the University Grants Commission (UGC) and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines. "All Group 'A' officers and in-charge of the section shall attend their offices, adhering to the proposed guidelines by the MHA," it notified. The university advised the college principals to ensure the presence of teachers, "considering the requirement and meeting up the conditions laid by the MHA, MOHFW and the DDMA order". "It is also decided that staggered working hours and 50 per cent staff shall attend the office on working days and the remaining staff shall work from home as per the roster prepared by the section officer/in-charge etc. Staff staying in the containment zones must inform and apply for suitable leave," the notice read. It also urged all the eligible employees to "get themselves vaccinated as a precautionary measure". Delhi recorded 10,774 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date, according to data shared by the health department. According a bulletin issued by the department, 48 new fatalities were also recorded on Sunday, pushing the death toll due to the viral disease in the national capital to 11,283.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-issues-fresh-covid-19-guidelines-online-classes-to-continue-973573.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in Haryana amid Covid-19 spike||The Haryana government on Monday imposed night curfew in the state with immediate effect amid a surge in coronavirus cases. "Night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am will be imposed from tonight and will remain in force till further orders," Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij told PTI. He said the decision has been taken in the wake of an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state recently. On Sunday, Haryana had reported 16 Covid-19 fatalities taking the death toll to 3,268. The total coronavirus case count rose to 3,16,881 with a record spike of 3,440 cases on Sunday, according to a health department bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-haryana-amid-covid-19-spike-973578.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||SC asks Centre to address concerns on airports' design||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to address concerns raised in a plea claiming that there was a deliberate omission for years to install Engineered Materials Arrestor System (EMAS) at airports, which prevented aircraft from overshooting runways at vulnerable airports such as Mangaluru and Kozhikode. "This is a matter of public interest. Why don't you address it," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati. According to experts, airports like Mangaluru have become very dangerous to land, the bench added.  "Please consider this PIL as a representation and give the petitioner, Rajen Mehta a patient hearing, consider his suggestions", the bench told Bhati.  The Centre's counsel agreed to examine the bench's suggestion. After a brief hearing in the matter, the top court listed the matter for further hearing after two months. On February 16, the top court asked the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and Ministry of Civil Aviation to reply within two weeks on the plea. The top court had then told Centre's counsel, "People are trapped in the aircraft, it is a horrible site. Please look into it." In September last year, the bench had issued a notice to the ministry and DGCA on a plea by a Delhi resident Mehta, who is an 85-year-old retired engineer.  The plea sought installation of EMAS at the airports considered vulnerable and cited the August 7 accident at Calicut International Airport and May 22, 2010, at Mangaluru. Both these airports have table-top runways. The petitioner contended if EMAS were to be installed, it could have helped in averting the plane crash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-centre-to-address-concerns-on-airports-design-973633.html
12-04-2021||North and Central||14 private hospitals to treat only Covid-19 patients: Delhi govt||With healthcare services stretched thin in the national capital after a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government on Monday designated 14 private hospitals as “full Covid-19” hospitals, with clear instructions against admitting patients with any other ailment. In a late Monday evening order, the Delhi government also asked another 19 private hospitals to reserve 80% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, while an additional 82 private hospitals have been asked to reserve 60% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. Earlier, these hospitals had 50% ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. “Total 2060 beds increased in private hospitals,” Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain said. “Furthermore, 101 private hospitals are directed to reserve at least 60 per cent of their ward bed capacity for Covid-related treatment," the order said. Of the six hospitals run by the Delhi government, four have been converted to fully Covid hospitals. The 19 private hospitals declared fully Covid hospitals include: Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, Sarita Vihar; Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; Holy Family Hospital, Okhla; Maharaja Agrasen, Punjabi Bagh; Max Hospital, Shalimar Bagh; Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh; Max Hospital, Saket; Venkateswara Hospital, Dwarka; Shri Balaji Action Medical Institute, Paschim Vihar; Jaipur Golden Hospital, Rohini; Mata Chanan Devi Hospital, Janakpuri; Pushpavati Singhania Hospital, Saket; Manipal Hospital, Dwarka, and Saroj Super Specialty Hospital. The decision came after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid situation in the national capital and promised steps to increase hospital beds and urged people to avoid rushing to hospitals. Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital a day after new patients of the infectious disease crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-private-hospitals-to-treat-only-covid-19-patients-delhi-govt-973669.html
12-04-2021||Oasis||Ramadan, a month of multidimensional training||With the appearance of the crescent moon in the sky within a couple of days, the holy Ramadan month will start. Ramadan is the month of multidimensional training and transformation and emancipation of the soul. A fast from complaining, a fast from thinking ill of others, a fast from coarse language and hard speeches.    It is the month of sharing, caring, forgetting and forgiving, gratitude and gratefulness. It is also the month of patience and tolerance,  learning and training. A month of repenting sins one has committed during his lifetime and sincerely asking for His forgiveness. The two most important pillars of Islam are fasting and Zakat.  Fasting has been an essential obligation like prayers for the followers of earlier prophets. The Bible says that Jesus  Christ fasted for 40 days  (Mathew4:1-4). In Judaism fasting is observed on days of penitence or mourning. Roman Catholics observe fast on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday.  Hindus to observe  fast on Ekadasi,  Karwachauth,  Navaratri. In the Hindu religion, it is stated that God will be very close to those who undertake to fast. Fasting is also observed in Jainism, Buddhism,  Bahaism and Sikhism. In Islam, fasting has been prescribed for you, just as it was prescribed for those before you so that you may guard yourselves against evil Q2-184. Thus fasting is existed inhuman society and was observed basically as a symbol of atonement for sins. Another pillar of Islam is Zakat. Every Muslim whose finances are above a certain specified minimum must pay 2.5% of his cash balance annually to a deserving fellow being. Jesus Christ has instructed his followers to pay 10%of his income to the poor and downtrodden. Jews also follow this.  The Hindu religion also states to pay poor man due out of income to poor people. India has been a country that has accepted all faiths and cultural diversity,  let people of each religion observe fasting and pay the poor man’s due; let there be peace and harmony. This is the message of Ramadan to our countrymen. There is also a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in our country, while celebrating, we Indians should strictly follow guidelines, especially by wearing masks and keeping social distancing during Ramadan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/ramadan-a-month-of-multidimensional-training-973644.html
12-04-2021||Panorama||Throw everything at the virus now to avoid a prolonged national lockdown, says Bhramar Mukherjee||With nearly 1.7 lakh new cases daily and more than 900 deaths, the second wave of Covid-19 epidemic is galloping in India with no sign of getting abated. Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of epidemiology and John D Kalbfleisch Collegiate Professor at the School of Public Health, University of Michigan, spoke to Kalyan Ray on the second wave and what future may hold. Excerpts: How is the second wave of Covid-19 in India different from the first wave? Is it spreading faster? It is a rapidly rising curve. Last May, the effective ‘R’ (reproduction number-- indicates how fast the infection is spreading) was at 1.65 (like we saw on March 21, 2021) but the number of reported daily new cases were around 3,000 then. This March it was around 40,000. So, the rise in the absolute total number of cases looked much more ominous. Initially, it started in two-three states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Chattisgarh. But as you can see, it has quickly spread to all states. Right now, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand all have ‘R’ above 2.0. With India reporting more than 1,50,000 daily news cases, how do you foresee the epidemic will progress in the second surge? Will there be a peak in May as some experts suggest? The second surges in most countries showed a rapid rise and a sharp fall, unlike the slow and steady climb we saw in the initial wave. These include the UK, South Africa and the USA. It is hard to explain this rapid rise in India, particularly in urban metros that had reported a high degree of sero-positivity at the end of last year, without entertaining the possibility of reinfection and more transmissible new variants. Our models still show a turning of the curve in Maharashtra in early May and India in late May but we have never really predicted the peak reliably in the past. So, I am sceptical of our own model. The bad news is that at the height of the peak, most models are predicting around 3-5 lakh of cases, 20-25,000 hospitalisation and 3-4,000 deaths every day. This will surely overwhelm the healthcare infrastructure. Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh with poor health infrastructure now report a huge number of cases daily and since ‘R’ values are high in Jharkhand and West Bengal too, those states may also start reporting large numbers. How serious a threat is it? The virus does not listen to state border patrols. It is coming in most populous states. You can see the ‘R’ is above 2.0 in UP, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Telangana. We need to restrict interstate travel. We need to throw everything at it right now so that we can avoid a prolonged national lockdown. The case fatality rate is low as of now--is that a cause of solace and relief? I think it is a wrong way of looking at things. We all know that reporting of deaths attributed to Covid-19 has been an issue all over the world and calculations based on excess deaths compared with historical trends show that the actual fatality is much higher than what is reported. Even if I believe the reported death data from India, we do care about the total number of deaths and hospitalisations, not just the rates. If you let the disease spread in an unleashed way, you are looking at a huge number of infections even with a low Case Fatality Rate (CFR) like 1.4% The total deaths are a product of infections and fatality rates. And please remember each number is a person. Many doctors are of the opinion that there’s nothing much to worry about the second wave because even though it generates many cases, the infections are of mild nature and can be managed – do you think such a view is justified? I care about not just the rate of severe infections and fatalities but the total number. If you let 50% of the country get the infection, you are looking at at least half a million reported deaths. We are at 1,63,000. Are we ready to sacrifice 3,40,000 lives that could be saved? Also, the need for hospital beds is not measured in terms of rates, it is determined by how many patients show up. More infections would mean more hospitalisations. Another thing that we are forgetting is that each infected person is a petri dish for the virus to mutate. The more you let the virus transmit, the chances are more of seeing new variants. What went wrong particularly in Maharashtra? I think the past serosurveys were misleading in implying that we are close to infection-induced herd immunity in certain pockets of Maharashtra. Even our own models cannot explain this spike if we assume 40-50% of people had antibodies and could not get reinfected. Either the serosurveys were highly biased or we indeed have ephemeral disease-induced immunity waning and a certain fraction of the population are getting reinfected. Along with that are new variants circulating which are more transmissible and people are throwing caution to the wind. I always kept saying herd immunity is elusive and instead of relying on disease-induced immunity, India should take advantage of the troughs and valleys of the virus curve and accelerate vaccination. I also believe there is “new fresh prey” for the virus with people who always took serious precautions, now coming out and resuming normal life with less precaution. Why is the death rate unusually high in Punjab? I have no explanation for this. It is hard to get individual level data on Covid-19 cases in India to understand what is exactly going on in terms of high risk sub-groups. The distribution of certain risk factors could explain part of the reason. Or it could be that reporting rates vary across states. It will be wise to say these are all conjectures, I do not have any causal explanation. Do you foresee a second lockdown? Does such lockdown and night curfews help stem the growth of the epidemic? I do not envision a national lockdown. Local lockdown and ring vaccination in high transmission areas is what I would foresee. Ring vaccination is where you vaccinate the circle of people with any interaction of any detected case. We should not just vaccinate based on demographics. If we intensify mask mandates and prevent large gatherings, we can avoid some of the more stringent severe extreme measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/throw-everything-at-the-virus-now-to-avoid-a-prolonged-national-lockdown-says-bhramar-mukherjee-973642.html
12-04-2021||Panorama||Why you shouldn’t ignore joint pain||Narayan, a 68-year-old resident from Banaras, was experiencing pain and weakness in both his lower limbs for the past few months. He visited a local doctor in Banaras, who confirmed that he had a serious Arthritis problem and that he needed knee joint therapy. As days progressed, Narayan was unable to walk and became wheelchair-bound. When things weren’t getting better for him, Narayan sought advice from an orthopaedic surgeon in Mumbai. When he was brought to Mumbai for further investigation, his spinal MRI confirmed that he had a 3.2-centimeter tumour that pressed his nerve roots. This would have eventually left him paralysed! Given his age and complexity of the area in which the tumour rested, an image-guided interventional surgery was done to ensure the safety of the patient. If measures weren’t taken on time, Narayan would be unable to walk for the rest of this life; all emerging from joint pain. These are stories that teach us important lessons, of how significant the matter of health is. They also highlight the consequence of delayed interventions and the need for proper medical aid at the right time.  Be it joint pain, weakness in a limb or persistent cough, seeking medical aid is necessary and more importantly ignoring symptoms could be extremely dangerous. Don't ignore signs and symptoms Serious illness does not go away by itself, and with a lot of medical issues, the earlier you get treatment, the better are your chances for a positive outcome. Many times, pain is one of the first symptoms of a problem. Of course there are several other things that may trigger you to seek medical care, including: Pain that wakes you up at night or keeps you awake at night Swelling and redness in a joint Warmth and feeling of having a fever Stiffness in the morning that takes hours to wear off Discomfort that changes your normal routine Fever Moreover, if you experience joint pain with a fever or rash and mouth sores. This can be a sign of an underlying disease or infection that you don't want to ignore. Sometimes, joint pain can be the beginning of an emergent condition called Septic Arthritis. This condition starts as an infection in your joint and can disrupt your quality of life forever. With such conditions, bacteria overtake the joint and can cause bone and cartilage damage. If left untreated, it can cause permanent disability or more seriously, septic shock. What should you do?  Here is what you can do: Call your nearest doctor or your family physician Visit a nearby walk-in clinic Do not depend on the information you get on the internet If symptoms are serious, visit the Emergency Room of the nearest hospital (The writer is Consultant, Neurosurgery at a network of hospitals in Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-you-shouldn-t-ignore-joint-pain-973643.html
12-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Say it with flowers||Once again it is the season of flowers and the whole world seems to be saying it! The sidewalks, the enclosed islands on speeding highways, the columns of massive trees of orange Gulmohur and yellow Laburnum trailing gold, the public parks and gardens abounding with manicured lawns and beds of flowers nodding their welcome to fitness freaks as they jog past. Ambitious patches in front of houses struggling to burst into flower and the balconies in the high rises with little baskets of trailers showing off their largesse to all those who cared to see. Flowers, even with their evanescent beauty, fragility and lingering fragrance can be empowering. They bring a smile with their innocence to harried faces, lift them out of depression, spell romance and passion and serve God with a reverence that no other offering can. Flowers are a light in a cruel and unforgiving world, a symbol of peace and conciliation in a warring world and embattled spirits. Flowers, whether in well-orchestrated  bouquets, or in magnificent disarray in a forest glade, or a single flower in a button-hole or standing sedately in a vase, can soothe sagging spirits and weary eyes One of the most beautiful sights I will always remember is the thick coiled garlands of jasmine I saw piled high in baskets on my visits to Vijayanagaram.   This is also the season when flower festivals are celebrated in various parts of the world, most notably the Sakura, the Cherry blossoms of Japan. The Japanese who are votaries of beauty and elegance set aside time for viewing the beauty of Sakura, the cherry blossoms that have fleeting lives. Within a week of blooming, the cherry blossom petals float gently off the trees in a pink and white snowfall and “no human entreaty can prevent that swift yet elegant demise.” Those wisps of flowers embody the “mono no aware”, a Japanese aesthetic concept which is empathy towards all things,  awareness of their impermanence and the ensuing pathos of letting go of what is so beautiful. It is their transience, their very  finiteness that is the essence of their beauty and a cause for wonder and gratitude The Sakura has inspired the  Japanese masters of haiku, poems of seventeen syllables, that enshrine and celebrate the awareness and beauty of a passing moment.  Kobayashi Issa says ”Under the cherry blossoms/none are utter strangers” and Matsuo Basho “Between our two lives/ there is also the life of/the cherry blossom. ” How deeply the flower features in Japanese life in the season of Sakura as families spend time under the trees on their hanami mats to view the flowers in all their glory before they quietly vanish!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/say-it-with-flowers-973641.html
12-04-2021||Second Edit||CBSE assessment is a good move||The decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to launch a new assessment framework for science, mathematics and English for students of Classes 6-10 is a welcome initiative to improve their comprehension and understanding. It is a part of the CBSE Competency-Based Education Project and aims to replace the existing rote learning model and achieve global standards in assessment in schools over the next 2-3 years, as envisaged in the new National Education Policy (NEP). Students will be encouraged to link their knowledge to everyday problems and their competencies in resolving them would be assessed. The CBSE has had collaboration with some agencies in developing the framework. It has said that the work has already started and some progress has been made, though this claim has to be seen in the context of the knock that the education system has taken during the pandemic times.  Memorisation of alphabets, tables, theorems, poems, passages etc is now the mainstay of education. This makes students dependent on their retention and recall abilities, and their faculties for reasoning and independent thinking go undeveloped. It hurts creativity and encourages linear thinking, and makes it difficult for them to think of multiple solutions to problems. So, a system which helps students to learn naturally and freely and develop their talents and personalities is needed in schools. The CBSE plans to introduce the scheme in 25,000 schools across the country by 2024. It is making preparations for that by setting question papers and assessment models in a phased manner. Assessment designers, test item writers and master trainer mentors are being trained for this. In the first phase, selected Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Vidyalayas and some private schools will participate in the programme.   But intentions alone will not make the programme a success. The human and physical infrastructure in the schools will have to be drastically upgraded to implement the programme. Schools, especially government-run schools, are facing a severe shortage of staff. It is estimated that the country as a whole has a shortage of six lakh teachers and one in every six teachers lacks training. Better libraries and maths, science and language labs will have to be provided. The spending on education in the country is only less than 4% of the GDP, much lower than in many other countries. There is a promise to increase it to 6% in the National Education Policy but it is bound to take time, in the light of the financial constraints imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. So, the programme will have to go a long way before making any impact. It should also be remembered that CBSE schools form only a small part of the country’s education system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cbse-assessment-is-a-good-move-973637.html
12-04-2021||South||Kasargod youth's inspiring story of achievement goes viral||Sharing a picture of his home, a hut, at Panathur on the suburbs of Kasargod on the social media, Renjith R proudly says, that despite his weak family backgrounds he could make it to the Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi as assistant professor and wishes his story be an inspiration to at least one person. Renjith's story has become a sensation on the social media with hundreds of persons, including prominent personalities like Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac, sharing it. It was a night watchman job he received when he completed his higher secondary that gave a twist to his life. Renjith, who is eldest of three children of Ramachandra and Baby, has almost decided to drop his studies after completing higher secondary as his father, who is a tailor, could not meet the education expenses of the three children. Renjith says that he got the job of night watchman at a telephone exchange in his locality and hence he decided to continue studies without causing any burden to his parents. After completing studies at St Pius X College in Kasargod and the Central University, he did PhD in Economics at IIT, Madras. In the social media post Renjith recollects the difficulties he faced in IIT as he was very unfamiliar to such circumstances. At one point he was even planning to discontinue studies. But his guide persuaded him to fight in life before letting down. "Fighting the odds, I reached IIM Ranchi as assistant professor from my hut, which is heaven for me. There will be many like me who are constrained in dreaming high, owing to their pressing living conditions. But my advise for them is that sky should be the limit for dreaming and one day the dreams will get wings to reach the destiny," he says. Sharing Renjith's story, Thomas Isaac said in a post that persons like Renjith who made education the weapon to fight the odds in life would be an inspiration to many. Renjith is now working with the Christ University in Bengaluru and will be soon joining the IIM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-youths-inspiring-story-of-achievement-goes-viral-973330.html
12-04-2021||South||Kerala Governor Arif Khan offers prayers at Sabarimala shrine||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Sunday visited the temple of Lord Ayyappa in Sabarimala and offered prayers at the hilltop shrine. The Governor reached Pamba at around 5 PM, carried the traditional "irumudikettu," which are sacred offerings to the Lord, and offered prayers, said the Devaswom Board. He tweeted that the shrine ofVavar Swami en route to Sabarimala exemplifies communal harmony and unity. "Governor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan reached #Sabarimala, the abode of Lord Ayyappa, and offered prayers. #SabarimalaTemple attracts devotees from all religions...," the Governor office tweeted. Khan was accompanied by his youngest son Kabir Mohammed Khan. They were welcomed by Travancore Devaswom Board president N Vasu and other members of the Board. The Governor would offer prayers at the shrine on Monday morning as well and plant a sapling on the precincts of the Malikapuram, the board said. The temple was opened on April 10 for the eight-day Vishu festival. Restrictions on the entry of devotees for darshan during the festival would continue as part of the Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governor-arif-khan-offers-prayers-at-sabarimala-shrine-973334.html
12-04-2021||South||Hashtags supporting VCK chief Thirumavalavan trend on Twitter||On Sunday, Tamil Twitter was dotted with posts and hashtags supporting Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) chief Thol. Thirumavalavan. Not just supporters of the prominent Dalit leader, but also authors, Carnatic singer T M Krishna, journalists, and others used #IstandWithThiruma or #MyLeaderThiruma hashtags by mentioning their educational qualification in their posts. The trigger: PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss' assertion in a video message that “educated youth” have stopped trusting Thirumavalavan. Ramadoss, in a video message released on Saturday night, accused DMK President M K Stalin and Thirumavalavan of “politicising” the murder of two Dalit youths by members of dominant Vanniyar community near Chennai on April 7. VCK suspects cadres of PMK are behind the incident. The DMK and VCK have alleged that the double murder was a result of election-related dispute, while the AIADMK and PMK have not spoken about the incident as yet. Six people have been arrested for their involvement in the murder that has sent shock waves across Tamil Nadu. During the course of his speech, Ramadoss said educated youth have stop believing in Thirumavalavan. Hours after the video went viral, the hashtags began trending on Twitter. PMK, a party that espouses the cause of Vanniyars who are spread across northern Tamil Nadu, and VCK do not see eye-to-eye and are at loggerheads always. “I am Dr Senthil Kumar. A Radiologist and a first-time MP from DMK. (I) contested against Dr. Anbumani in Dharmapuri. I believe in Dr Thol Thirumavalavan,” Dr S Senthilkumar, DMK MP from Dharmapuri, wrote on his verified Twitter page. DMK IT wing chief Dr P Thiaga Rajan, Carnatic singer T M Krishna, noted writer Meena Kandasamy and several others took to Twitter to endorse their support for Thirumavalavan. “I am Palanivel Thiaga Rajan B. Tech (Hons) (Chemical Engg), MS (Operations Research), MBA (Finance), Ph.D. (Engg Psychology), and I stand with Thirumavalavan,” Dr Thiaga Rajan wrote. VCK general secretary and Villupuram MP D Ravikumar sought to know why the AIADMK, PMK, and BJP have not come forward to condemn the murder. “In the whole video message, Ramadoss has not condemned the incident. Why is that he is hesitant to condemn the incident? He has not sought action against the culprits?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hashtags-supporting-vck-chief-thirumavalavan-trend-on-twitter-973339.html
12-04-2021||South||Kerala's dancing medicos in scrubs inspire cops to bat for Covid-19 vaccines||Dancing to the tunes of 1970s Boney M classic 'Rasputin', Janaki and Naveen, two medical students from Kerala's Thrissur Medical College, have shaken the social media for more reasons than one. The 30-second-long video of their dancing in scrubs, shot by a friend, was posted in the social media and went viral on the internet, particularly after a lawyer with leanings to the right wing warned Janaki Omkumar's parents, citing the religion of Naveen Razak. But the dancers chose to ignore what the lawyer has been driving at and also the subsequent heated discussion online about their religion, even as scores of others have expressed solidarity with them. Now, Kerala Police too has latched on to the dance video in an endeavour to spread awareness among the people on the need to get vaccinated against the novel coronavirus. It posted a video on its Twitter handle of two vials of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines moving to the tunes of one of the band's popular number. "Get Vaccinated From Nearest Vaccination Centre. Crush The Curve.Back to Basics. #keralapolice #CovidVaccine (sic)," Kerala Police's tweet read, using the contemporary way of promoting the vaccines among the public. Meanwhile, Naveen got over 6.7 lakh likes for the video he posted on his Instagram page and Janaki posted the video on her Youtube channel. It was watched by nearly five lakh people. "A usually dead phone of mine and a pretty not-so- frequently active social media user myself have been on the buzz for the past few days," Naveen wrote on his instagram page. Both Naveen and Janaki sought to ignore the comments made by the lawyer about their dance. As the social media started discussing their religion, fellow students of Janaki and Naveen posted another video with more students dancing to 'Rasputin'. They all appeared in a video wearing their scrubs and masks. Naveen and Janaki made an appearance in the video for a few seconds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-dancing-medicos-in-scrubs-inspire-cops-to-bat-for-covid-19-vaccines-973425.html
12-04-2021||South||Youth support Kerala medicos with their own Rasputin dance videos||Youth from across Kerala are posting videos supporting the two medical professionals who shared a video dancing to the tune of 'Rasputin', to counter some Sangh supporters' attempts to make it a communal issue.  Youngsters have even started a social media campaign against the hate campaign. The Kerala government's health department had even used the dance of the medicos as the baseline for an animated campaign for Covid-19 vaccination. A girl in traditional attire of Thiruvathira dance form of Kerala dancing to the tune of 'Rasputin' and kids dancing to the tune of the evergreen pop songs are among the series of dancing protests against the hate campaign doing rounds on social media. Naveen Razak and Janaki Omkumar, students of the Thrissur government medical college, had made a 30-second video clip dancing to the tune of 'Rasputin'. The two were in scrubs and the video was shot in their hospital corridor. They posted the video on social media and it went viral and two students became celebrities overnight last week.   The hate campaign was triggered with the post of one Krishna Raj, said to be a Sangh Parivar supporter. Referring to the religion of the two students, he cautioned Janaki's parents that he was smelling a rat. He also made a reference to Nimisha, a Kerala girl who reportedly joined ISIS along with her husband. Following this, a group of medicos posted similar short dance videos featuring more medicos and initiated a hashtag campaign, '#resisthate', with the caption 'if the intention is hate, the decision is to resist'. ABCD - Anybody can Dance When DH got in touch with Nimisha's mother Bindhu, she said that she had not come across the reference made about Nimisha in the hate campaign, and hence, did not want to comment. In what could be considered as an expression of solidarity with the students, the Kerala health department brought out an animated video of two vials of Covaxin and Covishield dancing to the tune of 'Rasputin' as a campaign to promote vaccination. Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (MILMA) also featured Naveen and Janaki for their new ad. Both Naveen and Janaki had said that they were least bothered about the hate campaign being triggered over their dance and such comments did not even deserve any reply. Both of them are also committed to take forward their interest in dance along with their medical career.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-support-kerala-medicos-with-their-own-rasputin-dance-videos-973548.html
12-04-2021||South||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan offers prayers at Sabarimala||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan visited Sabarimala Ayyappa temple on Sunday evening. Accompanied by his son Kabeer, Khan climbed the nearly-three-kilometre steep terrain from Pamba to Sannidhanam. Though dolly was arranged for carrying the Governor, he preferred to climb by himself. He also climbed the 18 holy steps carrying the 'Irumudikettu' (offerings to the lord) on his head. After offering prayers at the Ayyappa temple and receiving prasadam from Tantri Kandararu Rajeevararu, the Governor also offered prayers at Malikapuram devi temple and Vavaru Nada at the Sannidhanam. He also listened to the 'Harivarasanam' divine song, considered as lullaby to Lord Ayyappa at 11 pm. Khan who camped at Sannidhanam during the night took part in the cleaning activities at the temple premises on Monday morning and planted a sandal sapling. While leaving Sannidhanam by around 9 am, Khan also expressed his wish to visit the temple premises again. Travancore Devaswom Board President N Vasu and other senior officials made the arrangements for the Governor at Sannidhanam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-governor-arif-mohammad-khan-offers-prayers-at-sabarimala-973555.html
12-04-2021||South||SC allows plea by ex-Andhra Pradesh High Court judge against probe into secretly recorded talks||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed a plea by former judge V Eswaraiah against the Andhra Pradesh High Court's directions to conduct an enquiry into his secretly recorded conversation with a suspended district munsif magistrate on an alleged "conspiracy against the judiciary". A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy noted that Eswaraiah himself has admitted the conversation of July 20, 2020 in an affidavit filed before the top court. Thus, "We see no reason to allow to continue the enquiry by former SC judge, Justice R V Raveendran as directed by the High Court," the bench said in its judgement. "Authenticity and genuineness of the transcript having been admitted, we are of the view that the direction by the High Court calling for report from Justice Raveendran need not be allowed to continue," the bench added. The court, however, said if the High Court intended to refer to the transcript, it can do so after giving Justice Eswaraiah an opportunity to file his response. On August 13, 2020, the order for a probe was passed on an application during the hearing of a PIL related to the implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in the High Court. In his plea, Justice Eswaraiah led by advocate Prashant Bhushan contended a private conversation between him and S Ramakrishna, a suspended Munsif could not have been a subject matter of a writ petition before the High Court, which ordered the probe without issuing a notice to him in violation of the principle of natural justice. The 69-year-old retired judge and chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission contended that if one went through the transcript, there was nothing to show that a crime has been committed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-allows-plea-by-ex-andhra-pradesh-high-court-judge-against-probe-into-secretly-recorded-talks-973571.html
12-04-2021||South||Kerala minister K T Jaleel moves HC against Lokayukta report asking him to quit||Kerala Higher Education and Minority Welfare Minister K T Jaleel on Monday moved the High Court against the order of Kerala Lokayukta finding him guilty of nepotism and declaring that he should not continue as a member of the council of ministers. The minister maintained in his petition that the Lokayukta issued the order considering oral arguments only. The Lokayukta on Friday gave a report to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to take appropriate action against Jaleel. The allegation against Jaleel was that his second cousin K T Adeeb was appointed as general manager of Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation by altering the qualifications required for the post. Following the allegations, Adeeb had resigned from the post in November 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-moves-hc-against-lokayukta-report-asking-him-to-quit-973613.html
12-04-2021||South||Kerala HC scraps decision to postpone Rajya Sabha polls||As a shot in the arm for the CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala, the Kerala High Court on Monday directed that elections to the three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala falling vacant this month should be conducted before the term of the current government ends. Among the three seats, two are now held by the Congress-led UDF and one by LDF. Considering the present strength in the Assembly in which the LDF has a majority, the LDF may win two while the UDF may get only one. The HC order came on petitions filed by the Kerala Legislative Secretary and CPM leader S Sharma against a decision of the Election Commission of India to postpone the elections scheduled to be held on April 12. Polling to all the 140 seats in Kerala Assembly was done on April 6 and the results are on May 2. The HC's single bench of justice P V Asha directed that the elections to the three seats should be held before May 2. Only in case of any law and order situation should the elections be postponed, the HC observed. There were no sufficient reasons to postpone the election. The Election Commission maintained that the decision to postpone the election was taken considering a report of the Ministry of Law and Justice that the popular will may not be reflected in the Upper House if the new members are elected just ahead of the results of the Assembly elections. Terms of Congress leadar Vayalar Ravi, Abdul Wahab of the Indian Union Muslim League and K K Ragesh of CPM are ending on April 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-scraps-decision-to-postpone-rajya-sabha-polls-973619.html
12-04-2021||South||Step out only if necessary: Tamil Nadu tells people as Covid-19 cases surge||As daily figures show a constant increase in the number of people testing positive for the novel coronavirus, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday asked people to step out of their homes “only if necessary” and nudged those eligible to take a vaccine for Covid-19. In a detailed statement following a review meeting chaired by him, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami explained the steps taken by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He also asked frontline workers to get vaccinated within the next two weeks, while appealing to those eligible to get a jab immediately. “People should step out of their homes only when necessary and when they step out, they should compulsorily wear masks,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) said if the city continues to add cases at this rate, hospitals will run out of oxygen beds and lose lives. “We cannot go on “business as usual”. Last year, we reached this number in the first week of July and cases declined thereafter due to control measures implemented during lockdown in the last 2 weeks of June. However, in the current situation, cases will continue to rise for the next few days,” she said. She also appealed to people to avoid group-based activities at home, workplaces, and apartment complexes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/step-out-only-if-necessary-tamil-nadu-tells-people-as-covid-19-cases-surge-973635.html
12-04-2021||South||Kerala plans fresh restrictions in view of Covid-19 surge||As Covid-19 surges across Kerala, the state is planning to impose fresh restrictions on public events and limit operations of hotels and shops till 9 pm. As many as 5,692 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Monday, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 47,596. A meeting convened by Kerala Chief Secretary V P Joy was learnt to have proposed to the government that a maximum number of persons at public functions may be restricted to 200 in case of open venues and 100 in case of closed venues. The duration of these events should not exceed two hours. Serving food would not be allowed and food packets shall be given instead. It was also proposed to allow only 50 per cent of the maximum seating capacity at hotels. A final decision was still pending from the government. Meanwhile, Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that there was a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in Kerala now. The Centre was urged to issue more vaccines at the earliest. So far, over 50 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines were given in Kerala. While 45.48 lakh beneficiaries were given the first dose, 5.23 lakh received the second dose. As many as 49.19 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin were given, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-plans-fresh-restrictions-in-view-of-covid-19-surge-973651.html
12-04-2021||State||Basavakalyan, a symbol of equal society, but caste decides polls here||It was here that 12th century social reformer Basavanna gave the world the concept of a Parliament - the Anubhava Mantapa - and advocated for a caste-free ‘egalitarian’ society.  However, caste is a reality in Basavakalyan for the April 17 byelection, in what is expected to be a straight, fierce battle between the BJP and Congress, with the JD(S) likely to play spoilsport.  The bypoll was necessitated following the death of Congress MLA B Narayan Rao due to Covid-19 last year.  While the BJP fielded Sharanu Salagar, seen as an outsider, the Congress picked Rao’s wife Mala to ride on a sympathy wave. The JD(S) has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who might divide the minority votes to hurt the Congress. Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) has taken this bypoll seriously. Former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba, who was the front-runner for the BJP ticket, is contesting as an Independent under the banner of ‘Basavakalyan Swabhimana Balaga’. In total, there are 12 candidates in the fray.  About 50,000 Lingayat votes are likely to be split between Sharanu and Khuba, who belongs to the community. The BJP got a big relief after former MLA M G Mule, a Maratha leader, withdrew his nomination as the NCP candidate. The Maratha community forms a major chunk of population here and they are traditional voters of the BJP.   The Congress is unnerved with Quadri of the JD(S) and AIMIM’s Abdul Razaq Chaudhary. The constituency has 40,000 Muslim votes, a traditional Congress vote base. The party has roped in former minister P G R Sindhia to woo the Maratha votes. The party is also trying to lure voters from the Koli, Kabbaliga and other backward classes. The victory margin will be thin, says political analyst Muzaffar Assadi. “The votes of minority communities will become one-sided. As seen in previous elections, a majority of the votes will be grabbed by the Congress,” he says.  For voters, there are developmental issues. “Though Hulsoor was carved out as a new taluk, no basic amenities have been provided so far,” say Galeppa Rajore and Channayya Swamy. Narasing Patil from Gutti village, close to the Maharashtra border, says leaders promise the moon during elections and forget about it later. “They’ve done nothing for the village, which is deprived of even a proper drainage system,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/basavakalyan-a-symbol-of-equal-society-but-caste-decides-polls-here-973623.html
12-04-2021||State||Hopes of Bengeri Khadi unit's employees dwindle||The hope of the financial revival of India’s only Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)-certified national flag manufacturing unit at Bengeri in Hubballi is dashed as the Centre is yet to make up its mind on placing the ‘promised’ three crore units of the tri-colour flag for the platinum jubilee celebrations of India’s independence. During a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, it was decided to celebrate the platinum jubilee in a grand manner by hoisting the national flag on all the government buildings and also encourage private institutes and individuals to hoist the flags. The proposed three-crore order was a part of these celebrations. Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena and CEO Preeta Verma to Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangh (KKGSS) had recently visited Bengeri. More than 400 employees of Sangh, who haven’t received a salary for the last two months, became hopeful after Saxena proposed purchasing more than three crore units of national flag for the year-long celebrations of India’s 75th Independence. Had the proposal materialised, it would have not only provided jobs to more than 2.5 lakh rural weaver and cotton manufacturers but also improved the financial condition of KKGSS.  “Due to lockdown and subdued celebrations of national festivals across India last year, we could not sell flags worth Rs 1.26 crore. Covid-19 has adversely impacted our demand, supply and manufacture chain,” said KKGSS secretary Shivananda Mathapati, adding that raw materials suppliers have also not been paid, and huge stocks are stored at showrooms.  “We haven’t so far received any communication from central government or its allied agencies,” said Mathapati, adding that such a huge order could have been a game-changer for KKGSS and Khadi industry in general. However, highly placed sources at KVIC, Mumbai informed DH that such huge order is unlikely to be placed as the certified agency does not have the required equipment and manpower to produce the flags. “And it is also not feasible to set up additional units, as such huge orders will be placed only for this year and national flags being a slow-moving commodity not many private players will come forward to take up the order,” said the officer requesting anonymity.  “The recent visit by KVIC members to Hubballi unit was not to make any proposal but to take stock to see if we are prepared to manufacture such huge quantity of flags. Ground realities show that it's not possible...” the officer said. On average, the Sangh produces 30,000 units (worth Rs 3.5 crore) of national flag measuring different sizes, including the one prime ministers of India hoist at the Red Fort, Delhi on independence day. Mathapati said with the present infrastructure and after training additional hands, KKGSS can produce three lakh units of flags this year and by joining hands with other Khadi manufacturing units across India, the task of preparing three crore flags is not impossible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hopes-of-bengeri-khadi-units-employees-dwindle-973662.html
12-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTC workers strike enters Day 6, bus services hit in Karnataka||Bus services were hampered for the sixth consecutive day in Karnataka, as the strike by the employees of the road transport corporations on wage related issues continued on Monday. With a stalemate between the government and employees of the four transport corporations in the state, over their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission continuing, majority of the workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off road, affecting commuters. Amid threats of tough action, "no work no pay", few RTC employees have returned to work and are operating buses on some routes in the city and different parts of the state. People wanting to travel to their native for celebrating Ugadi on Tuesday and office-goers were the most affected. Private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles, whom authorities have roped in to manage the crisis and help commuters, were seen providing services to passengers in different parts of the city and the state. Metro trains, autos and cabs were also being largely used for commuting within the city. Meanwhile, intensifying their protest, employees along with their family members have decided to stage demonstrations at district and taluk centres, in front of Deputy Commissioner or Tahsildar offices Monday against the government's stand. Accusing the government of not paying their March salary, thereby affecting their family's Ugadi celebrations, they said, employees who have returned to work are being paid. RTCs that have been warning employees against continuing with the strike, have started taking action against trainee and probationary employees by dismissing them for absence from work and not responding to notices. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Sunday had said it has decided not to consider requests for inter-corporation transfers of employees who are instigating, threatening colleagues for strike and are hindering bus services, thereby causing inconvenience to the public. It had also said that employees who have been given such transfers, have been warned that it will be cancelled and that they will be posted to their original place on failing to attend on duty immediately. Citing inconvenience caused to the public and that the strike was against provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, the Labour department on Friday had issued an order banning the strike, and had referred the dispute to the industrial tribunal, Bengaluru for adjudication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtc-workers-strike-enters-day-6-bus-services-hit-in-karnataka-973427.html
12-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown may be imposed in Karnataka if need arises, says CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the state government could impose lockdown if the necessity arises. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't heed then we may have to take stringent measures. If required and if necessity arises, we will impose lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar. Reacting to queries on the growing coronavirus cases in the state, which saw the numbers breaching 10,000 on Sunday, he said the Prime Minister had also spoken to him about the measures taken by his government. "(I told him) we have imposed night curfew in the districts where the coronavirus cases are rising," Yediyurappa said. He insisted that people should wear face masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing. "People need to respond for their own good. If they don't cooperate then we will initiate stringent measures, which people should not give scope for. I want people to cooperate with us," Yediyurappa said. To a question, if the Technical Advisory Committee had recommended a lockdown, Yediyurappa reiterated that people have to understand and cooperate. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters that the government was not inclined to a lockdown and wanted people to cooperate. "Neither I nor the Chief Minister is saying that we will do it (lockdown). All we are saying is don't compel us to push to that extreme. Our government is not at all willing to impose lockdown," he clarified. He also said that if people cooperate the second wave of coronavirus can be defeated. The talk of lockdown came following reports that the Technical Advisory Committee has recommended lockdown for a brief period to contain the coronavirus. Sudhakar had on Sunday said that the cases may touch around 25,000 to 30,000 by the month-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-may-be-imposed-in-karnataka-if-need-arises-says-cm-bs-yediyurappa-973444.html
12-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTC workers take to the streets on 6th day of protest||Workers of the four-state road transport corporations (RTC) beat plates and took out protest marches along with their family members to pressurise the government to consider their demands as bus services were hit for the sixth consecutive day of the strike. Groups of up to 100 persons, including children and women, gathered at taluk and district headquarters across the state where they aired slogans against the government. The demand for salary to be on par with the 6th pay commission recommendations for government workers remained on top of their agenda.  While protests in Bengaluru were subdued due to a rise in Covid-19 cases, workers in Kolar, Chitradurga, Ramanagar, Hassan, Hubballi, Tumakuru and other places took out marches. Many protestors were detained by the police who have been told not to allow gatherings in view of Covid-19 guidelines. In Ramanagar, Anand, joint secretary of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, met former chief minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and sought his support for the ongoing strike.  "I stand with you. The chief minister and the transport minister will not be available for three more days owing to the bypoll campaign. I will take up your issue once they come back from the campaign," Kumaraswamy told the protesters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtc-workers-take-to-the-streets-on-6th-day-of-protest-973477.html
12-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees over 9,500 new Covid-19 cases, 52 deaths||Karnataka has reported 9,579 fresh Covid-19 cases and 52 related fatalities, taking the total caseload to 10.74 lakh and the toll to 12,941, the Health Department said on Monday. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 6,387 of the fresh cases. The day also saw 2,767 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively 10,74,869 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,941 deaths and 9,85,924 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. Out of 75,985 active cases, 75,515 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 470 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban continued to log the most number of deaths (40), Mysuru reported 3, Bidar and Chamarajanagara 2 each and one each from Bagalkote, Ballari, Belagavi, Chikkaballapura and Ramanagara. Among districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 6,387, Bidar 465, Mysuru 362, Kalaburagi 335, Tumakuru 239, Bengaluru Rural 192, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,88,369, followed by Mysuru 58,573 and Ballari 40,692. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 4,26,968, followed by Mysuru 55,527 and Ballari 39,291. A total of over 2,28,06,423 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,16,165 were done on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-over-9500-new-covid-19-cases-52-deaths-973553.html
12-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka rules out online examination for higher classes||Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday ruled out holding examinations online. Speaking to reporters after a meeting in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases, Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said there was a demand from a section of students and parents to conduct the tests online. "It will not be possible to conduct the online exams in the present system. Examinations will be conducted only in offline mode though a few deemed universities may be able to conduct exams online. This will not be possible in the government set-up," Narayan said. The timetable for degree, post-graduation, diploma, and engineering examinations has been affected a bit due to the ongoing bus strike, the Minister said adding that the exams would resume immediately after the strike ends. Physical classes would be started once the pandemic is brought under control, and the students can attend physically or through online mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rules-out-online-examination-for-higher-classes-973654.html
12-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||TTD's claim on Hanuman's birthplace at Tirumala Hills creates stir in Karnataka||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams claim that Tirumala Hills is the abode of Lord Hanuman and they would release an 'evidence'-based book has created a stir in religious and archaeological circles as Hampi near Ballari is considered 'Kishkindha Kshetra' or monkey kingdom for ages. The TTD had announced on Saturday that an 'evidence' based book to 'prove' that Lord Hanuman was 'born' on one of the seven sacred hills of Tirumala, home to the Sri Venkateswara Swamy shrine, would be released on April 13, on Ugadi, the Hindu new year. While archaeology and history scholars have dismissed the TTD's claim, the Karnataka unit of Vishwa Hindu Parishad said that the TTD should take some more time and hold discussions with scholars and religious heads before arriving at any conclusion. The historians were unanimous that Hampi or the area around the erstwhile capital of Vijayanagara dynasty, is Kishkindha Kshetra. Not only was Anjanadri at Hampi the birthplace of Anjaneya, prehistoric rock paintings found in the region show people with tails, they claimed. "There are many cave paintings near Sangamkallu, Belakallu, where the human figures have tail like form. "That is why it is being argued that 'Vaanara' (meaning men seemingly monkeys) is one of the species of the human race with tails. Possibly during the time of Treta Yuga and Lord Rama, these were the people who appear to have helped him," Dr Raghavendra Rao Kulkarni, Professor and Head, department of Art History, Chitrakala Parishath, Bengaluru, told PTI. He said Prof A Sundara, former chairman, department of ancient Indian History and epigraphy at Dharwad University, has identified a good number of paintings at nearby Ballari region, where the human figures in prehistoric paintings have a small protrusion on the rear side. "There are more than 1,000 Hanuman sculptures in and around Hampi. Why are only Hanuman sculptures there in the Hampi region and not in Tirumala?" Kulkarni asked. He claimed Anegundi was the royal place of Angada, son of Vali and the prince of Kishkindha. T M Keshava, retired superintending archaeologist of the Archaeological Survey of India, said he has identified all topographical regions of Kishkindha as mentioned in the Ramayana. There is Pampa Sarovara, which is none other than the Tungabhadra river and hills like Malyavanta, Rishyamooka, Gandhamadana, Kishkindha, Matanga and Anjanadri in the region, Keshava said. "Records, available evidence, present tradition, folklore at the available site show that the erstwhile Vijayanagara Empire, earlier Pampa Kshetra, has been identified as Kishkindha, with innumerable pieces of evidence like hundreds of Hanuman Temples in the taluk," he said. Claiming that every village has a Hanuman temple, Keshava cited a popular saying in the region that 'Every Village has a Hanuman'. Also, the extensive depiction of sculptures of Hanuman by the Vijayanagara artisans, building of a temple exclusively to Hazara Rama and Sita near the royal enclosure of Krishnadevaraya at Hampi "prove that this is kishkindha." There is a Hazara Ramachandra Temple and other shrines at Hampi, narrating the story of Ramayana, he added. Keshava said the presence of Langurs, Macaque and yellow-bodied monkeys even now,as also hundreds of rock shelters with proto-historic paintings in many areas in the world heritage site Hampi allude to the 'strong evidence' of Anjandri and its vicinity being the ancient Kishkindha at Anjadri. The Karnataka organising secretary of VHP, Basavaraj, said that since Lord Rama is the important deity for Hindus, every state wishes to relate their history with him. "However, the TTD should not be in a hurry to come up with a report and should take time and consult religious heads and scholars before arriving at a conclusion," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ttds-claim-on-hanumans-birthplace-at-tirumala-hills-creates-stir-in-karnataka-973665.html
12-04-2021||West||Amid Covid-19 surge, 3 jumbo hospitals to come up in Mumbai soon||As Covid-19 cases in Mumbai hover at the level of around 9,000 to 10,000 per day, the Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has put in action a massive plan to set up three Jumbo Field Hospitals and requisition several five-star and four-star hotels in this financial capital of India. Shortage of beds of all kinds – normal, oxygen, ICU and ventilator – is a major issue that Mumbai is witnessing for over a fortnight’s time after the second wave hit the city. On Monday, mayor Kishori Pednekar and municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal revealed the augmentation plans as the possibility of a total lockdown looms.   “We have a massive plan in action and we are addressing multiple issues,” said Pednekar, pointing out that nodal officers are being posted in Ward War Rooms and Jumbo Field Hospitals on a shift basis. “The government has decided to build 3 more Jumbo Field Hospitals in next 5-6 weeks at 3 different locations in Mumbai each with a capacity of 2,000 beds with 200 ICU beds and 70% oxygenated beds,” Chahal said. Certain 5-star and 4-star hotels shall be requisitioned immediately to create CCC2 asymptomatic positive patients to be dovetailed and run by professionals from major private hospitals to make a large number of beds available to new needy patients by shifting substantially recovered patients quickly to these CCC2 facilities to be managed by professional doctors.  “The BMC has added 325 additional ICU beds in various hospitals in Mumbai and the number of ICU beds has gone up to 2,466 now whereas the total number of Covid beds on online bed allotment dashboard has gone to 19,151 comprising of 141 hospitals out of which presently 3,777 DCHC/DCH beds are vacant,” he said. The BMC will operationalise 1,100 additional DCHC/DCH Covid beds including 125 ICUs in the next seven days. All labs have been instructed to ensure a turn around time of 24 hours without fail. “The labs have been instructed to give priority to swabs of symptomatic patients while processing the Covid-19 test collected under home collection of swabs,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-covid-19-surge-3-jumbo-hospitals-to-come-up-in-mumbai-soon-973423.html
12-04-2021||West||NCP chief Sharad Pawar undergoes gall bladder surgery||NCP chief Sharad Pawar underwent a gall bladder surgery at private hospital in Mumbai on Monday. "A successful Laparoscopy surgery was conducted today on our party President Sharad Pawar Saheb's Gall Bladder by Dr. Balsara. He is in stable health and is recuperating in his room at the Breach Candy Hospital, Mumbai," Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said. UpdateA successful Laparoscopy surgery was conducted today on our party President Sharad Pawar Saheb's Gall Bladder by Dr. Balsara.He is in stable health and is recuperating in his room at the Breach Candy Hospital, Mumbai Pawar, 80, had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the Breach Candy hospital on March 30, a doctor had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-undergoes-gall-bladder-surgery-973440.html
12-04-2021||West||Covid-19 patients get oxygen in chairs at Maharashtra hospital: Report||As Maharashtra's healthcare system grapples with the unpreceded surge in coronavirus cases, with the state reporting record single-day cases, Covid-19 patients are getting treated in wheelchairs in a district hospital in Osmanabad. From the video clip, it appears that the Osmanabad district hospital may have run out of beds which is why patients were made to sit on chairs and begin their oxygen supply. DH could not independently verify the video. Meanwhile, central teams visiting Maharashtra had also reported multiple loopholes ranging from lack of oxygen and ambulance services to poor perimeter control in the containment zones that the state administrations need to plug. Occupancy rates of available hospital bed capacity were reported as "very high" in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nandurbar while medical oxygen supply was found to be an issue in Osmanabad, Pune and two other districts. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patients-get-oxygen-in-chairs-at-maharashtra-hospital-report-973457.html
12-04-2021||West||Covid-19 situation reality contrary to state government's claims: Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court pulled up the state government on Monday over the Covid-19 situation in the state and problems being faced by citizens, saying the reality is contrary to what the government claims. "People now think that they are at God's mercy," a division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Bhargav Karia said while hearing a PIL, taken up suo motu (on its own), on the coronavirus situation in the state. After Advocate General Kamal Trivedi informed the HC about steps taken by the Gujarat government to tackle the Covid-19 situation, the court said the reality is quite different from what the government claims. "The situation is quite different than what you are claiming. You are saying that everything is alright. But, the reality is contrary to that," the high court said during the hearing held via video-conferencing. There is a "trust deficit" among people, it observed. "There is no shortage of Remdesivir (key anti-viral drug). Everything is available with you. We want results, not reasons," the HC said, on complaints of shortage of Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients. It now takes "almost five days" for a person to get the RT-PCR test result, the court noted. "You did not upscale the testing facilities when you had time," the HC said. Gujarat reported 5,469 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday, its biggest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic, which took its caseload to 3,47,495. The death toll due to the virus went up to 4,800 as 54 patients succumbed to the infection on Sunday, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-reality-contrary-to-state-governments-claims-gujarat-hc-973475.html
12-04-2021||West||Covid-19 second wave claims first life in Mumbai Police force||A sub-inspector died due to Covid-19 here on Monday, becoming the first victim from the Mumbai Police force of the second wave of the viral infection, an official said on Monday. SI Mohan Dagade (52), posted at the Vakola police station for over two years, was admitted to a jumbo Covid-19 centre in the Bandra-Kurla Complex here for treatment on April 3 after he tested positive for the coronavirus. He died early Monday morning, the official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone-8) Manjunath Singhe confirmed the policeman's demise. Dagade resided in suburban Andheri with his family members, including two children, the official said. Last year, two constables and an inspector from Vakola police station died due to Covid-19, he said. Over 30 personnel from the Vakola police station had tested positive for the viral infection last year, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-second-wave-claims-first-life-in-mumbai-police-force-973480.html
12-04-2021||West||Maharashtra postpones state board exams for classes 10 and 12||Amid spiraling Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Monday decided to postpone board examinations of Class X and XII. The announcement comes after the Maha Vikas Aghadi government held a series of meetings including an all-party meeting and a meet with the Covid-19 Task Force. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after a detailed assessment of the situation, gave the final nod to postpone the exams. The examinations by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education were to be held between April and May. While the Class XII exams were to start on April 23, the Class X exams were scheduled from April 30. The exams were to be completed by May. Usually, the board exams in Maharashtra are held between February-March. “Given the current Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, we have postponed state board exams for class 10th and 12th. The present circumstances are not conducive for holding exams. Your health is our priority… Postponing exams seemed to be the most pragmatic solution,” state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said in an announcement to students. “Keeping in mind the schedule of entrance exams for professional courses, class 12th exams will be held by the end of May, while 10th standard exams will be in June. We're closely monitoring the health situation. Fresh dates for these exams will be announced accordingly,” she said. “The decision is the outcome of consultations with various stakeholders — students, teachers, parents, elected representatives from across parties, academicians and tech giants — in the wake of rising coronavirus cases,” she said, adding that during the consultations, various alternative assessment options were evaluated keeping the health, well-being and future of our students in mind. “We'll also be writing to the CBSE, ICSE, IB, Cambridge boards, requesting them to reconsider their exam dates,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-postpones-state-board-exams-for-classes-10-and-12-973485.html
12-04-2021||West||Remdesivir vials and political injections in Gujarat: Report||Amid the increased demand for remdesivir due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, people reportedly stood in serpentine queues outside a BJP office in Gujarat to receive the drug, otherwise authorised to be sold only by licensed traders. “We have made arrangements to buy 5,000 remdesivir injections from Zydus, and have placed orders... Patients from districts in South Gujarat and also from Surat city, who face problems in getting remdesivir injections, can come to the BJP office, show the treatment file, doctor’s number, and other necessary details, which will be verified by our people in the BJP office, and later such injections will be given free of cost to them,” the state party president said. 'Distributing through BJP' “Some of our friends from Surat city have bought these injections and we are distributing them through the BJP. We are only supplementing the distribution. The state government has its own arrangement…” Paatil reportedly said. Commenting on the issue, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said that the distribution organised by BJP is different from the arrangements made by the state government.  “Concerned about Surat, C R Paatil has arranged for 5,000 remdesivir injections. How he made those arrangements, it is better to ask him for a proper answer... This has no connection with the stocks we have sent (for Surat)… Not a single injection has been given from government stocks,” the Chief Minister was quoted as saying. Rupani also appealed to people not to buy remdesivir injections out of panic amid complaints of the shortage of remdesivir drug. The report added that Congress MLA from Gandhinagar C J Chavda in a letter to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs Control Administration demanded 2,500 remdesivir injections be made available to him for distribution in his Assembly constituency. “I wrote the letter because if BJP president C R Paatil can collect remdesivir injections for distribution in Surat, why can’t I do the same for my constituency?” Chavda said. Remdesivir can only be sold based on a prescription and only licenced pharmacists are allowed to stock and supply it after informed consent of the patient 'Investigational therapy' The Union health ministry in its 'Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19' has recommended the use of remdesivir in Covid-19 patients in the moderate stages of the illness. The drug has been included as an "investigational therapy" and recommended only for restricted emergency use purposes. Several companies in India, such as Dr Reddy's and Zydus Cadila among others have been granted permission by the DCGI to manufacture and market remdesivir for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised Covid-19 patients. The drug is administered in the form of an injection. India, last week, banned the export of remdesivir as India's Covid-19 surge worsens each day. Both vaccines and remdesivir are currently in short supply. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/remdesivir-vials-and-political-injections-in-gujarat-report-973508.html
12-04-2021||West||Businesses in Maharashtra choke under new Covid-19 curbs||Retailers, restaurants and theatres in Maharashtra are reeling under the impact of harsh restrictions imposed last week by authorities scrambling to curb a resurgence in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra, home to India's financial capital Mumbai, has been the worst hit in the pandemic, accounting for about a quarter of the country's 13.5 million caseload. Last week, the state government shut down restaurants, bars, gyms, theatres and non-essential stores in a blow to businesses that had barely recovered from the nationwide lockdown last year. After closing for more than eight months, theatres in Maharashtra reopened in November despite sporadic Bollywood releases and capacity restrictions. But with the new surge in cases and the spectre of more curbs, theatre owners say they may never recover from the losses and be forced to shut down. "It's the final nail in the coffin," said Sharad Doshi, vice-president of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India. "We have no choice but to perish." Doshi and other business owners have called on the government provide support through tax waivers and subsidies on rent to prevent the crisis from worsening. India reported 1,68,912 new infections on Monday, inching past Brazil, with a total of 13.53 million cases, data compiled by Reuters shows. India is now the second-most affected country after the United States that is grappling with 31.2 million cases. With barely 4 per cent of more than 1.3 billion people in India estimated to have been vaccinated, experts say the Covid crisis in the country could have a long way to go. Stores closures, job losses Maharashtra, one of India's most urbanised and industrialised states, accounts for nearly 15 per cent of the country's gross domestic product and is crucial for its economic recovery. The Confederation Of All India Traders estimated traders in Maharashtra would lose about Rs 1 lakh crore ($13.34 billion) during a month-long lockdown. The state has also suffered the most deaths in India's Covid-19 outbreak, and as cases continue to surge, sources said authorities were considering shutting down some industries and restricting public transport. "One month (of lockdown) is equivalent to about $5 billion of revenue for retailers from just Maharashtra," Kumar Rajagopalan, CEO of the Retailers Association of India, told Reuters. "We are talking about 1.2 million stores and 5 million jobs." Rajagopalan said store shutdowns will hit sectors such as manufacturing, distribution and banking and have a snowball effect on the economy. Restaurants and bars in Maharashtra had already felt the pinch as the state-mandated a daily curfew after 8pm - prime time for eateries to rake in revenues - before shuttering them completely last week. Riyaaz Amlani, who runs nearly 60 popular restaurants, including SOCIAL, across 15 cities in India, said the shutdown would lead to more job losses. Amlani said many restaurants took loans to re-start their businesses after burning capital during the lockdown last year and would now have to bear interest costs on top of fixed costs. "So there is a serious crisis looming," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/businesses-in-maharashtra-choke-under-new-covid-19-curbs-973567.html
12-04-2021||West||CBI calls former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning on April 14||The CBI has called former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning on Wednesday in connection with allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and suspended officer Sachin Waze, officials said. Waze, an assistant police inspector, is under investigation in the case of an explosive-laden SUV found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in south Mumbai. The notice calling Deshmukh to join the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe was issued on Monday morning, a day after his two aides Sanjeev Palande and Kundan recorded their statements before the agency, the officials said.  The CBI is carrying out a preliminary inquiry into allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Singh after he was removed from the coveted post of Mumbai Police commissioner. The allegations were reportedly corroborated by Waze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the SUV case, they said. The Bombay High Court had last week directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Singh against Deshmukh.  In a letter, Singh had said that Deshmukh had asked Waze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-calls-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-for-questioning-on-april-14-973570.html
12-04-2021||West||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 case tally drops to 51,751||After a week of strict restrictions and a weekend curfew, Maharashtra saw a drop in cases on Monday even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led government is contemplating imposing a two to three weeks’ lockdown by this weekend. The government is keeping its finger crossed and would like to have a closer look at the figures on Wednesday when the state Cabinet meets to approve a Covid-19 lockdown. In the last 24 hours, the state recorded 51,751 cases and 258 deaths taking the total to 34,58,996 and 58,245, respectively. The state was reporting an average of 55,000 to 60,000 cases over the last week. Monday’s 24-hour tally of 52,751 and 258 is a significant drop given the fact that the state reported a record high of 63,249 cases and 349 deaths on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, Mumbai reported 6,839 cases, and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) 14,424. “We have to break the cycle and the larger suggestion is to have a two-week lockdown,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. “We will be discussing the latest scenario on Wednesday and take a call,” added public health minister Rajesh Tope. Meanwhile, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced the postponement of 10th and 12th class board examinations in the state by nearly a months’ time. The board exams were to scheduled start at the end of April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-case-tally-drops-to-51751-973608.html
12-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Gujarat bans public celebration of all festivals in April-May||Hours after a special division bench of the Gujarat High Court asked the state government to consider reducing the number of people in social gatherings, among other measures, to control coronavirus infection, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday night announced several new restrictions that included a complete ban on public celebration of all festivals falling in the month of April and May. A notification in this regard stated that festivities will have to be confined to houses and celebrated with immediate family members. Rupani also reduced the number of guests in marriages and funerals to 50, which will come into effect from April 14. The notification also banned all kinds of political, social, religious, birthday parties. It said that no functions will be allowed during the night curfew hours which is imposed from 8 pm to 6 am. All religious places have been ordered to be shut for the public till April 30. Rupani also announced that all officers including government and private will have to work with 50 per cent staff capacity or calling them on alternate days. These new restrictions came after a special division bench of Gujarat High Court led by Chief Justice Vikram Nath asked the government to impose restrictions on social gatherings and restrict the number of employees at all offices. The bench was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation on the condition of Covid-19 infection spread and the state's response. Earlier last week, the Chief Justice had orally suggested the government consider imposing lockdown to control the virus spread while commenting that things were going out of hand. Later on the same day, the Rupani government extended night curfew across 20 cities of the state and increased the duration. Meanwhile, Gujarat reported 6,021 fresh cases and 55 deaths on Monday. The number of active cases also crossed 30,000-mark for the first time since the pandemic broke out last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-bans-public-celebration-of-all-festivals-in-april-may-973622.html
12-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra may adopt the 'Amravati pattern'||The Amravati district of the Vidarbha region was among the first districts of India to be hit by the second wave of Covid-19. However, within a month, things started returning to normalcy, thanks to the two-week-long strict lockdown. As Maharashtra reels under an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, the government is mulling a short but strict lockdown or the Amravati pattern. “There was a surge of cases in Amravati in February. To combat the situation, we decided to start with weekend curfew called janata curfew. Then we went in for a total lockdown for 10 to 12 days,” said Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is the guardian minister of Amravati district. “This decision was taken on 26 February….we had cases shooting up above 1,000 to 1,200 cases per day, however, after the brief lockdown, we could bring it to the level of 250 to 300 cases per day. We now have control over the situation,” said Thakur, a senior Congress leader. “We have now patients from Nagpur and Betul in Madhya Pradesh getting treated in Amravati,” she said. According to Thakur, political parties and businessmen protested the total lockdown. “But we had to take the decision and we succeeded in breaking the chain,” she said, pointing out that during the lockdown only essential services were operating. “Everything was shut except for pharmacy shops and vegetable supplies,” she said, adding that some industries in the MIDC were allowed to run. As the situation gradually turned normal, shops were allowed to remain open till 5 pm, and other measures were also taken, like carrying out vaccination drives in markets and ensuring some 5,000 people were inoculated in the district per day, she said. "The government is now working on the Amravati pattern," said Thakur, a Congress MLA from Teosa in Amravati. The worst-affected areas were within the Amravati Municipal Corporation and Achalpur Municipal Council. Spread over 12,235 sq km, the Amravati district, which is the headquarters of Amravati division, has a population of nearly 28 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-may-adopt-the-amravati-pattern-973631.html
12-04-2021||West||Gujarat records new Covid-19 peak, HC seeks details of government measures||The special division bench of Gujarat High Court on Monday pulled up the state government for mishandling the coronavirus situation and asked them to file an affidavit detailing measures it has taken to control the rising infection. The bench said that the state was lacking in terms of testing, providing adequate medicine (specially Remdesivir), supply of oxygen and availability of beds in the hospitals, more particularly in intensive care units (ICU).  This came on the day when the Covid-19 count rose to a new peak with 6,021 cases and 55 deaths in 24 hours. By Monday evening, the total active cases in the state rose to 30,680. Earlier on Sunday, Chief Justice Vikram Nath had taken a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) titled, "Uncontrolled Upsurge and Serious Management Issues in COVID Control”. The PIL was filed based on news reports on "harrowing tales, unfortunate and unimaginable difficulties, unmanageable conditions of the infrastructure, the shortfall and the deficit of not only testing, availability of beds, ICU, but also supply of oxygen and the basic medicines like Ramdesivir, etc." During the hearing, Advocate General Kamal Trivedi defended the state government and read out steps taken to control the situation. He said that "this is a fight between Corona and people at large. The government is doing the best it can but people should be responsible." He argued against the news reports annexed in the PIL and said that those reports were not entirely true, especially with regard to Remdesivir.   "This is not a Corona drug, it just reduces hospitalisation periods. It causes liver and kidney damage and therefore, we do not recommend its use at home. Doctors are indiscriminately prescribing it. This has led to hoarding of the drug. Out of total production of this drug, that is 1.75 lakh vials per day in the country, Gujarat gets the lion's share with 25,000 to 30,000." Although the annexure didn't have news reports on the distribution of Remdesivir at BJP's office in Surat, the Advocate General defended the move saying the vials were legally procured and distributed free of charge. "It was an attempt to do charity out of sheer enthusiasm. One school of thought says it should not have been done. But, it was not with an intention to create any malice, the idea was to see that people were helped. The question is how these injections come and where did it come from. That report is very much available for the court's consideration. They are legally obtained injections and were given free of charge. Perhaps, that could have been avoided. But, another way of looking at it is what is wrong in it." Earlier, this week the opposition Congress had raised an objecion after BJP started distributing the vials from its office in Surat instead of handling those to needy hospitals and authorised agencies. Trivedi also said that compared to last year's condition, the mortality rate in the state is less than 1 per cent. He added that there is no shortage of oxygen and other facilities. He also said that there was no question of imposing a lockdown like last year as it had brought miseries on the poor and migrant workers. Trivedi defended the state government's response to the rising infections by saying that "other states are far worse off than Gujarat". He pointed out that the number of cases in Delhi are much more and UP is facing a massive shortage of Remdesivir. "We feel that things are under control and there is no reason for people to go into fear psychosis," he said. Chief justice Vikram Nath responded, "I am not concerned about what is happenning in other states. We are here for Gujarat. We are here to follow up what is happening in Gujarat. I know about Uttar Pradesh and I know about Delhi, Maharashtra and Bengaluru also." He added, "This is the third phase and it's so steep. I fail to understand why testing has got delayed. We have information that people have to wait for four to five days to get their Covid-19 result." The bench said that if "everything is in order", why are people lining up outside the hospitals to get admitted and why ambulances are piled up in front of hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-new-covid-19-peak-hc-seeks-details-of-government-measures-973647.html
