13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||14-year-old boy drowns in Bhadra river||A 14-year old boy drowned in the Bhadra river at Hole Bhairanahalli village in the taluk on Monday evening. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Aruna, a class 9 student. Women who were washing the clothes threw a saree into the river to help him to come to the bank of the river. But their efforts went in vain. Firefighting staff rushed to the spot and are searching for the corpse. Holehonnuru police registered a case and the investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/14-year-old-boy-drowns-in-bhadra-river-973674.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||12 fishermen missing as ship hits boat off Mangaluru coast||A total of 12 fishermen went missing after a ship hit their mechanised boat off the Mangaluru coast in the wee hours of Tuesday. The fishermen had ventured into the sea on the boat ISB 'Rabah', which set off from Beypore near Kozhikode in Kerala with 14 fishermen on board, the Indian Coast Guard said. Two of them have been found, they said. "In a swift sea-air #SAR operation @IndiaCoastGuard deployed 03 #ICG ships & aircraft to search for 14 fishermen of IFB Rabah approx 43 NM west #NewMangalore #today. 02 crew found, search for other crew in progress," the Coast Guard tweeted. The fishermen belonged to Tamil Nadu, Bengal and Odisha. The boat was badly damaged in the accident. Coast Guard ships and helicopters have reached the site and intensified the search for the missing fishermen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12-fishermen-missing-as-ship-hits-boat-off-mangaluru-coast-973786.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minors arrested in Mangaluru over stone-pelting case on a masjid||Two minors in conflict with the law have been apprehended by the Mangaluru city police in connection with a stone-pelting case on a masjid at Surathkal. The window panes of a masjid at Janata Colony in Idya village of Surathkal was reportedly damaged in the wee hours of April 4 following pelting of stones, said DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar. He said that a team of officers led by the Surathkal Police Inspector and SI verified all the CC cameras in the Janata colony and collected information on the stone pelters. Based on the CC camera footage, the police were successful in apprehending two minors from Kuthethoor. The minors were produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) for further action. A two-wheeler used by the children in conflict with the law has also been seized by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minors-arrested-in-mangaluru-over-stone-pelting-case-on-a-masjid-973841.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 380 KSRTC buses operate in Dakshina Kannada||With a few KSRTC employees reporting to duty, around 250 buses were operated from the Mangaluru division to different destinations on Monday. KSRTC Mangaluru Divisional Controller Arun said that on Monday, an additional 130 buses were operated. About 60% to 65% of employees have reported to duty in the Mangaluru division. Puttur KSRTC Divisional Controller Jayakar Shetty said that about 105 buses were operating from the division. Nearly 400 employees have reported to duty, he added.  Protest KSRTC Employees' Federation members and their families in association with the CITU Belthangady taluk committee staged a protest in front of Mini Vidhana Soudha in Belthangady and urged the government to fulfil demands. CITU taluk unit president Shivakumar S M said, "Government is trying to suppress protest. The employees are only seeking their constitutional rights. When the government can earmark Rs 3,000 crore in the budget for mutts and temples, why can't it set aside Rs 1,500 crore for fulfilling demands of KSRTC employees?" he added. Instead of fulfilling the demands, the government is behaving in an inhuman manner, he added. CITU taluk vice-president Shekar Laila also spoke on the occasion. KSRTC employees, along with their family members and children, took part in the protest. Holding plates and tumblers, the family members expressed disappointment at the state government's attitude. Former minister K Vasanth Bangera visited the venue of protest and instilled hope in the KSRTC staff and their families. Bangera said he will appeal to the Chief Minister and Transport Minister on initiating a dialogue and inducting all protesting employees back into the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-380-ksrtc-buses-operate-in-dakshina-kannada-973843.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rainfall leaves a trail of destruction in Dakshina Kannada||Heavy rain, accompanied by a gusty wind, uprooted many trees and led to the falling of electricity poles across Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday and Monday night. After electricity poles fell down, the power supply was disrupted in many parts of the district. Local residents assisted Mescom personnel in carrying out repair works and succeeded in restoring the power supply in a few areas by midnight. Six electricity poles came crashing down when a huge tree fell on them on Elyar-Newpadpu road. The electricity poles were uprooted after a tree fell on them at Innoli. A few houses were damaged in Shambur, Madiwalapadpu and Mithakatta in Bantwal taluk after a tree fell on them. Houses were partially damaged in Ullas Nagara, Malar, Tippu Nagara, Akshara Nagara and Arastana in Pavoor. The asbestos sheets of rangamandira, toilets, and library of a school at Panelabarike in Pajeer were blown away by the gusty wind. A mother and her daughter suffered injuries after lightning struck the house at Kavalapadoor in Bantwal taluk. The injured were identified as Geetha (29) and her daughter Rashmitha (10). Both were admitted to a hospital in Bantwal.  Rain damages were also reported at Sajipamunnur, Shambur, Balthila, Kavalapadoor, Narikombu, Sajipanadu, Pudu, Badagabellur, Kodman and Naringan. Losses due to the downpour are estimated to be Rs 15 lakh. Eighteen houses and a cowshed in Bantwal taluk were damaged. Horticultural crops too were damaged at four places. A pump house was damaged after a tree crashed on it at Kempimajalu in Uppinangady. A portion of a house owned by Meenugadde Babu Naik was damaged after a huge tree fell on it at Kuchooru. As heavy rain is expected till April 14, a Yellow alert was sounded in coastal districts. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNMDC), 80 mm of rainfall was recorded in 24 hours between 8.30 am on April 11 to 8.30 am on April 12 in Mangaluru. KSNMDC’s forecast was light to moderate rain with isolated heavy rainfall likely over Malnad and coastal districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rainfall-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-in-dakshina-kannada-973849.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Couple from Bidar drown in Kali river while taking selfie||A couple drowned in Kali river in Joida town of Uttara Kannada district while taking a selfie, police sources said on Tuesday. The bodies have been fished out. The incident occurred on Monday evening when they lost their balance and fell into the river while taking the selfie, the sources said. They were from Bidar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/couple-from-bidar-drown-in-kali-river-while-taking-selfie-973904.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Coast Guard rescue two, recover three bodies after fishing boat hits ship off Mangaluru coast||Three fishermen drowned and nine others went missing after a fishing boat from Kerala reportedly sank after colliding with a Singapore-registered container around 42 nautical miles from Suratkal beach in the wee hours of Tuesday. The bodies of three fishermen including Manik Das (40) from West Bengal, Alexander (45) from Tamil Nadu, and an unidentied 50-year-old male were handed over to Coastal Security police by Indian Coast Guards on Tuesday evening.   Two fishermen, among the 14 member team - Sunil Das (34) from West Bengal and Velmuragan (37) from Tamil Nadu, were rescued by Coast Guards.  The fishing boat, Rabah, with seven fishermen from West Bengal and seven fishermen from Tamil Nadu had set sail for deep fishing from Beypore port in Kozhikode district in Kerala on Sunday. The fishing boat reportedly collided with a Singaporean Container,  MV Apl-Le Havre which was sailing towards Jawaharlal Nehru Port in the wee hours of Tuesday.   Indian Coast Guard, tipped about the capsizing of the fishing boat in high sea, dispatched three speed boats and an aircraft to rescue the fishermen. The coast guards succeeded in rescuing two fishermen and retrieving the bodies of three others.   The search for nine other fishermen will continue on Wednesday morning, sources in Indian Coast Guards said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coast-guard-rescue-two-recover-three-bodies-after-fishing-boat-hits-ship-off-mangaluru-coast-973914.html
13-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||No change in exam timetable of MU, university says||Mangalore University Registrar (Evaluation) Dr P L Dharma has said that there is no change in the timetable of UG exams in affiliated colleges of Mangalore University jurisdiction from April 14. The students should not panic and believe in the rumours, the authorities said. The Mangalore University had postponed the scheduled exams from April 7 till April 12, following the strike by KSRTC employees. However, the scheduled exams from April 15 will continue without any changes, said Registrar Evaluation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-change-in-exam-timetable-of-mu-university-says-973961.html
13-04-2021||Mysuru||Vehicular movement restricted on Bisile ghat from April 16 to June 1||The vehicular movement on the Bengaluru-Jalsuru route, on Bisile Ghat, in Sakleshpur taluk, has been restricted from April 16 to June 1, for taking up road concretisation works, according to the orders issued by Deputy Commissioner R Girish. As concretisation of three-kilometre stretch (from 283 KM to 286 km) is being taken up and as the Bisile ghat section is narrow, the vehicular movement is restricted, the order said. The road is being used mostly by the devotees travelling to pilgrim centre Kukke Subramanya and also by the locals travelling to Hethuru, Yasaluru, Shanivarasanthe and others. They have to take an alternate route on national highway 75 via Sakleshpur-Gundya and Somwarpet-Madikeri-Sulya route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/vehicular-movement-restricted-on-bisile-ghat-from-april-16-to-june-1-973678.html
13-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Thousands gather at Kumbh Mela amid second Covid-19 wave||Amid rising coronavirus cases in the country, thousands of saffron-clad seers and ash-smeared Nagas flouted Covid-19 norms and converged at Har Ki Pairi here for a holy dip in the Ganga during the second royal bath of the Kumbh Mela on Monday.  The seers of different akhadas, led by their Mahamandaleshwaras, by turns took out grand Shobha Yatras through the main thoroughfare of the pilgrimage city to gather at Brahma Kund, Hari ki Pairi for the holy bath on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-thousands-gather-at-kumbh-mela-amid-second-covid-19-wave-973701.html
13-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 13||India surpassed 1.35 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 29 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,36,89,453  as of April 13, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,71,058    No. of people discharged: 1,21,56,529 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-12-973733.html
13-04-2021||National||DCGI gives nod to Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V||India's drug regulator has granted permission for the restricted emergency use of Russian Covid-19 vaccine 'Sputnik V' with certain conditions, paving the way for a third vaccine to be available in the country, sources said on Monday. The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) came after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) on Monday recommended granting approval to Sputnik V for restricted emergency use subject to certain regulatory conditions. The DCGI had in January given the emergency use authorisation for two Covid-19 vaccines -- Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford-AstraZeneca manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. According to sources, around 10 crore doses of the Sputnik V vaccine  is likely to be imported for emergency use in the country in the next six to seven months.   The SEC on Monday deliberated upon the application of Dr Reddy's Laboratories seeking emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V. The vaccine is indicated for active immunisation to prevent Covid-19 in individuals aged 18 years and above and is to be administered intramuscularly in two doses of 0.5 ml each with an interval of 21 days. It has to be stored at -18 degrees Celsius. According to recommendations by the SEC, the firm has been asked to submit revised factsheets to CDSCO after incorporating the latest safety and efficacy data and other suggestions made during the meeting, another source said. Besides, the firm should submit the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trials in India and Russia for review as and when available. The firm also has to submit safety data, including the data on AEFI and AESI with due analysis every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter till the completion of the ongoing clinical trial in the country, as per the recommendations. The SEC had reviewed the application by Dr Reddy's in two meetings held on April 1 and February 24. The health ministry earlier had said three more Covid-19 vaccines by Zydus Cadila, Biological E and Gennova are also in the pipeline and are in advanced clinical trials in India. Global healthcare major Johnson and Johnson is in discussions with the Indian government to begin a clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in the country, the company said on Friday. In light of the SEC meeting held on April 1, Dr Reddy's on Monday presented the interim safety and immunogenicity data from phase 2/3 clinical trial, including GMT titres for virus neutralising antibodies, comparative phase 3 immunogenicity data generated in Indian and Russian studies and unblinded data of serious adverse events and RT-PCR positive cases among others. In September last year, Dr Reddy's partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V and for its distribution rights in India. Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent in the interim analysis of phase 3 clinical trial, which included data on 19,866 volunteers in Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-gives-nod-to-russian-covid-19-vaccine-sputnik-v-973734.html
13-04-2021||National||India logs 1.61 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 879 deaths||India on Tuesday logged 1,68,912 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than its record high of nearly 1.7 lakh new infections on Monday, taking the total tally of cases to 1,36,89,453, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Daily deaths due to the coronavirus stood at 879.  India has now reported over one lakh daily infections for the seventh straight day.   The national Covid-19 recovery rate fell below 90 per cent and was at 89.51%, according to the MoFHW data. The active coronavirus cases in the country stood at 12.64 lakh, while the death toll increased to 1,71,058 with 879 daily new fatalities. Registering a steady increase for the 34th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 12,64,698 while the recovery rate further dropped to 89.51 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-161-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-879-deaths-973751.html
13-04-2021||National||India will produce 850 mn Sputnik V doses annually, says RDIF||The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has said that India has become the 60th country to approve the use of Sputnik V against coronavirus and more than 850 million doses of the vaccine are going to be produced in the country annually. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has registered the vaccine under the emergency use authorisation procedure. This is based on results of clinical trials in Russia as well as positive data of additional Phase III local clinical trials in India conducted in partnership with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. The vaccine has been approved for use in countries with a total population of 3 billion people or about 40 per cent of the global population, and India has become the 60th country to approve Sputnik V, RDIF, Russia's sovereign wealth fund, said in a statement. India is also the most populated country to register the vaccine and also the leading production hub for Sputnik V, it added. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the approval of the vaccine is a major milestone as both countries have been developing an extensive cooperation on clinical trials of Sputnik V in India and its local production. "The Russian vaccine has efficacy of 91.6 per cent and provides full protection against severe cases of Covid-19 as demonstrated by the data published in one of the leading medical journals -- The Lancet," he added. Noting that India is a vaccine-manufacturing hub and a strategic partner for production of Sputnik V, he said RDIF has created partnerships with a number of India's leading pharmaceutical companies for production of Sputnik V which will provide for both vaccination of the population in India and global distribution of the vaccine. "Over 850 million doses of Sputnik V are going to be produced in India annually sufficient to vaccinate more than 425 million people around the world," he said. According to the release, RDIF has agreements with India's Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma and Virchow Biotech aimed at production of more than 850 million doses per year. Sputnik will be the third vaccine to be used in India against coronavirus. In January, DCGI had given the emergency use authorisation for two Covid-19 vaccines -- Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford-AstraZeneca manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune. As per RDIF, Sputnik V has a number of key advantages, including that there are no strong allergies caused by Sputnik V. The price of the vaccine is less than $10 per shot and it uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots, it added. Other countries that have approved use of Sputnik V include Argentina, Bolivia, Hungary, UAE, Iran, Mexico, Pakistan, Bahrain and Sri Lanka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-produce-850-mn-sputnik-v-doses-annually-says-rdif-973757.html
13-04-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Navaratri||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted people on the beginning of Navaratri, and offered his best wishes to various regions and communities celebrating their new year as per the traditional Hindu calendar. "Over the next few days, people across India are going to be marking various festivals. These festivals showcase India's diversity and the spirit of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat.' May these special occasions spread happiness, prosperity and brotherhood across the nation," he tweeted. Over the next few days, people across India are going to be marking various festivals. These festivals showcase India’s diversity and the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat.’ May these special occasions spread happiness, prosperity and brotherhood across the nation. Modi wished people on Ugadi, Gudi Padwa, Sajibu Cheiraoba, Navreh and Cheti Chand -- new year festivals celebrated by people of different regions. "Greetings on Cheti Chand, particularly to the Sindhi Community. May the special blessings of Lord Jhulelal always remain upon us. I pray that everyone's wishes be fulfilled in the coming year. "Navreh greetings to you all! On the special occasion of Navreh, praying for a year filled with joy and success. I also pray for the good health and well-being of everyone," he said. He also extended his best wishes to people on Baishakhi, the harvest festival celebrated in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-navaratri-973760.html
13-04-2021||National||Meet Sushil Chandra, the new Chief Election Commissioner||The Election Commission witnessed a change of guard even as it is in the middle of conducting the assembly polls in the four states – Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam, and West Bengal as well as the Union Territory of Puducherry. Election Commissioner Sushil took over as the new Chief Election Commissioner on Tuesday succeeding Sunil Arora, who completed his term at the Nirvachan Sadan on Monday. Born on May 15, 1957, Chandra did his B.Tech. from IIT Roorkee (BE Civil, 1977). He received Distinguished Alumnus Award from his alma mater on November 25 2019. Chandra, an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer of the 1980 batch, was appointed as the Election Commissioner on February 15, 2019, after his superannuation as the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). He was “at the forefront” of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government’s 'fight against black money” and “spearheaded” action against “tax evasion in the wake of November 2016 demonetization”, according to his profile on the official website of the EC. He held “sensitive posts in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi” during his 38-year-long stint in the Indian Revenue Service. Chandra has been instrumental in the exchange of Best Electoral Practices among the Electoral Management Bodies internationally. In June 2019 he participated in the Presidential Election process of Kazakhstan as an International Election Observer. He was invited to the 18th Cambridge Conference on Electoral Democracy in the Commonwealth Trinity College, Cambridge, UK in July 2019. He participated in the 3rd Plenary Assembly of Global Network Electoral Justice conference held in Los Cabos, Mexico in November 2019. Set to demit office on May 14, 2022, Chandra will oversee the remaining four phases of ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal. The final phase will take place on April 29. Votes will be counted and results declared on May 2. In his tenure, Chandra is likely to oversee elections in the states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, and Manipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-sushil-chandra-the-new-chief-election-commissioner-973770.html
13-04-2021||National||Govt fast-tracks approval for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccines cleared in other countries||India has fast-tracked emergency use approval for eligible foreign-produced shots against Covid-19, in a move to expand its basket of vaccines amid the "highest" surge in the infections in the country and speed up the inoculation drive that got a boost with a third vaccine Sputnik V from Russia getting clearance. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, meanwhile, announced on Tuesday more strict restrictions in the whole state and that Section 144 CrPC (ban on assembly of 5 or more people) will be in force for 15 days starting from 8 pm on Wednesday till 7 am on May 1. "The situation is scary. War against coronavirus has begun once again," he said in his address via social media on a day when the worst-hit state reported 60,212 new Covid cases and 281 fresh deaths. He described the fresh curbs as "lockdown-like restrictions". The announcement by the Union Health Ministry by which the eligible manufacturers of the foreign vaccines are not required to undertake local clinical trials in India could clear the decks for imports of Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson shots with certain conditions. A statement by the ministry said the government has decided that Covid-19 vaccines which have been developed and are being manufactured in foreign countries and which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by authorities in the US, Europe, the UK, Japan or which are listed in the WHO Emergency Use Listing may be granted emergency use approval in India. The first 100 beneficiaries of such foreign vaccines shall be assessed for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out for further immunisation programme within the country, it added. "We hope and we invite the vaccine makers such as Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and others...to be ready to come to India as early as possible," NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said at a media briefing. He termed the government's move as a significant development and a liberal regulatory step that will increase the access to vaccines that are manufactured outside. "It also opens up eventually doors for import of bulk or import of finished vaccines in vials or import leading to fill and finish in the country," Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the media briefing. Currently, two vaccines -- Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and Covishield by Serum Institute of India (SII) -- are being used for inoculation in India. With India in the grip of second Covid-19 wave, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made it very clear that the government would not go for lockdowns in a big way and rather resort to local containment. The minister said this at a virtual meeting with the World Bank Group president David Malpass. In his address at the 'Raisina Dialogue', Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for united global efforts to deal with the coronavirus crisis, saying mankind will not be able to defeat it unless everyone comes out of it. "We understand fully, that mankind will not defeat the pandemic unless all of us, everywhere, regardless of the colour of our passports, come out of it. That is why, this year, despite many constraints, we have supplied vaccines to over 80 countries," he said at the conference, held virtually. The prime minister also said that during this pandemic, in our own humble way, within our own limited resources, we in India have tried to walk the talk. Secretary Bhushan said the "previous highest surge" has already been crossed and the trend is going upward and that is a cause for worry and that is something they continuously share with the states and UTs and try to help them tackle the pandemic in a more effective manner. "The previous highest surge was 94,372 daily cases in September which is now 1,61,736 every day," he added. The daily deaths are also showing an increasing trend. But the previous surge was 1,104 and it is presently 879 deaths. He said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Gujarat are among states of concern. Utar Pradesh and Delhi recorded 18,021 and 13,468 Covid-19 new cases on Tuesday respectively in the biggest single-day jump so far. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board exams and explore alternative methods, including online exams, The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said more than 850 million doses of Sputnik V are going to be produced annually in India -- the 60th country to approve the vaccine. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the Russian vaccine has efficacy of 91.6 per cent and provides full protection against severe cases of Covid-19 as demonstrated by the data published in one of the leading medical journals, The Lancet. The approval of Sputnik V is a "major milestone", he added. "By summer we expect to manufacture 50 million doses or more of Sputnik V a month in India," Dmitriev told a virtual press conference later in the evening. "We almost think Sputnik V is an Indian-Russian vaccine, because lots of production of Sputnik V will be done in India". The Health Ministry statement said the eligible foreign vaccines will be given emergency use approval mandating the requirement of post-approval parallel bridging clinical trial in place of conduct of local clinical trial under the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules 2019. "This decision will facilitate quicker access to such foreign vaccines by India and would encourage imports including import of bulk drug material, optimal utilization of domestic fill and finish capacity, etc., which will in turn provide a fillip to vaccine manufacturing capacity and total vaccine availability for domestic (use)," the ministry said. Elaborating on the government decision, Secretary Bhushan said it has created an enabling regulatory provision to enable those foreign made vaccines which have been approved by "credible foreign regulators" to get emergency use nod in India. "It denotes a very significant streamlining and fast tracking of the regulatory approval system which means that the pre-condition of having a bridging clinical trial which is phase 2 and 3 trial here for a foreign vaccine before it could be considered for emergency use authorisation has been done away with and has been replaced with a parallel bridging trial. As the approval happens the clinical trial can proceed. So therefore the availability of the vaccine becomes much faster," he added. The decision came following the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. This decision and the permission for the restricted emergency use of Sputnik V with certain conditions came as India surpassed Brazil to become the second worst-hit country affected by the Covid after the US. In a regulatory filing, Pharma major Dr Reddy's said it has received permission from the Drug Controller General of India to import the Sputnik vaccine into India for restricted use in emergency situations. The Finance Ministry took to Twitter to give details of Minister Sitharaman's meeting with David Malpass. "Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman shared the measures being taken by India to contain the spread of second wave of pandemic including the five pillared strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and #Covid19 appropriate behaviour," it said in a tweet. "Even with the second wave, we are very clear that we are not going in for lockdowns in a big way. We don't want to totally arrest the economy. The local level isolation of patients, or households which have people in quarantines are the methods through which the crisis will be handled, the second wave will be handled. There shall not be lockdown," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-fast-tracks-approval-for-foreign-produced-covid-19-vaccines-cleared-in-other-countries-973774.html
13-04-2021||National||All you need to know about India's Covid-19 vaccines||Over the last few days, India has been reporting more than one lakh Covid-19 cases daily. The country has been witnessing a record high number of cases, more than last year when the pandemic first began.  While the government has been imposing curbs in various states, the only other way to beat the virus would be to ramp up the vaccination drive in the country. While India has a mass vaccination drive on, there seems to be a vaccine shortage in some states. To this effect, the Drug Controllers General of India approved a third Covid-19 vaccine in the country - Russia's Sputnik V. Prior to this, India had only two vaccines, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield, the latter is being manufactured locally by the Serum Institute of India.  Let's take a look at the differences in the three Covid-19 vaccines in the country. Sputnik V Russia's Sputnik V vaccine, named after the Moscow's first artificial satellite, was developed by Moscow's Gamaleya Institute. This vaccine uses two different viruses, which are responsible for common cold in humans. The viruses are then modified in a way that makes coronavirus spike protein. This way it safely exposes the body to a part of the Covid genetic code, allowing the body to recognise it and fight it off.  After being vaccinated, the body starts to produce antibodies, especially, tailored for the coronavirus. The dosage of Sputnik V includes two dates administered 21 days apart. Unlike other vaccines, the two doses of Sputnik have different versions. They both target the coronavirus' distinctive "spike", but use different vectors - the neutralised virus that carries the spike to the body. This is done because different formulas would prevent the body from developing an immune response to the first shot and reacting negatively to the booster shot.  The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is marketing the vaccine, said that India will produce 850 million Sputnik V doses annually The Sputnik V is easy to store and transport since it can be stored at temperatures of between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. The side effects of the vaccine have been mild, and include a sore arm, tiredness and a bit of a temperature. There were no deaths or serious illnesses in the vaccinated group linked to the jab India is now the 60th country to have approved Russia's Sputnik V following countries like Argentina, Palestinian territories, Venezuela, Hungary, UAE and Iran. Covaxin: Covaxin is made of killed coronaviruses, or inactivated virus which is to be injected into the body. Immune system recognises dead virus and makes antibodies against it. The vaccine is to be administered in two doses, given four weeks apart.  Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer, says it has a stockpile of 20 million doses of Covaxin, and is aiming to make 700 million doses out of its four facilities in two cities by the end of the year. The vaccine can be stored at 2- 8 degrees Celsius, and has an efficacy rate of 81 per cent, as per preliminary data from its phase 3 trials. Side effects that have been reported with Covaxin include, but are not limited to, injection site pain, swelling, redness, itching, headache, fever, malaise/body ache, nausea, vomiting rashes. Bharat Biotech also warns that serious and unexpected side effects may occur.  Covishield: The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, being manufactured locally by the Serum Institute of India, is producing more than 60 million doses a month. Covishield is made from a weakened version of the common cold (known as adenovirus) following the same pattern of production like Sputnik V.  The weakened version has been modified to look more like coronavirus - although it cannot cause illness. As is the case with all vaccines,  once injected, it prompts the immune sytem to make antibodies, and prevent any coronavirus infection. The Covishield  jab is administered in two doses between four and 12 weeks apart, and can be safely stored at temperatures of 2-8 degrees Celsius.  According to international clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, when people were given a half dose and then a full dose, effectiveness hit 90 per cent. But there is not enough data to support the statement. However, unpublished data suggests that leaving a longer gap between the first and second doses increases the overall effectiveness of the jab. The vaccine this way was found to be 70 per cent effective after the first dose. Side effects that have been reported with the Covishield vaccine include, but are not limited to, tenderness, pain, warmth, redness, itching, swelling, or bruising where the injection is given; generally feeling unwell, feeling tired (fatigue), chills or feeling feverish, headache, feeling sick (nausea), joint pain or muscle ache. Less common side effects were reported to be a lump at the injection site, fever, being sick (vomiting), flu-like symptoms, such as high temperature, sore throat, runny nose, cough and chills. And some uncommon symptoms were feeling dizzy, decreased appetite, abdominal pain, enlarged lymph nodes, and excessive sweating, itchy skin or rashes. India has shipped close to 64 million doses of vaccines to 86 countries in Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia and Africa. Both Covishield and Covaxin have been exported either in the form of "gifts", or under guidelines and regulations of the World Health Organisation (WHO). But earlier this month, India placed a temporary hold on all exports of the Covishield. The government said rising cases meant domestic demand was expected to pick up and so the doses were needed for India's own rollout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-indias-covid-19-vaccines-973775.html
13-04-2021||National||Sushil Chandra assumes charge as Chief Election Commissioner||Sushil Chandra assumed charge as the 24th Chief Election Commissioner on Tuesday. Chandra was appointed as the CEC on Monday, the day Sunil Arora demitted office. Chandra was appointed as an election commissioner on February 14, 2019, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. He would demit office on May 14, 2022. Under him, the Election Commission (EC) will hold assembly polls in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The term of the assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab end on various dates in March next year. The term of the Uttar Pradesh assembly ends on May 14 next year. Chandra belongs to the 1980 batch of the Indian Revenue Service. He is also an ex-officio member of the Delimitation Commission since February 18, 2020, looking after the process in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Having held several posts in the Income Tax Department for nearly 39 years, Chandra was appointed the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman on November 1, 2016. He spent considerable time as Director of Investigation and Director General of Investigation, Mumbai and Gujarat, respectively followed by his stint as Member (Investigation), CBDT and thereafter assuming the post of Chairman of this apex body. "Transparency and purity of political finance are of vital importance for free and fair electoral process and the creation of a level playing field. Continuing the crusade that he started as CBDT Chairman against the menace of black money, Chandra was proactive as the erstwhile Election Commissioner in curbing the use of money power that vitiates the electoral process," the Commission said on Tuesday. He has constantly emphasised the concept of "inducement-free" elections and it has become an integral dimension of monitoring the electoral process in all ongoing and forthcoming elections, the EC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushil-chandra-assumes-charge-as-chief-election-commissioner-973778.html
13-04-2021||National||India’s Covid-19 crisis has a familiar culprit||Mihir Sharma, Just a few short weeks ago, Indian government officials were patting themselves on the back. India was the “pharmacy of the world,” they said, and its cheaply produced vaccines would help end the Covid-19 pandemic globally. The federal health minister declared that the country had entered “the endgame” of its own battle against the pandemic. Even the Reserve Bank of India announced in unusually enthusiastic tones that India had “bent (the Covid-19 curve) like Beckham” and that “soon the winter of our discontent will be made glorious summer.” Such boasts sound foolish, at best, today. Covid-19 case numbers and deaths have begun to spike exponentially in India, easily passing the numbers recorded during last autumn’s peak. Hospital beds are running short and so are vaccine doses. Although the government has halted all vaccine exports, many states have only a few days’ supply left in stock. What went wrong? As is typical in India, official arrogance, hyper-nationalism, populism and an ample dose of bureaucratic incompetence have combined to create a crisis. The state has left India vulnerable to a second Covid-19 wave, multiple new mutations and the threat of repeated, livelihood-destroying lockdowns. Worse, Indians aren’t the only ones who will pay the price. Developing nations that had been counting on the “pharmacy of the world” will now have to wait longer for their jabs, even as the new variants continue to spread. Let’s start with arrogance. The government appears to have unwisely believed its own rhetoric about having bent the curve of infections after imposing the world’s strictest lockdown last year. Even when new and virulent strains of the virus began to emerge, some of them from India’s own hinterland, officials showed no increased urgency about rolling out vaccinations. Regulators approved the first Indian vaccines in December. The first shot wasn’t given until more than two weeks later. Then there’s the nationalism. Indian bureaucrats and regulators, under whatever administration, are prone to a barely disguised xenophobia. Thus, regulators pushed out an indigenously developed vaccine, Bharat Biotech Ltd.’s Covaxin, even before Phase III trial data was available. Meanwhile, other vaccines that had received regulatory approval elsewhere — including those from Pfizer Inc. and Johnson & Johnson — were unnecessarily held up until trials could be conducted in India. World Health Organization guidelines say that such “bridging trials” may be needed “if there are compelling scientific reasons to expect that the immune response to the vaccine, and therefore its efficacy, could be significantly different to that documented in a prior efficacy trial.” Indian authorities never bothered to share these compelling scientific reasons. Why J&J’s vaccine, demonstrated to be effective even against the virulent South African and Brazilian variants, would need another large-scale trial in India demands some explanation, surely? (The company is still awaiting permission to launch a bridging trial.) As for populism, the government sought to squeeze the private sector using price controls. Vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India was forbidden to produce for India’s private market, although CEO Adar Poonawalla had repeatedly said he would continue to offer the government doses of the vaccine from AstraZeneca Plc. for only Rs. 150 ($2) each. That price “is not profitable enough to re-invest substantially in building capacity,” said Poonawalla, who hoped to sell other doses on the open market for Rs. 1,000 ($13) each. Now the company has lost its export orders as well, further constraining cash flow. As a result, Serum Institute has received a legal notice from AstraZeneca for failing to fulfil its contracts. More importantly, the company hasn’t got the cash to scale up its manufacturing capabilities. It’s making 50-70 million shots a month; it needs to double that at least. Poonawalla has now asked the government for $400 million to ramp up capacity. Yet, far from investing in capacity or brokering deals to tap unused vaccine manufacturing facilities, as the Biden administration has done in the US, the Indian government been slow even to sign purchasing contracts with manufacturers. In January, Serum Institute had stockpiled around 50 million doses; the government didn’t sign a purchase order for weeks and then only bought 11 million jabs initially. The government seems to expect Indian manufacturers to produce vaccines on spec, jump through various regulatory hoops and then break all their other remunerative contracts in order to give the final product solely to the Indian state — at grossly insufficient prices. Is it any wonder that Pfizer’s local subsidiary quietly withdrew its application for emergency use of its vaccine in India? This kind of regulatory uncertainty, bullying, lack of foresight and urgency, and contempt for legitimate profit-making is familiar to every entrepreneur in India. Such attitudes are at the root of the country’s growth and investment crisis. Now the rest of the world will have to suffer the consequences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-crisis-has-a-familiar-culprit-973789.html
13-04-2021||National||10 states account for over 80% of new Covid-19 cases||Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, account for 80.80 per cent of fresh Covid-19 cases reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday as 1,61,736 new infections were registered in 24 hours. The other states in the list of 10 are Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala. As India's daily new cases continue to rise, Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 51,751. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 13,604, while Chhattisgarh reported 13,576 new cases, the ministry said. Delhi has reported over 13,500 cases in 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. India's total active caseload has reached 12,64,698 which now comprises 9.24 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 63,689 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 68.85 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 44.78 per cent of the total active caseload of the country. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are among the states displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,22,53,697 with 97,168 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.  Besides, 879 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 88.05 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (258). Chhattisgarh follows with 132 daily deaths. Thirteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Ladakh, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10.85 crore as the 'tika utsav' enters the third day. Cumulatively, 10,85,33,085 vaccine doses have been administered through 16,08,448 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 90,33,621 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 55,58,103 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 1,00,78,589 front line workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose and 49,19,212 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose. Besides, 4,17,12,654 and 22,53,077  beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the 1st and 2nd dose respectively, while 3,42,18,175  and 7,59,654 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the 1st and 2nd doses respectively. Eight states account for 60.16 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country. Over 40 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on day-87 of the vaccination drive (12th April), 40,04,521 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 34,55,640 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 52,087 sessions for 1st dose and 5,48,881 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine. "In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 41,69,609 doses administered per day," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-account-for-over-80-of-new-covid-19-cases-973799.html
13-04-2021||National||Ordered probe of WhatsApp policy on competition aspect: CCI to Delhi HC||The new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and "stalking" of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is, therefore, alleged abuse of dominant position, competition regulator CCI told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday. The submission was made before Justice Navin Chawla by senior advocate Aman Lekhi on behalf of the Competition Commission of India (CCI) in defence of its order directing an investigation into the new privacy policy of messaging platform WhatsApp. The CCI was looking into the competition aspect and not the alleged violation of individuals' privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court, Lekhi said. "There is no question of jurisdictional error," he said and added that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging the CCI's decision were "incompetent and misconceived". WhatsApp and Facebook, represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, have challenged the CCI's March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. The high court which reserved its order in the matter was told by Lekhi that whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position can be determined only after the investigation. He argued that the data collected, which would include an individual's location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider and whom they are conversing with, would lead to creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to "stalking". He also said that the investigation ordered was only an administrative proceeding that did not have any civil consequence at this stage. The two social media platforms have contended that when the top court and the Delhi High Court were looking into the privacy policy, then CCI ought not to have "jumped the gun" and intervened in the issue. They contended that CCI's decision was an abuse of the commission's suo motu jurisdiction. They said the issue of the policy being unfair to consumers was being considered by the apex court and therefore, CCI ought not to have taken up the issue. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ordered-probe-of-whatsapp-policy-on-competition-aspect-cci-to-delhi-hc-973830.html
13-04-2021||National||Monsoon to be 'healthy normal' this year: Skymet||The Southwest monsoon, which brings more than 75 per cent of the country's rainfall during June-September, will be normal this year, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster said on Tuesday. The north India plains, along with a few parts of the northeast region, are likely to be at risk of being rain deficient through the season, the Skymet said. G P Sharma, President (Meteorology) of the Skymet Weather said the Long Period Average (LPA) of the rainfall during June to September will be 103 per cent with an error margin of plus or minus 5 per cent. "That is the healthy normal," Sharma said. He added that there is 60 per cent probability of a 'normal' monsoon and 15 per cent probability of 'above normal' rainfall. Monsoon in the range of 96-104 of the LPA is considered to be normal and 103 per cent of the LPA is on the higher side of the normal range. On a monthly scale, June is likely to receive rainfall of 106 per cent of LPA, while July is expected to record 97 per cent of LPA. August and September are expected to receive 99 per cent and 116 per cent of the LPA, the Skymet said. Sharma said 2021 will be the third consecutive year of a good monsoon. Last two years have recorded above normal rainfall. In terms of geographical risk, the plains of north India along with a few parts of the northeast region are likely to be at risk of being rain deficient through the season, the Skymet said. "Also, interior parts of Karnataka face the scare of scanty rains in the core monsoon months of July and August. The onset month of June and the withdrawal phase of September is assuring good countrywide rainfall distribution," it added. Yogesh Patil, CEO, Skymet, said the La Nina conditions prevailing in the Pacific Ocean since last year presage softening and are expected to remain neutral through the monsoon season. La Nina refers to the cooling of the Pacific waters. It has an impact over the sub-continent's weather.   "ENSO continues to wield a spike mid-way through the season suggesting a fresh phase of cooling, albeit marginal, over the central Pacific Ocean. Therefore, the occurrence of El Nino, which normally corrupts the monsoon, is ruled out," he said. Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) is neutral and is oscillating lightly on either side of the zero line. This parameter seems to incline with a negative shift but remaining within the threshold limits. In this case, it may not heave the monsoon spurts but will refrain from harming the season, the Skymet added. Negative IOD refers to the warming of Indian Ocean waters and positive IOD refers to its cooling. The Skymet Weather, in its forecast in January, had also predicted a normal monsoon. Last year, the Skymet Weather did not issue a monsoon forecast.   The India Meteorological Department (IMD), the country's official weather forecaster, is likely to release its monsoon forecast later this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-to-be-healthy-normal-this-year-skymet-973859.html
13-04-2021||National||SC directs states to apprise it of migrant children, their condition||The Supreme Court Tuesday directed all states to inform it about the number of migrant children and their condition on a plea seeking directions for the protection of their fundamental rights amidst the Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also asked all the states impleaded as parties in the case to file replies in the matter. Senior advocate Jayna Kothari appeared for the petitioners.  The top court had impleaded all the states on March 8 and issued notice on the plea filed by the Child Rights Trust and a Bengaluru resident seeking directions for the protection of the fundamental rights of migrant children amidst the Covid-19 pandemic.  The plea stated that due to the severity of the impact of the Covid-19 crisis, the Union government announced a nationwide lockdown and during this period, migrant children were affected the most and have been among the most vulnerable.  "Although there has been marked efforts by the respondents to provide migrant workers with welfare measures, no report emanated from the Central or the state government's detailing relief measures extended to women and children who are stranded or in relief camps and quarantine centres at source districts.  "The unprecedented lockdown, the ensuing migrant crisis and the subsequent effect of the same on migrant children and their fundamental and human rights is conspicuous and ongoing crises," the plea said. It contended that the lockdown has resulted in tremendous hardship for migrant children and till date there has been no assessment of the exact numbers of migrant children, infants, and pregnant or lactating migrant women and their needs.  "Children of migrants and migrating children remain invisible and are the most vulnerable and are denied access to health and proper nutrition, quality education and skills and knowledge they need to thrive and spend their lives in makeshift, unfriendly, unhygienic and testing conditions.  "The pandemic is having a discriminatory impact on migrant children and has aggravated their vulnerabilities. Migrant children will be denied their fundamental rights to education, health and nutrition if the matter is not heard and appropriate orders passed by this Court," the plea said. It has sought directions to map, enumerate and register the number of infants and children of migrant families at various worksites and centres of concentration of migrant families with the help of local authorities at the panchayat and ward offices through frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-states-to-apprise-it-of-migrant-children-their-condition-973863.html
13-04-2021||National||US stands by its support to India's request for extradition of Rana, says Biden admin in court||The Biden administration, in a fresh submission before a US court, has reiterated its support to India's request for the extradition of Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana, who is sought for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chooljian on Monday received the latest set of submissions from the US government attorney in the case. The judge has scheduled an in-person extradition hearing of Rana to India for June 24. In the submission, along with an attached memorandum, Assistant US Attorney John J Lulejian, made a declaration in support of the “United States’ Surrebuttal in Support of its Request for Certification of Extradition.” Lulejian reiterated that 59-year-old Rana’s extradition to India is as per the India-US extradition treaty. As per the India-US Extradition Treaty, the Indian government has requested the formal extradition of Rana, and the United States has initiated this extradition proceeding. The US Government has argued that Rana meets all the criteria warranting certification of his extradition to India. These are: the court has both personal and subject matter jurisdiction, there is an extradition treaty between the United States and India that is in full force and effect, and the crimes for which Rana's extradition is sought are covered by the terms of the treaty. “The United States respectfully requests the certification of Rana’s extradition to India for the Secretary of State’s decision on his surrender,” he said. “The extradition request contains sufficient evidence to establish probable cause, and Rana has not pointed to any evidence in the record that obliterates India’s presentation of probable cause,” he said. Lulejian said that to the extent Rana relies on a statement made during (David Coleman) Headley's plea hearing, his reliance is improper because the plea agreement itself says that only the written agreement controls. Moreover, the statement upon which Rana relies is ambiguous at best, he said. In his submission, the US attorney noted that the premise of Rana’s argument is incorrect because the Indian substantive charges are not considered lesser included offenses of their conspiracy charges. Rana, a childhood friend of Headley, was re-arrested on June 10 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He has been declared a fugitive by India. Pakistani-American Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. He was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-stands-by-its-support-to-indias-request-for-extradition-of-rana-says-biden-admin-in-court-973866.html
13-04-2021||National||Functions of judiciary, police are complimentary: SC||In a significant judgement, the Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that an interim order — directing no coercive steps against the accused in a criminal case — should not be passed routinely, casually or mechanically. Maintaining that functions of the judiciary and the police are complementary, not overlapping, it said the court and the judicial process should not interfere at the stage of investigation of offences, save in exceptional cases where non-interference would result in miscarriage of justice. "Normally, when the investigation is in progress and the facts are hazy and the entire evidence or material is not before the High Court, it should restrain itself from passing the interim order of not to arrest or “no coercive steps to be adopted” and the accused should be relegated to apply for anticipatory bail before the competent court," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The top court said the High Court should not and as such is not justified in passing the order of not to arrest the accused either during the investigation or till the investigation is completed, while dealing with a petition under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code or under Article 226 of the Constitution to quash the criminal case. "Extraordinary and inherent powers of the court do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction upon it to act according to its whims or caprice," the bench said. Justice M R Shah, writing the judgement on behalf of the bench, also comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna, laid down detailed guidelines for the High Court in dealing with the petition under Section 482 of the CrPC. The court passed its judgement, allowing a petition filed by M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt Ltd against an interim order by the Bombay High Court, which protected the accused against any coercive step, including the arrest, in an FIR related to forgery and fabrication of board resolution of the company to indulge in sale of valuable property measuring 111,882 sq feet in Mumbai. The court said an interim order of stay of investigation during the pendency of the quashing petition can be passed with circumspection by the High Court after giving brief reasons, demonstrating the application of mind. "The power under Section 482 CrPC is very wide, but conferment of wide power requires the court to be more cautious. It casts an onerous and more diligent duty on the court," the bench said. The top court pointed out police has the statutory right and duty under the law to investigate into a cognisable offence and the courts would not thwart any investigation into such cases. "Criminal proceedings ought not to be scuttled at the initial stage. Quashing of a complaint or FIR should be an exception rather than an ordinary rule," the bench added. The court said the power of quashing should be exercised sparingly with circumspection, as it has been observed, in the ‘rarest of rare cases. "While examining an FIR/complaint, quashing of which is sought, the court cannot embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR/complaint," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/functions-of-judiciary-police-are-complimentary-sc-973868.html
13-04-2021||National||Decision on excise duty cut on petrol, diesel when time comes: CBIC chairman||The government will look to reduce prices of petrol and diesel through a cut in taxes when the time comes, the head of the agency responsible for excise and other indirect tax collections said on Tuesday. Record excise duty on petrol and diesel helped indirect tax collections rise by more than 59 per cent in the fiscal year ended March 31 (2020-21) when compared to the previous year. "We are very hopeful that revenue in the coming months is going to be very strong," Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) Chairman M Ajit Kumar said over a video call with journalists to give out tax collection numbers. "As far as reduction in fuel prices are concerned, it is a matter that is being looked into constantly and I am as sure as and when the time comes, a view will be taken on that," he said. He was asked if the government was considering reducing excise duty on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers. He, however, did not elaborate on the timing. The government last year raised excise duty on petrol by Rs 13 per litre and that on diesel by Rs 16. Excise duty on petrol now totals Rs 32.90 a litre and makes up for 36 per cent of the Rs 90.56 a litre retail selling price of the fuel in Delhi. Excise duty on diesel totals Rs 31.80 and makes up for 39 per cent of the retail selling price of Rs 80.87. Together with state VAT, taxes make up for 55-60 per cent of the price that consumers pay. Petrol prices crossed Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh in February as international oil soared. But as soon as elections to five states including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala were announced, the prices hit a freeze button. And they declined a bit when international prices dipped on worries about demand recovery amid a resurgence of Covid infection. Petrol had hit an all-time high of Rs 91.17 a litre in Delhi in February and diesel touched a record Rs 81.47. CBIC member (Budget) Vivek Johri said a 59.2 per cent growth in excise collections is partly "explained by an increase in the rate of tax". "If there is a cut that will have an impact on revenue collection from excise," he said. Also, there has been a dip in consumption as states imposed partial lockdowns to curb the spread of coronavirus infection. "Because of Covid, you would have seen recent reports of a dip in consumption of petroleum products, particularly diesel, motor spirits (petrol) and other fuels. So revenue will be a function of where the rates settle if at all there is a change in the rates and the level of consumption that we see in the economy," he said. Last month, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told Parliament that the tax collected on petrol and diesel was Rs 52,537 crore in 2013, which rose to Rs 2.13 lakh crore in 2019-20 and swelled further to Rs 2.94 lakh crore in the first 11 months of 2020-21 fiscal. The CBIC did not separately give excise collection on petrol and diesel for 2020-21 fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-on-excise-duty-cut-on-petrol-diesel-when-time-comes-cbic-chairman-973871.html
13-04-2021||National||Negotiations on India-EU trade deal to resume in May: FM Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said resumption of formal negotiations on India-EU trade deal during the leadership summit next month would help further strengthen ties with the European Union. The negotiations between India and the European Union on a free trade agreement have been stalled since May 2013, when both sides failed to bridge substantial gaps on crucial issues, including data security status for the IT sector. The negotiations with the 27-nation grouping were launched in June 2007. During the bilateral meeting with Portugal Foreign Affairs Minister Augusto Santos Silva, Sitharaman said that resumption of formal negotiations on both Trade and Investment agreements at the leaders' meeting of India and EU on May 8 in Porto, Portugal would be a notable success for the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of EU. "FM @nsitharaman also underscored on the need to build on historic bilateral ties based on stronger economic and financial links befitting a 21st century partnership built on mutual trust and equal commitment," the finance ministry said in a tweet. During the meeting, the finance minister highlighted the significance of the high-level visits between both countries during recent years which resulted in addition of several agreements and outcomes, thereby transforming the historical relationship into a modern 21st century partnership. "FM @nsitharaman lauded the excellent bilateral relations between India & Portugal with shared history, culture and people-to-people ties. The two democracies focused on boosting economic growth, investment, industry and innovation is also a testament to these shared values," another tweet said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/negotiations-on-india-eu-trade-deal-to-resume-in-may-fm-sitharaman-973874.html
13-04-2021||National||Here are the Covid-19 records India broke on April 12||On Monday, India and a handful of its 29 states broke a number of records, none of which were desirable. Cases in India have been rising exponentially since the second week of March 2021, giving way to the second wave of the pandemic. Many states across the country have imposed partial lockdowns and night curfews in a bid to curb the spread of the deadly virus, which has thus far claimed over 1.7 lakh lives, according to official figures. Another record that was broken on Monday, was that of the active caseload. India on April 12, 2021, breached the 12-lakh mark for active cases (12,01,009), surpassing the previous record of 10,17,754 that was reported on September 18, 2020, in the midst of the first wave. As many as seven states posted all-time high figures for new daily states, with the national capital reporting 11,491 new cases. While Madhya Pradesh reported a new high of 6,489 cases, its neighbours Gujarat and Rajasthan saw a fresh spike of 6,021 cases and 5,771 cases, respectively. The other three states, West Bengal, Haryana, and Punjab, witnessed 4,511, 3,818, and 3,451 cases respectively, all record single-day spikes. Among the states that witnessed a new record spike, West Bengal — which is in the midst of an Assembly election — is the only state that is yet to impose any restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-the-covid-19-records-india-broke-on-april-12-973876.html
13-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine can be taken during Ramzan, says 'fatwa'||Covid-19 vaccines can be taken in Ramzan and do not affect the 'roza' (fast) observed during the holy month, a prominent Islamic seminary said in an edict here on Tuesday. "The vaccine enters blood vessels and not the stomach. Therefore, taking it does not affect 'roza'. Only because of 'roza', Muslims should not avoid taking the Covid-19 vaccine," the 'fatwa' issued by Darul Ifta Farangi Mahal said.       The fatwa was in reply to a question from Abdul Rashid Kidwai, a resident of Madhya Pradesh. Kidwai said that he had taken the first vaccine shot earlier and wanted to know if he can take the second dose which is due in the Ramzan period. The fatwa had signatures of clerics -- Maulan Khalid Rashi Farangi Mahali, Maulana Nasrullah, Maulana Naemur Rehman Siddhiqui and Maulana Mushtaq.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-can-be-taken-during-ramzan-says-fatwa-973886.html
13-04-2021||National||Problem not of Covid-19 vaccine shortage but of planning, says Centre||Over 1.67 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, the Centre said on Tuesday, underlining that the problem is not of vaccine shortage but of better planning. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said so far states and UTs have received 13,10,90,370 vaccine doses, out of which the total consumption, including wastage, has been 11,43,69,677. "As per 11 am data, unutilised doses available with states and union territories for administration is 1,67,20,693. From now till April end, 2,01,22,960 doses are in supply pipeline to states and UTs," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/problem-not-of-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-but-of-planning-says-centre-973888.html
13-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurapa rules out lockdown||In your evening news brief, Govt fast-tracks emergency approval for foreign-produced Covid-19 vaccines; Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurapa rules out lockdown in the state and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appeals to Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board exams.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 13, 2021 With an aim to expand the basket of Covid-19 vaccines and enhance the pace of inoculation in India, the central government on Tuesday said it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs that have been granted similar clearances in other countries. The first 100 beneficiaries of such foreign vaccines shall be assessed for seven days for safety outcomes before it is rolled out for further immunization programme within the country, the Union Health Ministry said. The Centre's decision came after an expert panel recommended that Covid-19 vaccines which have been developed and are being manufactured in foreign countries and which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by authorities in the US, Europe, the UK, Japan or which are listed in the WHO Emergency Use Listing may be granted emergency use approval in India. Ruling out the possibility of a lockdown in Karnataka to contain the spread of coronavirus, Chief Minister B S Yediyurapa on Tuesday said he has convened an all party meeting on April 18 to decide the future course of action. "There is no question of lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar. A day ago, the Chief minister had said that a lockdown will be imposed if necessary. Delhi has reported over 13,500 cases in 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday and appealed to the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board exams and explore alternative methods, including online exams. Warning that conducting the exams may contribute to the large-scale spread of the virus, he said the centres could emerge as major hotspots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-rules-out-lockdown-973889.html
13-04-2021||National||Act wisely to successfully navigate Covid-19 situation: Sadhguru||Isha Foundation founder and spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Tuesday asked everyone to act wisely to successfully navigate the Covid-19 situation and emphasised the significance of the Tamil New Year, celebrated on April 14. "A very happy Tamil New Year to everyone. In our Tamil culture, the arrival of the New Year is very important. We are in the process of transitioning from the 'Sarvari' year to the 'Plava' year. This is because we developed a calendar that takes into account the rotations of Jupiter, the Moon and the Sun, keeping track of the impact that these celestial bodies have on our planet," he said in his new year message. "At the end of the day, it is more than just balancing the books. This calendar was created by observing all of the changes that have occurred within our bodies and in the environment, he said. Jaggi Vasdev noted that the year 2020 was a difficult one with the Covid-19 pandemic causing widespread devastation. Many people lost their loved ones and many suffered financially as a result of it. We are now entering the Plava, a year more important for our sanity. This year, the Tamils, who are known for their wisdom, must act wisely to successfully emerge from the Covid-19 situation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/act-wisely-to-successfully-navigate-covid-19-situation-sadhguru-973891.html
13-04-2021||National||NHAI makes deployment of Network Survey Vehicle mandatory to improve road quality||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Tuesday said it has made deployment of Network Survey Vehicle (NSV) mandatory to ensure better quality of roads. NSV uses high-resolution camera to capture images of highways and has several other features. "In line with its commitment to provide better roads to commuters, NHAI has decided to deploy Network Survey Vehicle (NSV) to enhance quality of the National Highways. Carrying out road condition survey using NSV on the National Highways has been made mandatory at the time of certifying completion of the project and every six months thereafter," the NHAI said in a statement. The provision has also been included as a part of the standard bidding document of consultancy services. "The deployment will help in enhancing the overall quality of the highways as NSV uses the latest survey techniques such as high-resolution digital camera for 3,600 imagery, record images/videos at regular intervals, laser road profilometer and other related technology for measurement of distresses in road surface,", it said. The statement said NSV will also help to collate data to analyse the road condition including measurement of the road surface, surface cracking, potholes and patches. Apart from this, NSV will also provide data insights relating to side drains, road furniture etc. The data collected through NSV survey shall be uploaded on NHAI’s AI-based portal Data Lake, where it will be analysed by Road Asset Management Cell (RAMS Cell) to assess the condition/roughness of the road to prioritise for the maintenance. The data will help in maintaining up to date asset inventory and road assets condition status, the statement said. Apart from delivering vital information on road network planning, providing relevant information on other aspects such as development of road safety measures, etc. it will also assist in developing Highway maintenance strategies, analysis of maintenance and selection of optimal maintenance regime, it said. The data collected through NSV surveys will highlight deficiencies in road conditions, prompting BOT (build, operate, transfer) operators/NHAI officials to take corrective steps to bring the road condition to the desired level, NHAI said. This will further result in better upkeep of National Highways, leading to more comfort and better travel experience for Highways users, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-makes-deployment-of-network-survey-vehicle-mandatory-to-improve-road-quality-973892.html
13-04-2021||National||Yogi Adityanath in isolation after staff members test Covid-19 positive||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath self-isolated himself on Tuesday as a precaution after a few members of his staff tested positive for Covid-19. "Some officers I was in contact with have tested positive for Covid-19. I am self-isolating and working virtually," the CM tweeted. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-in-isolation-after-staff-members-test-covid-19-positive-973901.html
13-04-2021||National||Pfizer to pursue bringing Covid-19 vaccine to India after import relaxation||Pfizer Inc said on Tuesday it would work towards bringing the Covid-19 vaccine it developed with Germany's BioNTech to India after the government eased import rules, after withdrawing its application in February. "We have noted the recent announcement with regard to the regulatory pathway for global vaccines," a Pfizer spokesperson told Reuters in an email. "We remain committed to continuing our engagement with the government towards making the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine available for use in the government’s immunisation program."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-to-pursue-bringing-covid-19-vaccine-to-india-after-import-relaxation-973915.html
13-04-2021||National||Govt not going for lockdowns in big way, says FM Sitharaman amid new Covid-19 wave||Amid surging coronavirus cases in India, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday made it clear that the government would not go for lockdowns in a big way and only resort to local containment. In a virtual meeting with World Bank Group president David Malpass, Sitharaman appreciated the initiatives of the World Bank to increase the lending space for India to enhance availability of finance for development. "Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman shared the measures being taken by India to contain the spread of second wave of pandemic including the five pillared strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and #Covid19 appropriate behaviour," the Finance Ministry said in a tweet. "Even with the second wave, we are very clear that we are not going in for lockdowns in a big way. We don't want to totally arrest the economy. The local level isolation of patients, or households which have people in quarantines are the methods through which the crisis will be handled, the second wave will be handled. There shall not be lockdown," she said. She also shared other measures taken by the government including distribution of LED bulbs, ethanol blending programme under National Bio Fuel Policy, voluntary vehicle scrapping policy, incentivisation of electric vehicles to achieve green, resilient and inclusive development. Daily average cases across the country crossed 1.5 lakh last week. As per the latest health ministry data, 1,61,736 new coronavirus infections have been reported in a day pushing India's total caseload to 1,36,89,453, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped further to 89.51 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-not-going-for-lockdowns-in-big-way-says-fm-sitharaman-amid-new-covid-19-wave-973919.html
13-04-2021||National||Congress infection more dangerous than Covid-19: Rajasthan BJP chief||Just days ahead of the bypolls in three Assembly seats in Rajasthan, the state BJP Tuesday released a "black paper" and a documentary against the Congress government led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, levelling a series of allegations. Realising the documents at the party office here, state BJP president Satish Poonia said, "We have to be careful of the coronavirus infection, but the infection of Congress is more dangerous. The Congress government in Rajasthan has failed to deliver on its promises made by the party during the assembly elections and people are suffering under its rule." He alleged the government could not fulfil the promise of completely waiving off farm loans despite promises made during the 2018 Assembly elections. "Fifty-nine lakh farmers across the state are still waiting for the loan waiver. Rahul Gandhi should tell chief minister Ashok Gehlot to fulfil the promise," he said. Poonia alleged that apart from the farmers, unemployed people and contractual workers have been betrayed. "There are 12 lakh registered unemployed in the state but only 2.5 lakh are getting the unemployment allowance," he said. Poonia also targeted the government on law and order issues including the Baran communal violence that erupted on Sunday, incidents of crime and cow smuggling among others. These issues have been highlighted in the black paper and in the documentary, he said. He also alleged that the government machinery is being misused in all the three Assembly constituencies, Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand where bypolls will be held on April 17. Poonia said that the party will demand from the Governor to ensure that polling takes place in a free and fair manner. He said that the deployment of central paramilitary forces should be increased in the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-infection-more-dangerous-than-covid-19-rajasthan-bjp-chief-973922.html
13-04-2021||National||Remdesivir not for home use, meant for serious patients, says Centre amid rise in demand||The Centre on Tuesday said doctors should ensure "rational and judicious" use of anti-viral drug Remdesivir, underlining it is to be given only to serious Covid-19 patients in hospitals and is not to be used in home settings. At a weekly press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said, "Remdesivir is to be used only in those who require hospitalisation and are on oxygen support. That is the precondition. There is no question of its use in the home setting and for mild cases, and it is not to be procured from chemist shops."  Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients in the Clinical Management Protocols for Covid-19 as an investigational therapy. As the shortage of Remdesivir was reported in some areas, its export was banned and the medicine is available in plenty, Paul said, adding that "queuing outside chemist shops to procure Remdesivir is creating distortions". "We appeal to physicians to ensure rational, correct and judicious use of Remdesivir in hospitalised patients," he said. In view of a sudden spike in demand due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, India on Sunday banned the export of injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves. To ensure easy access of hospitals and patients to Remdesivir, all domestic manufactures of Remdesivir have also been advised to display on their website, details of their stockists/distributors to facilitate access to the drug, the Union Health Ministry had said.  Drug inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks and check their malpractices and also take other effective actions to curb hoarding and black marketing. The State Health Secretaries will review this with the drug inspectors of the respective states and UTs, the ministry had said on Sunday. The Centre has also advised the states that the extant  'National Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19', which is based on evidence, has been developed after many interactions by a committee of experts and is the guiding document for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.   In the Protocol, Remdesivir is listed as an investigational therapy, i.e. where informed and shared decision-making is essential, besides taking note of contraindications mentioned in the detailed guidelines, the ministry said. The states and UTs have been advised that these steps should again be communicated to all hospitals, both in the public and private sector, and compliance monitored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-not-for-home-use-meant-for-serious-patients-says-centre-amid-rise-in-demand-973923.html
13-04-2021||National||FIR is not encyclopedia which must disclose all facts and details: SC||A first information report (FIR) is not an “encyclopedia” that must disclose all the facts and details relating to the offence reported and courts should not go into the merits of the allegations when investigation by the police is in progress, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. While observing that police must be permitted to complete the probe, the apex court said that high courts must appreciate that speedy investigation is the requirement in the criminal administration of justice and they should be slow in interfering with the criminal proceedings at the initial stage. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud noted that it has come across several orders passed by high courts directing not to arrest the accused during the investigation or till the charge sheet is filed. “The first information report is not an encyclopedia which must disclose all facts and details relating to the offence reported. Therefore, when the investigation by the police is in progress, the court should not go into the merits of the allegations in the FIR. Police must be permitted to complete the investigation,” said the bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and Sanjiv Khanna. “It would be premature to pronounce the conclusion based on hazy facts that the complaint/FIR does not deserve to be investigated or that it amounts to abuse of process of law,” the bench said in its 64-page verdict. The top court delivered the judgement by which it quashed the September last year interim order of the Bombay High Court which had directed that “no coercive measures shall be adopted” against the accused in respect of an FIR lodged in 2019 on allegations of cheating, forgery and others. The bench noted that in a given case, there may be allegations of abuse of process of law by converting a civil dispute into a criminal dispute, only with a view to pressurise the accused. It said similarly, in a given case the complaint itself on the face of it can be said to be barred by law. “The allegations in the FIR/complaint may not at all disclose the commission of a cognizable offence,” it said, adding, “In such cases and in exceptional cases with circumspection, the high court may stay the further investigation.” It said at the same time, there may be genuine complaints or FIRs and the police or the investigating agency has a statutory obligation and duty to enquire into the cognizable offences. “Therefore, a balance has to be struck between the rights of the genuine complainants and the FIRs disclosing commission of a cognizable offence and the statutory obligation/duty of the investigating agency to investigate into the cognizable offences on the one hand and those innocent persons against whom the criminal proceedings are initiated which may be in a given case abuse of process of law and the process,” it said. “In such cases, and only in exceptional cases and where it is found that non-interference would result into miscarriage of justice, the high court, in exercise of its inherent powers under section 482 CrPC and/or Article 226 of the Constitution of India, may quash the FIR/complaint/criminal proceedings and even may stay the further investigation,” it said. The bench said even in a case where the high court is prima facie of the opinion that an exceptional case is made out for grant of interim stay of further probe, after considering the broad parameters while exercising the powers under section of the 482 CrPC or under Article 226, it has to give brief reasons why such an interim order is required to be passed. It said the high court should be slow in interfering with the criminal proceedings at the initial stage, that is, when quashing petition is filed immediately after lodging of the FIR or complaint and no sufficient time is given to police to investigate into the allegations. The bench said it is the statutory right and even the duty of police to investigate into the cognizable offence and collect evidence during the course of investigation. “Therefore, passing such type of blanket interim orders without assigning reasons, of not to arrest and/or “no coercive steps” would hamper the investigation and may affect the statutory right/duty of the police to investigate the cognizable offence conferred under the provisions of the CrPC,” the bench said. It noted that where the investigation is stayed for a long time, even if the stay is ultimately vacated, the subsequent probe may not be very fruitful for the “simple reason that the evidence may no longer be available.” It said in case the accused named in the FIR or complaint apprehends arrest, he has a remedy to apply for anticipatory bail under section 438 of the CrPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-is-not-encyclopedia-which-must-disclose-all-facts-and-details-sc-973925.html
13-04-2021||National||PM Modi calls for united global efforts to defeat Covid pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stressed the need for united global efforts to deal with the coronavirus crisis, saying mankind will not be able to defeat it unless everyone comes out of it. In an address at the Raisina Dialogue, the Prime Minister said India tried to protect its 1.3 billion nationals from Covid-19, and, at the same time, tried to support the pandemic response efforts of others. "We understand fully, that mankind will not defeat the pandemic unless all of us, everywhere, regardless of the colour of our passports, come out of it. That is why, this year, despite many constraints, we have supplied vaccines to over 80 countries," he said at the conference, held virtually. The Prime Minister further said, "We will continue to share our experiences, our expertise and also our resources with humanity in the fight against the pandemic." While we may be used to having 'Plan A' and 'Plan B' but there is no Planet B and only Planet Earth, he said and added so, we must remember that we hold this planet merely as trustees for our future generations. The Prime Minister also said that during this pandemic, in our own humble way, within our own limited resources, we in India have tried to walk the talk. Organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), a think-tank, in partnership with the Ministry of External Affairs, Raisina Dialogue is India's premier conference on geopolitics and geo-economics, and its sixth edition is being held from April 13 to 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-united-global-efforts-to-defeat-covid-pandemic-973926.html
13-04-2021||National||Covid-19 second wave worrying; some states need to ramp up RT-PCR tests: Centre||Noting that India's Covid-19 cases trajectory in the second wave is "worrying", the Centre said states like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat need to ramp up RT-PCR tests. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre is continuously trying to help states and union territories in tackling the pandemic in a more effective manner. He said the previous highest surge has already been crossed and the "trend is going upward and that is a cause for worry". The previous highest surge was 94,372 daily cases in September which is now 1,61,736 every day while the daily deaths are also showing an increasing trend, Bhushan said. In case of Maharashtra, he said the average daily cases week-on-week have grown significantly and have reached a level of over 57,000. "The tests per million are also growing but they are not keeping pace with the average daily cases. The share of RT-PCR tests is progressively coming down so that is something we repeatedly request the state to address," he said. Bhushan said the ideal proportion is 70 per cent RT-PCR tests and 30 per cent rapid antigen tests as both are important. Rapid antigen tests have their value as a screening test in areas which are densely populated and in those areas which are showing recent cluster of new cases. Those who test negative in RAT have to be mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR tests, he said. For Maharashtra, the weekly positivity rate is very high at 24.66 per cent and this is when RT-PCR tests are relatively low so "we have reason to believe that if RT-PCR proportion go up then the positivity may show a corresponding increase and it is not specific to Maharashtra but to all such states". "We have offered to the states that if they desire then they could make use of mobile testing laboratories. These technologies have been perfected through the country and they are being provided in a cost effective way. RT-PCR machines have also been put on government e-market place GEM so procurement could be easier and take lesser time," Bhushan said. He said in Chhattisgarh, the average daily cases up to 11504 and RT-PCR ratio very poor. "The weekly positivity rate in case of Chattisgarh is increasing from 1.40 per cent to 27.95 per cent. This is another cause of concern," he said. In Uttar Pradesh, Bhushan said from average 89 cases per day it has increased to 10,000 cases a day. "Average tests per million are increasing but not at the corresponding rate of cases. The average RT-PCR test is 45 per cent and it has to be ramped up. The weekly positivity rate is below 5 per cent but it is showing a rising trend," he said. For Punjab, over 3000 daily cases are being reported and average tests per million have increased but not in the same proportion as the number of cases. The RT-PCR share is 70 per cent. A decline in weekly positivity rate is being seen but it is still 8 per cent, he said. In Karnataka, Bhushan said from 404 daily cases in February mid, now 7776 new cases are being reported. "The average RT-PCR test is quite good, it is 92.2 per cent but the weekly positivity rate is increasing and it is at 6.45 per cent now," he said. In Gujarat, from 275 cases per week they have increased to 4500 cases, Bhushan said. "The tests per million have substantially increased from 267 to 1574 but they have to be increased further. If we look at the share of RT-PCR tests it is still hovering around 48-50 per cent and it needs to go up. Weekly positivity is again climbing up," he added. In Madhya Pradesh, Bhushan said from 267 cases now the average cases per day are 4912. "The tests per million 441 there is needed to further increase it. The RT-PCR rate is 73 per cent which is a matter of satisfaction but the weekly positivity rate continues to be 13.06 per cent," he said. Tamil Nadu also has a similar situation, from 450 daily cases in February mid the cases have increased to over 5000. The average tests per million increased but is reducing now. Weekly positivity rate is over 7 per cent now, Bhushan said. In Delhi, he said from average 134 cases, a weekly average of over 8000 new cases are being reported now. The tests per million is 5256 need to be further increased. "The RT-PCR share has increased too and needs to be further increased. The weekly positivity rate has increased," he said. In Haryana, daily cases have increased to 2900 every day. "Average tests per million have increased but it has to be further increased. The RT-PCR share is good. it is 89.4 per cent while the weekly positivity rate is continuously increasing which is a matter of concern that is why there is a need to increase these tests," Bhushan said. "In Kerala, we were seeing a declining trend but the cases have again started increasing in the past three weeks. In Kerala, cases were 1800 per day but it is again over 5000 now. The average tests per million was declining and this needs to be increased. The RT-PCR test is 43 per cent and this has to be increased too. The weekly positivity rate had gone below 2 per cent, it has now increased to 8.13 per cent," he said. Bhushan said apart from these states the cases are also rising in other parts of the country. "These are the states of concern but cases are also increasing in other states. Wherever cases increase we advise states to scale up test, track treat and follow COVID appropriate behaviour and vaccination. We need to efficiently implement these," he said. Bhushan said there are 53 central teams which are camping in 53 districts of the country which are showing a surge in cases and these central teams are helping the district administration as well the state administration particularly health department and revenue officials in tackling the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-second-wave-worrying-some-states-need-to-ramp-up-rt-pcr-tests-centre-973965.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urges Centre to cancel CBSE exams amid record Covid-19 surge||Delhi has reported over 13,500 cases in 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday and appealed to the Centre to cancel the Class 10 and 12 board exams and explore alternative methods, including online exams. Warning that conducting the exams may contribute to the large-scale spread of the virus, he said the centres could emerge as major hotspots. "Six lakh children in Delhi are going to write CBSE exams. Nearly one lakh teachers will be a part of it. These (the centres) can become major hotspots leading to the large-scale spreading of the coronavirus. Children's lives and health are very important to us. I request the Centre to cancel the CBSE exams," he said at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. The Central Board of Secondary Education can explore other methods, including online exams and promoting students on the basis of internal assessments, he said. "Several countries have done it, some states in India are doing it too. Some alternative methods could be thought of. Children can be promoted this time on the basis of either an online method or internal assessment. But the exams should be cancelled," he added. The CBSE Class 10 and 12 exams are scheduled to begin on May 4. With the exponential increase in coronavirus cases, the chorus for cancellation or postponing the board exams is growing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-cancel-cbse-exams-amid-record-covid-19-surge-973768.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Violence against women sees sharp rise in Kashmir||A 32-year-old woman ended her life at her in-laws’ house in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Saturday. In a video recorded before her death, the woman had accused her in-laws of assaulting her and setting her ablaze. The couple already had a case pending in the court. Last month, a 28-year-old, mother of two kids was set afire allegedly by her in-laws in the same district. She received 80% burns and is battling for her life in a hospital since then. Last December another 27-year-old woman from north Kashmir’s Bandipora district, was found dead at the home of her in-laws in mysterious conditions. Later police arrested three members of her in-laws' family in the case. In October last year, a 21-year-old woman was abducted by two men from a marriage ceremony in southern Kulgam district. She was taken to the nearby dense orchards where she was raped and then brutally murdered. A few days after the death of this woman, another similar crime was reported from the same district, in which a 17-year-old girl was raped and the video recorded, then shared by the accused on social media platforms. These are not isolated cases, but violence against women has seen a sharp rise amid the conservative Muslim society in Kashmir in recent years. In several cases, women have been ruthlessly murdered by immediate family members. The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) conducted by the Union Ministry of Health has shocking exposures about domestic violence against women in Jammu and Kashmir. The survey report, released in 2020, states that 9.6% of women in the age group 18-49 experienced domestic violence in 2019-20. Five years ago, when J&K was still a state, the survey says 9.4% of women were subjected to domestic violence. It further reveals that domestic abuse and sexual harassment is more widespread in rural areas of J&K as compared to urban areas. While 352 rape cases were registered in J&K 2014 here, the numbers dropped to 312, 263, and 314 in 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively before again rising to 359 in 2018. Until March 2019, official data reveals, 1046 rape cases under trial, of which 831 are pending since 2014. The increase in cases of rape, abduction, molestation and domestic violence has created a cause for concern among civil society members and women. Kashmir-based women’s rights activist Ezabir Ali fears that the silence by the society on such brutal atrocities will only cause the increase in violence. “Indifferent behavior of the society towards crimes against women will shrink the spaces for women in society. This will certainly restrict the mobility of women and girls and they will not be allowed by their families to step out alone,” she explains. However, there are others who partly blame the government’s inaction for the rise in crime against women. Riyaz Ahmad, a university student says that in the last more than 20-months, the government has not initiated the process for establishing the office of the National Commission for Women in J&K. “Since the state women’s commission was abolished after the revocation of J&K’s special status in August 2019, there has been an increase in domestic violence cases in J&K. But it seems the government is least bothered about such pressing issues,” he rued. In 2015, Valley’s head priest Mirwaiz Umar Farooq had called for boycotting the households demanding dowry and abetting married women to suicide. He had also appealed to the women facing the brunt of domestic violence to show strength by informing their local Masjid management and the concerned organizations or rights bodies about what they were being subjected to. However, six years down the line the situation has only worsened in Kashmir and women have continued to remain silent victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/violence-against-women-sees-sharp-rise-in-kashmir-973771.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||J&K eatery owner 'ready to forgive' militants who killed his son||Despite losing his son to the bullets of militants, Ramesh Kumar, the owner of Krishna Dhaba, a famous vegetarian restaurant in Srinagar, says he is ready to forgive the killers. Ramesh’s son Akash was shot at and critically injured by the militants outside the iconic eatery in Durganag area on February 17 evening, the day the government was hosting a foreign delegation in the Union Territory. He succumbed to his injuries on February 28. “All those who are involved (in the killing of Akash) are children of their parents. I have no complaints about them. We have no issues even if the government wants to release them,” Ramesh told reporters after resuming his business post his son’s killing. He said that despite the unfortunate killing of his son, he feels safe and protected in the Valley where he was born and has grown up.”I am feeling safe here in the Valley. This is my place. I was born and raised here. There is not any kind of threat here,” Ramesh said. J&K police had arrested three militants allegedly responsible for the deadly attack on Akash just two days after the incident happened. “They were lured by The Resistance Front (TRF) commander Ghazi, who had tasked the trio to strike at Krishna Dhaba where tourist rush is always high and the shop even remains open during hartals,” Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar had said. Krishna Dhaba is located in Durganag, a high-security area of the city. Several high-profile installations, including the office of the UN Military Observers Group for India and Pakistan, and the residence of the Jammu and Kashmir chief justice are located within 200 metres of the food joint. Army’s 15-Corps headquarters is barely a kilometre away from Krishan Dhaba.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-eatery-owner-ready-to-forgive-militants-who-killed-his-son-973783.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Angry over lack of bed, Covid-19 patient's kin create ruckus at MP hospital||Angry about not getting a bed, family members of a Covid-19 patient allegedly created a ruckus and abused the staff of a private hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, an official said on Tuesday. According to eye-witnesses, the incident occurred at Greater Kailash Hospital in Palasia area of the city on Monday night. "Our staff informed the patient's family that we cannot admit him at the moment because all beds were full. Following this, the patient's family started a dispute with the staff. They vandalised some Covid-19 safety equipment placed in the premises," Hospital director Anil Bandi told PTI. The hospital has reserved 90 beds for Covid-19 patients, he said. In the absence of a bed, the patient's family created a ruckus at the hospital, located near the Palasia police station. No FIR has been lodged by the hospital management at present, Palasia police station, in-charge Sanjay Bais said, adding that people involved in the incident have not been identified. Meanwhile, according to the health bulletin of the district on Tuesday, 1,552 fresh cases of coronavirus and six casualties have been detected in the last 24 hours. With this, the district's tally of infections stood at 80,986, including 1,011 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/angry-over-lack-of-bed-covid-19-patients-kin-create-ruckus-at-mp-hospital-973791.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh morgues overflow with bodies of Covid-19 victims||Bodies of Covid-19 victims have been piling up in mortuaries and crematoriums in Raipur, as the Chhattisgarh administration struggles to deal with the sudden surge in cases of the viral infection and fatalities. In some videos on social media, bodies were seen lying on stretchers outside the mortuary of Raipur's Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital (DBRAMH), the state's biggest government-run hospital, and last rites of victims being performed from morning till late night in crematoriums here. Talking to PTI on Tuesday, state Health Minister T S Singh Deo said the overall situation is "very concerning" and the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths has posed a challenge for authorities. "The district administration and the municipal corporation have been asked to ensure the bodies are cremated at the earliest," he said. The situation was also grim in neighbouring Durg district. Since April 1, 861 people have died due to Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh, with Raipur reporting 305 fatalities and Durg 213, as per official data. The minister said there is generally no delay in the cremation of bodies of Covid-19 victims belonging to Raipur. But, for victims hailing from other districts who succumbed in hospitals here, it takes some time for completing the process of shifting the bodies to their respective places, he said. An official from the Raipur Municipal Corporation official said since the last couple of days, the last rites of about 100 victims were being performed every day in crematoriums and burial grounds here. Patients with various ailments, including Covid-19, were being treated in the DBRMAH. The bodies of non-Covid patients and those related to medico-legal cases were also kept in the hospital's mortuary, Raipur's Additional Municipal Commissioner Pulak Bhattacharya said. The bodies of victims hailing from other districts were are kept in the Raipur hospital's mortuary before being shifted to their native places, he said. "Due to a sudden spike in deaths due to Covid-19, the bodies piled up in the mortuary," Bhattacharya said. On Monday, the hospital's morgue had 40 bodies, mostly of Covid-19 victims, which was more than its capacity, he said. "Since the last two days, the last rites of nearly 100 victims were being performed per day in Raipur. We have pressed more hearses into service so that the bodies can be shifted to crematoriums without any delay," he said. Till about a fortnight back, the bodies of Covid-19 victims were disposed of only in two crematoriums in Raipur, but now the district administration has ordered to use all 18 crematoriums and burial grounds falling under the city civic limits for the purpose, he said. Crematoriums on the outskirts of Raipur have also been identified, the official said. During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, 10 crematoriums and burial grounds were being used in Raipur for the last rites of the victims, he added. A process was underway to set up more electric crematoriums in Raipur and other cities, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-morgues-overflow-with-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-973814.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Gyanvapi Masjid case: Sunni Waqf Board moves HC against Varanasi court order||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board on Tuesday moved an urgent petition before the Allahabad High Court in the Kashi Vishwanath Mandi-Gyanvapi Masjid case in which the trial court at Varanasi allowed an ASI study of the mosque on April 8. Sunni Central Waqf Board's standing counsel Puneet Kumar Gupta argued that the trial court passed the order illegally and without its jurisdiction as the matter is in the high court and Justice Prakash Pandia reserved its order on March 15 this year. "We moved the Allahabad High Court today against the judgment of the lower court and filed a petition," Gupta, a permanent advocate of the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board, told PTI. "Since Justice Prakash Padiya of the Allahabad High Court reserved the judgment on March 15, 2021, how can the lower court hear the matter and pass the order?" he asked. Earlier on Monday, the Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, management committee of the Gyanvapi mosque moved an application before the Allahabad High Court in the case against the April 8 order of the trial court at Varanasi. Counsel for the Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, SFA Naqvi prayed for stay of operation of the April 8 order of the Varanasi court contending that the Allahabad High Court had reserved its judgment on the maintainability of the suit pending in the Varanasi court, which is hearing the contentions of the opposite party (the Temple trust).   On April 8, the Varanasi court allowed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) study of the Gyanvapi Mosque adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. The court ordered an archaeological survey of a centuries-old mosque complex abutting the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine. The suit was filed in 1991 seeking restoration of the ancient temple at the site where the Gyanvapi Mosque currently stands.  On March 15, the Allahabad High Court reserved its judgment in various pleas, which had challenged the maintainability of the 1991 suit before the Varanasi trial court, seeking restoration of an ancient temple at the site where the Gyanvapi Mosque at Varanasi now stands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gyanvapi-masjid-case-sunni-waqf-board-moves-hc-against-varanasi-court-order-973846.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||UP minister corners his own government over 'worsening' Covid-19 situation||BJP on Tuesday was left red-faced after one of its senior leaders and minister in Uttar Pradesh attacked his own government over the 'worsening' Covid-19 situation in the state and its failure to provide medical facilities to those infected with the virus. UP Law Minister Brijesh Pathak, in a letter to the principal secretary, health, said that the situation in the state capital of Lucknow was 'worrisome' and needed urgent attention of the government. ''There are no beds in the hospitals....the patients are neither getting ambulances on time nor are they receiving treatment,'' Pathak said in a hard-hitting letter, which has gone viral on social media. He said that he had spoken to the chief medical officer (CMO) of Lucknow to send an ambulance for Padmashree awardee and Avadh historian Yogesh Praveen, who had developed complications after being infected, but it was not sent. Praveen, who was in his 80s, died later. Pathak said in his letter that even the results of the RT-PCR tests were being provided to the patients after four to seven days. The minister warned that a total lockdown might have to be imposed in Lucknow if the situation did not improve in the next few days. The opposition parties latched on to the minister's remarks and attacked the Yogi Adityanath government for failing to provide the required medical facilities to the infected patients. ''The letter by the minister proves that this government has failed to deal with the situation,'' UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu said. Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav also cornered the government and said that it was busy making false claims on the development of the state. UP reported over 18,000 Covid-positive cases on Tuesday with Lucknow alone accounting for more than five thousand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-corners-his-own-government-over-worsening-covid-19-situation-973855.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Actively donate plasma for Covid-19 patients: Kejriwal appeals to those cured||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said very less plasma is available in stock for treating Covid-19 patients and appealed to those who have recovered from the virus to actively donate it. A day after 14 hospitals in the national capital were converted into Covid-only facilities, the chief minister said planned surgeries like knee replacement can be delayed for 2-3 months and stressed that there is enough capacity for emergency surgeries. "This wave is very dangerous. As per the data of last 10-15 days, 65 per cent of patients are below 45 years of age. Your health and life is very important to us. So, I would like to appeal to the youth to step out of the house only when it is necessary and follow all Covid protocols," Kejriwal said at a press conference. "During the previous waves, people actively donated plasma. When the situation improved, there was less demand for plasma and subsequently the donations went down. Now the cases have again risen and there is very less plasma available in stock. I appeal to those who have recovered from the virus to actively donate plasma and aid the fight against the virus," he added. The chief minister said over 13,500 case have been reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours. "We are attaching banquet halls with big hospitals. Hospitals will only have serious patients. We have declared few hospitals as 100 per cent Covid facility. We are also checking each patient admitted in hospital to see if their condition permits them to be treated at home so beds can be utilised for patients with severe conditions. "There are not just these hospitals in Delhi (Covid-only hospitals), there is sufficient capacity in other hospitals for non- Covid related emergencies. Planned surgeries like knee replacement can be delayed for two three months for now," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/actively-donate-plasma-for-covid-19-patients-kejriwal-appeals-to-those-cured-973864.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt spreading false propaganda on controlling Covid-19:SP chief||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday accused the Yogi Adityanath government of spreading false propaganda on the issue of controlling coronavirus, saying there is a "shortage" of beds and vaccines in Uttar Pradesh. There is a crisis in Uttar Pradesh due to coronavirus, he claimed. "There is a crisis in UP caused by corona. The BJP government has to answer as to why it indulged in false propaganda on controlling corona. There is a shortage of vaccines, tests, doctors, beds and ambulances. There is delay in test reports, and black marketing of medicines. Why is the BJP government silent on this?," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Where is the star campaigner?" he said without naming any one. In another tweet, Yadav termed the Election Commission's move banning TMC chief Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours from Monday 8 pm as a "sign of disappointment of the BJP, which is facing defeat in the polls". "The banning of the election campaign of Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal is a sign of disappointment of BJP, which is facing defeat in polls. As a token gesture, the SP is with Mamata Banerjee. Hope that the impartial Election Commission will impose a ban on those giving the statement 'shamshan-kabristan' communal divide," the SP chief said. The Election Commission had barred Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours from Monday 8 pm for her remarks against central forces. Banerjee had slammed the poll panel's decision as "unconstitutional and undemocratic".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-spreading-false-propaganda-on-controlling-covid-19sp-chief-973867.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir: Marriage celebrations return as guns fall silent along LoC||As India and Pakistan adhere to ceasefire agreement after years of cross-border shelling, marriage celebrations have silently returned to villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. Director-General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan agreed to uphold ceasefire along the borders in the Union Territory from the night of February 24 and 25, bringing respite to the residents who were reeling under the constant threat of shelling from across the border. The original ceasefire agreement was reached between the nations in November 2003 but it virtually lost its relevance after 2006 due to frequent ceasefire violations that touched an all-time high in 2020 with over 5,000 incidents of firing and shelling being recorded. The latest decision brought relief to the border residents who resumed activities like farming and schooling that were the worst-hit by Pakistani shelling. With both countries observing the ceasefire agreement religiously since February, people have also started celebrating weddings in their own houses instead of moving the events to safer places outside the villages, the officials said. They said brightly illuminated wedding houses are a common sight on the borders these days in both Poonch and Rajouri districts as are people dancing to drums and accompaniments, a sight which many have forgotten due to the constant fear of shelling and the practice of observing complete darkness to escape being attacked during the hostilities. "We are happy to witness such celebrations after a very long time," Parvez Ahmad, a groom from village Gagriya along the zero line in Sawian area of Poonch said. Ahmad was among the lucky youngsters who tied the knot last week. But the shadow of fear from early days seemed to linger as two of his relatives in the wedding party carried white flags when they walked through the village to the bride's house. A local, Mohammad Akbar Mir, said earlier they used to stay indoors for days together due to intense shelling from across the border. "This time the weddings are taking place with pomp and show...normal activities like trading have resumed, unlike in the past when we used to fear the Pakistani guns atop the hillock overlooking the village," he said. Newly-wed Tarannum said the shelling and firing had made the situation very dangerous for the people living along the LoC. "People were getting killed, their houses destroyed...now they are happy as peace has returned following the latest agreement," she said. Students are also happy as the prevailing calm has alleviated their parents' concern about their safety and allowed them free movement. "My family was very concerned about my safety as I had to go out to attend school and private tuition," Mohammad Farooq, a 12th class student from Mendhar, said. He said the peace allowed normal functioning of schools along the borders. Another villager, Mohammad Sabir, said the ceasefire violation had become routine earlier, making the lives of the people along the border miserable. "There has been no ceasefire violation over the past 46 days, allowing people to carry out their daily chores without worrying about safety," he said, expressing hope that both the countries would uphold the agreement in the larger interests of humanity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-marriage-celebrations-return-as-guns-fall-silent-along-loc-973879.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Gardener collects swabs at Madhya Pradesh hospital due to staff shortage||Shortage of staff due to the Covid-19 pandemic has forced authorities to take the help of a daily wage gardener to collect samples of people at the government civil hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Sanchi, the constituency of state health minister Prabhuram Choudhary. The incident came to light on Monday when some television reporters recorded the gardener, Halke Ram, collecting swabs of people for testing at the hospital in Sanchi, a world heritage site located 50 km away from Bhopal. Block Medical Officer (BMO) Dr Rajyashri Tidke told PTI on Tuesday that the help of the gardener was taken for collecting samples due to the shortage of employees. "Almost half of the staff of the hospital was found coronavirus positive. I had already informed senior health officials about the shortage of staff in the Sanchi civil hospital," she said. Halke Ram said he was assigned the task of sample collection by the BMO. He collected the swab samples on Tuesday as well. Meanwhile, Choudhary on Tuesday posted pictures of him campaigning for the April 17 Damoh assembly byelection. He was not available for comment. Madhya Pradesh on Monday logged the highest 6,489 coronavirus positive cases in a day, taking the tally of infections in the state to 3,44,634 while the death toll is 4,221.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gardener-collects-swabs-at-madhya-pradesh-hospital-due-to-staff-shortage-973885.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Kumbh mela returnees may exacerbate Covid-19 pandemic: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday expressed apprehension that the people returning from Kumbh mela in Haridwar will turn out to be potential carriers of Covid-19 infection which will "cause havoc". Raut's comments came a day after thousands of devotees took the holy dip at various ghats of the Ganga river in Haridwar. Also, thousands of saffron-clad seers and ash-smeared Nagas had flouted Covid-19 norms and converged at Har Ki Pairi in the holy town in Uttarakhand for a holy dip during the second royal bath of the Kumbh Mela on Monday. "It is painful for the Shiv Sena to put restrictions on our festivals and religious celebrations but the party dares to do so to save the lives of people. Our priority is to save as many lives as possible. I believe that people coming from the Kumbh mela will cause further spread of Covid-19 cases, which will cause havoc," he said. Speaking to reporters separately earlier in the day, Mumbai guardian minister and Congress leader Aslam Shaikh had said the state government will also have to decide guidelines regarding the people returning from Kumbh mela as Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was not followed at the congregation. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state in the country in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities. As of Monday, the caseload in the state stood at 34,58,996 while the overall death toll is 58,245, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kumbh-mela-returnees-may-exacerbate-covid-19-pandemic-raut-973887.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi man 'angry with God' arrested for defiling three Hanuman idols over rising temperatures, no rainfall||Upset and "angry with God" over rising temperature and lack of rain, a man defiled three idols of Lord Hanuman in southwest Delhi's Kakrola village which landed him in jail on Tuesday. The accused, Mahesh (50) of Bharat Vihar JJ colony, is a cobbler, police said. The matter was reported by a priest on Tuesday morning who first spotted the damaged Hanuman idols at three adjacent spots in Kakrola, a senior police officer said. "We received a call at 7.45 am regarding defiling of statue at three spots in Kakrola area," the officer added. According to the police, the accused told them during interrogation that he was upset and angry with God as there has been no rain this year and that it is getting hotter with every passing day. Following the incident, a group of people, including residents, local leaders, and those associated with the Bajrang Dal, gathered at Dwarka Mor and stopped traffic movement. Efforts to calm them down were successful, and traffic movement was regulated, the police said. "We have registered a case under section 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused, Mahesh, has also been arrested in connection with the incident," said Santosh Kumar Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka). An axe used in the offence has been recovered, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-angry-with-god-arrested-for-defiling-three-hanuman-idols-over-rising-temperatures-no-rainfall-973912.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees record 13,468 new Covid-19 cases, 81 deaths||Delhi on Tuesday recorded 13,468 Covid-19 cases, the biggest single-day jump so far, while 81 more people succumbed to the disease, according to data shared by the health department. The city's cumulative case count now stands at 7,50,156, and the death toll at 11,436, the bulletin stated. Tuesday's 81 deaths are the highest since December 3 when 82 deaths were recorded. Delhi had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths on November 19, the highest single-day fatality count till date. The positivity rate rose to 13.14 per cent on Tuesday from 12.44 per cent a day ago, the bulletin stated. The fresh cases came out of over 1.02 lakh tests conducted the previous day. Around 78,000 cases have been recorded in Delhi in the last 10 days, according to official data. The city had reported 11,491 cases and 72 deaths on Monday and 10,772 cases and 48 deaths on Sunday. Delhi recorded 7,897 Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths on Saturday. The positivity rate had also surged to 10.21 per cent, breaching the 10-per cent mark for the first time this year. The positivity rate was above 15 per cent in mid-November last year, when the pandemic was at its peak. On Friday, 8,521 Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths were recorded in the national capital. This was also the first time that more than 8,000 cases were recorded in a day this year. On Thursday, the city recorded 7,437 cases. The number of active cases rose to 43,510 on Tuesday. Of these, 21,954 are in home isolation, the bulletin said. Of the total 12,667 hospital beds in Delhi, 7,731 are occupied, it said. The number of containment zones increased to 6,852 from 6,175 on Monday, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-record-13468-new-covid-19-cases-81-deaths-973916.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana night curfew timing revised to 10pm-5am||The Haryana government on Tuesday made a slight change in the coronavirus-induced night curfew timings, revising it from the existing 9 pm to 5 am to 10 pm to 5 am with immediate effect. The government had on Monday decided to impose night curfew in the state amid a surge in coronavirus cases.      The order to revise curfew timings was issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday. While the earlier order had spelled out the category of people and services exempted from night curfew, consolidated guidelines were issued by the body on Tuesday. The Authority had already made it clear that there shall be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. Emergency and municipal services, people tasked with law and services, police, military and paramilitary personnel have also been exempted from the curfew. As per the consolidated guidelines put out by the Authority on Tuesday, those exempted also include petrol pumps, LPG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, cold storage and warehousing services, private security services, data and call centres for government activities only, farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the fields, intra and inter-state movement of harvesting and sowing related machines like combine harvester etc. and other agriculture/horticulture implements. Besides, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services, IT and IT enabled services have also been exempted. Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and related medical establishments, including their manufacturing and distribution units, both in public and private sector, such as dispensaries, chemist, pharmacies including Jan Aushadhi Kendras and medical equipment shops, laboratories, pharmaceutical research labs, clinics, nursing homes, ambulances etc will continue to remain functional. Transportation of all medical personnel, nurses, paramedical staff, other hospital support services will be permitted.         All the industrial units/entrepreneurs/concerns shall mandatorily apply on 'Saralharyana' portal by providing necessary details in order to generate requisite passes for the employees/staff. In order to implement the containment measures, the district magistrates will deploy executive magistrates as Incident Commanders in their respective local jurisdictions who will be responsible for the overall implementation of these measures in their respective jurisdiction. All other line department officials in the specified area will work under the directions of such Incident Commander,the order said. Meanwhile, Haryana registered a big spike in cases Tuesday with 3,845 new infections, while 16 people died due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-night-curfew-timing-revised-to-10pm-5am-973927.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||At 40.2 degrees Celsius, Delhi records hottest day so far this month||Delhi on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 40.2 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this month, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature settled at 19.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, it said. The mercury is expected to hover around 40 degrees Celsius for the next two days. Thereafter, cloudy skies are likely to bring it down by two to three notches. IMD officials said a heatwave is not predicted in Delhi for another week. A heatwave is declared in plains when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A severe heatwave is declared if the departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-402-degrees-celsius-delhi-records-hottest-day-so-far-this-month-973934.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Kishor not to have any role in Congress ticket distribution: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dismissed speculations that his principal advisor Prashant Kishor may have some role in the finalisation of Congress tickets for the 2022 assembly elections. Singh was reacting to media reports over alleged resentment brewing in the Punjab Congress over Kishor’s likely say in the distribution of the party tickets ahead of the next assembly elections. “There is no question of it. Kishor has no say in the matter,” the chief minister said in an official statement. Kishor’s role is limited and is only advisory in nature, he added. The CM had announced last month that Kishor had joined him as his principal advisor. There are set norms and patterns for ticket allocation in the Congress, which are followed in all elections in all states, the CM said, adding Punjab is no exception. There is a state election committee set up by the high command ahead of any assembly poll, he said, adding the panel considers all the names and shortlists them. The shortlisted names are then sent for scrutiny to the screening committee, comprising top party leadership, including the Congress president. The final decision is taken by the Central Election Committee, with no individual having any role to play, said the CM. In the process of ticket finalisation, inputs are always taken by this committee from various internal and external parties, including independent agencies as well the state party unit, he said. This is the process that was followed in 2017 and will be adopted again this time. “So where does Kishor come into the picture?” he asked. Amarinder Singh further said this system had worked well last time when the Congress party won assembly polls in Punjab. “Why should the party want to change it and disturb the political balance that we have managed to strike so beautifully in the past four years?” he asked. In fact, he pointed out, the Congress in Punjab has been on a strong wicket in every election in the last four years, including in the recent urban local body polls, which the party swept. “This shows that there is no anti-incumbency at play in the state, as is being speculated by the media, which has been indulging in sheer conjectures ever since Kishor's appointment,” he said. If the party sees any instances of local anti-incumbency, it will handle it the way it usually does – by looking at alternatives, and finding the best fit to ensure victory, said the CM, making it clear that this was an issue for the Congress, and not for Kishor, to consider and decide. “His (Kishor's) role as my principal advisor is limited. It is only advisory in nature, with no decision-making authority vested in him,” added the CM. Kishor had handled the Congress party’s poll campaign in Punjab in the 2017 assembly elections. Currently, Kishor is assisting Mamata Banerjee's TMC in the West Bengal elections. Kishor had also managed Narendra Modi’s campaign for prime ministership in the 2014 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kishor-not-to-have-any-role-in-congress-ticket-distribution-amarinder-973942.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||Wine traders continue protest in J&K against new excise policy||Hundreds of wine traders on Tuesday staged a protest here against e-auction of liquor vends under the new excise policy in Jammu and Kashmir, saying they are not in a position to compete with bidders from outside the Union Territory to retain their source of livelihood. The protesters, who have closed their shops over the past several days, assembled outside the Press Club here and staged a peaceful demonstration in support of their demand for continuation of the previous policy of renewal of their licence on a yearly basis. "We are on the roads for the last nearly one month but nobody is paying any heed... We are concerned about the new policy which will eliminate local businessmen from the trade and benefit rich capitalists from outside J&K," Jammu Wine Traders Association president Charanjeet Singh told reporters. He said the traders have already rejected this policy. "None of us can afford to compete in the e-auction as we are small traders who earn their livelihood from this business for decades," he said. Claiming that the excise department had recommended continuation of the renewal system for a couple of years to provide local traders enough time before introducing e-auction, he alleged that there is someone in the administration who is hand-in-glove with the liquor mafia to facilitate the entry of people into the trade from outside J&K. Singh said 30,000 families are directly or indirectly involved in earning their livelihood from this business and most of the present licencees are widows, senior citizens and unemployed youth who have no other source of income. As per the draft policy, the allotment of liquor vends through e-auction would be in a completely open and transparent manner in the same area where liquor shops already exist. The policy envisages allotment of liquor shops to the residents of the Union Territory through e-auction. Any person who is eligible for grant of licence as per the provisions of the excise act and rules will be eligible for participation in the e-auction process. "The vends shall be allotted for a period of one year as per the provisions of the J&K Excise Act and Rules. The total number of shops to be allotted would be the same as existing at present and there would be no increase in the number of vends to be auctioned," it said, adding only a single outlet will be allotted to one person. Singh said the rich people can bid a huge amount of money, which is required to run this business as per new draft policy, thus snatching livelihood from small traders and creating a liquor mafia. The JWTA president said the government can issue new licences in unserved and underserved areas while safeguarding their interests. "The liquor traders are working as revenue collecting agents of the government and fully abide by the rules and regulations," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wine-traders-continue-protest-in-jk-against-new-excise-policy-973954.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||IPS officer Anil Shukla returns to Delhi Police after 6 years in NIA||Senior IPS officer Anil Shukla returned to his parent cadre Delhi Police after successfully completing his tenure of six years in the NIA, during which he led investigations into terror funding in Jammu and Kashmir, Pulwama attack and the recent Sachin Waze case. Shukla, a 1996-batch officer from Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre, completed his six years on central deputation on Monday and was expected to join Delhi Police soon in the rank of joint commissioner, officials said. During his tenure in the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Shukla was entrusted with the important case of unravelling the funding of terror and separatist groups in Jammu and Kashmir, where stone pelting had become an order of the day in 2016 post the killing of Burhan Wani, poster boy of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group. Shukla and his team camped continuously in Kashmir and started probing the role of certain politicians and business persons till he finally laid his hand on Zahoor Watali, a prominent citizen of the Valley and well connected within the political circles of the erstwhile state. After registering a case in May 2007, the NIA carried out searches at the residences of well-known separatists, including Syed Ali Shah Geelani and Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, and started cracking the whip on separatist groups' cadres who acted as overground workers of terror groups. Fifteen people, including Watali, Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front chief Yaseen Malik, Geelani's son-in-law Altaf Ahmed Shah alias Altaf Fantoosh, were arrested in 2017 and continue to remain in jail after the NIA ensured the filing of a timely charge sheet against them. After the NIA raids on choking the terror funding, the organised stone-pelting racket in Kashmir came to a grinding halt. In the recent charge sheet filed in a different case, the agency has named PDP youth president Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra as one of the main instigators of organising stone-pelting incidents in south Kashmir during 2010. The February 2019 terror attack in Pulwama that left CRPF personnel dead was yet another blind case for the NIA that was handed over the Shukla and his team. The "blind case" was solved by the NIA after piecing together the electronic evidence and statements of terrorists and their sympathisers arrested in different cases. "It was a painstaking investigation as leads to all involved in the conspiracy were either in Pakistan or dead," says one of the officers. The NIA filed a charge sheet in August 2020 against 19 people, including Masood Azhar, the chief of banned terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed, for planning and carrying out the Pulwama attack in south Kashmir. It also brought to light the use of e-commerce platforms by the planners in the terror module for purchase of high-end batteries, phones and some chemicals. While solving the case, Shukla and his team worked on challenging tasks, including identifying the suicide bomber, the case used in attack, key conspirators, but somehow all the trails led to a frustrating dead end. At the instruction of their team leader, the NIA started gathering evidence of all the encounters that took place post the February 2019 attack till they laid their hands on the phone of a Pakistani terrorist, Umer Farooq, who was killed in Budgam of central Kashmir in the same year. The team led by Shukla was in for good luck when they studied information retrieved from Farooq's mobile phone that had a lot of evidence, including a number of video recordings, voice messages and chats, apart from pictures like those of the improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and the people making them. The agency also handled the crucial case of Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Superintendent of Police Davinder Singh, who was arrested by police while ferrying Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists. "The case did not stop at only ferrying of militants, but the orders were clear from Shukla sir to unravel the entire conspiracy, and role of Singh and another accomplice who was an advocate," an official said. The NIA filed a charge sheet against Singh and six others, and even brought out the alleged role of Singh and his association with officials of the Pakistan High Commission in Delhi who had instructed him to make deep inroads into the security establishment. Shukla and his team also cracked down on cross-border trade being undertaken from two points in Jammu and Kashmir. Based on the findings, the Home Ministry had in April 2019 suspended the cross Line of Control (LoC) trade in Jammu and Kashmir, citing "funnelling of illegal weapons, narcotics and fake currency" as reasons. Shukla and his team had also started cracking the whip on mushrooming of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in Jammu and Kashmir, as well as narcoterrorism, which indicated a tacit understanding between the drug mafia of Punjab and terrorists of Jammu and Kashmir. Before his repatriation to his parent cadre, Shukla, who was looking after Maharashtra, had to probe a sensitive case of explosives being planted near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Within days of taking over the case, Shukla placed Waze under arrest and has unravelled many portions of the puzzle by placing others involved in the case behind bars. He had been camping in Mumbai and overlooking the evidence himself almost till the last weekend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ips-officer-anil-shukla-returns-to-delhi-police-after-6-years-in-nia-973960.html
13-04-2021||North and Central||No comparison between Kumbh Mela and Nizamuddin Markaz: Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Tuesday said the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar should not be compared with the Nizamuddin Markaz which was held in a closed space and attended even by foreigners. "There should be no comparison between Kumbh and Markaz. The Markaz was held in a closed space, in a Kothi like structure whereas the Kumbh is being held in the open on the sprawling ghats of the Ganga," Rawat said on a weekly talk show organised by the Hindustan Times. The chief minister was replying to a question as to why the two religious events should not be equated (Nizamuddin Markaz and Kumbh) as Kumbh also draws crowds and could strengthen the second wave of the coronavirus infection. Citing other differences between the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar and Nizamuddin Markaz, Rawat said, "The devotees attending Kumbh are not from outside but our own people.” “Moreover, when the Markaz was held there was not much awareness about Corona nor were there any guidelines. No one knew for how long the attendees of the Markaz had remained in the confines of the structure,” he said. “Now there is more awareness both about Covid and the guidelines related to it," the chief minister added. He also said Kumbh comes once in 12 years and is linked with the faith and sentiments of millions of people. "Holding it successfully amid the challenge posed by Covid-19 by ensuring that the SOP is strictly followed by all is our goal," he said. Rawat said people's health is a priority but matters of faith cannot be totally ignored. "Cases have of course risen of late but we are following the health ministry guidelines and the recovery rate is good. Arrangements are also adequate to deal with any situation," he said. Largescale arrangements of masks and sanitisers have been made in the Mela area and the entire machinery is working day and night to ensure that the Covid guidelines are followed by everyone, the chief minister said. People are being checked at the border points before being allowed to enter Haridwar and attend the Mela. There are also arrangements for the random testing of people, he said. Haridwar is all set to organise another Shahi Snan on the occasion of "Mesh Sankranti" on Wednesday during the ongoing Kumbh. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand on Tuesday reported the highest single-day spike this year in Covid cases with 1,925 testing positive in the state. Dehradun district with 775 cases, Haridwar with 594, Nainital with 217 and Udham Singh Nagar with 172 led the table while 13 infected patients died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-comparison-between-kumbh-mela-and-nizamuddin-markaz-uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-973962.html
13-04-2021||Opinion||Wall Street for all? India’s crypto crowd fights back||By Andy Mukherjee India’s beleaguered blockchain industry has finally got some solid support to ensure its survival, with an influential industry evangelist evoking the vision of a billion smartphones acting as gateways to the brave new world of decentralised finance. In this world, Wall Street's capabilities will be available to everyone, according to angel investor Balaji Srinivasan, formerly the chief technology officer at Coinbase Global Inc., the largest US crypto exchange about to go public. “We could turn every phone into not just a bank account but a bonafide Bloomberg Terminal,” he writes on his blog. Mobile banking has indeed emerged as a way to end financial exclusion, a chronic problem in all emerging markets. In India, payments worth almost $60 billion are now taking place every month via wireless devices, three-fifths more than ATM withdrawals. A year ago, cash was ahead by 37%. At this rate of digital adoption, the lead enjoyed by checks might also soon vanish. But because India has done exceedingly well in mobile payments, the bureaucracy has developed a phlegmatic resistance to newer ideas. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are misunderstood as instruments of money laundering that offer no real benefits. The country’s nascent blockchain industry — survivor of an attempt on its life in 2018 — is growing up in fear. According to media reports, a new law might ban all tokenized representation of money — unless it is the central bank’s own electronic cash. Srinivasan’s advocacy has thus come at a crucial time. A digital wallet that can handle both central bank-issued electronic cash and cryptocurrencies will end up “giving every Indian the ability to make both domestic and international transactions of arbitrary complexity, attracting crypto capital from around the world, and leapfrogging the 20th century financial system entirely,” he says in his blog post. A sometime Stanford University lecturer in computational biology and statistics and cofounder of a genomics startup, Srinivasan is a recognized name in the rapidly growing field of smart contracts. Running on the Ethereum blockchain, these lines of cryptographic code can substitute for paper agreements, calculations of who owes what to whom, and enforcement of claims via courts.  It’s early days, but if they live up to their hype, smart contracts could upend traditional finance.  Srinivasan is proposing to put this new-age capability within reach of India’s internet users, who’ll be nearing the 1 billion mark by 2023. What’s more, iSPIRT, the think tank that has conceived much of India’s digital identity and payments architecture, is putting its weight behind his idea, which it says can help fill a $250 billion financing gap for small and midsize firms. “Meritorious businesses without national profiles aren’t able to access the capital they need,” the Bangalore-based think tank’s researchers wrote in a companion paper to Srinivasan’s article. The message is clear. The tech industry is picking up the cudgels on behalf of blockchain entrepreneurs, with Nandan Nilekani, a cofounder of software exporter Infosys Ltd. and the architect of India’s universal identification program, amplifying iSPIRT’s case with a tweet. The arguments should give policy makers pause before they impose some sort of an impractical, impossible-to-enforce ban on cryptocurrencies. Millennials have already embraced tokens. India is of late providing more volume than China on popular peer-to-peer platforms for transferring Bitcoin and other digital assets. The bureaucracy will no doubt push back. The Reserve Bank of India, which tried in 2018 to cut off the digital-asset industry’s links to local bank accounts, would likely see Srinivasan’s proposals for democratized access to international finance as an end to its capital controls. (Even students, he says, should be allowed to issue personal tokens, collateralizing the worth of their future time.) Monetary policy may then have to give up trying to manage the exchange rate altogether.  Maybe the authorities will propose a compromise: experimentation in baby steps. That will be just fine, considering that the still-modest $50 billion decentralized finance industry will need time to mature. As the Greensill Capital fiasco showed, even promising innovations in closely supervised conventional finance — such as supply-chain financing — aren’t without their big blowups. At a minimum, decentralized finance offers a third option. Traditional banks are slow and expensive, while finance by large e-commerce firms could get too dominant. “Big Techs can use their platforms to generate large amounts of customer data, employ it in training their artificial intelligence algorithms, and identify high-quality loans more efficiently than competitors lacking the same information,” says University of California, Berkeley economist Barry Eichengreen. China is reining in its tech titans, and may launch its official digital currency, e-CNY, next year. India, meanwhile, is still debating whether it can employ blockchain technology in social projects like land registry while barring tokens from circulating as money. With proponents like Srinivasan and Nilekani, the conversation will hopefully become more real.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/wall-street-for-all-india-s-crypto-crowd-fights-back-973725.html
13-04-2021||Opinion||The Biden boom is already wild||By Michelle Goldberg It was amazing how quickly it happened. For almost five years — from Donald Trump’s rise in the 2016 Republican primaries to the Jan. 6 insurrection following his defeat — the lurid spectacle of our national politics sucked up most of the country’s cultural energy. Almost every conversation I had during that time began with mutual expressions of outrage and incredulity about whatever was happening in the hourly news cycle. And then it was over. Trump’s cultural power evanesced as quickly as his political power did. Now everyone except those running in Republican primaries can ignore him. National politics didn’t exactly become boring — Joe Biden’s administration is proving transformative — but it no longer demanded most people’s minute-by-minute attention. That left room for a new national obsession, especially once the vaccine rollout picked up and the end of America’s pandemic nightmare appeared in sight. Increasingly, as the economy gets hotter, I wonder if that obsession might be markets. This seems like an odd thing to say, given the near-universal backlash against neoliberalism, an economic and political tendency that put markets at the centre of everything. But consider some of the strange new innovations in capitalism we have seen recently. In January, the GameStop saga — in which day-trading ironists on internet message boards bid up shares in that video game retailer — inaugurated the rise of the so-called meme stock. This created what Bloomberg called “one of the wildest periods of stock market mania in modern history.” The housing market hasn’t been this frenzied since before the financial crisis in 2007, with investors buying up whole subdivisions. New York magazine — whose current issue is a fascinating package about the surreal new world of finance — has a story about a new internet marketplace called BitClout where you can buy shares in people’s reputations, whether or not they consent. “In theory, every public action and utterance from anyone becomes tradable by anyone else,” writes Jen Wieczner. It seems deeply shady, but Wieczner reported that investors have poured more than $100 million into it. There are also simpler ways for people to monetise their personalities. In The Times, Taylor Lorenz wrote about a company that bills itself as a “human stock market,” allowing fans to pay to decide what professional influencers wear or whom they hang out with. Not long ago, the cutting edge in media was unionization. Now it’s independent journalists becoming Substack newsletter entrepreneurs, a business in which the most successful can earn more than $1 million a year. There are lots of reasons for the Substack phenomenon, including collapsing job security at many media organizations. But it works only if enough people have enough disposable income to pay for newsletter subscriptions that often cost as much as prestige magazines. Some of this stuff is dystopian — BitClout is an argument for a much higher marginal tax rate — and some of it, like writers making a living on Substack, is interesting and hopeful. But all of it indicates the way culture changes when there’s lots of money sloshing around. The fallout from the coronavirus has left many people devastated; a Pew survey in March found that a narrow majority expect the pandemic to make it harder for them to reach their financial goals. At the same time, we’re probably on the cusp of the fizziest economy in decades. The Federal Reserve has forecast that the US this year will see the strongest economic growth in four decades. In a letter to shareholders, JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon, wrote that, thanks to factors including government stimulus, increased savings, “a new potential infrastructure bill, a successful vaccine and euphoria around the end of the pandemic, the US economy will likely boom.” This is wonderful news. But watching the bizarre things happening in the worlds of art and finance, I thought of something I read in William J. Bernstein’s recent book, “The Delusions of Crowds: Why People Go Mad in Groups.” He wrote that one of the defining features of a bubble is that “financial speculation begins to dominate all but the most mundane social interactions,” and “stocks and real estate” become primary topics of conversation. We’re not quite there yet. But having lived through the 1990s, I remember what the beginning of a boom culture felt like. As happened a century ago after the last world-transforming pandemic, we could be in for a period not just of prosperity, but delirium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-biden-boom-is-already-wild-973736.html
13-04-2021||Opinion||Pakistan’s India policy dilemma||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s recent “sermon”, recommending full purdah for women to save them from male lust has attracted savage criticism. Imran Khan blamed the way women dressed as the cause for increased sexual assault and rape in society. Social media is awash with caustic comments and memes making fun of him.  Slamming his puerile comments, his former wife, Jemina Goldsmith, said that Imran Khan, during his playboy days in Britain always said that purdah should be put on men’s eyes rather than cover up women. Jemina quoted from the Quran: "Say to the believing men that they restrain their eyes and guard their private parts. The onus is on men" [Quran 24:31].  The former playboy-turned-religious conservative is now married to his third wife, a fully burkah-clad woman who is some kind of a religious mystic-cum-soothsayer.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also sent messages of congratulations on Pakistan’s National Day and a get-well message to his Pakistani counterpart on his Covid-19 infection. In response, Khan expressed his hope for a “result-oriented” dialogue. The aborted decision to import cotton and sugar from India raised hopes momentarily. Imran Khan, as commerce minister, approved the import and send it for Cabinet approval, where Imran Khan as PM, in consultation with his Cabinet, rejected the decision. Pakistan has now issued a global tender for 50,000 tonnes of sugar to be imported. The tender stipulates that the sugar must not be from “banned” countries like India and Israel. India is sitting on a stockpile of sugar and could have exported it at a price of around $400 per tonne via the land route. Pakistan is likely to pay around $550 or more from any other source. Pakistan will get its sugar but will pay a higher cost and the ordinary consumer will suffer.   When I served as India’s last Consul-General in Karachi, leading businessmen told me quite openly that they imported Indian machinery and goods from India via Dubai, because these items were not on the approved list. Such imports were shown as made in other countries. I also discovered that most people in Pakistan yearn for normal relations with India and remain keen on visiting India. Bollywood remains the staple of movie watchers and other cultural bonds remain reasonably vibrant. No amount of Islamist indoctrination and projecting India as the enemy, has erased these cultural bonds, except among Islamist extremists, terrorist groups and the defence forces. In Karachi, I was often asked by second generation “Mohajirs”, born in Pakistan, whether they could regain their Indian nationality because their parents were Indians. Before it was ordered closed in 1995, India’s Karachi Consulate issued the maximum number of visas. Pakistan’s policy somersault boils down to the assessment that the military establishment is divided. Imran Khan and the ministers who opposed import relaxation are mere pawns in the policy driven by the “deep state”. Pakistan is caught in the pincer of economic crisis and geo-political changes that are causing discomfort.  US President Joe Biden has not spoken to Khan and only his the Secretary of State has had a conversation with Pakistan’s foreign minister which focussed on the release of the murderer of American journalist Daniel Pearl by the Supreme Court.  Biden has also not cared to invite Pakistan to the 40-nation Climate Summit that he will be hosting, though he has invited Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Pakistan becoming a vassal state of China is also worrying many patriotic Pakistanis. Recently the UK has added Pakistan to its list of 21 countries of “concern” for money-laundering and terror financing. Pakistan’s parlous economic condition has been made worse by the Chinese-origin Covid pandemic. GDP growth has fallen from 5.6 per cent to -0.4 per cent and national debt has risen to $115 billion, more than 85 per cent of GDP. Pakistan is still on the Grey List of Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global group to combat money laundering. Bailouts by traditional rich Gulf countries are no longer available and the only sources left are China and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Both apply conditionalities of different kinds; China uses debt-trap diplomacy and the IMF nibbles away at welfare measures, subsidies and raises taxes. China has also coerced Pakistan to grant permission to a Chinese company to set up a beer factory for Chinese residents at Gwadar port area, notwithstanding Pakistan’s Islamist rhetoric. Unarguably, a working relationship with Pakistan should be a desired objective for India. After Kashmir’s status was changed, Pakistan had taken the high road as an aggrieved party. It downgraded diplomatic representation, banned trade with India and went into a sulk mode, demanding reversal of steps taken by India on Kashmir. Its effort to drum up international support came a cropper. Realization has now dawned on Pakistan that its tantrums on Kashmir will not lead to any change in India’s policy. Meanwhile, Pakistan’s policy of keeping the LoC active, pushing in terrorists, weapons and keeping Kashmir on the boil have paid no dividends and only led to punishing retaliatory strikes by India. The drain on resources, for maintaining the hostile posture along the LoC must have also contributed to Pakistan’s decision to opt for a ceasefire. (The author is a former Ambassador and Secretary in MEA; he was the last Indian Consul-General in Karachi; a founder Director of DeepStrat, a think tank, he is a Visiting Fellow at ORF, Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pakistan-s-india-policy-dilemma-973910.html
13-04-2021||South||Unaccounted cash reportedly seized from Kerala IUML MLA||The Kerala Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau carried out raids at the house of the Indian Union Muslim League MLA in Kerala K M Shaji as part of an inquiry into a bribery allegation and complaint about amassment of illegal wealth against him. There are unconfirmed reports that unaccounted cash amounting to Rs 50 lakh was recovered from him and the MLA maintained that it was meant for a real estate deal of another person. He also sought time to produce evidence for the source of the money. The raids that began in the morning at his house in Kozhikode and Kannur districts were continuing till late in the night. Shaji, who is MLA of Azhikode in Kannur, was quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate also earlier. He faced allegations of accepting a bribe of Rs 25 lakh from a government-aided school management for upgrading high school to higher secondary school. Shaji is a candidate in this Assembly elections also from his sitting seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unaccounted-cash-reportedly-seized-from-kerala-iuml-mla-973671.html
13-04-2021||South||Kerala Minister K T Jaleel resigns over nepotism row||Kerala Higher Education and Minorities Welfare Minister K T Jaleel has resigned in the wake of Kerala Lok Ayukta finding him guilty of nepotism. The term of the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala is ending shortly. Jaleel is the second minister in the Pinarayi Vijayan government to quit over nepotism. Industries Minister E P Jayarajan had to quit from the ministry during the initial months of the government following allegation of back-door appointment of a close relative. The Kerala Lok Ayukta last week found Jaleel guilty of nepotism and declared that the minister should not continue as a member of the council of ministers. The allegation against Jaleel was that his second cousin K T Adeeb was appointed as general manager of Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation by altering the qualifications required for the post. Following the allegations, Adeeb had resigned from the post in November 2018. Jaleel had even moved the Kerala High Court on Monday against the Lok Ayukta order. While a section of CPM leaders tried to defend him, there was strong resentment within the LDF over allowing Jaleel to continue. Jaleel announced his decision to resign through the social media on Tuesday maintaining that he was resigning on moral grounds and he was not involved in any corruption. Jaleel was elected to Kerala Assembly from Thavanur in Malappuram as CPM (Independent) and he had contested in this election also. He was a former Indian Union Muslim League leader and also worked with Students Islamic Movement of India earlier. He also faced allegations of nexus with gold smuggling accused and smuggling religious books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-resigns-over-nepotism-row-973795.html
13-04-2021||South||Kerala imposes fresh Covid-19 restrictions||In view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the state government reinstated a series of restrictions, including limiting the functioning of all shops only till 9 pm. As many as 7,515 more coronavirus cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday taking the total number of active cases to 52,132. As per the fresh restrictions, the maximum number of persons at outdoor functions may be restricted to 200 and 100 in the case of indoor venues and the duration should not exceed two hours. If more persons need to be allowed, all should produce a negative RT-PCR certificate obtained within 72 hours prior to the event. Serving food at functions would not be allowed. Instead, food packets shall be given. Gatherings like Iftar parties during the ongoing Ramzan month should be avoided. Hotels and cinema theatres should adhere to the 50 per cent capacity rule. The government also directed shops and hotels to promote door delivery. Transport buses should not carry passengers beyond the seating capacity to avoid passengers standing. In local bodies with high test positivity rate, the district magistrate may impose restrictions under CrPC 144.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imposes-fresh-covid-19-restrictions-973845.html
13-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Online exams not possible for UG and PG: Ashwath Narayan||Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan ruled out the possibility of holding online examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate courses at state-run universities and government colleges. Speaking to reporters after a meeting in Bengaluru on Monday, Narayan said, “Online mode of examinations will not be possible at government-run institutions.” The minister admitted that “there is a demand from students and parents to conduct examinations through online mode”. “But it will not be possible to conduct online exams in the present scenario considering the infrastructure,” said Narayan. “Examinations will be conducted in physical mode. Online examinations may be possible for some of the deemed-to-be and private universities, but not in the government set-up.”  Talking about the examination schedule affected due to the ongoing strike by the Road Transport Corporation employees, the minister said, “The time table for degree, PG, diploma and engineering examinations have been affected due to the ongoing transport strike. Exams will be resumed immediately after the strike ends.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-exams-not-possible-for-ug-and-pg-ashwath-narayan-973672.html
13-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa makes U-turn, says no lockdown in Karnataka||Ruling out the possibility of a lockdown in Karnataka to contain the spread of coronavirus, Chief Minister B S Yediyurapa on Tuesday said he has convened an all party meeting on April 18 to decide the future course of action. "There is no question of lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar. A day ago, the Chief minister had said that a lockdown will be imposed if necessary. The CM clarified that the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has not recommended any lockdown. "I am in the TAC. No one has recommended a lockdown," Yediyurappa said. Besides former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar, the members of Technical Advisory Committee members will attend the meeting on April 18. Emphasising on public support to contain the spread of the pandemic, he said the night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am has already been imposed. "People have to cooperate by wearing masks, maintaining hand hygiene and physical distancing. There is no other way.. With folded hands I want to ask the people to cooperate," Yediyurappa said. He also wished everyone peace and happiness on the occasion of Ugadi. "May the difficulties in life go away from everyone's life. May this coronavirus pandemic too go away," Yediyurappa said in his Ugadi message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-makes-u-turn-says-no-lockdown-in-karnataka-973772.html
13-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa talks tough against KSRTC employees' stir||In a stern message to the striking employees of road transport corporations, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said the state government was not ready to accept any of their conditions and warned of stringent action against them. Speaking to reporters in Bidar, the Chief Minister said, "Don't ask me about the transport employees' strike. We will not accept any of their conditions under any circumstances." Noting that his government had already fulfilled eight of their demands, Yediyurappa said the adamant posture of the employees is causing trouble to the people of the state. "The employees have to give up their obdurate stand. We will not give salaries to those who remained absent from their job. We will take more stringent action," he added. Later in the evening, the Chief Minister convened a meeting in Bengaluru where he directed the officials to provide security to those transport employees who are willing to join duty. He also instructed the police to deploy a constable on each bus. Asking officials to take legal action against the transport employees who indulge in violence, Yediyurappa directed them to initiate stringent measures against all those who are on strike. The strike by the RTC workers on wage-related issues entered the 7th day on Tuesday even as the transport corporations struggled hard to operate buses, which a few miscreants damaged. According to a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation official, 2,299 buses including 262 Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses were operated in the state on Tuesday. The official said 54 buses were damaged allegedly by the employees. So far, 72 FIRs have been registered in connection with the damage to 36 buses by 10 am Tuesday. As many as 115 employees were involved in vandalism, of which 19 have been arrested, he said in a statement. A few bus employees were also attacked in some parts of the state, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-talks-tough-against-ksrtc-employees-stir-973928.html
13-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka logs 8,778 new cases, 67 deaths||Karnataka's Covid death tally crossed the 13,000-mark on Tuesday with 67 deaths while 8,778 fresh cases took the overall tally of infections to 10,83,647, the Health department said. According to the health bulletin, the state has so far reported 13,008 deaths and 9,80,519 discharges cumulatively including 6,079 on Tuesday in the state. There were 78,617 active cases in the state which includes 474 in ICUs, the department added. Bengaluru Urban district alone contributed over 60 per cent of day's cases and mortalities with 5,500 fresh infections and 55 deaths on Tuesday. The city has so far reported 4,93,869 infections and 4,910 deaths. There were 57,575 active cases. Mysuru emerged as another major hotspot after Bengaluru with 492 cases and two deaths. According to the health bulletin, 350 infections were reported in Tumakuru, 290 in Kalaburagi, 198 in Bidar, 168 in Ballari, 163 in Bengaluru Rural, 150 in Hassan, 142 in Dakshina Kannada, 132 in Dharwad, 114 in Mandya and 105 in Vijayapura. Cases were also reported in Shivamogga, Raichur, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Yadgir, Kolar, Davangere, Chitradurga, Bagalkote and Belagavi. Besides Bengaluru and Mysuru, deaths have been reported in other districts as well -- four in Kalaburagi, two in Bidar, and one each in Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri and Vijayapura. A majority of the people who lost their lives were above 50 years of age barring six who were in their 40s. There were 1,21,899 tests done on Tuesday including 1,11,016 using the RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 2.29 crore, the department added. Cumulative, 60.77 lakh vaccinations have been done so far since the inoculation drive started in the state on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-logs-8778-new-cases-67-deaths-973929.html
13-04-2021||West||Ten dead as Maharashtra district faces acute oxygen shortage||At least ten persons have died in Vasai as the urban township, nearly 60 kms off downtown Mumbai, reels under severe shortage of medical oxygen. There is also a shortage of Remdesivir injections in the areas under the Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) and Vasai tehsil – located in the Palghar district. The Vasai-Virar township which is located along the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway, is facing a severe shortage of oxygen supply over the weekend and the issue compounded over Monday and Tuesday. There are over 7,000 active patients in Vasai, of which 3,000-odd need oxygen facilities. Over the last two days, at least 10 patients have died in Vasai because of oxygen shortage including seven in the Vinayaka Hospital and Riddhi Vinayak Hospital, both in Nalasopara.  The VVCMC, however, denied that the deaths were related to a lack of oxygen cylinders.  The worst-affected was the Vinayaka Hospital in Nalasopara, where the maximum deaths were reported. As tension prevailed with relatives questioning authorities, the Tulinj police had to rush to calm down the situation. VVCMC is controlled by Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA). Incidentally, Vasai constituency is represented by Hitendra Thakur, the founder of BVA, while his son Kshitij Thakur represents the Nalasopara constituency. The junior Thakur appealed to prime minister Narendra Modi to look into the issue of lack of medical oxygen cylinders. “I wish to draw the prime minister's attention to a very grave matter. There is an acute shortage of oxygen in the Vasai taluka. Notably, the supply can run for only three hours. There are more than 7,000 active cases in the area and more than 3,000 people require oxygen supply daily. Unfortunately, three lives have already been lost due to no oxygen supply in our area. I request to look into this serious matter and provide ample oxygen supply to the tehsil. This will prevent any more loss of lives,” he said. He also appealed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and public health and family welfare minister for help. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said that the Thackeray government is responsible for the deaths. “My father suddenly developed symptoms…on Sunday, we rushed him to one hospital, however, there was no oxygen available. So we rushed him to another hospital, where we could get oxygen. But there was no Remdesivir injection. We paid Rs 20,000 for two injections. However, he could not survive,” his son said breaking down. “There is a severe shortage of medical oxygen in Vasai-Virar,” said the local AAP unit.  Some of the patients who died were in critical condition.  Meanwhile, the leader of opposition in Council Pravin Darekar said that the government needs to take cognizance of the incident. "It is a serious issue," the senior BJP leader said, adding that the government is only focussing on lockdown. "Yes... we need restrictions, but we also send oxygen beds, ICU beds, ventilators, Remdesivir," he added. "This is not good news on Gudi Padwa," he added. A Medical Health Department statement said that the Vinayak Hospital, where 7 comorbid patients died on Monday, had procured 139 jumbo cylinders each with 7,000-litres oxygen, and one Dura cylinder or equivalent to 28 jumbo cylinders, the previous day. The Riddhi Vinayak Hospital, where 3 patients lost their lives, also claimed to have procured a total of 110 jumbo cylinders over Sunday-Monday, and accordingly, both hospitals had sufficient stocks of medical oxygen for all their patients. Vijayaka Hospital Medical Director Dr Ranjeet Updhyay said that the patients were in a critical condition. "Their lungs were badly affected," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ten-dead-as-maharashtra-district-faces-acute-oxygen-shortage-973743.html
13-04-2021||West||Celebs to blame for bed shortage at Mumbai hospitals: Minister||Maharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh on Tuesday accused celebrities and cricketers of allegedly occupying beds in major hospitals despite having no serious symptoms of coronavirus infection. Speaking to reporters, Shaikh, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai, said personalities from the film industry and cricketers have occupied beds in major private hospitals for longer periods of time. "Some celebrities from the film industry and cricketers had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic, but they got themselves admitted to major private hospitals and occupied beds for longer periods," the state textile minister said. If they had avoided getting admitted to hospitals, the state could have accommodated needy Covid-19 patients, he said. With the rise in coronavirus cases, the Maharashtra government has been working to increase the bed capacity at treatment facilities and has announced the setting up of three jumbo field hospitals in Mumbai in the next five-six weeks. Mumbai's Covid-19 tally stands at 5,27,119, including 12,060 casualties. According to the official data, there are 90,267 active cases in the financial capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/celebs-to-blame-for-bed-shortage-at-mumbai-hospitals-minister-973796.html
13-04-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to address state at 8.30 pm on Tuesday||Amid the rising cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray is going to address the state at 8.30 pm tonight. The state is already under night curfew and weekend lockdown as Maharashtra has been witnessing record high number of cases. The CM had earlier hinted that a complete lockdown will be imposed in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-address-state-at-830-pm-on-tuesday-973877.html
13-04-2021||West||NCB recovers LSD concealed in Adolf Hitler's biography in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seized commercial quantity of LSD concealed inside a copy of German dictator Adolf Hitler's biography at a post office in suburban Vile Parle here, an official said on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, a zonal team of the NCB seized a parcel from the post office in Vile Parle (East) on Monday, the official said. On examining the contents, the team found 80 dots of LSD concealed in a copy of Hitler's biography, he said. Investigations revealed that some youngsters had allegedly procured the contraband through darknet from Europe and had paid for it using Bitcoin or cryptocurrency, the official said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-recovers-lsd-concealed-in-adolf-hitlers-biography-in-mumbai-973880.html
13-04-2021||West||Vijai Sardesai-led Goa Forward party quits NDA citing CM Sawant's 'rampant corruption, dishonesty'||Dared by local Congress leaders to quit the BJP-led NDA before patching an alliance with the Congress for upcoming municipal polls, Goa Forward, a regional political party on Tuesday passed a unanimous resolution announcing its withdrawal from the ruling pan-India alliance. In a letter to the chairperson of the National Democratic Alliance and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai said that the decision to quit the alliance was taken in view of corruption and dishonesty of the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led government in Goa. "I write to you today formally declaring the Goa Forward party's withdrawal from the National Democratic Alliance. There is no doubt that our relationship with the NDA ended in July 2019, with no room for reconsideration. So, consistent with our democratic commitments and the will of the people of Goa, we announce the termination of our participation in the NDA," President of the Goa Forward party and former Deputy Chief Minister Vijai Sardesai said in his letter to Shah. "Since July 2019, the state leadership of the BJP in Goa has turned its back on the people of Goa who looked ahead with hope to the prospect of all-round development of our beloved state. The unfortunate demise of Manohar Parrikar brought Goa to despair while ushering in a period of rampant corruption and dishonesty with the elevation of Pramod Sawant as the 13th CM of Goa," the letter also said.   The Goa Forward party has three MLAs in the state Assembly, all of whom served as ministers in the Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar-led regime till 2019. The party had fought a bitter assembly poll in 2017 on an anti-BJP plank. All three ministers were sacked from the Cabinet after Pramod Sawant was sworn-in as Chief Minister following Parrikar's death in office in 2019. Goa Forward has since functioned as an opposition party, with Sawant in its crosshairs. Sardesai, a former deputy Chief Minister, in his letter to Shah has maintained that Sawant lacks the adequate skills to head a government. "His advent proved highly unfortunate and continues to be detrimental to the lives of common Goans. The unprecedented incompetence and lack of basic skills for governance along with immaturity and apathy, have wreaked havoc with the everyday lives of hardworking Goans and continues to threaten Goa's unique way of life, heritage, environment and livelihood," it added. Sardesai also said that the Goa government had mishandled the pandemic and claimed that it intended to make Goa a 'coal hub' at the cost of the environment and doing little to safeguard Goa's interest in the ongoing Mahadayi river water dispute with Karnataka. "Moreover, during the peak of the pandemic, the nation saw how little the BJP government in Goa cared and how incompetent it was in tackling the rising cases, consistently flouting all norms and protocols under the illusion of ‘generating income.’ In just two years, the NDA has miserably failed the people of Goa, under the leadership of the BJP," the letter said. "Over the past two years, Goans have been witness to the daylight destruction of our Bhagwan Mahaveer Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park which has been sold to industrialists who eagerly hope to make Goa a ‘coal hub’. Goa also saw the unforgivable negligence and shocking inaction of the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant over the diversion of our river Mahadayi The consequence of his incompetence and callousness will be disastrous as mother Mahadayi is the prime source of water to our state," Sardesai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vijai-sardesai-led-goa-forward-party-quits-nda-citing-cm-sawants-rampant-corruption-dishonesty-973903.html
13-04-2021||West||Panic buying in Mumbai ahead of CM Thackeray's address||The announcement of a public address by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray amid speculation of a lockdown led to panic buying by people on the streets of the financial capital on Tuesday evening. Thackeray is scheduled to address the state, reeling under a fresh spike of coronavirus cases, at 8.30 pm. Vegetable vendors and general stores selling fast-moving consumer goods saw higher buying from around 5.30 pm when the CM's office informed of Thackeray's virtual address on Tuesday over social media platforms. Over the past fortnight, Maharashtra has been witnessing a massive growth in daily infections with cities like Mumbai and Pune, and also some districts like Aurangabad witnessing a surge in cases. The state, which is contributing over half of the daily infections to the national tally, implemented limited restrictions earlier this month, which involved night and weekend curfews. "There is no certainty about the length of a lockdown or how strictly will it be implemented. It is better to buy essentials," said a harried shopper in the suburb of Thane. A shopkeeper, however, said that the panic buying is not as high as the one seen in March last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a four-hour window for a nationwide lockdown. Another shopper said the likelihood of some strict measures, if not a lockdown, have been internalised by the consumers over the last ten days due to which essential supplies have already been purchased. There was increased vehicular movement as the people got out of their homes for shopping. There was an increased police presence as well on the roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/panic-buying-in-mumbai-ahead-of-cm-thackerays-address-973906.html
13-04-2021||West||Maharashtra imposes Section 144 and night curfew from April 14 till May 1||With a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, the worst-pandemic-affected state of Maharashtra will come under strict lockdown-type measures from Wednesday for a fortnight’s time. However, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a slew of initiatives to help people, particularly those who depend on hand-to-mouth sustenance. Prohibitory orders - section 144 (sanchar-bandhi) – will be imposed day-night from April 14 till May 1.  Besides, the night curfew, as earlier, would continue. Although essential services and the public transportation system, including Mumbai’s suburban railway, would continue to run, no one would be allowed to move without a valid reason except for people notified under essential services. “We have to take strong measures….we have to save lives….let's start a Corona-bhagao mission…we are not calling it lockdown, but surely the measures which are already in place is being enhanced...whether you call it strict restrictions or lockdown-type measures, it is not an issue…what is important is that we have to fight out the pandemic and all what is necessary would be done," Thackeray said in his webcast to the state. However, the vaccination drive would continue. All establishments, public places, activities and services will remain closed as part of the Break-the-Chain initiative. The chief minister said that hospital beds of all types – normal beds, oxygenated beds, ICU beds and ventilators – are being augmented across the state. He admitted that there was shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir injections in the state, however, he added that efforts are underway to overcome the crisis. “The health infrastructure has been burdened. Everything has a limit, if you stretch it beyond its limit, it will collapse,” he said. As the situation is becoming more serious, Thackeray requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to treat the pandemic as “natural calamity” and extend relief to states. He also requested Modi to help out in transportation of oxygen cylinders and sought help from the armed forces, especifically, the Indian Air Force. “The oxygen plants are located across the country and transporting it takes time and hence, we are requesting for IAF help,” he said. Thackerary said the time period for GST returns filing should be increased by two to three months amid the existing crisis. The Maharashtra government will provide 3 kg wheat and 2 kg rice free for next one month to every poor and needy person in the state while coronavirus-induced restrictions are in place. “There would be roughly seven crore beneficiaries,” he said. Thackeray pointed out that on January 26, 2020, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government had launched its flagship Shiv Bhojan Thali, a meal priced at Rs 10.  “When the lockdown was announced last year, it was made available at Rs 5. Now we have decided to give it free to the needy people during the fortnight,” he said. A total of Rs 5,400 crore has been earmarked to execute various measures. “We are not shutting down public transport, but they will be used only for emergency and essential activities for the general public,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-imposes-section-144-and-night-curfew-from-april-14-till-may-1-973909.html
13-04-2021||West||Key takeaways from Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray's address||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray addressed the state about the unprecedented Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra. Here are key takeaways from the CM's speech: 1. Section 144 will be imposed in the state from 8 pm April 14 till 7 am May 1. Thackeray said that this is not a lockdown. Only essential services will run in Maharashtra and all establishments and public spaces will remain shut. 2. The chief minister has banned large gatherings outside and has urged people to step outside only if necessary. "Decide if you are helping Corona, or if you're fighting Corona," Thackeray said during his Facebook live. 3. Cinema halls, theatres, auditoriums, amusement parks, gyms, sports complexes to be closed. Shooting for films, serial, ads won't be permitted. All shops, malls, shopping centres not performing essential services will also remain closed from 8 pm, April 14 till 7 am, May 1. 4. Essential services include hospitals, medicine shops, public transports, vaccine production spots, vaccine transportation coompanies and masks production. These will remain open from 7 am to 8 pm. 5. Public transport including local trains and buses will function but will be used only for essential workers and in cases of emergency. People cannot travel unless strictly necessary. 6. Local authorities need to study possible locations for grocery, vegetable and fruits shopping for civilians. They must rule out spots that become densely populated.  7. Thackeray called upon the PM to provide oxygen to Maharashtra in view of rising cases, saying that the current stock will be exhausted if cases continue to increase. "We cannot afford to get oxygens from other states that are over 1000 km away by road. I request the PM to provide oxygen using airways. Air Force has to be roped in for this," Thackeray said. 8. Thackeray detailed the health infrastructure in Maharashtra saying that it has come under pressure due to the second wave. "The reason testing and test results have been delayed is because our healthcare system is under pressure. We are increasing testing, with as many as 2.5 lakh tests in one day. We have over 4,000 Covid centres, more than 3.5 lakh beds," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/key-takeaways-from-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackerays-address-973913.html
13-04-2021||West||Maharashtra sees 60,212 new Covid-19 cases, 281 die||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 60,212 fresh coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally to 35,19,208 while 281 fatalities pushed the toll to 58,526, the state health department said. In view of the alarming rise in cases, the state government has announced a 15-day long statewide curfew from 8 pm on April 14. Maharashtra is now left with 5,93,042 active cases, the department said in a release. Mumbai recorded 7,873 new cases and 27 fatalities, taking the tally to 5,35,264 and the toll to 12,093. A total of 31,624 patients were discharged during the day in Maharashtra, taking the count of recoveries to28,66,097, it said. With 2,37,658 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,25,60,051, the department added. Currently, 32,94,398 people are in home quarantine while 30,399 people are in institutional quarantine in the state. Maharashtra's case recovery rate is 81.44 per cent and the fatality rate is 1.66 per cent, the department said. Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and satellite towns, recorded 16,596 cases and 46 deaths during the day, taking the count of cases to 11,15,194 and the fatalities to 21,245. Nashik division reported 8,650 cases including 2,659 in Nashik city. Pune division saw 12,372 fresh infections including 5,214 in Pune city. Kolhapur division added 1,528 new cases whileAurangabad division added 3,333, Latur division 5,210, Akoladivision 1,430, and Nagpur division 11,093 cases including 5,084 in Nagpur city. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are: Positive cases35,19,208, death 58,526, recoveries 28,66,097, active 5,93,042, total tests 2,25,60,051, tests today 2,37,658.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-60212-new-covid-19-cases-281-die-973933.html
13-04-2021||West||Maharashtra puts films, TV shoots on hold amid surge in Covid-19 cases, film bodies to approach CM||Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced that films, TV serials and advertisement shoots will be halted in the state from Wednesday evening as part of the fresh guidelines to curb the coronavirus cases. Under the 'Break The Chain' order announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the guidelines will be implemented throughout the state from 8 PM on Wednesday to 7 AM on May 1. The current order has put a stop to shootings that were underway with precautions like mandatory frequent testing and avoiding scenes with large crowds. BN Tiwari, President of the Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE) said the state government's decision has come as a "huge shock". "We should have been allowed to work. Films and TV shoots were underway with complete precautions, adhering to all government guidelines. But the complete halt of shootings is a setback. We plan to write a letter to the CM, requesting him to allow us to shoot. "We would take utmost precaution, figure out new, stricter guidelines but if the work is stopped, it'll be a huge loss for us," Tiwari told PTI. According to Tiwari, shooting of several big-ticket films, including megastar Amitabh Bachchan's "Goodbye", Shah Rukh Khan's "Pathan" and Salman Khan's actioner "Tiger 3" will be affected. Actor-producer JD Majethia, Chairman TV & Web wing of Indian Films & TV Producers Council (IFTPC) said the body stands with the order but would request CM Thackeray to reconsider the decision. Majethia said film and TV artists were no less than "frontline workers" who are currently working hard to entertain the audience in grim times. "Right now, people are low, frustrated and at home. They would need some entertainment. We are entertaining them daily and hence are frontline workers too. We should be listed under essential service. "If we can create a bio bubble and shoot under a controlled environment, we should be allowed to, like we were given permission last year. In a day or two, we will request the CM for this. But as of now, we stand by the state, understand and respect what they have said," Majethia added. Last year in March, to contain the pandemic, film bodies in India including FWICE and Indian Film & Television Directors' Association (IFTDA) had decided to put shootings of films, TV shows and web series on hold. In May 2020, the Maharashtra government allowed the shooting of films, TV serials and web series with safety measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Earlier this month, several productions like "Ram Setu", Sanjay Leela Bhansali's "Gangubai Kathiawadi" and Dharma Productions-backed "Mr Lele" had to be halted after actors, including Akshay Kumar, Alia Bhatt, Vicky Kaushal and Bhumi Pednekar, tested positive for coronavirus. Apart from the actors, as many as 45 members of Kumar's "Ram Setu", had also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The latest order reiterated the closure of cinema halls and multiplexes throughout the state. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 60,212 fresh coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally to 35,19,208 while 281 fatalities pushed the toll to 58,526, the state health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-puts-films-tv-shoots-on-hold-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-film-bodies-to-approach-cm-973969.html
