14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru boat crash: Three fishermen's bodies brought to shore, two rescued admitted to hospital||The bodies of three fishermen killed in the ship-boat collision mid-sea, were brought here, official sources said on Wednesday. Two of the dead were from Colachel in Tamil Nadu while the other was from West Bengal. The bodies are kept at the district Wenlock hospital here, sources said. Two fishermen, who were rescued by the Indian Coast Guard, have been admitted at the government hospital here. Six fishermen from Tamil Nadu and three from West Bengal, who were on the boat, are still missing. There were 14 fishermen in the fishing boat IFB Rabah, which set off from Beypore in Kozhikode district of Kerala on Sunday at 11 pm. The boat collided with a Singapore-based ship MV APL Le Havre at around 2.30 am Tuesday 43 nautical miles off the Mangaluru coast. Coast Guard vessels Rajdoot, Amartya, C-448, and a dornier aircraft are continuing the search for the missing fishermen. The help of the Navy is also being sought, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-boat-crash-three-fishermens-bodies-brought-to-shore-two-rescued-admitted-to-hospital-974073.html
14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa campaigning in Belgaum due to fear of losing: Satish Jarkiholi||KPCC Working President and Congress candidate for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency Satish Jarkiholi said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has been campaigning in the constituency repeatedly due to fear of BJP candidate Mangala Angadi losing. Jarkiholi told reporters at Sambra village in Belagavi during the campaign that a good environment for himself and Congress has been prevailing in the constituency. BJP has been fearing that its candidate could suffer a setback, hence has roped in the chief minister for the campaign. He said Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti-backed candidate in the fray would not have any impact on his prospects. Arabhavi MLA Balchandra Jarkiholi campaigning for BJP was natural with him being associated with BJP. We have our own vote bank in the Arabhavi Assembly constituency, he stated.Jarkiholi said that BJP will face the brunt of increasing prices of essential commodities and fuel in the by-election. Regarding the statement by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar that Satish Jarkiholi has never spoken in the Legislative Assembly, he said, there was no need in talking unnecessarily and only talks cannot be achievements. Shettar has three glasses of water to speak for three hours, but has not seen any office or solves grievances of people and thinks that making speeches were achievements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-campaigning-in-belgaum-due-to-fear-of-losing-satish-jarkiholi-974087.html
14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Development works start at MM Hill||Development works, at a cost of Rs 27 crore, for laying steps and flooring, from Talabetta to Male Mahadeshwara Hill, has started. Salur Mutt’s Shantha Mallikarjuna Swami performed the groundbreaking ceremony for the works. According to the officials, 6,900 steps and 13,100 floor beds (nela haasu) are being laid and the works would begin soon. The distance between Talabetta and MM Hill is around 10 km and the pathway used by the people passes through the dense forest. The route is patchy and difficult to walk for the devotees, who take out padayatra to the hill to fulfil their vow. The project was launched by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa last year, and the groundbreaking was performed by the seer on Tuesday. Rajashekar Hebbar, who has taken the contract of laying the steps has assured of completing the works in two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/development-works-start-at-mm-hill-974248.html
14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Public seek permission to drive KSRTC buses||As the strike of KSRTC employees has affected the people, since the last week, a few persons, possessing driving licenses, have volunteered to drive the buses, if given an opportunity. They presented their wish, in writing, to the depot manager at KR Pet bus stand on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, they said that they do not oppose the protest, being staged by KSRTC employees, but their protest at a time when the poll code of conduct is in force and during Ugadi festival is not right. “The rural people, who are dependent on government buses for commuting are affected. Hence, we have come forward to drive the buses and have submitted a proposal to the depot manager,” said H B Manjunath one of them. The depot manager assured to inform them, after bringing this to the notice of the higher officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/public-seek-permission-to-drive-ksrtc-buses-974249.html
14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru region receives good spell of rain||Parts of Mysuru city, surrounding areas and taluks received a good spell of rains, on Wednesday evening. Rains, accompanied by heavy winds, that started at around 6:30 pm, continued for more than an hour in parts of the city. Hassan city and parts of the district also received a good spell of rains on Wednesday, accompanied by thunder and lightning, poured for more than an hour in the evening. Hassan city and surrounding areas, parts of Alur and Sakleshpur taluks experienced good rains. This resulted in water logging of roads in Hassan city, causing inconvenience to road users. The climate remained overcast from afternoon. It started pouring from 3.30 pm and continued for over an hour. Parts of Mandya district also received heavy rains with thunder and lightning. K R Pet, Kikkeri, Pandavapura, Melkote experienced heavy rain in the afternoon. Mandya, Nagamangala, Adichunchanagiri, Srirangapatna, Maddur received rains in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-region-receives-good-spell-of-rain-974250.html
14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ambedkar's Constitution made remarkable contributions: S T Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Wednesday said that Ambedkar’s Indian Constitution has made remarkable contributions towards the democratic system. After paying tributes to the statue of B R Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary, near Rangacharlu Town Hall here, Somashekar said, “If the democratic system exits even today, Ambedkar’s Constitution has contributed in this regard.” He recalled Ambedkar’s importance to education and his contribution for reservation. “Former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s efforts ensured Bharat Ratna for Ambedkar,” he recollected. When asked about the long-pending works of Ambedkar Bhavan in the city, Somashekar said, “The Finance department has sought a few details in this regard. Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu has sent the file to the officials concerned. All details will be submitted soon.” When asked about increasing number of clubs in the city, he said, “The number of clubs is increasing and there are complaints that a few of them are involved in money laundering. I have discussed the matter with the Police department and have directed them to take necessary measures to stop illegal activities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ambedkars-constitution-made-remarkable-contributions-s-t-somashekar-974251.html
14-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt will never go against people's wishes for heli tourism project: S T Somashekar||It is a another setback for the Tourism department, with District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar claiming that the government will never go against people’s wish in any project. The minister, on Wednesday, said that he has not much information about the heli-tourism project, which is opposed by a section of people and also MP Pratap Simha, as it might cost a large number of trees. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said, “The Forest department has sought opinion from organisations and people in connection with cutting of trees to develop the helipad for the proposed heli-tourism project near the Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel.” Somashekar said, “We never took up any project against the people’s wish. We will consider people’s opinion. I am not well aware about the project. I learnt about the project through the media, when I was in a bus during a election campaign in Ooty, Tamil Nadu. I will get full details in this regard.” It has to be noted that the project is opposed by eco-activists and Simha. As many as 150 trees need to be chopped off, to develop the helipad for the project. The MP claimed that the project has no vision and it will not be a success. The Tourism department has announced the project for the sake of publicity, he had said. However, the MP and eco-activists suggested utilising the existing helipad or Mysuru Airport at Mandakalli for the purpose. Following the proposal to cut off 150 trees, the Forest department has decided to gather public opinion in this regard. Deputy Conservator of Forests K C Prashanth has convened a meeting of the public and members of various organistions at his office in Aranya Bhavan, Ashokapuram on April 23 at 11 am. The people can also submit their opinion in this regard in writing, before April 23 at the DCF’s office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-will-never-go-against-peoples-wishes-for-heli-tourism-project-s-t-somashekar-974252.html
14-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 14||India surpassed 1.38 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country surpassed Brazil again to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 14-lakh mark for the first time as governments step up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 29 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India:  Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  13,871,511 as of April 14, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,72,118 4,223||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-april-14-974019.html
14-04-2021||National||India sees biggest Covid-19 case spike with 1.84 lakh cases; daily deaths cross 1K for first time in 2021||India reported a record single-day rise of 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of cases to 1,38,73,825, while the active cases surpassed the 13-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,72,085 with 1,027 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 18, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 35th day in a row, the active cases increased to 13,65,704, comprising 9.84 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.92 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,23,36,036,while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.24 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR,  26,06,18,866 samples have been tested up to April 13 with 14,11,758 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-biggest-covid-19-case-spike-with-184-lakh-cases-daily-deaths-cross-1k-for-first-time-in-2021-974024.html
14-04-2021||National||PM Modi pays tribute to B R Ambedkar on birth anniversary||Paying tribute to B R Ambedkar on his birth anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that his struggle to bring the deprived sections of society into the mainstream will remain an example for every generation.  "I bow to the great Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on Ambedkar Jayanti," Modi tweeted. भारत रत्न डॉ. बाबासाहेब अम्बेडकर को उनकी जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। समाज के वंचित वर्गों को मुख्यधारा में लाने के लिए किया गया उनका संघर्ष हर पीढ़ी के लिए एक मिसाल बना रहेगा। A key architect of India's constitution, Ambedkar is an icon for many Indians, especially dalits, for his relentless work for social reforms and empowerment of the disadvantaged sections of society. He was born in 1891 and was India's first law minister. He was given Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour, in 1990.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-b-r-ambedkar-on-birth-anniversary-974030.html
14-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines in India: Where do they stand?||The Drugs Control General of India has permitted emergency use of Covid vaccine Sputnik V with certain conditions, clearing the way for a third vaccine in addition to Covishield and Covaxin. Besides, the government on Tuesday also fast-tracked emergency approval for other jabs. Here is what the vaccines are all about: COVAXIN Manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, it uses an inactivated virus. It is developed by chemically treating novel coronavirus samples to make them incapable of reproduction. Given as two doses four weeks apart, the therapeutic can be stored between 2-8 degrees Celsius. Preliminary data from its phase 3 trial shows the vaccine has an efficacy rate of 81 per cent.   COVISHIELD   Co-developed by the University of Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and known as Covishield in India, the vaccine uses a viral vector, an engineered version of adenoviruses that infect chimpanzees to carry the gene responsible for the spike protein of the novel coronavirus. It requires two doses given four weeks apart to produce the desired effects. The vaccine has an efficacy of 70 per cent after the first dose. Global clinical trials of the vaccine showed that when people were given a half dose and then a full dose, effectiveness hit 90 per cent. It can also be safely stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius.   SPUTNIK V   Sputnik V from Russia's Gamaleya Research Institute is the latest vaccine approved for emergency use in India. Sputnik V uses a cold-type virus vector. It is engineered to be harmless, as a carrier to deliver a small fragment of the coronavirus to the body. Safely exposing the body to a part of the virus's genetic code in this way allows it to recognize the threat and learn to fight it off, without the risk of becoming ill. Sputnik V has been shown to have 92 per cent efficacy. It is given in two doses, three weeks apart. It can be stored at temperatures between 2-8 degrees Celsius.   POSSIBLY IN THE PIPELINE: MODERNA The mRNA vaccine by US-based company Moderna has been shown to have 94.1 per cent efficacy. In this type of vaccine, the messenger RNA -- or mRNA -- acts as a blueprint for the production of the coronavirus spike protein. The cells of the vaccine recipient use this mRNA segment to produce the viral protein to train the immune system for a future encounter with the infectious coronavirus. Administered as two doses 28 days apart, the Moderna vaccine can be stored in the refrigerator at 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to 30 days. At -20 degrees Celsius it can be stored for up to six months. PFIZER-BIONTECH The US-backed Pfizer-Biontech's Covid-19 preventive, like the Moderna vaccine, is based on the segments of the genetic material of the novel coronavirus. Preliminary data from the clinical trials showed that two doses of the vaccine given three weeks apart provided efficacy of 94 per cent.   One limitation for the Pfizer vaccine has been its requirement for ultracold storage -- up to -70 degrees Celsius.    JOHNSON & JOHNSON The adenovirus vectored vaccine by the American company is provided as a single dose. The company had noted that the therapeutic can be stored for up to three months when refrigerated at 2-8 degrees Celsius, and up to two years when frozen at -20 degrees Celsius. The overall efficacy of the J&J vaccine was found to be 66 per cent globally, and 72 per cent in the US||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-in-india-where-do-they-stand-974032.html
14-04-2021||National||China-India border tensions 'remain high' despite de-escalation: US intel report||China-India border tensions "remain high" despite some force pullbacks this year, the US intelligence community has told Congress, asserting that Beijing seeks to use coordinated, whole-of-government tools to demonstrate its growing strength and compel regional neighbours to acquiesce to its preferences, including its claims over disputed territory. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) said in its latest annual threat assessment report to the US Congress that Beijing will continue to promote the multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to expand its economic, political and military presence abroad, while trying to reduce waste and exploitative practices, which have led to international criticism. The BRI is a multi-billion-dollar initiative launched by Chinese President Xi Jinping when he came into power in 2013. It aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes. "China-India border tensions remain high, despite some force pullbacks this year. China’s occupation since May 2020 of contested border areas is the most serious escalation in decades and led to the first lethal border clash between the two countries since 1975,” the report said. "As of mid-February, after multiple rounds of talks, both sides were pulling back forces and equipment from some sites along the disputed border,” it said. The border standoff between the armies of India and China erupted on May 5 last following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that a resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra is essential for overall ties between the two countries. According to the report, China seeks to use coordinated, whole-of-government tools to demonstrate its growing strength and compel regional neighbours to acquiesce to Beijing’s preferences, including its claims over disputed territory and assertions of sovereignty over Taiwan. In the South China Sea, Beijing will continue to intimidate rival claimants and will use growing numbers of air, naval, and maritime law enforcement platforms to signal to Southeast Asian countries that China has effective control over contested areas. China is similarly pressuring Japan over contested areas in the East China Sea. China has been fast expanding military and economic influence in the Indo-Pacific region, triggering concern in various countries of the region and beyond. It is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and East China Sea. Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are vital to global trade. China claims almost all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims over the strategically vital area. Beijing will press Taiwan authorities to move toward unification and will condemn what it views as increased US-Taiwan engagement, the report said. China views Taiwan as a rebel province that must be reunified, even by force. "We expect that friction will grow as Beijing steps up attempts to portray Taipei as internationally isolated and dependent on the mainland for economic prosperity, and as China continues to increase military activity around the island,” it said. China’s increasing cooperation with Russia on areas of complementary interest includes defence and economic cooperation, it added. China will try to increase its influence using “vaccine diplomacy,” giving countries favoured access to the Covid-19 vaccines it is developing. It will also promote new international norms for technology and human rights, emphasising state sovereignty and political stability over individual rights, the ODNI said. “China will remain the top threat to US technological competitiveness as the Chinese Communist Party targets key technology sectors and proprietary commercial and military technology from US and allied companies and research institutions associated with defence, energy, finance, and other sectors. “Beijing uses a variety of tools, from public investment to espionage and theft, to advance its technological capabilities,” it said. According to the report, China will continue expanding its global intelligence footprint to better support its growing political, economic, and security interests around the world, increasingly challenging the United States' alliances and partnerships. Across East Asia and the western Pacific, which Beijing views as its natural sphere of influence, China is attempting to exploit doubts about the US commitment to the region, undermine Taiwan’s democracy, and extend Beijing’s influence, it said. “Beijing has been intensifying efforts to shape the political environment in the United States to promote its policy preferences, mould public discourse, pressure political figures whom Beijing believes oppose its interests, and muffle criticism of China on such issues as religious freedom and the suppression of democracy in Hong Kong,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-border-tensions-remain-high-despite-de-escalation-us-intel-report-974033.html
14-04-2021||National||India under PM Modi more likely to respond with military force to Pakistan provocations: US intelligence report||India, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is more likely than in the past to respond with military force to perceived or real Pakistani provocations, the US intelligence community has told Congress in a report. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) in its Annual Threat Assessment report to the US Congress, said although a general war between India and Pakistan is unlikely, crises between the two are likely to become more intense, risking an escalatory cycle. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is more likely than in the past to respond with military force to perceived or real Pakistani provocations, and heightened tensions raise the risk of conflict between the two nuclear-armed neighbours, with violent unrest in Kashmir or a militant attack in India being potential flashpoints," it said. India and Pakistan are without high commissioners in each other’s capital since the relations between the two countries nosedived after India withdrew the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories in August 2019. India has said it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence and that the onus is on Islamabad to create an environment free of terror and hostility. According to the ODNI report, the fighting in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria has a direct bearing on US forces, while tensions between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan remain a concern for the world. The iterative violence between Israel and Iran, the activity of foreign powers in Libya, and conflicts in other areas — including Africa, Asia, and the Middle East — have the potential to escalate or spread, it said. On Afghanistan, the ODNI report assessed that prospects for a peace deal will remain low during the next year. "The Taliban is likely to make gains on the battlefield, and the Afghan Government will struggle to hold the Taliban at bay if the coalition withdraws support. Kabul continues to face setbacks on the battlefield, and the Taliban is confident it can achieve military victory,” it said. "Afghan forces continue to secure major cities and other government strongholds, but they remain tied down in defensive missions and have struggled to hold recaptured territory or reestablish a presence in areas abandoned in 2020,” the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-under-pm-modi-more-likely-to-respond-with-military-force-to-pakistan-provocations-us-intelligence-report-974036.html
14-04-2021||National||Did you know? Ambedkar's autobiography 'Waiting for a visa' is taught as a textbook at Columbia University||Every year, April 14, the birth anniversary of Dalit leader, thinker and the architect of the Indian Constitution, B R Ambedkar is commemorated in India and across the world as Ambedkar Jayanti.  The ones who complete their education under the Indian education system know about Ambedkar's pivotal role in the formulation of the Indian Constitution, but a majority of them haven't read his other works, be it the Annihilation of Caste and other essays or his 20-page autobiography Waiting for a Visa. The Dalit icon wrote the book, which deals with issues like untouchability and caste discrimination, upon his return from a tour of the United States and Europe in 1935-36. Divided into six parts, Ambedkar's main purpose of writing the autobiography was to explain to foreigners the inner workings of caste hierarchy in India and the practise of untouchability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-you-know-ambedkars-autobiography-waiting-for-a-visa-is-taught-as-a-textbook-at-columbia-university-974052.html
14-04-2021||National||VP M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi to discuss India's Covid-19 situation with Governors, Lieutenant Governors today||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are scheduled to discuss India's Covid-19 situation with Governors and Lieutenant Governors via video conferencing today. India reported a record single-day rise of 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of cases to 1,38,73,825, while the active cases surpassed the 13-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-m-venkaiah-naidu-pm-narendra-modi-to-discuss-indias-covid-19-situation-with-governors-lieutenant-governors-today-974056.html
14-04-2021||National||PM Modi to hold meet with Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, other officials over CBSE board exams' issue today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to hold a meeting with Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, Secretary & other important officials at 12 noon to discuss the issue of CBSE Board exams, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-hold-meet-with-education-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-other-officials-over-cbse-board-exams-issue-today-974060.html
14-04-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Vishu, Bihag Bihu, Puthandu||With many regions of India celebrating their traditional new year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday offered people his best wishes.  Modi wished people on the occasion of Vishu, Odia new year, Bihag Bihu and Puthandu.  Different parts of the country are celebrating the new year as per Hindu traditions and also their traditional calendars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-vishu-bihag-bihu-puthandu-974066.html
14-04-2021||National||Central Railway asks people not to panic after passengers rush to Mumbai's LTT railway station over Covid-19 restrictions' fear||Several people gathered outside the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus here on Wednesday to board long- distance trains, a day after the Maharashtra government announced severe restrictions on public movement to check the spread of Covid-19. The Central Railway (CR) appealed to people not to panic and avoid crowding the stations. The Railway Protection Force and the Government Railway Police have deployed additional force outside the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) to control the crowd. Reeling under an unprecedented Covid-19 wave, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced severe restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days across the state. The restrictions, which exclude essential services, will come into effect from 8 pm on Wednesday and remain in force till 7 am on May 1. Section 144 of the CrPC, prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one spot, will be in force during the period, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. On Wednesday, several people gathered outside the LTT to board long-distance trains. On Tuesday also, before the state government's announcement of fresh curbs on Tuesday, a large number of people, especially labourers, had gathered outside the LTT. Talking to PTI, the Central Railway's chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said people should not panic and avoid crowding the stations. "Only passengers having confirmed tickets are permitted to board the special trains and they should reach the stations one-and-a-half hours before the train's departure time," he said. The Central Railway is constantly monitoring the waiting lists of trains and checking if there a demand for tickets to any particular destination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railway-asks-people-not-to-panic-after-passengers-rush-to-mumbais-ltt-railway-station-over-covid-19-restrictions-fear-974083.html
14-04-2021||National||India's National Education Policy is futuristic: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the new National Education Policy is futuristic and as per world standards, and aimed at fulfilling Dr S Radhakrishnan's vision of education that empowers a student to participate in national development. "India takes pride in being the mother of democracy as it's values are embodied in our social life," Modi said addressing the Association of Indian Universities' 95th annual meet and a national seminar of vice-chancellors via video conference. The Centre unveiled the new National Education Policy (NEP) last year. "The National Education Policy is futuristic and as per global parameters," Modi said. Every student has certain capabilities. These capabilities pose three questions before the student and the teacher, he said. "First, what they can do? Second, what is their potential if they are properly taught? And third, what they want to do?" Modi said. The answer to the first question is the inner strength of students, he said. "But, if institutional strength is added to that inner strength, their development will get expanded and they will be able to do what they want to do," the prime minister said. He said the NEP is aimed at fulfilling the vision of Dr S Radhakrishnan (India's second President and academician) of education that frees and empowers a student to participate in national development. "Education management should be undertaken keeping the whole world as a unit, but also focusing on the Indian character of education," he said. Modi said the role of skilled youth is continuously increasing as India walks the path of 'aatmanirbharta' (self- reliance). India is being looked upon as the future centre of Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, big data, 3D printing, virtual reality and robotics, mobile technology, geo-informatics, smart healthcare and defence sector, he said. "To meet the requirement of various skills, Indian institutes of skills are being set up in three big cities of the country. In Mumbai, the first batch of the Indian Institute of Skills has already started," Modi said. He also asked universities to be multi-disciplinary. "We want all universities to be multi-disciplinary and provide flexibility to students, like an easy entry and exit from courses and creation of an academic bank for easy completion of courses," he said. For this, every university will have to collaborate, he added. "Babasaheb Ambedkar has given a strong foundation for us to take forward all our democratic values after independence," Modi said, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar. He said Dr Ambedkar considered knowledge, self-respect and politeness as his three revered deities. "Self-respect comes with knowledge and makes a person aware of his or her rights. Through equal rights, social harmony emerges and the country progresses. Our education system and universities have this responsibility to carry the country forward on the path shown by Babasaheb," Modi said. The city-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Open University hosted the event. Modi also released four books based on Dr Ambedkar's life, written by author Kishor Makwana. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also participated in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-national-education-policy-is-futuristic-narendra-modi-974088.html
14-04-2021||National||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath tests positive for Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has tested positive for coronavirus and has quarantined himself at home. The Chief Minister said in a post on Twitter that he had got himself tested after he noticed Covid-like symptoms on Tuesday. ''My report is positive...I am in self-isolation and working virtually,'' he said in the message.  Adityanath asked those who had come into contact with him to get themselves tested. शुरुआती लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने कोविड की जांच कराई और मेरी रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मैं सेल्फ आइसोलेशन में हूं और चिकित्सकों के परामर्श का पूर्णतः पालन कर रहा हूं। सभी कार्य वर्चुअली संपादित कर रहा हूं। UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said that Adityanath was 'alright' and was under the care of a team of doctors. Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav has also tested positive for Covid-19 and has self-isolated. The SP supremo also took to Twitter to share the information. The state has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid-19 in the past few days. On Tuesday, over 18,000 cases of Coronavirus were reported. UP government has imposed night curfews in over a dozen towns, including Lucknow. The government has however ruled out full or partial lockdown. The Allahabad High Court has urged the state government to consider a lockdown in view of the rising cases. The state government has come under attack from its own ministers and opposition leaders over its alleged failure to prevent the spread of the virus. UP Minister Brijesh Pathak had in a letter on Tuesday blasted the health officials for failing to ensure proper medical care to the Covid patients in the state capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-tests-positive-for-covid-19-974089.html
14-04-2021||National||Tamil Nadu ushers in New Year with subdued gaiety||The Tamil New Year, Pilava, was on Wednesday ushered in with subdued gaiety across Tamil Nadu with a slew of Covid-19 protocols in place for devotees, who usually throng temples in large numbers to celebrate the day. The coronavirus restrictions, however, did not dampen the spirit of the temple administration as the shrines were decorated and the idols of gods and goddesses decked with robes, jewels and flower garlands to receive the devotees. Major temples such as Sri Kamakshi Amman temple in Kancheepuram, Sri Meenakshi Sundareshwarar temple in Madurai, Sri Ranganathaswamy temple, Srirangam, Sri Nellaiappar Ganthimathi Amman temple, Tirunelveli and the Bhagavathy Amman temple in Kanyakumari made elaborate arrangements for the new year. Several shrines in the city including the ancient Sri Parthasarathy Swamy temple, and the Andavar temple, Vadapalani, received a steady trickle of devotees since morning. "Devotees who wore face masks alone were allowed entry for darshan and all those who stepped in were thermally scanned and given disinfectant before proceeding for darshan," a senior official with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department said. The shrine for Lord Ayappa at Mahalingapuram in Kodambakkam and other temples dedicated to the deity arranged the customary "Kani Kanuthal" event as part of the Vishu celebrations for the Malayalam speaking people. Barricades were put up in some of the temples to avert overcrowding and to allow the devotees to line up strictly adhering to social distancing norms for darshan. Many held prayers at home to welcome the Tamil new year. State Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan among others greeted the people on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-ushers-in-new-year-with-subdued-gaiety-974092.html
14-04-2021||National||Here's a list of states postponing board exams||Some states have agreed to reschedule the board examination as the nation struggles to cope with the second wave of coronavirus. The states have taken these measures to ensure the safety of students and their families, including Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, and Punjab, among others. Chhattisgarh The government of Chhattisgarh announced on Sunday that the state's upcoming Class 10 board exams in 2021 will be cancelled which were scheduled to take place from April 15 to May 1. On the other hand, they have not announced any changes to the schedule for Class 12 exams, which will begin on May 3 and end on May 24. Uttar Pradesh All schools in Uttar Pradesh will be closed till May 15 while board exams for classes 10 and 12 have been postponed till May 20. The new dates for the board examinations will be decided in the first week of May. Punjab Punjab government has announced that students of classes 5, 8 and 10 will be promoted to the next class without exams. A decision on the class 12 exams by the Punjab State Examination Board (PSEB), which has already been postponed, will be taken later based on the emerging situation. Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh's government declared today that the MP board exams for students in Classes 10 and 12 will be postponed by a month this year. The government has released an official notice in this regard, stating that the board exams, which were scheduled to begin on April 30, will now take place after May 30 and the practical exams for students will take place around May 15. Gujarat Gujarat government has also put off Class 10 and 12 examinations while mass promoting Class 1-9 students along with Class 11. "The new dates will be announced after reviewing the coronavirus situation on May 15," Gujarat's Chief Minister's Office said in a tweet. Maharashtra On Monday, the Maharastra government announced the postponement of board exams, the Class 12 exams will be held by the end of May, while Class 10 exams will be held in June. The fresh dates for these exams will be announced. Delhi Class 9 and 11 exams have also been rescheduled by the Delhi state government. The new examination dates are yet to be announced. The other states have not announced any plans of rescheduling the board examinations but there is a high chance of postponement due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.  The Centre on Wednesday decided to cancel CBSE board exams for Class 10 and postpone Class 12 exams. "The Board Exams for Class XIIth to be held from May 4th to June, 14th, 2021 are hereby postponed. These exams will be held hereafter. The situation will be reviewed on 1st June 2021 by the Board, and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations," tweeted Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-a-list-of-states-postponing-board-exams-974096.html
14-04-2021||National||First they ignore you, then you win: Rahul's swipe at Centre over fast-tracking approval for foreign vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday cited a quote of Mahatma Gandhi to imply that the government's decision to fast-track emergency approval for foreign-produced anti-coronavirus vaccines had been prompted by his party's suggestions. Rahul Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, urging the government to fast-track approval for vaccines. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then accused Gandhi of lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approval for foreign vaccines. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, in a letter to the prime minister, had also requested him to allow emergency use of all the vaccine candidates having required clearances. "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win," Rahul Gandhi cited Mahatma Gandhi's quote and tagged a media report on the central government saying it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs. With an aim to expand the basket of Covid-19 vaccines and enhance the pace of inoculation in India, the central government on Tuesday said it has fast-tracked emergency approval for foreign-produced jabs that have been granted similar clearances in other countries. The move is significant as it may make available several vaccines, including those made by Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, in India with certain conditions. In another tweet, Rahul Gandhi paid tributes to B R Ambedkar on his birth anniversary. A key architect of India's constitution, Ambedkar is an icon for many Indians, especially Dalits, for his relentless work for social reforms and empowerment of the disadvantaged sections of society. "India is now proving that it is indeed possible to regress in time," Gandhi tweeted. "Today, we remember Babasaheb who asked the difficult questions that helped put our country on the path of progress," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-they-ignore-you-then-you-win-rahuls-swipe-at-centre-over-fast-tracking-approval-for-foreign-vaccines-974098.html
14-04-2021||National||CBSE Class 12 exams postponed; Class 10 exams cancelled amid second wave of Covid-19||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Central Board of School Education on Wednesday canceled the Class 10 examinations and postponed the Class 12 examinations scheduled to begin on May 4. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and senior ministry officials as a number of chief ministers and political parties had asked the Centre to reconsider conducting Board exams in the middle of the pandemic. The Education Minister said the results of the Class 10 Board exams will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the Board. For Class 12 exams, the CBSE will review the pandemic situation on June 1 and take a decision accordingly. “A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of examinations,” Nishank said. State governments of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have already announced the re-scheduling of examinations given the Covid-19 situation. Chief Ministers Amarinder Singh, Arvind Kejriwal and Shiv Sena leader Arvind Sawant, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had asked the Centre to reconsider holding board exams. “The Prime Minister reiterated that the well-being of the students has to be the top priority for the Government. He also stated that the Centre would keep in mind the best interests of the students and ensure that their health is taken care of at the same time their academic interests are not harmed,” said an official statement issued after the review meeting by the Prime Minister. It noted that the pandemic situation in the country was seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 positive cases in many states. In this situation, schools have been shut down in 11 states. “Unlike State Boards, CBSE has an all-India character, and therefore, it is essential to hold exams simultaneously throughout the country,” said the Ministry. However, no guidelines were given for State board exams throughout the country, as had been demanded by some States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-12-exams-postponed-class-10-exams-cancelled-amid-second-wave-of-covid-19-974102.html
14-04-2021||National||India will raise its climate ambitions but not under pressure: Javadekar||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday said India will raise its climate ambitions but not under pressure. He said India will also continue to ask developed countries for finance and support and about their climate actions. Javadekar made the remarks during a speech after a meeting with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian at the French Embassy. Javadekar said India is the only G-20 country to walk the talk on the Paris climate agreement and "we have done more than we promised". Many countries have forgotten their pre-2020 commitments and they are now talking of 2050, he said. "Many countries are now saying don't use coal but the alternative has to be much cheaper than coal, only then India will do away with coal," he said. He said India is suffering because of actions of others. "The US, Europe and China emitted (greenhouse gas) and therefore, the world is suffering," he said, adding historical responsibility is a major thing in climate debate. "We must also take into consideration climate justice to poor nations. They have the right to develop. Developed countries should finance what they committed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-raise-its-climate-ambitions-but-not-under-pressure-javadekar-974108.html
14-04-2021||National||Delhi minister Kailash Gahlot tests positive for Covid||Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, and advised those who came in contact with him to take necessary precautions. The minister was administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday last.  I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I have home isolated myself. All those who came in contact with me recently please take necessary precautions. "I have tested positive for Covid-19 today. I have home isolated myself. All those who came in contact with me recently please take necessary precautions," Gahlot tweeted. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Environment Minister Gopal Rai and Health minister Satyendar Jain were earlier infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-minister-kailash-gahlot-tests-positive-for-covid-974109.html
14-04-2021||National||AYUSH Ministry's manufacturing unit IMPCL achieves highest-ever turnover of over Rs 160 crore||With its products attracting more buyers, Indian Medicines Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited (IMPCL), the public sector manufacturing unit of the Ministry of AYUSH, has recorded its highest-ever turnover of Rs 164 crore in 2020-21. The company has recorded an all-time high profit of approximately Rs 12 crore, the AYUSH Ministry said. Its previous highest turnover was Rs 97 crore in 2019-20. This growth is reflective of the fast-growing adoption of AYUSH products and services by the public following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the statement said. Adding another feather in IMPCL's cap, the World Health Organisation (WHO) recently recommended its 18 Ayurvedic products for WHO-GMP/COPP certification subject to certain observations in March 2021.  The WHO provides 'World Health Organization, Good Manufacturing Practices / Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (WHO-GMP/CoPP)' certification to companies after conducting an inspection. This certification is an endorsement of the quality of IMPCL's products. It will help IMPCL to commence export of quality medicines. IMPCL is one of the most trusted manufacturers of AYUSH medicines in the country and is known for the authenticity of its formulations. "During the COVID-19 pandemic, it was able to cater to the needs of the country in the shortest time, probably the first company in the country to provide Immuno boosting medicines as AurakshaImmuno Boosting Kit. At Rs 350, it is one of the lowest-priced such kits and is also available on Amazon. Nearly 2 lakh such kits have been sold in the last two months," the statement said. At present, IMPCL is manufacturing 656 classical Ayurvedic, 332 Unani and 71 proprietary Ayurvedic medicines for various diseases spectrum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministrys-manufacturing-unit-impcl-achieves-highest-ever-turnover-of-over-rs-160-crore-974119.html
14-04-2021||National||Making FASTag mandatory won't breach right to freedom of movement: Centre||The Union government has informed the Bombay High Court that making FASTag mandatory for all vehicles plying on national highways does not breach a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement in any way. The Centre made the submission in an affidavit filed in the High Court last week in response to a public interest litigation challenging its decision to make FASTag, the electronic toll collection chip, mandatory for all vehicles at toll plazas on national highways. The plea filed by one Arjun Khanapure, also challenged the government's norm of imposing fines on vehicles flouting the FASTag rules. The Centre, however, submitted that FASTag had been made compulsory on national highways to ensure seamless traffic movement, cut travel time short, and that all decisions had been taken in accordance with the Central Motor Vehicles (CMV) Rules. "The mandate of using FASTag does not violate a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement," the Centre's affidavit stated. The petitioner had said that as vehicles without FASTag are prevented from plying on national highways, making the chip compulsory breached a citizen's fundamental right to freedom of movement. However, the Union government said that as per its notification dated February 14 this year, provisions had been made at all toll plazas along national highways to fit the chip in vehicles that did not have FASTag. In cases where it was not possible to fit vehicles with FASTag on the spot for any reason, the vehicle was permitted to still ply on highways, on extreme left of the FASTag lanes. However, such vehicles were required to pay twice the toll amount. Traffic marshalls had also been deployed along national highways to guide vehicle movement and prevent traffic jams or inconvenience to other commuters because of such vehicles, the government said. In its affidavit filed in the High Court on April 6, the Union government urged the court to dismiss the PIL. It said that allowing prayers made in the plea would cause "irreparable loss" to the National Highways Authority of India. The government further said that it did not make FASTag mandatory overnight and had given incentives, including a 10 to 25 per cent cashback to users from 2016 to 2020. The government said it had amended the CMV Rules in 2017 to make FASTag mandatory for all vehicles sold after December 1, 2017. In November 2020, it further amended the CMV rules to make FASTag compulsory for all vehicles on toll plazas along all national highways beginning January 1, 2021. The government also said that the double user fees or penalties imposed on vehicles without FASTag on national highways were in accordance with the National Highway Fee (determination of rates and collection) Rules, 2008. It also contended that unlike what was claimed in the PIL, Aadhar and linking bank accounts were not mandatory for obtaining FASTag. The Centre further said the RBI has announced the enhancement of national electronic toll collection and will allow easy payment options, including UPIs. Currently, 119 state toll plazas also have FASTag and the Centre has provisions of financial assistance for state governments to help make all highways suitable for FASTag vehicles, it said in its affidavit. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni will hear the matter further later this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/making-fastag-mandatory-wont-breach-right-to-freedom-of-movement-centre-974126.html
14-04-2021||National||10 states account for 82.04% of India's daily new Covid-19 cases||Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Kerala, have shown a steep rise in daily new Covid-19 cases accounting for 82.04 per cent of the fresh infections being reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. India's daily new cases continue to rise and a record 1,84,372 fresh coronavirus cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 60,212, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 17,963 while Chhattisgarh reported 15,121 new cases. India's total number of active cases has increased to 13,65,704 and  now comprises 9.84 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 1,01,006 cases has been recorded in the total number of active cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala cumulatively account for 68.16 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said. Maharashtra alone accounts for 43.54 per cent of the total number of active cases of the country.  Sixteen states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. "In the country's bid to flush out Covid-19 cases, another milestone has been reached today. The country has crossed 26 crore tests," the ministry said. A total of 26,06,18,866 tests have been conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country. A total of 14,11,758 tests have been done in a day. The testing capacity has been ramped up to 15 lakh tests per day, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,23,36,036  with 82,339 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 1,027 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 86.08 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum of 281 fatalities. Chhattisgarh follows with 156 daily deaths, the ministry said. On the other hand, the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 11 crore. Cumulatively, 11,11,79,578 vaccine doses have been administered through 16,53,488 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. Eight states -- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala account for 60.16 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. As on day 88 of the vaccination drive on Tuesday, 26,46,528 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 22,58,910 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 44,643 sessions for the first dose and 3,87,618 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-account-for-8204-of-indias-daily-new-covid-19-cases-974127.html
14-04-2021||National||Former election commissioner GVG Krishnamurty passes away||Former election commissioner GVG Krishnamurty died here on Wednesday due to age-related ailments. According to details shared by his family with the EC, the 86-year-old Krishnamurty passed away around 10 am. An Indian Legal Service officer, Krishnamurty became the election commissioner in October, 1993. His last rites will take place this evening at the Lodhi Road crematorium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-election-commissioner-gvg-krishnamurty-passes-away-974152.html
14-04-2021||National||Neither prepared nor submitted any report to MHA on 2006 Mumbai train blasts: IB to Delhi HC||The Intelligence Bureau has told the Delhi High Court that it has not prepared or submitted any report to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on the 2006 Mumbai train blasts. The submission has been made by the IB in an affidavit filed pursuant to the court's direction in January this year to state on record that it had not prepared any report in 2009 or shortly thereafter on the bombings of July 11, 2006 when seven RDX bombs ripped through as many Western line local trains in Mumbai killing 189 people and injuring 829. "It is respectfully submitted that no report was prepared and/or submitted in 2009 or any time shortly thereafter by the IB to MHA in respect of the 7/11 Mumbai bomb blasts," the agency has said in its affidavit, filed through central government counsel Rahul Sharma. The IB, also represented by advocate C K Bhatt, has further said that the case was investigated by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of Maharashtra Police. Justice Prathiba M Singh on January 27 had asked IB to record on an affidavit that it had not prepared any report in 2009 or shortly thereafter on the 2006 Mumbai train bombings case. The order came on a plea moved by Ehtesham Qutubuddin Siddique, who has been awarded capital punishment for the July 11, 2006 serial blasts, seeking an IB report of 2009 purportedly calling for review of evidence in the case. IB, in its affidavit, has said that Siddique's claims were based on news reports which cannot be admitted or recognized as an official submission.   The court had called for an affidavit after noting that the agency had earlier told the high court, in an earlier round of litigation on the same issue, that it was exempted from providing the report under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. In the earlier matter, the high court had said the Central Information Commission (CIC) "erroneously" concluded that the information sought by Siddique did not pertain to allegations of corruption or human rights violation and asked it to consider his request afresh. However, before the CIC, the IB stated that there was no such report as claimed by the convict and the commission, thereafter, dismissed his plea on June 11, 2019.   In his plea filed through advocate Arpit Bhargava, Siddique has sought setting aside of the June 11, 2019 order of CIC claiming that the commission took the decision by "blindly" trusting IB's statement that there was no report of 2009. Bhargava, during the hearing on January 27, had told the court that the IB filed an affidavit in July 2019 before CIC stating no such report existed only after the plea was dismissed   Siddique, presently lodged in the Nagpur Central Jail, has claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case which amounts to violation of his human rights and therefore, he needed the IB report which purportedly called for review of the evidence in the 2006 Mumbai train blasts case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neither-prepared-nor-submitted-any-report-to-mha-on-2006-mumbai-train-blasts-ib-to-delhi-hc-974153.html
14-04-2021||National||'Chaotic' monsoons threaten India's farmers without climate action||Indian monsoons are likely to become stronger and more erratic if global warming continues unchecked, threatening farming and incomes across the region, researchers said on Wednesday. Monsoon rains will likely increase by about 5% for every degree Celsius of warming, found the study of more than 30 state-of-the-art climate models from around the world, published in the journal Earth System Dynamics. "What is really on the line is the socio-economic well-being of the Indian subcontinent," said co-author Anders Levermann, a climate scientist at Germany's Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and New York's Columbia University. "A more chaotic monsoon season poses a threat to the agriculture and economy in the region and should be a wake-up call for policy makers to drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions worldwide." Governments are lagging behind in implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement, which aims to hold the rise in average global temperatures to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, and preferably 1.5C. Temperatures have already risen by more than 1C since pre-industrial times, and scientists warn further increases risk triggering tipping points that could render swathes of the globe uninhabitable, devastate farming and drown coastal cities. About 80% of the annual rainfall over India occurs between June and September, with an average of 88 centimetres of rain over the four-month period determining yields for crops, such as rice, wheat and sugarcane, and replenishing dams. Too much rainfall can harm plants, including rice, on which the majority of India's population depends, as well as causing flooding and soil erosion. Monsoon rains are critical for farm output and economic growth as about 55% of India's arable land is rain-fed and the sector employs more than half of its 1.3 billion population, boosting rural spending. India's monsoon rains are expected to be 103% of the long-term average in 2021, according to the private forecasting agency Skymet, following two consecutive years of above average rains in 2020 and 2019, for the first time in six decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chaotic-monsoons-threaten-indias-farmers-without-climate-action-974154.html
14-04-2021||National||India is a trusted partner; limited cooperation with Pakistan: Russia||Describing India as a "trusted partner", Russia on Wednesday said there were no divergences or misunderstandings between the two countries and that it has "limited cooperation" with Pakistan based on "independent" relations. Deputy Chief of the Russian mission Roman Babushkin also welcomed the recent commitment by India and Pakistan to follow the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control and said these are "very important steps" for regional stability. At a joint media briefing with Babushkin, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev criticised the Indo-Pacific strategy by the western countries describing it as "dangerous" and an effort to revive the cold war mentality. Babushkin said India must be part of the process of shaping regional consensus on Afghanistan and that New Delhi and Moscow have similar approaches for the Afghan peace process. Asked about reports of bad optics during Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov's recent visit to India as he travelled to Islamabad from Delhi, Babushkin said Russia has independent ties with Pakistan and that it does not "target any relations against anyone". "We believe that there is absolutely no reason to see that there are divergences or any misunderstandings between us. It is not the case in Russia-India ties," he said. Kudashev said India is a trusted partner of Russia and ties between the two countries were "equal, solid, comprehensive, coherent and forward-looking". He also mentioned that the visit by Lavrov to India on April 6 contributed a lot to the ties. "It was a very important and remarkable event, which contributed a lot to the special and privileged strategic partnership between our two friendly nations. Our ties remain equal, solid, comprehensive, coherent and forward-looking despite any global turbulence," he said. The ambassador said the visit was aimed at preparations for the India-Russia summit which is expected to take place in the second half of the year. Babushkin said Russia has independent relations with India, Pakistan and other countries and the relations are based on their own merits. "We are all members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and develop cooperation in various fields including regional security, fight against terrorism and to deal with other threats," he said. "Russia has limited cooperation with Pakistan as compared to India. However, the fight against terrorism is our common agenda. So we also help Pakistan in providing anti-terrorism equipment and holding dedicated exercise," he added. After visiting India, Lavrov on Tuesday travelled to Islamabad where he said Russia was ready to supply special military equipment to Pakistan to boost its counter-terror capabilities. Babushkin said Russia respects the Simla agreement of 1972 and Lahore declaration of 1999 and that it has no intention to interfere in issues between the two sides. The ambassador said Russia was very satisfied with the detailed discussion on a wide range of bilateral and international matters between India and Russia during Lavrov's visit. "It confirmed the proximity of our approaches and exceptional level of mutual understanding and trust as well as goodwill to maintain our traditional open-minded and forward-looking dialogue," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-a-trusted-partner-limited-cooperation-with-pakistan-russia-974159.html
14-04-2021||National||Government appoints Anil Kumar Sharma on central board of SBI with immediate effect||State Bank of India on Wednesday said the government has nominated Anil Kumar Sharma, the executive director of the RBI, on its board with immediate effect. Citing a Department of Financial Services (DFS) notification dated April 13, 2021, SBI said, "..the central government hereby nominates Anil Kumar Sharma, executive director, Reserve Bank of India as director on the central board of State Bank of India with immediate effect... until further orders, vice Chandan Sinha." SBI's central board of directors comprises a total of 13 members, headed by its chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara, as per its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-appoints-anil-kumar-sharma-on-central-board-of-sbi-with-immediate-effect-974163.html
14-04-2021||National||Ambedkar had proposed Sanskrit as official language: CJI Bobde||Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde on Wednesday said B R Ambedkar had proposed Sanskrit as the "official national language" of India as he understood the political and social issues well and knew what the people wanted. The CJI also said the ancient Indian text "Nyayshastra" is "not a bit" inferior to Aristotle and the Persian system of logic, and "there is no reason why we should forsake, overlook, and not benefit from the geniuses of our ancestors". CJI Bobde was speaking at the inauguration of the academic building of the Maharashtra National Law University (MNLU) here in Maharashtra. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey, Union minister and Nagpur MP Nitin Gadkari and others participated in this event virtually. Remembering B R Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary, the CJI said, "Today morning, I was in a fix about which language should I deliver this speech. Today is the birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar which reminds me that the conflict between the language to be used while speaking and the language to be used during work is very old". He said the Supreme Court gets many representations on what should be the language of subordinate courts, but I feel this subject is not being looked into. "But Dr Ambedkar had anticipated this aspect and he had mooted a proposal saying that the official language of the Union of India should be Sanskrit," the CJI said. The CJI said he cannot recall whether that proposal, which had signatures of some Maulvis, pandits, priests and Ambdekar, was tabled (in the constituent Assembly). "It was Ambedkar's opinion that since Tamil is not acceptable in north India it might be opposed there and likewise Hindi will be opposed in south India. But, there is less possibility of opposition to Sanskrit in north India or south India and hence he had mooted that proposal, but it did not succeed," CJI Bobde said. The chief justice of India said Ambedkar possessed knowledge of not only about the law but he also knew social and political issues very well. "He knew what the people, the poor of the country wanted. He had full knowledge about all these aspects and I feel that is why he thought of putting up this proposal," the CJI said. He said the law school is a nursery of the legal profession. "Law school is the nursery from which springs forth the harvest of our legal profession as well as judges. Dreams of many people have come true with the Maharashtra National Law University (MNLU)," the CJI said. He further said the MNLU intended to "impart a national outlook to students and faculty who are drawn from all over the country". "There is no regionalism and no narrow-mindedness and this distinguishes a national law university from any other kind," he said. CJI Bobde said two unique courses are taught at the MNLU including a course that will produce judges much on the lines of the National Defence Academy (NDA) which not only produces soldiers but officers, and the other course is on 'Nyayshastra'. "The Indian judicial system was inherited from the British which uses logic and the origin of logic is Aristotle. But the 'Nyayshastra' which was developed in India is not the least bit inferior to Aristotle or the Persian system of logic. "I see no reason why we should forsake, overlook and not benefit from the geniuses of our ancestors and that is how this course began which is unique," CJI Bobde said. The CJI is set to retire on April 23. He will be succeeded by Justice NV Ramana as his successor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambedkar-had-proposed-sanskrit-as-official-language-cji-bobde-974164.html
14-04-2021||National||Access to professional education not largesse: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has held that access to professional education was not a largesse (charity) but an affirmative obligation upon the state to create enabling environment for it. "The right to pursue higher (professional) education has not been spelt out as a fundamental right in Part III of the Constitution, it bears emphasis that access to professional education is not a governmental largesse. Instead, the state has an affirmative obligation to facilitate access to education, at all levels," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The top court said this obligation assumed far greater importance for students whose background (by virtue of such characteristics as caste, class, gender, religion, disability and geographical region) imposed formidable obstacles on their path to accessing quality education.  The court directed the authorities to complete the formalities for admission of Farzana Batool and Mohammad Mehdi Waziri for admission to MBBS course at Lady Hardinge Medical College, and Maulana Azad  Medical College, New Delhi here within a week. The Union government admitted that there was no reason and justification to deny them the benefit of admission to the course after the petitioner candidates have been nominated by the Administration of the Union Territory of Ladakh for admission to the MBBS degree course under the ‘central pool’ seats set apart by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Acting on writ petitions by the two students, the court underscored the importance of creating an enabling environment to make it possible for students such as the petitioners to pursue professional education. It dealt with the issue so that other students who may lack resources, or simply the knowledge about legal remedies, were not deprived of education on a systemic basis. The court also directed the authorities that all the students who have been allocated seats from the central pool through a notification issued on February 19, 2021, be granted admissions to the concerned institutions, if not already given so far, in order to obviate the hardship caused to these students.  It also asked the Union government to consider appointing a nodal officer tasked with the responsibility of ensuring that students who were duly nominated under the central pool seats were in fact admitted in their chosen course of study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/access-to-professional-education-not-largesse-supreme-court-974174.html
14-04-2021||National||Over 1,000 test positive for Covid-19 at Kumbh Mela||Hundreds of people have tested positive for coronavirus in India at the site of the world's biggest religious festival, officials said Wednesday, as huge crowds of mostly maskless Hindu devotees descended on the Ganga. The virus was detected in more than 1,000 people in just 48 hours in the city of Haridwar, which lies along the holy river where the Kumbh Mela is being observed, officials said. A new wave of coronavirus infections is sweeping across India, with experts blaming massive religious events, packed political rallies in poll-bound states and crowded public places. The government on Wednesday postponed 12th board exams and cancelled 10th board exams, which were to be held in May-June, amid the resurgence of the virus. Despite rising virus cases, pilgrims have gathered in huge numbers to take part in the holy celebration. On Monday and Tuesday, a huge crowd of worshippers were cheek by jowl as they packed the river's banks to take a dip in the waters as part of a bathing ritual. "Our faith is the biggest thing for us. It is because of that strong belief that so many people have come here to take a dip in Ganga," Siddharth Chakrapani, a member of one of the Kumbh Mela organising committees, told AFP. "They believe that Maa (mother) Ganga will save them from this pandemic." Of some 50,000 samples taken from people in Haridwar, 408 tested positive on Monday and 594 on Tuesday, the Uttarakhand state government said. The latest figures came as Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister of neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh, tweeted on Wednesday that he had tested positive for Covid-19. India overtook Brazil this week to become the country with the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world. The vast nation of 1.3 billion people on Wednesday reported more than 184,000 infections in the past 24 hours -- the biggest single-day rise since the start of the pandemic -- to take the total to almost 13.9 million cases. India's daily death toll passed 1,000 on Wednesday for the first time since mid-October. Local authorities have imposed night curfews and clamped down on movement and activities. In India's financial capital Mumbai, where the Maharashtra state government has imposed tougher lockdown measures, migrant workers at a train station said they were leaving for their homes in other states after the tighter restrictions were announced. "Since I don't have any work, I am not able to pay my rent," migrant worker Imraan Khan told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1000-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-kumbh-mela-974175.html
14-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Centre cancels CBSE Class 10 exam; postpones Class 12 exam||In your evening news brief, Govt cancels CBSE board exams for Class 10 and postpones tests for Class 12, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adithyanath tests positive and Pat Gelsinger, Intel's CEO, says chip shortage might continue for a couple of years.  Here is the top news of April 14, 2021: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has tested positive for coronavirus and has quarantined himself at home. The Chief Minister said in a post on Twitter that he had got himself tested after he noticed Covid-like symptoms on Tuesday. ''My report is positive...I am in self-isolation and working virtually,'' he said in the message.  en states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Kerala, have shown a steep rise in daily new Covid-19 cases accounting for 82.04 per cent of the fresh infections being reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said. Centre on Wednesday decided to cancel CBSE board exams for Class 10 and postpone Class 12 exams. "The Board Exams for Class XIIth to be held from May 4th to June, 14th, 2021 are hereby postponed. These exams will be held hereafter. The situation will be reviewed on 1st June 2021 by the Board, and details will be shared subsequently. A notice of at least 15 days will be given before the start of the examinations," tweeted Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. The results of Class 10 board exam will be prepared on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the board, Pokhriyal added. The coronavirus-driven surge in demand and an unprecedented shortage in semiconductor microchips have thrown the spotlight on a brewing global crisis. What is even more worrisome is that Pat Gelsinger, Intel's CEO, has come out and said that the chip shortage might continue for a couple of years. Gelsinger had told Reuters that the company was talking to companies that design chips for automakers about manufacturing those chips inside Intel's factory network, with the goal of producing chips within six to nine months. Chip factories had to shut down early last year, particularly overseas where most processors are made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-cancels-cbse-class-10-exam-postpones-class-12-exam-974185.html
14-04-2021||National||British PM Boris Johnson reduces length of India trip over Covid-19||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has reduced the length of his trip to India later this month because of the Covid-19 situation in the country, his spokesman said on Wednesday, adding he would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "We've been in close contact with the Indian government about the PM's upcoming visit in light of the Covid situation in India. As a result of these discussions, the Prime Minister has made the decision to reduce the length of the visit," he told reporters. "This programme will be focused on high level discussions with the Indian government and Indian business leaders," he said, adding that the bulk of the programme would now take place on April 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/british-pm-boris-johnson-reduces-length-of-india-trip-over-covid-19-974189.html
14-04-2021||National||SC to consider Jain panel report in ISRO case||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Thursday a report of a panel headed by former top court judge D K Jain, formed in September 2018 to probe the role of Kerala police officers in the wrongful arrest of ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in a 1994 espionage case. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Vineet Saran would take up the matter on April 15, based on the report submitted in a sealed cover. The Centre has filed an application asking the court to open the sealed cover of the report for passing appropriate orders as the matter was of national importance. 79-year-old Narayanan waged a legal battle against the Kerala police officers who accused him of being a Pakistan spy in 1994. Besides appointing the panel, the top court had directed the Kerala government to pay Rs 50 lakh compensation for causing immense humiliation to Narayanan. In 2018, a bench of the then Chief Justice Dipak Misra decided to appoint a committee under Jain and asked the Centre and the Kerala government to name one person each to the committee under Jain. While the Centre appointed a top official, D K Prasad, the Pinarayi Vijayan government appointed former Additional Chief Secretary V S Senthil. The ISRO spy case surfaced in 1994 when Narayanan was arrested on charges of espionage along with another senior official of ISRO, two Maldivian women and a businessman. The CBI had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The panel examined the circumstances leading to Narayanan's arrest. It was alleged that confidential documents on India's space programme were allegedly transferred to foreign countries. Narayanan had maintained that Kerala police fabricated the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in 1994 case did not even exist at that time. The Modi government awarded the scientist Padma Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-jain-panel-report-in-isro-case-974192.html
14-04-2021||National||Centre launches grievance redressal portal for people from Scheduled Castes||The government Wednesday launched a portal for people belonging to Scheduled Castes to file complaints in case they have any grievances. The mechanism has been developed by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC). It was launched by Union Minister for Communication and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on the birth anniversary of father of Indian Constitution Dr B R Ambedkar. "Dr B R Ambedkar taught us that we have to ensure progress of India through constitutional means," Prasad said on the occasion, recalled Ambedkar’s contribution in nation building Lauding the government's Digital India initiative, Prasad said, "This portal is an example of Digital India initiative towards bringing a change in the society." A senior government official said the NCSC Grievances Management Portal can be used for filing complaints by the aggrieved person belonging to Scheduled Castes. The complaints are registered and acknowledged promptly through a Unique Complaint Number for future reference and there is a provision of monitoring and tracking, he said. The official said audio and video clippings can also be tagged as part of grievance or evidence. A nodal officer will be looking after the portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-grievance-redressal-portal-for-people-from-scheduled-castes-974193.html
14-04-2021||National||Centre gives nod to ramping up Remdesivir production to around 78 lakh vials per month||Manufacturers of Remdesivir and other stakeholders agreed to increase production and supply of the anti-viral drug and reduce its prices amid its shortage due to an unprecedented wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.   Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers, Mansukh Mandaviya chaired a meeting with drug manufacturers and other stakeholders to discuss the issue of availability of Remdesivir. "In the meeting, decisions have been taken to increase production/supply and reduce prices of Remdesivir," said a statement. Manufacturers of Remdesivir have volunteered to reduce the price to less than Rs 3,500 by the end of this week. They have been directed to give priority to fulfil hospital/institutional level supplies, the statement said. The current total installed capacity of the seven manufacturers of Remdesivir is 38.80 lakh vials per month. Fast-track approval has been given for seven additional sites with production capacity of 10 Lakh vials /month to six manufacturers. Another 30 lakh vials/month production is lined up. This would ramp up the production capacity for manufacturing to around 78 lakh vials/month, the statement said. As an additional measure, Remdesivir, API and formulation were placed under the Export ban on 11.04.2021 by DGFT (Director General Foreigh Trade) to increase the supply of Remdesivir in the domestic market. Upon government intervention, Remdesivir supplies of approximately 4 lakh vials meant for export is being diverted by manufacturers to fulfil the domestic requirement, said the statement. Enforcement authorities of states and central governments have been directed by Drugs Controller General of India to take immediate action on the incidence of black-marketing, hoarding and overcharging of Remdesivir. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) is continuously monitoring the availability of  Remdesivir, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-gives-nod-to-ramping-up-remdesivir-production-to-around-78-lakh-vials-per-month-974201.html
14-04-2021||National||No shortage of fertiliser during Kharif season: D V Sadananda Gowda||Sufficient quantity of fertiliser is available for the coming Kharif season and there are no shortages, the Centre said on Wednesday. For the Kharif sowing season, which will start from June onwards, the government is making efforts to ensure timely availability of fertiliser, Union fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said. Kharif is major agriculture season in India , which lasts from June to November depending on the area. The fertiliser Minister, who chaired a meeting with representatives of fertiliser companies, said that there will not be any increase in retail prices of phosphatic and potassic (P&K) fertiliser for the time being. "Government (is) taking all necessary measures. Like previous years, fertiliser availability to remain comfortable during the kharif season. We are keeping a close watch on the international market," he told reporters here. He warned that strict action will be taken against those involved in malpractices such as overcharging, black marketing and hoarding of fertilisers. He also said partial lockdown announced by states to curb Covid-19 will not affect to the movement fertiliser as there are system in the government to address such issue. Agriculture season is over in US and Brazil while it will end in the EU this month. Ultimately, India and China are two markets left for sellers. Due to these reasons, fertiliser prices expected to come down in coming days, Gowda said. While fertiliser companies have agreed to sell existing stock in old prices, the Minister said already urea prices have come down by $40 to $340 from $380 per tonne, he said. Last week, fertiliser companies had raised the retail prices of P&K fertilisers like Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP) in line with the global market effective from April 1. But the government asked them not to increase for the time being. Unlike urea, P&K fertilisers are decontrolled products. The prices are fixed by the manufacturers and the government gives them fixed subsidies each year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-shortage-of-fertiliser-during-kharif-season-d-v-sadananda-gowda-974203.html
14-04-2021||National||Demand returns for Covid Care coaches in railways||Amid increasing Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra Government is the first state to approach the Indian Railways seeking isolation coaches to treat patients. Nandurbar district administration in Maharashtra has sought around 95 coaches and 1,500 beds from Western Railways. The railways agreed to provide coaches which will be stationed as per the requirement of the administration, said an official in the railways. Other states including Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh also enquired about the availability of isolation coaches. The railways said it is ready to provide such coaches as and when demand comes from the state government, said the official. The railways had converted its idle coaches into isolation coaches to treat patients with mild symptoms. These coaches can be used when states have “exhausted the facilities”, the railways said. The railways prepared 5,231 railway coaches last year but only 3 states — Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh — used a total of 813 Covid coaches and around 900 patients were treated through them last year, according to data from the national transporter. Three states together have been provided more than 12,000 additional beds through these coaches, official data shows. However, due to lack of demand, the railways subsequently reconverted more than 55 per cent of the Covid-19 coaches into normal ones and mostly utilised on Shramik Special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-returns-for-covid-care-coaches-in-railways-974213.html
14-04-2021||National||Dr Reddy's to start supply of 250 million imported doses of Sputnik-V in April-June||Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the custodian of Russia's Sputnik-V in India, has stated that the availability of 250 million imported doses of the vaccine would begin in this quarter i.e., April to June. The two-dose vaccine was found to be displaying 91.6 per cent efficacy against Covid-19 infection as per an article in The Lancet. It was approved for emergency use in India by the Drugs Controller General of India on Tuesday, amidst the massive surge in the Covid-19 cases. The nod comes at a time when the two vaccines - Covishield, developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech and ICMR co-developed Covaxin – are in severe short supply in the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive. "We cannot be more specific at this point (about the time of Sputnik-V import supply to India)," GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy's told DH.   The Hyderabad-based pharma major is in an agreement with Russian Direct Investment Fund to supply 250 million imported doses in India (to fully vaccinate 125 million people). As per the deal in September 2020, DRL also undertook the Phase-2 and 3 trials of Sputnik-V in India, on 1,600 volunteers to verify its safety and immunogenicity. The data was submitted to DCGI. DRL will also market and distribute the vaccine after its production starts in India in a few months. Hetero, Virchow, Panacea, Gland, Stellis, Shilpa are the six production sites. DRL top executives said that they are "still in the midst of negotiating the price and required volumes in the country with the government authorities and other stakeholders.” Covishield and Covaxin, also given in two doses, are priced at Rs 250 each dose in the private sector. Though the efficacy of Sputnik-V is pegged higher than that of Covishield and Covaxin, a drawback of the Russia's vaccine is its storage requirement at a frosty -18 to -22 degree Celsius temperature. In comparison, Covaxin is stable at 2 to 8°C and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation that permits distribution using existing vaccine supply chain channels. Sputnik-V needs to be thawed for about 20 minutes at the vaccine centre and the liquid dose then has to be administered in a period of two hours. On Wednesday, speaking to the press in a virtual interaction, Dr Reddy's officials said that they are working on storing, transporting Sputnik-V vaccine at 2 to 8 degree Celsius. “We are in the process of generating additional stability data on the 2 to 8 degree Celsius temperature range. This data should be available in a few months, following which we would submit the necessary amendment request to the regulator for the storage conditions to be modified to 2 to 8 degree Celsius,” said Deepak Sapra, Dr Reddy's CEO (API and Services). However, the official said that they have lined up a cold chain and necessary logistics to ensure the last mile availability throughout the country by “leveraging some of the existing immunisation programme infrastructure in collaboration with the government.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-reddys-to-start-supply-of-250-million-imported-doses-of-sputnik-v-in-april-june-974217.html
14-04-2021||National||Allowing Maudany to visit Kerala will affect nation's integrity, Karnataka tells SC||The Karnataka government has told the Supreme Court that allowing Kerala's People Democratic Party leader Abdul Nazir Maudany, facing trial in nine cases of 2008 Bengaluru serial blasts, to stay in his home state, would affect integrity of the nation and enable him to escape or establish contacts with other absconding accused to indulge in further terrorist activities. The state government opposed a plea made by Maudany to relax his bail conditions of 2014 not to go out of Bengaluru without the court's nod. In its response to the application through advocate V N Raghupathy, the Karnataka government also said, "if the condition is relaxed directly or indirectly he will indulge in the political activities of the Kerala State and the nation by violating the condition of the bail. He may cause law and order problem in the Kerala as well as in Karnataka." The state government further pointed out by taking heavy risk and with the support and co-operation of the Kerala government the petitioner was arrested in the nine related cases.  "At this stage if the condition of the bail is relaxed, he will either escape from the place or continues his contacts and relations with the absconded terrorists to continue the terrorist activities," it said. The state further claimed he was a politically powerful person in Kerala State and may use his political power and other influences to give threat to the recalled witnesses or win over the witnesses to take ‘U’ turn from their previous evidence given before the court and thereby interfere in the fair conclusion of the trials. It also pointed out that recently the National Investigation Agency arrested some terrorist activists from Karnataka, Kerala and from other states, having contact with Pakistan's Islamic organisations, indicating that some terrorist movements were still rising in the country. It also said it was learnt that the High Court would shortly make an arrangement to post the judge to the court to complete trial in a faster manner.  To Maudany's contention that he was a disabled person suffering with several ailments, the state asserted that to say that due his involvement and participation in the crime was ruled out, was a misnomer having regard to his antecedents and involvement in umpteen number of criminal cases. "The petitioner is involved in anti-social, anti-national activities to sabotage the country and its civic fabric in a an organised manner. Such activities of the petitioner leave an indelible impression of terror in the minds of innocent people," it said. The Karnataka government further pointed out Maudany, who faced other 24 criminal cases, was a founder of Islamic Sevak Sangh, banned in Kerala. It said on July 25, 2008, as many as eight serial bomb blasts occurred on Mysore road, in Bengaluru city, leading to death of Sudha, besides causing injuries to nine others and huge damage to the public property.  The application by Maudany would be listed soon before a separate bench after Justice V Ramasubramanian recused from hearing the case on April 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allowing-maudany-to-visit-kerala-will-affect-nations-integrity-karnataka-tells-sc-974223.html
14-04-2021||National||Keep political differences aside, work as a team to defeat Covid-19: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday urged everyone to put aside political differences and work as a team to defeat the coronavirus pandemic. During a virtual interaction with governors on Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive, he said there was a need to implement the proven and reliable strategy of 'test track and treat' with renewed vigour to counter the spread of coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan also attended the interaction. One of the most useful lessons we have learnt during the last year is that we have succeeded in our fight against Covid-19 mainly because of collaborative work, Naidu said. He noted that the central government has decided the Covid-19 strategy in close collaboration with the state governments and "called upon everyone to keep political differences aside and act unitedly as a team", a statement issued by the Vice President Secretariat said. Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, Naidu cautioned that the healthcare infrastructure will inevitably come under tremendous pressure. "He called for special focus on 10 states that account for 85 per cent of national cases and  89 per cent deaths reported in the last 14 days," the statement said. Recognising that the challenge is formidable, the vice president said the country is better prepared today as compared to last year because the nation has ramped up infrastructure over the course of the past one year. Noting that every governor, as the constitutional head of state, has an important role in the fight against the pandemic, Naidu wanted them to collaborate actively with their respective chief ministers and act as consensus builders. "You can not only share your experience and expertise but also provide guidance to the state governments on crafting a more effective strategy," he told the governors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keep-political-differences-aside-work-as-a-team-to-defeat-covid-19-venkaiah-naidu-974225.html
14-04-2021||National||After pledging more weapons, drills with Pakistan, Russia soothes India's ruffled feathers ||A week after pledging to provide more weapons to Pakistan, Moscow on Wednesday sought to soothe the ruffled feathers in New Delhi, stating that Russia’s defence cooperation with Pakistan was limited, compared to that with India. Russia also stressed that it had “independent relations” with both India and Pakistan. Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, Nikolay Kudashev, however, said that Russia remained committed to honour all its arms deals with India. He specifically reiterated Moscow’s commitment to deliver the S-400 air defence systems to New Delhi amid growing pressure from the United States on India to lessen dependence on Russia for military hardware. The US has been warning India that its deal to procure missile defence system from Russia could put it at the risk of sanctions under Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Kudashev said that neither Russia, nor India had ever recognize unilateral sanctions by any nation, as such measures were often used as illegal tools for unfair and unlawful competitions. “Russia has limited cooperation with Pakistan as compared to India,” Roman Babushkin, Moscow’s deputy envoy to New Delhi, said. Kudashev and Babushkin were addressing a news-conference in New Delhi about a week after Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had visited both India and Pakistan. Moscow had apparently sought to subtly convey its unease over India’s growing ties with the United States by clubbing Lavrov’s visit to New Delhi and Islamabad – a rare move by Russia. Lavrov had held talks with Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi in Islamabad on April 7, just a day after his meeting with India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in New Delhi. He had announced Russia’s plan to to provide Pakistan with more “special military equipment”. He had also said that the Russia would conduct more military exercises with Pakistan both in the mountains as well as in the Arabian Sea. Moscow’s envoy and deputy envoy to New Delhi, however, sought to allay India’s concerns over Russia’s Russia’s plan to expand its defence cooperation with Pakistan. Russia has since long been the largest supplier of military hardware to India and has been maintaining a low-key relationship with Pakistan. But with the changes in geopolitical landscape and New Delhi’s growing ties with Washington D.C. since the landmark India-US civil nuclear agreement of 2008, Moscow too started responding to Islamabad’s overtures to improve bilateral relations. They started discussing the sale of Russian Mi-35 attack helicopters to Pakistan in 2014 and the delivery of the choppers purportedly began in 2018, although New Delhi had conveyed to Moscow its concerns over the deal. Russia also inked a defence cooperation agreement with Pakistan in November 2015 and the two nations had the first joint military drill in September-October, 2016 – just weeks after India signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement with the US. The last annual exercise between the Russian Army and the Pakistan Army took place in November 2020. Babushkin said that the fight against terrorism was the common agenda of Russia, India, Pakistan and all other member nations of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). “So we also help Pakistan in providing anti-terrorism equipment and holding dedicated exercise,” said Russia’s deputy ambassador to India. Babushkin welcomed the recent agreement between the Indian Army and the Pakistan Army to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire pact and stop firing at each other across the Line of Control (LoC), which resulted in killing of a large number of civilians as well as personnel of the armed forces of the two neighbouring nations. He said that the agreement between India and Pakistan to avoid violation of the ceasefire was a “very important step” for regional stability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-pledging-more-weapons-drills-with-pakistan-russia-soothes-indias-ruffled-feathers-974245.html
14-04-2021||National||Daily Covid-19 deaths cross 1,000 after six months, Madhya Pradesh among the top five states||After six months, India on Wednesday once again recorded more than 1,000 new Covid-19 deaths as the daily Covid-19 count ballooned to over 1.84 lakh fresh cases in the same period. Out of 1,027 Covid-19 deaths reported in the previous 24 hours, Maharashtra accounted for 281 fatalities followed by Chhattisgarh (156) and Uttar Pradesh (85). The last time India reported more than 1,000 daily Covid-19 deaths was on October 17 but for two weeks prior to that day, there was not a single instance of such a heavy toll, which used to be reported in September, 2020 when the first wave of Covid-19 was at its peak. “The gains from the hard lockdown a year ago have been wasted through complacency and poor science. We need to realize that the only exit strategy is through mass vaccination and until sufficient coverage is reached, masking must continue and we have to avoid public spaces to the extent possible,” Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, Washington DC told DH. Public health experts earlier warned that even with a low case fatality of 1.25 per cent, India would encounter more than one thousand daily deaths if the number of Covid-19 cases went through the roof. This is exactly what has been seen all over the country in the last ten days. “Even when the case fatality rate remains low, the absolute count can keep rising as a proportion of the increasing number of cases. The sudden surge in cases will put a strain on the existing shortage in critical care capacity, resulting in higher deaths,” observed Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. One of the key differences between the first wave in September and the ongoing second wave is faster rate of spread in the second surge. "The increase from 10,000 to 80,000 new cases per day from February to April has taken less than 40 days. In September, this journey took 83 days," the Lancet Covid-19 Commission, India Task Force says in a report. A fresh worry is shooting up the cases in yet another large populous state, Madhya Pradesh, which is now among the top five states with the maximum caseload. Madhya Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 8,998 cases on Wednesday. The caseload has increased by more than four times in the last two weeks. Other states reporting sharp rises are Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. “The current R value (reproduction number that marks the SARS-CoV-2’s ability to spread) in MP is 1.57. I am more concerned about the surge in cases and deaths in states with higher R values: UP (2.8), Bihar (3) and over 2 in Rajasthan, West Bengal and Telangana, Jharkhand, Odisha and Delhi,” Babu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-covid-19-deaths-cross-1000-after-six-months-madhya-pradesh-among-the-top-five-states-974271.html
14-04-2021||National||India subtly dismisses Russia's opposition to Indo-Pacific||India on Wednesday tacitly dismissed Russia’s position that the “Indo-Pacific strategy” was actually an attempt to revive the “cold-war mentality”. “I would argue that in a way, the Indo-Pacific is a return to history. It reflects the more contemporary world. It is actually the overcoming of the Cold War and not reinforcing it," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said at the Raisina Dialogue being held virtually this year. “I very much hope that all of us who run contemporary foreign policy look at it that way.” His comment came on a day Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, Nikolay Kudashev, reiterated Russia’s opposition to the Indo-Pacific strategy. “We want to call the attention of our Indian partners and friends to the dangers emerging from the Western Indo-Pacific strategy aimed at a revival of the Cold War-era thinking and Cold War-era structures,” Kudashev told journalists in New Delhi. He was apparently referring to the rivalry between the US and the erstwhile Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) leading to the creation of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) by America and its allies in Western Europe. New Delhi’s strategic convergence with Washington DC in Indo-Pacific to counter China’s hegemonic aspirations in the region over the past few years caused wrinkles in India’s relations with Russia. When Jaishankar hosted Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in New Delhi last week, Moscow tacitly nudged New Delhi to stay away from any move by the United States to turn the Quad into a NATO-like military alliance in order to contain China in the Indo-Pacific region. Lavrov was on a tour to New Delhi – less than a month after India joined Japan, Australia and the United States to elevate the Quad to the level of the Heads of Government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 12 virtually joined his counterparts in Japan and Australia – Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison – and the US President Joe Biden in the historic first summit of the coalition, which the four nations had originally forged in 2007, but revived in 2011, ostensibly to build a bulwark of democratic nations to counter hegemonic aspirations of communist China. Lavrov had, in December 2020, called the Quad a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool, which was being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging New Delhi in games against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. Hours after Moscow’s envoy to India’s reiterated Russia’s opposition to the Indo-Pacific strategy, Jaishankar said that no nation should have a ‘veto’ over New Delhi’s partnerships. He dismissed the “Asian NATO” as a term coined to play a “mind game”. “That kind of NATO mentality has never been in India, if it has been in Asia, that would be other countries, not mine,” External Affairs Minister said at the Raisina Dialogue hosted by the Ministry of External Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-subtly-dismisses-russias-opposition-to-indo-pacific-974276.html
14-04-2021||National||Seafarers Union seeks safety of Indian crew on Ever Given||The All India Seafarers’ Union has written to the Directorate General of Shipping and German ship management company Bernhard Schulte Ship Management (BSM), over the safety of 25 Indian crew members on board of container ship Ever Given, which was seized by Egyptian authorities. The union demanded that the “Indian crew should be safe and sound, and well-treated by the Egyptian authorities”. "Indian crew on board at Ever Given should not be held hostage by the Egyptian authorities. They should be well-treated... In case it gets any complaint, we (union) will definitely demand for the sign-off (of the crew) as soon as possible."  Union working president Abhijeet D Sangle has said. The 25 crews members from India mostly from Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and some North Indian states. Egypt seized the vessel that blocked the Suez Canal last month as talks continued over the more than $900 million in compensation sought by Suez Canal Authority. A court in the city of Ismailia granted a  seizure  of vessel at the behest of the Suez Canal Authority, said news report. The ship’s insurer for third-party losses, the U.K. P&I Club, said in a statement on Tuesday that the Ever Given’s owner -- Japan-based Shoei Kisen Kaisha Ltd. -- received a claim for $916 million. The Panama-registered cargo vessel owned by Japanese shipping company Shoei Kisen Kaisha. Bernhard Schulte Shipmanagement manages the Ever Given. The massive cargo vessel  ran aground at the Suez Canal on March 23 causing disruptions of movement of ships on the busy route for over a week. The ship is still in the Egypt’s Great Bitter Lake as it has not been allowed to leave. All its crew is still on board the ship. According news report, though investigators have analyzed data from the Voyage Data Recorder, known as a vessel's black box, they did not came to  conclusion on what led the Ever Given to run aground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seafarers-union-seeks-safety-of-indian-crew-on-ever-given-974277.html
14-04-2021||National||Tech Mahindra to start Covid-19 vaccination drive for employees, their families||IT company Tech Mahindra on Wednesday announced that it will start an exclusive Covid-19 vaccination drive for its employees and dependent family members from April 15 in the national capital. Tech Mahindra has partnered with Fortis Healthcare to initiate the first phase of the drive. "At Tech Mahindra, well-being of our associates is a foremost priority for us, and this vaccination drive further reiterates our belief in 'Wellness before Business'. In addition to implementing all safety protocols, the vaccination drive in partnership with Fortis Healthcare will thereby enable us to keep our associates and their loved ones safe," Harshvendra Soin, global chief people officer and head – marketing, Tech Mahindra, said in a statement. Tech Mahindra will cover the cost of vaccination for all its associates and further plan to extend the benefit to its third-party employees as well, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tech-mahindra-to-start-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-employees-their-families-974278.html
14-04-2021||National||Not surprising that China operating in Indian Ocean, says Navy Chief||Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Wednesday said it is not surprising that China has been making forays into the Indian Ocean region as its energy sources, markets and resources are located to the west. In an address at the Raisina Dialogue, he also said his force is ready to do its bit to contribute to the security and stability of the Indo-Pacific, and referred to India's emergence as a more confident nation on the global stage. Asked about the possibility of military cooperation among the Quad countries, Admiral Singh did not give a direct reply but said there is no dearth of issues that it can handle and that there has been a robust engagement among the navies of the member nations of the grouping. Last month, the top leadership of the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia vowed to expand cooperation in the Indo-Pacific at a time China was increasing its military assertiveness in the region. Admiral Philip Scot Davidson, Commander of the US's Indo-Pacific Command, said the Quad has tremendous potential for cooperation, going far beyond the security sphere. Admiral Singh said there is a "natural desire" among most nations in the region to cooperate and collaborate for greater prosperity, adding the Indo-Pacific provides tremendous opportunities for "issue based convergences". "Convergence, as you know, can lead to cohesion," he said, adding Indo-Pacific is going through churn. Admiral Singh said the opportunities for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific can outweigh the challenges that are being faced, noting that the "oceans connect and they don't divide". Referring to China's attempts to expand presence in the Indian Ocean, the Navy Chief said its energy sources, markets and resources are located to the west. He said it is not surprising that China has come into the Indian Ocean as it is often said "the flag follows trade". The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical for India's strategic interests. China has been making concerted efforts to increase its presence in the region. Indian Navy has been ramping up presence in the Indian Ocean to keep a hawk-eyed vigil over Chinese activities. Admiral Singh said most threats in the maritime domain are transnational in nature and that there has been a realisation that it is not possible for one nation to go it alone. He said India has several areas of convergence and alignment with other nations in the Indo-Pacific. The Navy Chief said Indian Navy has been working with regional navies to build their capacities to secure their interests and also cooperating with like minded navies to build interoperability and trust. Admiral Davidson also said that the US has an interest in peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait, adding China is looking at militarily threatening and diplomatically isolating Taiwan. He said US engagement with Taiwan is commensurate to China's actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-surprising-that-china-operating-in-indian-ocean-says-navy-chief-974287.html
14-04-2021||National Politics||PM Modi negligent, callous in tackling Covid-19, must follow 'raj dharma': Congress||Congress on Wednesday slammed the Modi government’s handling of Covid-19 situation and accused it of jeopardising the lives of millions through its “callous” approach to the pandemic. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has called a virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee on Saturday to discuss the situation across the country and recommend steps for effective response to deal with the infectious disease. On Wednesday, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra discussed the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, where fresh cases have shot up in the past few days. “Look at the irony of the government, it did nothing to increase the hospital capacity in the past one year. Now, the government has to increase the capacity in crematoria across the state,” Priyanka said addressing a virtual meeting of party’s leaders in Uttar Pradesh. In Delhi, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala hit out at the Modi government over shortage of vaccines, oxygen and life saving drugs for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The Prime Minister is negligent, careless, cruel and callous in tackling Covid-19. The Modi government has jeopardised the lives of Indians by its negligent conduct,” he told reporters. “The government has been completely careless and cruel when it comes to ensuring life-saving drugs, oxygen and availability of beds, ramping up health infrastructure and ramping up vaccine production. It has proved incompetent in handling Covid-19,” Surjewala said. Congress has been asking the government to ban exports of vaccines and make them available to Indians first and even pitched for speedy approvals for more vaccines for use in the country. On Saturday, Gandhi is scheduled to discuss the emerging situation with top party leaders. Both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to expand the vaccination drive and provide income support to the poor to tide over the crises. Recently, the Congress president had met chief ministers of party-ruled states and ministers where the party is in power as a member of a coalition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-negligent-callous-in-tackling-covid-19-must-follow-raj-dharma-congress-974134.html
14-04-2021||National Politics||Congress digital TV platform to be launched on April 24||Congress on Wednesday announced the launch of its own YouTube channel – ‘INC TV’ – to reach out directly to the people, accusing a section of the media of being “partisan”. The YouTube channel – with eight hours of programming – will be formally launched on April 24, which is observed as the Panchayati Raj Day. “We wish that the Congress ideology should be disseminated on a larger scale through this medium,” Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, told reporters. In his interactions with the media and with professors of international universities, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has been accusing the Modi government of “capturing” institutions, including the media and denying access to opposition parties. Congress has often targeted a section of the media as “godi media”, accusing it of doing the bidding for the Modi government and painting the opposition in poor light. AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala dismissed any comparison of INC TV with Namo App. “Namo App is a symbol of vkayti pooja (personality worship). INC TV digital media platform is a digital media platform for dissemination of views and opinion,” Surjewala told reporters. He said the platform was an attempt to help the Congress convey its message to the people directly and raise issues of importance. Surjewala said the INC TV would initially have programmes in English and Hindi and gradually expand to other regional languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-digital-tv-platform-to-be-launched-on-april-24-974179.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||Former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav, state minister Ashutosh Tandon test positive for Covid-19||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Uttar Pradesh minister Ashutosh Tandon have tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet in Hindi on Wednesday, Yadav said, "My corona test report has come positive. I have isolated myself and started treatment at home itself. People who have come in contact with me in the past few days should get themselves tested. They are requested to stay in isolation for some days." Yadav had recently visited Haridwar where the Kumbh Mela is underway and met various religious leaders, including Akhara Parishad chairman Mahant Narendra Giri who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. On reaching Lucknow, Yadav got himself tested on Tuesday. Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Minister Tandon tweeted, "After observing initial symptoms of corona, I got myself tested, and the report has come positive. On the advice of doctors, I have isolated myself at home. People who have come in contact with me in the past few days should get themselves tested."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-uttar-pradesh-cm-akhilesh-yadav-state-minister-ashutosh-tandon-test-positive-for-covid-19-974067.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||UP govt to procure 25,000 Remdesivir injections from Gujarat||Uttar Pradesh health officials were on Wednesday sent to Ahmedabad to procure 25,000 Remdesivir injections on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's directions. Remdesivir is considered a key antiviral drug in fight against Covid-19, especially among adults with severe complications. "CM has directed Health department for urgent procurement of 25,000 Remdesivir from Ahmedabad. For this, directors and officials of the department are going to Ahemdabad on a state plane today itself," a tweet by the Chief Minister's Office said. Amid acute shortage of the medicine, the Centre has prohibited the export of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-procure-25000-remdesivir-injections-from-gujarat-974116.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||Shahi snan in Haridwar: Lakhs ignore Covid-19 concerns to take holy dip||Throwing caution to the wind amid rising cases of coronavirus, thousands of seers congregated on Wednesday at Har ki Pauri in Haridwar to take a dip in the Ganga during the third shahi snan of the Kumbh mela. The ‘royal bath’ marked Mesh Sankranti and Baisakhi, and fell two days after a similar convergence of ‘sadhus’ and other devotees for the second shahi snan -- events where following social distancing norms appears almost impossible. By noon between eight and 10 lakh people had take a bath in the river, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar, who was supervising the arrangements at Haridwar, said. Sadhus from four of the 13 akhadas were through with the ‘snan’ by this time. The officer said the event was going on without any hindrance. He said the crowds at the Ganga ghats were much smaller than expected at the third shahi snan - considered the most important in the series - and attributed this to the Covid restrictions in place. Police personnel were seen distributing masks among people in the Mela area. However, social distancing norms were violated openly by the seers when they and their followers descended the steps at Har ki Pauri to wade into the river. No masks were worn by a large proportion of them. The seers from the akhadas took the dip along with their revered deities carried in ornate palanquins at Har Ki Pauri, which was reserved exclusively for them. Lakhs of common devotees bathed at the other ghats of the river in Haridwar and Rishikesh. Seers and Naga sanyasis of the Niranjani Akhada led by Acharya Kailashanand Giri were the first to bathe in the river along with Anand Akhada seers. They were followed by the Joona Akhada, which has the highest number of sadhus led by Swami Avadheshanand. The Mahanirvani Akhada seers came next, as the batches followed one another according to their allotted time slots. All akhadas have to finish taking a dip at Har Ki Pauri before sunset so time management is very important, Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said. The shahi snans, and the Kumb Mela, have raised concerns over their role in possibly adding to rising coronavirus cases in the country. Uttarakhand recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with 1,925 people testing positive. Dehradun with 775 cases and Haridwar with 594 were the biggest contributors to the day’s tally. On the initial hours of the third shahi snan, the DGP said there was no disorder anywhere. He said this was because of the expansion of infrastructure in Haridwar over the past few months, including the addition of more ghats which has helped in better crowd management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shahi-snan-in-haridwar-lakhs-ignore-covid-19-concerns-to-take-holy-dip-974148.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||Journalists reporting from most adverse situations, should be vaccinated on priority: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi Government will write to the Centre asking journalists to be treated as frontline workers and be allowed vaccination on priority. “Journalists are reporting from most adverse situations. They should be treated as frontline workers and should be allowed vaccination on priority. Delhi government is writing to the Centre in this regard,” he tweeted. Journalists are currently not included in the list of frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/journalists-reporting-from-most-adverse-situations-should-be-vaccinated-on-priority-kejriwal-974184.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||When massive fire, cholera curtailed the Kumbh Mela||The Kumbh Mela, which saw over 1,000 people test positive on Monday and Tuesday, was curtailed from the start this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Its usual duration of four months was cut down to a month and Covid-appropriate curbs were placed in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, where the Mela is unfolding. Authorities in the state had said they do not have enough manpower to ensure safety measures were being followed by all, which had become a cause to worry as the country sees a deadlier second wave. However, this is not the first time Mela has been curtailed. Not by another pandemic, but other disasters. Rakesh said that in 1944 Ardh Kumbh, the then British government banned the congregation, but the mela was still conducted. Just like this Maha Kumbh, the 1939 Mela was held after 11 years instead of 12, which is considered inauspicious. But the scholar is quoted as saying in TOI that the inauspicious time has passed and the congregation will now "be blessed".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/when-massive-fire-cholera-curtailed-the-kumbh-mela-974208.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal to discuss Delhi coronavirus situation with L-G on Thursday as cases surge||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the coronavirus situation in the city with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal during a meeting Thursday, the CM's office said. The city recorded 17,282 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest single-day surge here till date, and over 100 fatalities, according to data shared by the health department. "In view of the spread of Covid-19 infection, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the situation with Lieutenant Governor at 11 am on Wednesday," the Chief Minister's Office tweeted. It said that Kejriwal will also hold a meeting with Health Minister Satyendar Jain, Chief Secretary and other senior officials on the coronavirus situation in Delhi at 12 noon. As per the latest bulletin, 104 new fatalities were recorded, pushing the death toll to 11,540. These new positive cases came out of record 1.08 akh tests conducted the previous day, the bulletin said, adding, the positivity rate mounted to 15.92 per cent. The highest single-day spike in Delhi till the third wave of the pandemic -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 18, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. The positivity rate mid-November last year had stood above 15 per cent. Reeling under the fourth wave of Covid-19, the national capital on Tuesday had recorded 13,468 cases and 81 deaths due to the infection, giving it the dubious distinction of being the worst-affected city in the county. On Tuesday, the positivity rate rose to 13.14 percent from 12.44 percent a day ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-to-discuss-delhi-coronavirus-situation-with-l-g-on-thursday-as-cases-surge-974270.html
14-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records over 17,000 Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths||Delhi on Wednesday recorded more than 17,000 new Covid-19 cases and 104 deaths as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hit India’s capital city hard. According to Delhi government’s health bulletin, as many as 17,282 new cases have come up and more than 100 deaths have been reported. While the daily count was in the range of 13,500 on Tuesday, nearly 4,000 new cases have been added a day later. The positivity rate stands at 15.92 per cent and the fatalities are the highest since November. Both the number of fresh Covid-19 infections and deaths in Delhi are almost double than that of Mumbai, which till recently was India's worst Covid metro. Out of 13,437 Covid beds available in Delhi hospitals, as many as 8,870 are occupied and the rest are filling up fast. The Delhi government had earlier ordered reserving every bed in 14 large private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The Arvind Kejriwal government on Wednesday modified the order leaving out some beds for non-Covid patients. As per the new order, the 14 hospitals together will keep 3,553 beds exclusively for Covid-19 patients, leaving aside 784 beds for non-Covid patients. The hospitals have also been allowed to temporarily increase their beds by 35 per cent, which would be reserved for Covid-19 patients. But the order left four hospitals with barely any bed for non-Covid patients. They are (1) 200-bedded Manipal Hospital in Dwarka, which has no non-Covid bed now (2) Mata Charan Devi hospital that has been left with 10 beds (3) Saroj Super Specialty hospital that will have 14 beds for non-Covid patients and (4) Pushpawati Singhania hospital in Saket that will have only 18 such beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-over-17000-covid-19-cases-and-104-deaths-974273.html
14-04-2021||Opinion||India's double challenge: When the pharmacy of the world needs prescriptions itself||By Aashish Chandorkar, On April 11, India recorded almost 1,70,000 Covid-19 cases, a record for the country since the start of the pandemic. The day before, India crossed a different kind of milestone: Vaccinating 10 crore people. It is this seesaw of despair and hope that India rides today, battling the outbreak with a healthcare system operating on the brink even as its pharmaceutical industry tries to fill the world’s prescription for vaccine doses. India reached the 10 crore vaccination mark in 85 days, faster than the US and China, which took 89 and 102 days respectively. But the task ahead is formidable: the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target of fully vaccinating 30 crore individuals by July. The arithmetic alone is daunting. India started with a stock of 10 crore vaccine doses at the beginning of the year. Its two manufacturers — The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech— are equipped to produce 6.6 crore doses per month through June, adding 39.6 crore to the total. But they also have obligations to supply Unicef’s COVAX program and export agreements elsewhere to the tune of 8 crore doses. That leaves 41.6 crore doses for local use: 18.4 crore doses short of the 60 crore needed to reach the July goal. Already, Pune-based Serum Institute — which makes the AstraZeneca shot, called Covishield in India — and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech — which makes the locally developed Covaxin — are at capacity. New vaccines from new manufacturers need to hit the market. The shortage comes at a crucial time in the global fight against Covid-19 — and in India’s until now impressive vaccine diplomacy. The shipments have gone from Asia to the Caribbean, from Africa to Latin America in boxes tagged with the Sanskrit phrase Sarve bhavantu sukhinah, “may all be happy.” Bhutan has administered at least one dose to more than 60% of its population thanks to vaccines produced in India. New Delhi also supplied serum to Paraguay, which had been under pressure from Beijing to break its ties with Taiwan in order to secure China-made vaccines. But the generosity of the diplomacy has earned the Modi government domestic ire. The Indian vaccine stock is distributed to all the states, which administer the healthcare system. The just-in-time replenishment has led to stock running out in some cities, generating criticism of inequitable vaccine availability as the exports continue and as local inoculations are limited to people 45 years old and above. Many of the country’s more industrialised states are suffering a surge in infections and want vaccine priority as well as an exception to age eligibility in order to serve their younger populations. The Modi government has categorically refused to do so. It is, however, working to allocate larger supplies to cities that have become pandemic hot spots. A vaccine from Zydus Cadila, an Ahmedabad-based firm, may be next to get an approval. Johnson & Johnson may soon undertake a bridging trial for its single-dose vaccine to be manufactured for local as well as export market — though its current pause in the US to assess fears of blood clotting may become an issue in India as well. On April 13, the government also allowed the use of all vaccines certified by US, EU and Japanese regulators. There is much to admire about India’s efforts: It has managed to scale its medical manufacturing efforts to global proportions and earn the title of pharmacy of the world. When the pandemic ends, it will be with the tremendous assistance of India’s pharmaceutical industry. But, right now, we are nowhere near declaring that victory. Even if India fully vaccinates 30 crore citizens by July, that’s just about one third of the total population. Meanwhile, the pandemic is raging unabated, sparing not even younger people. For now, India’s fight against Covid-19 hangs in balance. And so does the world’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-double-challenge-when-the-pharmacy-of-the-world-needs-prescriptions-itself-974003.html
14-04-2021||Opinion||Stop the chatter on US's boycott of the Beijing Winter Olympics||It may have been a slip of the tongue, or perhaps a bit of miscommunication in a new administration. That's little consolation to hundreds of potential Olympians around the country. Just to hear chatter in the nation’s capital about a possible boycott of the Winter Olympics in China had to be enough to alarm athletes already deep in preparation for the games. Thankfully, there doesn't seem to be any groundswell of support for the idea of boycotting the games, which are scheduled to take place just 10 months from now. The US State Department suggested earlier this month that an Olympic boycott was among the possibilities because of human rights issues in China, but a senior official said later that keeping the US team home has not been discussed. Here's hoping it doesn't enter the conversation again. "For an Olympic athlete, a boycott is an absolute tragedy," track great Edwin Moses said. "We only get that one shot every four years." Moses hasn't run in an Olympics since 1988, though he's got a unique insight into boycotts. When he was dominating the 400-meter hurdles for the better part of two decades he seemed to run into one every time he set his sights on the Olympics. The boycott in 1988 in Seoul was so small he struggled to remember the nations involved. The one in Moscow eight years earlier was so big that it almost surely cost him a gold medal. Moses still managed to win gold medals in Montreal in 1976 and Los Angeles in 1984. But even the greatest hurdler ever couldn’t win when he wasn't allowed to run. "We couldn't even watch the Moscow Olympics because they weren’t televised," Moses said in a phone interview with The Associated Press. "I took a midsummer beak, went to California, and laid on the beach." It was probably best that Moses didn’t watch. His stomach might have turned had he seen the 400-meter hurdles gold won in 48.70, more than a second slower than the winning time he ran in 1976. Two weeks before the 1980 games he broke his own world record in a meet in Milan, winning so easily that the other hurdlers are barely in the picture after he cleared the last hurdle. Moses was lucky in some respects because he was so good for so long that his career spanned four different Olympics. He missed just one, the 1980 games in Moscow, after President Jimmy Carter ordered the US team to boycott because the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan. A lot of his potential teammates for Moscow weren’t as fortunate. Many lost their only chance for Olympic glory when the games became caught up in cold war politics. Two out of every three never got a chance to compete in an Olympics again. Thankfully, boycotts haven’t been a part of the Olympic discussion for more than three decades now. The last one was in 1988, when North Korea and Cuba skipped the games in Seoul, a mini-boycott that did little except cost Cuba some potential gold medals in boxing and track and field. Before that, though, were two Olympics forever tarnished by the countries who decided to stay away. That included the United States and 65 other countries in 1980 in Moscow. And it included the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles, where the Soviets and 17 other countries got some payback even if the games overall were largely considered a success. Moses delivered the athlete’s pledge in Los Angeles, then went on to win gold in his specialty. That was hardly unexpected, since Moses won gold in 1976 and won 122 straight races between 1977 and 1987. He set the world record four different times in the 400. Still, there's a void when he looks back on his career because of the one gold he wasn't allowed to chase. "There are athletes with more medals than me because I wasn’t able to compete in multiple events," said Moses, who is now 65 and living in Atlanta. “But I could have been the only guy at the time to win three golds in one event, maybe four if I hadn’t had a bad day at the office in Seoul." Last year, on the 40th anniversary of the boycott, Sarah Hirshland, the head of the US Olympic and Paralympic Committee, penned a letter to the 1980 Olympic hopefuls that said no athlete should be denied the chance to compete in Olympics because of world politics. And Walter Mondale, who was vice president at the time, also offered an apology of sorts to those who had their dreams taken away. "I think we did the right thing," Mondale told The Wall Street Journal last year. "But I'm sorry about how it hurt them." Moses is sorry, too, and not just for himself. He can only hope that, despite rumblings of a possible Beijing boycott, the lessons of four decades ago have been learned. "It doesn't work and hopefully the politicians will keep their hands off of it," he said. "It only hurts athletes and there are other things you can do other than a boycott. It has nothing to do with sports, nor should it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stop-the-chatter-on-uss-boycott-of-the-beijing-winter-olympics-974070.html
14-04-2021||South||Use sanitiser carefully: Man suffers serious burns after embers from cigarette set him ablaze||Ruban's family told cops that when he got home from work, he used hand sanitiser right away, but a few drops of the alcohol-based cleanser fell on his shirt. Ruban was informed about it, but he said that he would change his shirt after a bath and went to the bathroom anyway. He lit a cigarette there, a few sparks fell on his shirt and was soon engulfed in flames, according to the officer. His family members rushed in and took him to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital, where his condition was described as serious. According to the cop, the man had burns on his face, neck, chest, abdomen, and both hands. Despite the fact that sanitisers evaporate within 2-5 seconds of application, doctors warn that using a cigarette or other flame-inducing object poses a risk. Since sanitisers contain up to 62 per cent ethyl alcohol, they are dangerous and highly flammable, and hence doctors recommend that they should be used with caution and allowed to dry before lighting a fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/use-sanitiser-carefully-man-suffers-serious-burns-after-embers-from-cigarette-set-him-ablaze-974064.html
14-04-2021||South||Telangana reports 2,157 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Telangana recorded 2,157 fresh coronavirus cases, pushing the total positives to over 3.34 lakh, while the toll rose to 1,780 with eight more fatalities. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 361, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (245) and Rangareddy (206), a government bulletin said on Wednesday providing details as of 8 PM on April 13. The total number of cases stood at 3,34,738 while with 821 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,07,499. The state has 25,459 active cases and over 72 thousand lakh samples were tested on Tuesday. Cumulatively, over 1.12 crore samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was over three lakh, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.53 per cent, while it was 1.2 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 91.86 per cent, while it was 88.9 per cent in the country. According to a separate release, over 20 lakh people in the state have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while over 3.12 lakh got their second shot also as of April 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2157-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-974065.html
14-04-2021||South||Keralites celebrate Vishu under Covid-19 shadow||Despite restrictions in place due to Covid-19 pandemic, Keralites celebrated "Vishu", the harvest festival which also marks Malayalam new year, with fervour and gaiety on Wednesday. Cutting across age, people rose early to see the auspicious "Vishu kani", symbolising hope, promise and fine prospects they wish to have in the year ahead. Majority of Hindu households prepared the 'kani' arranging various auspicious articles like seasonal fruits, vegetables, flower, gold and clothes on platters. As per the tradition, the articles together form the first sight when family members wake up on Vishu day. Elders gifted coins to children as part of the custom known as 'vishu kaineettam'. However, various restrictions imposed by the government in view of concerns over the second wave of the Covid-19 affected the usual festive mood and celebrations outside. The usual crowd was comparatively less at famous tourist centres. People were allowed to have darshan in all major temples in the state, adhering to restrictions and Covid-19 protocols. A large number of people thronged temples across the state to have the glimpse of 'vishukani' arranged there since wee hours. Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa temple was opened for pilgrims by 5.30 am for 'vishu kani' darshan. As part of the Covid-19 restrictions, the Guruvayur Sree Krishna Temple permitted devotees outside the 'nalambalam' for the 'kani' darshan from 2.30 am. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were among those who greeted people on the occasion of Vishu. In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Kerala government recently issued directions for the public and restricted the number of persons for indoor gatherings to 100 and 200 for outdoors.  It also ordered that all the shops be closed by 9 PM every day and promote door delivery. Kerala recorded 7,515 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total caseload to 11.80 lakh and active cases mounted to 52,132, the state government had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralites-celebrate-vishu-under-covid-19-shadow-974097.html
14-04-2021||South||Surappa demits office as Anna University VC||Having demitted his office as Vice-Chancellor of the prestigious Anna University after a three-year tumultuous journey, Prof. M K Surappa feels he has played a “significant role” in ushering in transparency in the appointment of faculty and admission of students under various quotas. In a conversation with DH after his term ended on April 11, the Mysuru-born Surappa said he just went by the statute of the institute by establishing base with Centre on the question of Institute of Excellence (IoE), as mobilising funds for the development of the university was one of the tasks bestowed to the V-C. Branded as an “outsider” from the time he was appointed as V-C in April 2018, Surappa had several run-ins with the state government, more so in the last year of his tenure when he came under attack for “unilaterally” writing to the Centre on issues of funding and IoE status for the university. “I did not have any confrontation (with the state government). It is a clear misunderstanding. I was simply doing my job according to established rules of the university, and I never deviated from my path. I brought in significant changes in the functioning of the university. One can compare the situation now and what it was ten years back,” Surappa said. “If someone interprets my doing the job as per rules as a confrontation, it is not my problem,” the former V-C, who has been associated with Indian Institute of Sciences, Bengaluru for long, added. Surappa said he is happy with the “significant changes” that the varsity has undergone in the past three years. “Not just the quota, but there was transparency everywhere. The University has now moved many notches up in world rankings,” he added. However, his tenure came under a cloud in November last year when the Tamil Nadu government constituted an inquiry against Surappa on allegations of corruption by misusing funds allotted to the institution and by collecting bribes during recruitment of temporary teaching staff. “I have refuted all allegations against me, and I have been quite surprised and shocked. However, the commission appointed for the purpose is on the job, and let them complete the inquiry. I do not want to say more on this issue,” Surappa said. On the controversy over writing a letter to the Centre directly, “circumventing” the state government, Surappa said as V-C of the varsity, he is allowed to talk to secretaries of various departments and officials of the Centre in the interest of the institution. “I really do not need anyone's permission to talk to the Centre. I went by the rules which allows me to raise funds for the university. There was no question of circumventing anyone when I wrote or spoke to someone (in Delhi). Only when I use the state government's money, I need their permission,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/surappa-demits-office-as-anna-university-vc-974220.html
14-04-2021||South||Repolling in Chennai voting station on April 17||Days after three men were caught carrying EVM and VVPAT machines on two-wheelers, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has ordered repolling in one of the booths in Velachery Assembly constituency in Chennai. The repoll at booth no. 92 of Velachery constituency will be held between 7 am and 7 pm on April 17 (Saturday), the ECI has said in a notification. The decision to hold a repoll in the said booth was taken after the agency received a report from the Returning Officer and observers. The booth had a total of 540 votes and 220 people had exercised their franchise on April 6. However, three staff members of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) were caught carrying two EVMs and one VVPAT machine in a two-wheeler the same evening. While the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) initially said the machines recovered were not used during polling, he retracted the statement two days later to admit that 15 votes had been registered in one of the machines. Velachery is an urban middle-class constituency in Chennai that is witnessing an intense fight between AIADMK's M K Ashok, Congress candidate J M H Aassan Maulaana and Makkal Needhi Maiam's Dr Santhosh Babu, who quit IAS and joined politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/repolling-in-chennai-voting-station-on-april-17-974222.html
14-04-2021||South||Covid-19 numbers hit a new high in Tamil Nadu; 7,800 test positive in a day||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 7,819 fresh Covid-19 cases, an all-time high for the state in a single day since the first outbreak in March 2020. The highest number of cases reported on a day during the first wave last year was 6,993. Of the 7,819 persons who tested positive on Wednesday, 2,564 are from Chennai, followed by Chengalpattu (772), Coimbatore (540), and Tiruvallur (383). With the new infections, the state's active case has gone up to 54,315 as the death toll hit 12,970 with 25 persons losing their lives in the last 24 hours. The state, which contained the spread last year and was reporting just a few hundred cases, saw a sudden spurt in March after election campaigns began in full swing. The cases have grown gradually to hit 7,819 on Wednesday, even as testing hit an all-time high with 96,513 samples being sent to 262 labs across the state. “The second wave is quite serious. People need not panic but they should get tested immediately if they have symptoms. People who are eligible to get vaccinated should do so immediately to save their life and that of others,” Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said. In Chennai and other cities, fever camps have been organised to check people for symptoms and send their samples for testing. The government has also imposed several restrictions in the state due to rising cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-numbers-hit-a-new-high-in-tamil-nadu-7800-test-positive-in-a-day-974263.html
14-04-2021||State||Yediyurappa refuses to comment on Satish Jarkiholi's statement||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa refused to comment on statement made by KPCC Working President and Congress candidate for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency by-election, Satish Jarkiholi, that CM had been campaigning in the region fearing the defeat of BJP candidate Mangala Angadi. Yediyurappa told reporters here on Wednesday that he has been campaigning for BJP candidate Mangala Angadi as the chief minister and she was poised to win. "I shall not comment on statements made by opposition candidate," he said. He said he would campaign for by-election for two days. Regarding implementation of lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, he said if people do not want strict lockdown they should follow safety guidelines and wear masks and maintain social distancing. Meeting with all parties has been scheduled on April 18 in Bengaluru and decision on more strict measures to prevent spread of the pandemic will be discussed. As of now, night curfew has been enforced in eight cities and if needed, more will be added to the list, Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yediyurappa-refuses-to-comment-on-satish-jarkiholis-statement-974155.html
14-04-2021||State||Navy searches for missing fishermen off Mangaluru coast||Following reports that an Indian fishing boat had collided with a merchant ship off New Mangalore on Tuesday, the Indian Navy has deployed several ships and aircraft to recover the crew. According to the office of the Defense Public Relations Officer, the IFB Rabah with a crew of 14 had collided with the Singaporean flag merchant ship MV APL Le Havre, 40 nautical miles west of New Mangalore at about 2 am on April 13. The incident prompted the Indian Naval Ships Tillanchang and Kalpeni, along with naval aircraft from Goa, to be directed into the area to augment Coast Guard search-and-rescue efforts. While two rescued fishermen have been transferred to shore, several of the crew appear to have perished. The navy has found three bodies so far with the remaining nine crewmen still missing. Assisting in the rescue efforts is the INS Subhadra, a patrol vessel, which sailed from Karwar with a diving team embarked. This vessel arrived in the search area in the early hours of April 14. “Two specialist diving teams are undertaking snag line search in the area in an effort to locate the sunk fishing craft,” a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/navy-searches-for-missing-fishermen-off-mangaluru-coast-974255.html
14-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa hints at tough Covid-19 measures after April 18||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa hinted at more stringent regulations after April 18 to mitigate rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The government will also consider extending night curfews to few more district centres if required. Speaking to reporters, he said that the all-party meeting convened on April 18 will discuss all measures "except lockdown".  In the wake of strict regulations imposed in Maharashtra, the Karnataka government will also discuss the measures initiated in the neighbouring states. "We will discuss with leaders from opposition parties and take steps considering their advice," Yediyurappa said.  "There is no proposal for a weekend curfew. However, we will deliberate whether night curfew can be extended (to other parts of the state)," he said, adding that it could be extended to two or three district centres. Night curfew is currently in force at eight district centres of Karnataka, including Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru.  Karnataka has reported over 25,000 Covid-19 cases in the last three days, as case numbers have surged in the second wave of the pandemic projected to peak in May.  While Yediyurappa had spoken of imposing lockdown if required two days ago, he made a U-turn Tuesday, ruling out lockdown in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-hints-at-tough-covid-19-measures-after-april-18-974055.html
14-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka government issues guidelines for Ramzan||The Karnataka government has issued a set of guidelines for Muslims to follow during the holy month of Ramzan, in view of growing coronavirus cases in the state. The government said the growing cases call for strict compliance of Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour (CAB), especially during Ramzan as "people tend to congregate in large numbers". According to a circular issued by the government, people above 60, those with comorbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 years should remain at home. Large gatherings of people are prohibited and social distancing should be maintained at mosques. There should be markings on the floor of the place of worship to manage queues and face masks should be made mandatory. "Entry of visitors shall be staggered to avoid crowding," it said. Cough etiquette should be adhered to, thermal screening and hand sanitisation should be done at the entrance of mosques, it added. During 'Iftar', Muslims are advised to break their fast at home and reach mosques only for prayers. The circular also said the mosques should be frequently cleaned and disinfected. Those found infected by coronavirus should be isolated immediately and a medical facility should be informed. The government also asked the mosque authorities to sensitise the faithful about dos and don'ts during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-government-issues-guidelines-for-ramzan-974085.html
14-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bus strike: 60 buses damaged in 6 days||As many as 60 buses belonging to the four state road transport corporations (RTC) have been damaged, while the driver and conductor of at least one bus were assaulted during the first six days of the bus strike from April 7 to 13. Officials on Wednesday released data of damages suffered by the RTCs. The KSRTC suffered the most with damages to 34 buses, most of them related to broken windshields, windows and rear windshield. A driver and conductor who were injured after stones were pelted at a bus near Tumakuru are being treated at a government hospital. In another incident, petrol was thrown at the driver of a bus near Kolar.  The NEKRTC reported damage to 20 buses, while the BMTC and NWKRTC both reported damages to three buses each.  The data was released a day after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa instructed officials to initiate stringent actions against miscreants damaging public property and also take steps to ensure employees on strike return to work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bus-strike-60-buses-damaged-in-6-days-974123.html
14-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt pegs loss at Rs 152 crore due to transport employees stir||As many as 60 buses belonging to the four state road transport corporations (RTC) have been damaged since April 7, when the workers began their strike, causing losses to the tune of Rs 152 crore. Officials on Wednesday released data of damage suffered by the RTCs. The KSRTC suffered the most with 34 buses having their windshields, window and rear glasses broken. The KSRTC said a driver and a conductor who were injured after stones were pelted at the vehicle near Tumakuru, are being treated in a government hospital. In another incident, a driver of a bus near Kolar was doused in petrol. As many as 34 cases involving 121 employees have been registered. The NEKRTC reported damage to 20 buses, followed by BMTC and NWKRTC both of which reported damage to three buses each. The data was released a day after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa instructed officials to initiate stringent action against miscreants damaging public property and also take steps to ensure employees on strike return to work. Meanwhile, the managements of the four corporations managed to run 3,402 buses. In addition, 11,330 private buses operated from the government bus stations. Staff in no mood to relent Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, honorary president of State Road Transport Employees League, said the strike will continue on Thursday. He said the RTC workers will stage a candlelight protest on Thursday and will approach all the MLAs to urge them to raise their issue at the government-level. “We have not tried to disrupt alternative services being provided by the government but we continue to request the government to consider our demands,” he said, appealing to the workers not to give up due to fear of suspension or dismissal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-pegs-loss-at-rs-152-crore-due-to-transport-employees-stir-974171.html
14-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No lockdown in Karnataka even after by-polls: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that there is no proposal before the State government to enforce lockdown in Karnataka after April 17 (the day voting for by-polls complete). Speaking to media persons on Wednesday, he said there is no necessity for lockdown in the state in spite of rising cases of Covid-19. “Lockdown is not the only solution for containing Covid-19 cases. Following of guidelines issued by the Union government will help in containing the cases,” he said and added that people should take Covid-19 cases seriously. Reacting to the indefinite strike by the State road transport corporation employees, Joshi said the State government is willing to talk to the protesting employees. He asked the protesting staff to immediately return to work as their boycott of work is causing inconvenience and hardship to the people. False hope Congress candidate for Belagavi Lok Sabha by-polls Satish Jarkiholi is under the false hope of winning the seat. Rebutting the charges of Satish that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is making repeated visits to Belagavi as the party is facing defeat, Joshi said the chief minister has visited the district only twice and he has been campaigning in all the three seats where polls are being held. “As a popular leader and head of State government, Yediyurappa is supporting BJP candidate,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-lockdown-in-karnataka-even-after-by-polls-pralhad-joshi-974173.html
14-04-2021||West||Give relief, ramp up health infrastructure: Fadnavis to Uddhav after new curbs||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in the state must give concessions in electricity bills, property tax and GST, following the announcement of new "lockdown-like" restrictions to check coronavirus cases. "The state seems to have not offered any concessions in electricity bills, property tax or GST. Similarly, no financial assistance announced for salon operators, small businessman, flower vendors among others. These comprise of a major labour force who will have no means of earnings," Fadnavis said. "The state should immediately use the reserved fund of Rs 3,300 crore for restricting Covid-19 spread. It should be utilised for adding more beds and procurement of medical equipment. The state should issue directives accordingly," the BJP leader added. The leader of opposition in the Assembly said the government's priority should be to improve health services, increase availability of ventilators, Remdesivir injections, oxygen supply, oxygenated beds etc to minimise the the suffering of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/give-relief-ramp-up-health-infrastructure-fadnavis-to-uddhav-after-new-curbs-973975.html
14-04-2021||West||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh reaches Mumbai's DRDO guest house, to be quizzed by CBI over corruption allegations||Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh reached the DRDO guest house in Mumbai's Santacruz on Wednesday morning where the CBI is set to quiz him over corruption allegations by Mumbai's ex-police Chief Param Bir Singh. Mumbai: Former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh arrives at DRDO guest house The notice calling Deshmukh to join the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe was issued on Monday morning, a day after his two aides Sanjeev Palande and Kundan recorded their statements before the agency, the officials said.  The CBI is carrying out a preliminary inquiry into allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Singh after he was removed from the coveted post of Mumbai Police commissioner. The allegations were reportedly corroborated by suspended officer Sachin Vaze in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the SUV case, they said. The Bombay High Court had last week directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations levelled by Singh against Deshmukh.  In a letter, Singh had said that Deshmukh had asked Vaze to allegedly extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai, the officials said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-reaches-mumbais-drdo-guest-house-to-be-quizzed-by-cbi-over-corruption-allegations-974047.html
14-04-2021||West||All you need to know about Maharashtra's lockdown-like restriction||With a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, strict lockdown-type measures have been implemented in the worst-pandemic-affected state of Maharashtra which comes into effect from 8 pm on April 14 till 7 am on May 1. Besides, the night curfew, as earlier, will continue. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 60,212 fresh coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally to 35,19,208 while 281 fatalities pushed the toll to 58,526, the state health department said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a slew of initiatives to help people, particularly those who depend on hand-to-mouth sustenance. 1. Although essential services and the public transportation system, including Mumbai’s suburban railway, would continue to run, no one would be allowed to move without a valid reason except for people notified under essential services. 2. The chief minister has banned large gatherings outside and has urged people to step outside only if necessary. "Decide if you are helping Corona, or if you're fighting Corona," Thackeray said during his Facebook live broadcast. 3. Cinema halls, theatres, auditoriums, amusement parks, gyms, sports complexes to be closed. Shooting for films, serial, ads won't be permitted. All shops, malls, shopping centres not performing essential services will also remain closed from 8 pm, April 14 till 7 am on May 1.  4. Essential services include hospitals, medicine shops, public transports, vaccine production spots, vaccine transportation companies and masks production. These will remain open from 7 am to 8 pm.  5. Public transport including local trains and buses will function but will be used only for essential workers and in cases of emergency. People cannot travel unless strictly necessary. 6. Local authorities need to study possible locations for grocery, vegetable and fruits shopping for civilians. They must rule out spots that become densely populated.  7. Banking services ascertained by RBI comes under essential services. Banks, including cooperative, PSU and private-sector banks, non-banking financial corporations. Postal services, port services, stock exchange and intermediaries registered with Sebi, ATMs. 8. Essential services shops to operate while ensuring Covid Appropriate Behavior (CAB) by owners, staff working there at as well as customers in the shop premises.  9. Essential shops owners and person working at all shops have been advised to get vaccinated at the earliest, as per the criteria of the Government of India. All shops are advised to follow safety measures like interaction with customers through transparent glass or other material shields, electronic payment etc.  10. All restaurants and bars will remain closed for in-dining, except for those inside the campus and which form integral parts of hotels. Only home delivery services shall be allowed and there shall be no visiting any restaurant or bar for ordering purposes or pickup. 11. Restaurants and bars inside hotels are to be open only for in-house guests. In no circumstance should outside guests be allowed. For outsiders, they will follow the same restrictions as any other restaurant and bar as mentioned above. Guests of the hotel may move out only for valid reasons or for the performance of duty required for essential services or exceptions made for offices mentioned in the order.  12. Factories with more than 500 workers will have to set up their own quarantine facilities. Such quarantine centres should have all basic facilities and in case of such a facility being set up outside the campus of the industry, the affected persons should be moved to the said facility while ensuring that there is no contact with any other person during the transit. 13. Places of worship will remain closed during the two weeks. Everyone engaged in the service of the place of worship shall continue toperform their duties though no outside visitor shall be allowed. 14. Schools and colleges will remain closed amid the surge in coronavirus cases. 15. For exams that are being conducted by any board, university or authority outside the state, denial of which may lead to hardships for students residing in Maharashtra may be allowed by the concerned department under intimation to concern disaster management authority. 16. Wedding will be allowed only with a maximum of 25 people present and funerals will be allowed a maximum of 20 people. All the staff at any marriage hall or a funeral have to be vaccinated and till completely vaccinated they have to carry a valid negative RT-PCR/RAT/TruNAT/CBNAAT certificate. In case of violation of rules, the offender will be fined ₹1,000 and a fine of ₹10,000 will be levied on the establishment. 17. Fine of ₹500 to be levied for not wearing masks in public places. 18. Regarding public transport, air services, public buses, train, taxis (including app-based services), autos (driver+2 people), 50% of the capacity of taxis and only seating in buses allowed. 19. All the fines so collected shall be used by the concerned disaster management authority towards better containment and treatment of the Covid-19 disaster.  20. The Maharashtra government will provide 3 kg wheat and 2 kg rice free for the next one month to every poor and needy person in the state while coronavirus-induced restrictions are in place. Thackeray called upon PM Narendra Modi to provide oxygen to Maharashtra in view of rising cases, saying that the current stock will be exhausted if cases continue to increase. "We cannot afford to get oxygens from other states that are over 1000 km away by road. I request the PM to provide oxygen using airways. Air Force has to be roped in for this," Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-you-need-to-know-about-maharashtras-lockdown-like-restriction-974050.html
14-04-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh grilled by CBI over corruption charges levelled by Param Bir Singh||Former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday appeared before the CBI in connection with the corruption charges levelled by senior IPS officer and former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Singh, currently the commandant general of Home Guards, has alleged that Deshmukh had fixed Rs 100 crore per month as a collection target for assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Deshmukh (70) was seen entering the DRDO & IAF guest house at Kalina in Mumbai. After hearing a bunch of petitions, a bench of the Bombay High Court comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni on April 5 has asked the CBI to carry out a preliminary enquiry (PE) and submit a report in a fortnight. However, the Maharashtra government and Deshmukh had moved the Supreme Court against the order, but the apex court okayed the CBI probe. Over the past week, the CBI has started recording statements – the first being the activist-lawyer Jaishri Patil, one his plea, the probe was ordered. Others whose statements were recorded included Singh, Vaze, deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil. Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde too were grilled by the CBI. It may be mentioned that Vaze has been arrested in connection with the planting of Scorpio laded with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a  threatening letter near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based businessman. The three other accused in the case are Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie, Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable undergoing life sentence who was on parole and Riyazuddin Kazi, another assistant police inspector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-grilled-by-cbi-over-corruption-charges-levelled-by-param-bir-singh-974057.html
14-04-2021||West||Thane reports 5,056 new Covid-19 cases, 27 more deaths||Thane has reported 5,056 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 3,90,124, an official said on Wednesday. These new cases were recorded on Tuesday, he said. The virus also claimed the lives of 27 more people, pushing the death toll in Thane to 6,760, he said, adding that the Covid-19 mortality rate in the district is 1.73 per cent. So far, 3,25,669 patients have recuperated from the infection in the district, which reflects a recovery rate of 83.48 per cent. There are 57,695 active Covid-19 cases in the district at present, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count stood at 60,665 and the death toll at 1,269, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-reports-5056-new-covid-19-cases-27-more-deaths-974058.html
14-04-2021||West||Exports to take Rs 18,900-crore hit due to Maharashtra Covid-19 curfew: AIAI||Losses due to the 15-day curfew imposed in Maharashtra to curb the spread of Covid-19 would be enormous and affect exports to the tune of Rs 18,900 crore, said Mumbai-based All India Association of Industries (AIAI). According to AIAI President Vijay Kalantri, the manufacturing output might take a Rs. 17,817-crore hit over the curfew. Maharashtra makes up 20% of India's total merchandise exports. The restrictions will impact over Rs 7,500 crore in tax revenue and the Central government will lose over Rs 15,000 crore, Kalantri said. AIAI further stated that Mumbai alone contributes 32% to the direct tax collection of the Government of India. This translates to Rs 3.5 lakh crore collected annually.  Kalantri further stated that the curfew would adversely impact investment, employment and jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/exports-to-take-rs-18900-crore-hit-due-to-maharashtra-covid-19-curfew-aiai-974068.html
14-04-2021||West||Maharashtra MVA govt's Shiv Bhojan Thali comes to the aid of millions||The Shiv Bhojan Thali, the flagship scheme of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has emerged as a saviour for the poor and needy people. A brainchild of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray, the meal-plate comprises two chapatis, rice, dal and a sabji. Launched as part of the common minimum programme of the MVA, it has become a boon during the lockdown period. The scheme was launched on January 26, 2020, and was priced at Rs 10. However, in March 2020, after the outbreak of Covid-19, when the lockdown was announced, the price was brought down to Rs 5. Now, the Chief Minister has announced that from Thursday, the thali would be given free for a month’s time in form parcels. The Shiv Bhojan Thali's roll-out is being spearheaded by Food and Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal. “The daily rollout of Shiv Bhojan Thali is two lakh plates. So far, over five crore meals have been provided to people,” officials told DH on Wednesday. Since April 2020, the scheme has been extended to the tehsil-level. The Shiv Bhojan Thali, when launched, had 50 outlets – spread across 36 districts. Now there are hundreds of outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mva-govts-shiv-bhojan-thali-comes-to-the-aid-of-millions-974125.html
14-04-2021||West||Ambani security scare case: NIA probing 'fake encounter' angle||Investigators suspect that suspended cop Sachin Vaze had planned a "fake encounter" of two persons to project their link with the explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, sources said on Wednesday. This way, Vaze, an "encounter specialist", apparently wanted to claim to have solved the case, but it did not work out, they said. During a search of Vaze's house in neighbouring Thane, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the case, had recovered the passport of a man, whose identity has not been revealed. The investigators suspect Vaze had planned to kill the passport holder and one more person in a "fake encounter", the sources said. The "fake encounter" was initially planned in the Maruti Eeco vehicle, which was stolen from Maharashtra's Aurangabad city in November last year, they said. The probe agency suspects that by eliminating two persons, Vaze had planned to claim to have solved the case of the explosives-laden SUV and earn praise, but the plan did not work out, the sources said. The NIA earlier claimed Vaze was planning to do "something big". Accordingly, the agency is working on the "fake encounter" theory, the sources said. The explosives-laden SUV was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of Ambani on February 25. Businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. The NIA arrested Vaze on March 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-security-scare-case-nia-probing-fake-encounter-angle-974131.html
14-04-2021||West||Lockdown-type Covid-19 measures enforced for two weeks in Maharashtra||Amid an alarming surge in Covid-19 cases, strict fortnight-long lockdown-type measures came into force in Maharashtra on Wednesday evening. Aimed to 'Break-the-Chain' of coronavirus, the government has asked people not to step out of their houses unless absolutely necessary. Though public transport including the suburban train services of the Mumbai metropolitan region will continue to run, only people engaged in essential services would be allowed to travel. Over Tuesday and Wednesday, there was a crowd in some of the vegetable and fruit markets, groceries’ shops, snacks outlets – and panic buying was seen in some places. The new measures announced by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after a series of back-to-back meetings came into force at 8 pm and will continue till 7 am on May 1. There was also a crowd of migrant workers outside important stations like the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai and Pune. However, only people with confirmed tickets were allowed to travel in trains.  “Apart from regular trains, special trains as announced are being run to clear rush. It is a normal summer rush,” Central Railway chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said, urging people not to panic. He also asked people to report just 90 minutes in advance of the departure time – and people with only confirmed tickets must come to the station. However, a lot of migrant workers are leaving even by road. “We have 60 per cent of our staff that are from different states," said Raj Sadvikar, co-founder and partner, Angrezi Dhaba. "Since the time the lockdown was announced, there was panic amongst my migrants task force, owing to which they chose to return to their hometown in Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, and other parts of India to safety. Maharashtra which has seen a rising number of cases daily was also a reason for concern from the families of the workers. As of now, out of a total of 350 staff, 250 have returned irrespective of being offered food and shelter and 50 per cent of their monthly salaries,” he said "No doubt, the surge in cases calls for stringent measures, but how is the industry going to survive just on delivery and takeaways?" asked Shivanand Shetty, President, AHAR. “How is the Government going to compensate for this? This is a question which the Government has to answer to lakhs of families employed and associated with the industry. We got no support or relief package for the 7 months of lockdown last year & the result was evident with many restaurants shutting down forever, this time it is going to be worse. This year too our industry is being neglected and this is very disheartening,” Shetty added.  Siddhi Dhamane, a homemaker, said: “We need to have some stocks at home. The situation is worsening everywhere. We need to prepare for a bigger lockdown.” Rajan More, a resident of Vasai, left for his native in Konkan region. “In cities, the threat is much more. I am driving down to my native today, will reach past midnight,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-type-covid-19-measures-enforced-for-two-weeks-in-maharashtra-974206.html
14-04-2021||West||Trapped leopard rescued from a 25-feet-deep well||A leopard trapped in a 25-feet-deep well was saved from drowning with the help of a wooden ladder in Navalewadi village located in Pune district of Maharashtra. Wildlife SOS assisted the Maharashtra Forest Department in the successful rescue and release of the big cat. Navalewadi village in Pune were startled by the panicked roars, echoing from deep within an open well a couple of days ago. It turned out that a leopard was struggling to stay afloat in waist-deep water and the seemingly powerful feline appeared exhausted from the ordeal. Fearing for the leopard’s safety, the villagers immediately alerted the MFD. A four-member rescue team operating out of Wildlife SOS run Leopard RescueCentre in Junnar was also dispatched to assist the forest officers. In the meantime, a group of villagers who have been trained by Wildlife SOS and the MFD in conflict mitigation and rescue operations, lowered a wooden ladder into the well so that the leopard could clamber onto it for temporary support. Once the rescue team arrived at the scene, a trap cage was lowered into the well with its door angled towards the leopard. Almost grateful for a dry spot to move onto, the big cat jumped into the cage and was gradually lifted out of the well. The leopard was taken to the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre for a medical examination and was later released back into the wild. Dr. Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The leopard is a female, estimated to be 1-2 years old. She had sustained minor cuts and bruises from the fall. After a few hours under observation, the leopard was released back into the wild.” Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “Despite the years of experience on our hands, our rescuers always take into consideration the possible risks and challenges while conducting such rescue operations. Open wells are a major threat to wildlife as most often animals end up drowning or succumbing to starvation and injuries.” Yogesh Ghodake, Range Forest Officer, Otur, said, “The animals trapped in such dangerous situations are already very stressed so ensuring their safety and comfort is our priority. Open wells are a common threat to wildlife around villages, and our teams are vigilant constantly to provide any assistance when it comes to rescuing animals in distress.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trapped-leopard-rescued-from-a-25-feet-deep-well-974242.html
14-04-2021||West||Maharashtra records 58,952 new Covid-19 cases, 278 deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 58,952 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 35,78,160, while 278 new fatalities pushed the toll to 58,804, the state health department said. In view of an alarming rise in cases, the state government has announced a 15-day-long stricter measures which came into force at 8 pm on Wednesday and will remain in operation till 7 am on May 1. Maharashtra on April 11 had reported 63,294 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day tally so far. Also, 39,624 patients were discharged during the day, taking the count of recoveries to 29,05,721, the department said in a release. Maharashtra is now left with 6,12,070 active cases, the department said. Mumbai recorded 9,931 new cases and 54 fatalities, taking the tally to 5,45,195 and the toll to 12,147, it said. With 2,42,149 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,28,02,200, the department added. Currently, 34,55,206 people are in home isolation, while 28,494 persons are in institutional quarantine in the state, it said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 81.21 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.64 per cent, the department said. The Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and its satellite towns, recorded 18,676 cases and 89 deaths during the day, taking the infection count to 11,33,870 and the fatalities to 21,334. The Nashik division reported 8,309 cases, including 2,699 in Nashik city, while the Pune division recorded 9,909 fresh infections including 4,209 in Pune city. The Kolhapur division added 1,368 new cases, the Aurangabad division 3,329, the Latur division 4,792 and the Akola division 1,753. The Nagpur division registered 10,806 cases of the contagion, including 4,282 in Nagpur city. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 35,78,160, new cases 58,952, death 58,804, recoveries 29,05,721, active 6,12,070, people tested so far 2,28,02,200||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-58952-new-covid-19-cases-278-deaths-974254.html
14-04-2021||West||Urged Centre to allow mass vaccination of all hospitality industry staff: Pramod Sawant||Keen to keep the important tourism industry social infrastructure afloat, the Goa government has urged the Union Health Ministry to allow the state's hospitality industry workforce to get mass vaccinated across age groups. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday also said that imposing a lockdown was not the solution to containing the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in a small tourism-oriented state like Goa. "We have made a request to the Government of India for (allowing) vaccination of the tourism industry workforce across age groups. We have requested the (Union) Health Ministry," Sawant told reporters after a function organised by the Directorate of Fire and Emergency Service. "We have to create awareness and educate people about taking safeguards. Even if tourists come in a big way to Goa, public should not get involved with them. Hotel industries are also taking precautions. If we take those precautions, we will be able to contain it in a big way," the Chief Minister also said, on a day when the total number of active cases in the state reached 5,112. Sawant also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was appreciative of the Goa government's decision to not impose a lockdown, during a telephonic conversation on Wednesday. "The PM appreciated the stand to not go for lockdown. We have to create awareness and educate people about taking safeguards. "In a small touristic state like Goa, we can carry out vaccination in a big way. The PM said vaccination should be carried out in a big way and all facilities should be provided to the people," the Chief Minister also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/urged-centre-to-allow-mass-vaccination-of-all-hospitality-industry-staff-pramod-sawant-974264.html
14-04-2021||West||With rising Covid-19 cases, hospitals, crematoriums in Gujarat under pressure||A crematorium in Surat, which till two weeks ago used to cremate 10 to 15 dead bodies on an average in 24 hours, is cremating 100 to 110 dead bodies. The trustee of this crematorium says that due to all-day use, the cremation furnaces have melted. Similarly in Ahmedabad's Vadaj area, the chimney of an electric furnace collapsed due to overheating caused by excessive use. A 24-year-old had to wait for seven hours to get his father cremated on Tuesday night. With over 476 deaths due to coronavirus infection and over 60,000 fresh cases in the last two weeks (from March 31 to April 14), Gujarat's hospitals and crematoriums are witnessing an unprecedented burden. The images of people lining outside the hospitals to get admitted and dead bodies piling up in front of crematoriums are the most common sites in the state. The situation is expected to get worse in the coming days. On Wednesday, the state reported a record 73 deaths and 7,410 cases in 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,995 while the number of active cases stood at 39,250. "Last year, when the infection started, we increased three more gas cremation furnaces to meet the demand. Today, we have six furnaces and eight wooden pyres but they don't seem enough as we are cremating between 100 and 110 dead bodies every day," said Kamlesh Sailor, main trustee of Kurukshetra Crematorium in Surat.    Although the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Surat was only 24 on Wednesday in government records, the rest of the deaths are those cases that don't get counted as caused by the infection. "Patients with comorbidity or those who have a prior illness but are infected are not counted in the government record as Covid-19 deaths. That's the reason that despite a lesser number of deaths (in government record), crematoriums are packed," said a doctor, part of the state government's Covid-19 team, on condition of anonymity. However, the cremation of the comorbid patients is done as per the Covid-19 protocol.  According to officials, all Covid-19 designated hospitals are packed with patients. "The relatives are making frantic calls for securing beds. Same is the case with oxygen supply and medicines like Remdesivir. Even as an IPS officer, I can't assure my relatives. The situation is that bad," said an officer requesting anonymity.   The number of active cases in the state stood at over 39,000l The government claimed before Gujarat High Court on Monday that it had 71,000 beds, it didn't reveal how many of them were for critical cases, ICU and isolation. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has signed an MoU with 152 private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients, which have a total of 5,903 beds, out of which only 1,326 were for critical cases. By Wednesday evening, barely two per cent of the critical beds were vacant. Despite repeated attempts, Health Minister Nitin Patel didn't respond to calls. The grim situation forced Ahmedabad Medical Association to write a letter to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani over the "shortage of oxygen supply in Covid hospitals". The letter states, "Sir, the condition is going from Bad to Worst. Severe shortage of oxygen supply all Covid Hospitals. Hence, doctors are unable to treat patients who need oxygen. Every admission in Covid situation is only done when oxygen saturation of patient goes down and he/she requires oxygen supplementation from outside. If such conditions persist, the Death toll will rise..."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-rising-covid-19-cases-hospitals-crematoriums-in-gujarat-under-pressure-974272.html
