15-04-2021||First Edit||UP misused draconian NSA law||The Allahabad High Court’s order striking down 94 of the 110 detentions made under the National Security Act (NSA) by the UP government shows how wrongly this draconian law has been used by the state administration. These detentions were made between January 2018 and December 2020 across 32 districts of the state. It is not just the court’s decision to quash most of the cases but also the observations made by the judges that confirm the unreasonable exercise of power by the government. The court quashed the NSA orders in 30 of 41 cow slaughter cases, all 20 of 20 communal incident cases, and 20 of 25 others. Last October, the court had expressed concern over the frequent misuse of the law against cow slaughter, stating that it was being wielded against innocent people.    Ordering the release of the detained persons, the court said that a large number of the First Information Reports (FIR) had much the same content, showing that they were part of a cut-and-paste job, and there was "no application of mind’’ on the part of the district magistrates who issued the orders. The court also said that the accused had been denied the due process of law, and in many cases the detained persons did not get the opportunity to represent themselves effectively while challenging the NSA, and could not secure bail. The court also found many discrepancies and loopholes in the cases. The same reasons and circumstances to invoke the NSA were found in many disparate cases, and identical descriptions and similar venues were seen in many cow slaughter cases. From the court’s orders and its observations, it is clear that the cases were registered according to some plan and most of them were false cases with no evidence to support them.  The NSA enables governments to detain citizens on grounds ranging from acting prejudicial to the defence of India or security of state to maintenance of public order and of supplies and services. Many of these are vague grounds and those who are accused of the charges need not initially be even told about them, and can be detained for up to 12 months without charges and trial. They are denied the normal rights of citizens, and the checks in the form of advisory boards do not work. The court did well to ensure that those whose basic rights were violated got the justice that they deserved. But how do they get back the months or years they lost because of the prejudicial and illegal actions of the state? The court as an institution held itself up, but it has exposed other institutions which have failed in their duties to protect the rights of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/up-misused-draconian-nsa-law-974297.html
15-04-2021||In Perspective||Higher education: Good database key||A lot has been written about the issue of student evaluation right from pre-school to higher education but the last decade has seen a phenomenal landscape of evaluation of higher educational institutes either by way of assessment and accreditation or by ranking. The prominent bodies providing for accreditation/ranking in India are: National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) for Institutional Accreditation, National Board of Accreditation (NBA) for Departmental Accreditation, National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for ranking of institutions under various categories, that is universities, colleges, engineering institutions, management institutions etc, Atal Ranking of Institutes on Innovation and Achievements (ARIIA) by the Ministry of Education, and Clean and Smart Campus Award by AICTE among others. Some of the international players offering accreditation protocols in India are EQUIS, AMBA, ABET, AACSB and in case of ranking, by QS, world university ranking by Times Higher education etc. In the non-governmental space, Times Engineering/B schools ranking, QS I Gauge rating, ISO certification, career 360 ranking, outlook rating etc, are visible. In addition, a few state governments have created protocols for ranking institutions under various categories within the state. Looking at the field impact of the of above frameworks, one ‘Deemed to be University’ has achieved the following: 41st rank in university category, 58th rank in the engineering category and 70th rank in the management category as per NIRF ranking 2020 (valid for one year and may change every year). The same university is in the top-most grade A++ of NAAC accreditation process (valid for five years). The university also figures in the Times Engineering Survey 2020 at rank 5 in placement and do not figure among top 20 institutes in research capability. In the QS India ranking do not figure in the first 100. Another ‘Deemed to be University’ with NAAC A++ grading figures in Times Engineering Survey for placement at rank one, research capability at rank 5 and rank 32 under university category of NIRF.What does this maze of numbers mean to the stakeholders, particularly the students and parents, for the selection of an institution to pursue higher education, is anybody’s guess. Till date, no comprehensive survey is available which establishes a correlation between accreditation/ranking and large scale student movement towards that institution. The general perception is that word of mouth and placement records of an institution drives student mobility to a certain extent. University of Delhi graded A+ (NAAC) attracts a large number of students from across India than possibly A++ university located elsewhere. Needless to say, it is just not grading but a lot of other factors which determines the choice of institutions. What drives some institutions to go into multiple accreditation/ranking processes? Perceptions on the issues that have emerged are branding, government linking assessments to funding, universities using it for renewal of affiliation/autonomy, top leadership and management eagerness to be in lime light, peer pressure, aim for additional financial resources, attracting students nationally/internationally etc. One of the disturbing fallouts of the above over drive is that assessment and ranking processes which in the present scenario is highly data-intensive, consumes enormous institutional time and energy, of the faculty and administrative staff. They have to collect and collate data in various combinations as desired by all of these bodies in preparation of a self-study report/evaluation document. Many times, it is also followed by visits to the institution by peer/evaluation teams adding additional time and resource demands. Faculty time In fact, as per NAAC’s requirement, all accredited institutions need to submit Annual Quality Assurance Report to be eligible for subsequent cycles of accreditation. A perpetual demand on faculty time. Sir C V Raman, in his convocation address to the Banaras Hindu University in 1926, lamented: “Our universities are so engrossed today with the task of conducting examinations and with innumerable meetings of boards and faculties, courts and councils, and senates and syndicates, that they have no time to perform the highest function of university which is to stimulate intellectual activity and advance knowledge”. It is time to reflect on the essence of the above statement and also see that an internationally recognised process of accreditation/ranking helps us in achieving the goals of quality sustenance and enhancement in our higher educational institutions. The process in itself should not inadvertently create a barrier against the very purpose it is meant for, that is, continuous improvement. It is warranted that regulatory authorities come together and create `one nation-one institution’ from which all pertinent data can be drawn. The database to be created should be crisp and meaningful and not drown the existing system in the name of change. The emerging thought that quality is intrinsic to the institution and should be tackled internally rather than excessively adhere to evaluation mechanisms from outside, is noteworthy. The National Policy of Education 2020 reflects the above thought by advocating autonomy to institutions with light and tight regulation through accreditation. (The writer was formerly Adviser, NAAC, Bengaluru and founder Director of University of Mumbai Quality Assurance Cell)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/higher-education-good-database-key-974298.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shepherd dies of lighting strike in Maski||A 32-year-old shepherd was killed after being struck by lightning near Anandagal village in Maski taluk of Raichur district on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Erappa, a resident of Medinapur village in Lingasgur taluk. A total of 16 sheep also died in the lighting strike. Rains accompanied by hailstorms lashed Kavital and Maski. Three cows in Belakuni(C) village of Aurad taluk in Bidar district, one buffalo and an ox at Madana Hipparaga village in Aland taluk, and another ox in Kerur village died after being struck by lightning. Kalaburagi City received 29.4 mm rainfall on Tuesday night and India Meteorological Department predicted the possibility of rains for two more days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shepherd-dies-of-lighting-strike-in-maski-974313.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA Khader escapes unhurt after car accident||Mangaluru MLA U T Khader has reportedly escaped unhurt after the car in which he was heading towards Belagavi from Bengaluru met with an accident near Aanagodu in Davanagere taluk on national highway-4, on Wednesday. According to police, Mangaluru MLA and former minister Khader was heading towards Belagavi to take part in by-election campaign. The incident took place when the car hit the lorry from behind when the driver applied the brake without any signal as road work was in progress. His personal secretary Lifjath was driving the car when the incident took place. Manjanadi gram panchayat member Ismail was also with the MLA and the trio sustained minor injuries. Superintendent of Police Hanumantaraya visited the spot. The MLA returned to Bengaluru in another car sent by former MLC Abdul Jabbar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-khader-escapes-unhurt-after-car-accident-974348.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC appeals to RTC workers to end strike||Ayanur Manjunath appealed to striking workers of regional transport corporation to call off the strike and resume duty at the earliest. Speaking to media persons, here on Wednesday, he said the workers must call-off the strike and resolve the issue through negotiation as the government's financial state is in bad state. More than 70 corporations come under the purview of the government. If the government implements a 6th pay commission for workers of regional transport corporation, it may become applicable to workers of the remaining corporations. So, the workers must end the strike immediately. He said workers and their families may have to come to the streets if they believe farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar's words. The workers of textile mill in Mumbai went on strike for 15 months seeking hike in wages and bonus. The majority of the over 80 mills in Central Mumbai closed during and after the strike, leaving more than 150,000 workers unemployed. The textile industry in Mumbai has largely disappeared, reducing labour migration after the strikes. So, workers of regional transport corporation must end the strike. He said the government has already banned the strike. So, carrying on the strike would become illegal. So, those who are part of strike may lose employment and their families would suffer. So, they must end the strike for their welfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-appeals-to-rtc-workers-to-end-strike-974349.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||People will send a message to Congress in bye-election: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said that people from Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency and assembly constituencies of Maski and Basavakalyan will send a message to Congress by voting for BJP candidates. Yediyurappa told reporters that KPCC President D K Shivakumar and former chief minister Siddaramaiah are taking the bye-elections lightly, but a win of BJP candidates by a huge margin will send a message to the Congress. Regarding his campaigning despite being ill, Yediyurappa said that the campaigning will conclude on Thursday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-will-send-a-message-to-congress-in-bye-election-b-s-yediyurappa-974481.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala takes second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala received the second dose of coronavirus vaccine here on Thursday. According to a Raj Bhavan communique, nurse Vedha administered Vala the Covishield vaccine under the supervision of Medical Superintendent Dr B R Venkateshaiah at KC General Hospital. Vala got the first shot on March 2. Speaking to reporters later, Vala appealed to the people to take the vaccine as a precautionary measure to save themselves from coronavirus. "Every person above the age of 45 should compulsorily go in for the vaccination in order to make India Covid-19 free," he said. The Governor also asked people to follow the rules and instructions given by the state government such as hand hygiene, wearing facemasks and maintaining physical distancing. He also hailed the scientific and medical fraternity for their fight against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-governor-vajubhai-vala-takes-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-974532.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘RTC employees should get back to work’||All Karnataka Road Transport Employees’ Federation North Eastern Zone president Chandrakanth Gaddagi said the striking transport corporation employees should withdraw their strike and return to duty in the interest of the public as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi have already agreed for their salary revision.  Speaking at a press meet here on Thursday, he said that the transport minister has assured that steps be taken to revise the salary of the transport employees after May 4 as the election code of conduct is in force. The strike has caused a huge loss to the transport department as well as the family members of the employees. The people are also facing hardship due to the strike. Hence, the employees should exhibit their professionalism by withdrawing their protest, Gaddagi said. He said though there was no work for the employees during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year, the department has paid three months’ salary to the employees. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar is unaware of the problems being faced by the transport employees, their salary and facilities. He has brought the family members of the transport employees to the street, he alleged. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporations’ Veerashaiva Lingayat Employees’ Welfare Association president Sangamnath Rabashetty said the transport minister has agreed to hike salary by 12% and has also responded positively for cancelling transfers. The employees should immediately return to the duty to prevent privatisation of the transport department, he appealed. All Karnataka Road Transport Employees’ Federation North Eastern Zone working president S S Sajjan, Vice President Bhimaraya Yaragol and General Secretary Basavaraj Kanni were present in the press meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rtc-employees-should-get-back-to-work-974661.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC protest: Many employees return to work||With several employees of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) resuming to work on Thursday, the KSRTC services is slowly returning to normalcy, in Mysuru region. However, a section of employees continued their protest, which entered 9th day on Thursday. According to the authorities, nearly 70% employees have returned to work and several buses have started plying on select routes. The officials claimed that all the employees are expected to return to work in a day or two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-protest-many-employees-return-to-work-974687.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid deaths on rise in Mysuru||The death rate due to Covid-19 is on the rise in Mysuru district. With five deaths on Thursday, the total deaths increased to 1,098. The district reported 327 fresh cases and the total positive cases increased to 59,748. While 56,142 persons have recovered and discharged, there are 2,508 active cases. Two employees of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) died of Covid-19. MCC driver Satish and another Ananthu are the deceased. According to sources, the employees were undergoing treatment in a hospital. With Mayor Rukmini Madegowda and a few corporators testing positive for Covid-19, a few days ago, all the employees of the civic body were subject to Covid test and 40% of them tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-deaths-on-rise-in-mysuru-974688.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Muslims urged to follow Covid guidelines during Ramzan||People of the Muslim community have started their month-long fasting, during the holy month of Ramzan from April 14. As mass prayers are organised throughout the month at mosques, the government has issued certain guidelines to be followed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. It may be mentioned that last year Ramzan fasting and festival was observed during the Covid pandemic and mass prayers and religious gatherings were banned, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. But, this year, there will be provision to offer prayers, but Covid norms should be strictly followed, during mass prayers in mosques. According to the new guidelines, mosques should be opened only five minutes before 'namaz'. All mosque managements are given instructions to follow the norms, said Sir Khazi of Mysuru Mohammed Usman Sharieff. All precautionary measures are taken to prevent the spread of the virus, as the second wave is reported in the state. However, all government guidelines will be followed at all mosques, he said. Wearing masks is mandatory and sanitisers are placed at all mosques. Social distancing is insisted and markings are done at the place of worship. There are restrictions for those, who are above 60 years and children to enter mosques. Besides, awareness is being created among the people on Covid norms. Religious heads of the respective mosque have been instructed in this regard, said corporator Ayub Khan. The carpets at mosques have been removed and those visiting for prayers are told to bring their own carpet, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslims-urged-to-follow-covid-guidelines-during-ramzan-974691.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru tourism sector derails again due to Covid-19||Although there was a series of holidays, over the past weekend, the ‘City of Palaces’, one of the major tourist hubs, Mysuru, is witnessing a decline in the number of tourists visiting. The tourists’ footfall is decreasing due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. With the outbreak of the pandemic, the city is facing adversity as its major source of revenue is tourism. As per tourism and hospitality sources, more than 2 lakh people are either directly or indirectly involved in tourism-related activities. The stakeholders fear that the second wave would affect adversely than the first wave last year. The tourists inflow was 80% less in 2020-21, compared to 2019-20. This year, the situation might be worse. A majority of tourists to Mysuru are from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Besides Covid, the Assembly polls in both the states caused a dip of tourists. In Mysuru, the tourist season commences in April and the flow used to be high over two months, owing to summer vacation. But, this time, the situation is different. Even though there is no lockdown or closure of state or district borders, people are not ready to take a chance. It has to be recalled that the tourism sector was affected severely in 2020, due to lockdown. However, the sector was returning to normalcy and recovered up to 70%. More than 1.5 lakh tourists visited the city in January. But, again the sector is disrupting. The city gets nearly 35 to 40 lakh tourists in normal years. However, last year, the inflow was approximately eight lakh, said an official of the Tourism department. Tourism stakeholders, including travel agencies and hoteliers are severely affected. A taxi driver, Manjunatha, said that last time, his taxi was stopped due to lockdown. “But, this time, he hardly gets one short trip a day. Earlier, tourists used to hire vehicles to reach Kodagu, Tamil Nadu or Kerala. However, now, a majority of the people take their own vehicle, due to the Covid scare,” he said. Shivananda, a manager of a hotel, said, “There are 50 rooms in the hotel and a majority of them used to be occupied from April to June. But, this time, there are no bookings. We closed the hotel last year and opened again in January. Now, again, the business has derailed. We don’t know about the future.” According to Shivananda, people are visiting Mysuru, but only for a day. “They come in the morning, spend time here and return,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-tourism-sector-derails-again-due-to-covid-19-974692.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rs 25 cr earmarked for development work at Bhoo Varahaswamy temple||The installation of the utsava murthy (procession idol) at Bhoo Varahaswamy temple at Kallahalli in K R Pet taluk will be held on April 29 and special pujas are organised as part of this ceremony from April 26 to 29. Bhoo Varahanatha temple, situated on the banks of River Hemavathi, is a popular pilgrim centre in K R Pet taluk. Although special pujas are held once in a month, on the day of Revathy nakshatra, the devotees were demanding for a utsava murthy for holding pallakki utsav and procession. Hence, the temple management decided to install the procession deity on April 29 and also to launch expansion works of the temple, at a cost of Rs 25 crore. Granite stones have been brought to construct a mantap in Hoysala style and also a 156 ft tall Rajagopura. Sri Brahmatantra Swatantra Parakala Swami Mutt seer Sri Abhinava Vageesha Brahmatantra Swatantra Parakala Swami and District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda will participate in the event. The devotees are requested to follow Covid guidelines, like wearing masks and following social distancing during the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rs-25-cr-earmarked-for-development-work-at-bhoo-varahaswamy-temple-974693.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa campaigns despite being unwell||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, despite suffering with fever and exhaustion, campaigned for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency BJP candidate Mangala Angadi by taking medicines on Wednesday. He took more than an hour rest at the private hotel and after availing treatment and medical opinion, campaigned at Mudalagi and Gokak. Yediyurappa was examined by doctors from Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences ad KLES Dr Prabhakar Kore Hospital in the afternoon hours and had advised him rest for sometime. Then he did not have fever, said, District Health Officer Dr S V Munyal. After his return from Gokak in the night, Yediyurappa’s health was checked by doctors. Equipment required for tests had been kept ready prior to his arrival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-campaigns-despite-being-unwell-974318.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||I want to realise unfulfilled dreams of my husband: Mangala Angadi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate for by-election to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency Mangala Angadi is making her electoral debut, but hailing from a family with political background, she’s no novice in the world of politics. She said she’s seeking votes based on the development made by the Narendra Modi-led Union government and to realise the unfulfilled dreams of her late husband Suresh Angadi for the constituency. People want me to represent them in Lok Sabha to get funds on the lines of my husband, she says in a chat with DH. It’s your first election. How are you coping with stress and challenges of active politics? I am new to electoral politics, but not politics. I come from a family (Koujalagi) with political background. I had campaigned for him (late Suresh Angadi) in the previous elections. It’s getting very hectic since the filing of nomination. However, I am not completely new to this... How was the response of your family when the BJP leadership announced your candidature? In fact my daughters wanted to contest the bypoll as their father had worked hard for development of constituency as MP, and as MoS for railways, and they wanted to continue his legacy. He had brought many rail projects to the district and to the state. I have been receiving unflinching support from my family members. They have been touring across the constituency seeking votes. Also, the other ticket aspirants have assured me of full support. How has been the cooperation of party leaders and workers? Central and state leaders of BJP were standing by me and supporting me. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, state ministers Jagadish Shettar, Umesh Katti, Shashikala Jolle, MP Annasaheb Jolle and MLAs and MLCs from the district are campaigning for me extensively. Suresh Angadi used to treat the BJP workers with respect. The party workers are overwhelmed with my candidature and during interactions they keep saying that they were orphaned after my husband’s death. What are your plans for the constituency, if elected? I want to realise unfulfilled dreams of my husband like getting funds for ring road, opening cold storage for farmers, giving pace to infrastructure projects in the district. Both you and Congress candidate Satish Jarkiholi are from Gokak. Will that affect vote share? The people of Gokak taluk, comprising of Gokak and Arabhavi assembly constituencies, during the last four elections have voted for their son-in-law. This time they will vote for their daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-want-to-realise-unfulfilled-dreams-of-my-husband-mangala-angadi-974325.html
15-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP, Congress locked in battle of prestige for Belgaum||The Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency by-election has become a battle of prestige for both, the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress, but the outcome of the April 17 vote will go beyond mere politics for the two parties.  The BJP is under pressure to retain the constituency that it has won four consecutive times, whereas the Congress hopes, by winning the seat, to convey a message that not all elections can be won by depending solely on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s persona. After the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi, the BJP has fielded his wife Mangala, plausibly to benefit from the sympathy factor. Since 1957, Belgaum went to the polls 17 times in which Congress won ten, and BJP five. Suresh won the last four elections with his margin increasing, even as no woman has won from this seat yet. The Congress has fielded its working president and Yamkanamaradi MLA Satish Jakiholi, who is known to have considerable political clout coupled with organisational skills.  Politically, both BJP and Congress have claimed of a win, but the Belgaum Lok Sabha segment comprises eight assembly constituencies of which six have BJP MLAs, and two from Congress. The stalwarts Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, ministers Jagadish Shettar, Umesh Katti and Shashikala Jolle, and others have thrown their weight behind Mangala. It is no surprise that the BJP’s poll campaign mostly involves extolling the Modi administration. On the ground however, the BJP is looking to woo the Lingayat and Maratha votes.  The Congress too is looking for a similar consolidation while its campaign narrative aims to create anti-incumbency over price rise, demonetisation, spike in Covid-19, lack of funds for flood rehabilitation, and so on.  Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah, State party chief D K Shivakumar, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, former ministers M B Patil, R V Deshpande, Ramalinga Reddy, and others have campaigned for Satish.  Notably, Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar, and MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar did not campaign for Satish in Gokak and Arabhavi assembly constituencies. Gokak is represented by former BJP minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Satish’s elder brother, who is embroiled in a sex scandal. Arabhavi MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi ais with the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-congress-locked-in-battle-of-prestige-for-belgaum-974689.html
15-04-2021||Main Article||Need for gender balance in justice system||The hegemonic institutional structure of the justice system, underlined with gender dynamics, explains the hold-ups to women’s meaningful progress. Apart from the clear numeric dominance of males in the justice professions, women are subjected to multi-layered social and cultural barriers. The present women’s representation in the various verticals of access to justice runs in complete contravention with representative bureaucracy theory. The framework of the criminal justice system is primarily organised around masculinity. The norms set by a hyper-masculine sub-culture traditionally “male-professions”, discourages women from entering and progressing in these spaces. The India Justice Report, 2020, indicates the prevalence of same across the various pillars of justice system - cops, courts and corrections. The female composition is numeric tokenism which poses further challenges for women staff. India needs more policewomen: India saw the first woman police officer recruited in the force as late as 1972. The absence of women in the policing ecosystem for long resulted in the dominance of a male-culture. Though female recruitments are steadily increasing, the strength remains insufficient to break the culture, thus creating a vicious circle and forcing women police staff to internalise the cultural stereotypes. The Union government recommends each police station to have at least three women sub-inspectors and 10 women police. It has proposed establishing Investigative Units for Crimes Against Women (IUCAW) at police stations in crime-prone districts across states, with at least one-third of the investigative staff being women. Many states have approved a 33% quota for women in their forces, and several have established all-women police stations, of which there are more than 500 in operation. A 2012 Lok Sabha report suggests that the boost to women in policing is crucial given their role in promoting gender sensitivity, dealing with women’s cases, and promoting a friendly behavioural sub-culture. However, the national average percentage of women in the police is only 10%. Between 2019 and 2020, although there has been an improvement in women’s representation in policing in many states, it is concentrated in the lower ranks, reaffirming the stereotype that women are “second-class citizens” in the profession. Women represent 25% and 19% of police force in Bihar and Himachal Pradesh respectively. However, both the states experience the ubiquitous glass ceiling barrier, with only 6% (Bihar) and 5% (Himachal Pradesh) being at the officer level. The patriarchal wall of prison administration: The same pattern is observed in the prison administration. Women account to only 13% of prison staff across all levels, majorly concentrated in the lower-ranking posts. With 7,794 women prison staff, there are no women at the level of DG, DIG or Superintendent in 14 states. The Model Prison Manual 2016 prescribes one lady DIG’s appointment to the Prison Headquarters to look after women prisons, staff and prisoners in the state. It also recommends that prisons housing women inmates must have a senior female officer as part of the Grievance Redressal Committee, examining complaints in an unbiased manner. A demographic change of the prison officer workforce by including more women officers facilitates progressive prison reforms. However, the scarcity of female staff involvement at supervisory levels often leads to male staff being responsible for female inmates, which is highly undesirable. The staff-inmate ratio for women in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh is as high as 1:12. With a dire shortage of women staff, many gender-specific women inmates’ needs remain unfulfilled. The lack of gender-sensitive employment in the prison staff falls back to the prison’s unsaid male-dominated environment. Entering the ‘old-boys club’ of Indian judiciary: On moving to top of the hierarchy of justice system, we find that the national average of 30% of women judges in the subordinate court falls sharply to 11% in the High Court indicating higher judiciary’s glass ceiling. Goa with the 72% women judges in its subordinate courts drops to 13% at the High Court. Since 2018, four Indian states continue to have no women judges in the higher judiciary. There has never been a female Chief Justice of India. Justice Fathima Beevi has expressed her concerns about not having more than one or two women judges at any time in the Supreme Court. The paltry participation of women in the judiciary should not be mistaken as a symbol of equal representation but rather of representative tokenism. Women’s presence in the bar and the bench enhances courts’ legitimacy, making the recourse to justice open and accessible. Women’s participation in judicial decision-making brings their social and cultural experiences to their judicial actions towards a more comprehensive and empathetic perspective. However, the majority of the female judges in the lower judiciary’s concentration signal the barriers of gender cold working conditions and the lack of supportive infrastructure to climb up the ladder. Beyond the glass-ceiling and tokenism: The keystones of legal justice system – equality and fairness - are best achieved through inclusiveness, diversity and representation. The few women who are braving the justice professions are tokens, trapped in stereotypical roles and constrained by personal and professional impediments. The glass-ceiling results from lack of belief in women’s abilities, discriminatory standards for promotion, and apparent bias against women in leadership. The justice professions traditionally meant for men forecloses the possibility of women to prosper. The solution lies in looking at women as human resource assets to drive reforms in the access to justice sphere. India can achieve it by challenging the old masculine models and harbouring a feminist model of administering justice. A mere rise in numbers can address tokenism, but the glass ceiling barrier has to be independently addressed to explore gender-parity prospects in the higher ranks. (Pandey is Litigation Assistant with MANASA Centre for Social Development; Goyal is Legal Researcher at Columbia Global Freedom of Expression) The article was first published on theleaflet.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/need-for-gender-balance-in-justice-system-974299.html
15-04-2021||Mysuru||Covid-19 claims lives of two Mysuru City Corporation employees||Two employees of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) died due to Covid-19, on Thursday. MCC driver Satish and Jedhar Ananthu were the two employees who were undergoing treatment at a hospital and later succumbed to the disease, according to sources. Afer Mayor Rukmini Madegowda and a few corporators tested positive for Covid-19,  a few days ago, all of the civic body's employees were subjected to the Covid test and 40% of the employees had tested positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-claims-lives-of-two-mysuru-city-corporation-employees-974493.html
15-04-2021||National||Centre ropes in Governors, L-Gs in fight against Covid-19, seeks consensus||With Covid cases clocking an upward tick with each passing day and Chief Ministers in many Opposition states frequently raising questions on Centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday roped in Governors and Lieutenant Governors of all states and UTs, asking them to harness the combined power of all community organisations, political parties, NGOs and social institutions in this fight. While Modi said that Governors are an important link to ensure better coordination between State Governments and society, Naidu expressed confidence that the Governors, will provide the high level of facilitative leadership in their respective states that will help India emerge successful in this battle. During the meeting, the Prime Minister also asked Governors to hold all party meetings in their respective states to firm up a collaborative approach. The Vice President called upon the Governors to bring up a coordinated front by leading all-party meetings in their respective states and engaging with civil society organisations to spread awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour. The Vice president said that a 'Team India spirit' cutting across policy lines should be adopted, and in this regard, Governors as the 'Guardians of the State' could 'guide' the state governments. Naidu asked states to keep political differences aside and act unitedly as a team. Recognising that the challenge is formidable, Naidu noted that every Governor, as the constitutional head of state, has an important role in the fight against this pandemic and wanted them to collaborate actively with their respective Chief Ministers and act as consensus builders. Centre's reach out to Governors and L-Gs came in the backdrop of the recent trading of charges on Covid management between states and Centre and the Congress-BJP sparring on issues like vaccination strategy. Discussing the rise in the number of Covid cases, the Prime Minister said that in this stage of the fight against the virus, the country stands to gain from last year’s experience and improved healthcare capacity and assured that the government is committed to ensuring adequate availability of vaccines. Doing some pep talk amid panic building around the pandemic, the Prime Minister noted that the country has become Aatmanirbhar with respect to kits and other material related to testing and most of the products related to testing are also available on the GeM portal. Prime Minister emphasized the significance of increasing tracking, tracing and testing, and said that RTPCR testing needs to be increased from 60% to 70%. Modi suggested that the Governors can actively engage to ensure that social institutions collaborate seamlessly with the state governments towards micro containment as their social network can help ensure an increase in the capacity of ambulances, ventilators and oxygen in hospitals. Holding that Governors are an important pillar of Janbhagidari in this battle against, Modi said the role of the Governors, through appropriate utilization of their social capacity, thus becomes all the more critical to achieving this. Holding that Governors are an important link to ensure better coordination between state Governments and society, he said their coordination with state governments and guidance to institutions of the State will further strengthen the nation’s resolve to fight the pandemic. He also highlighted their role in ensuring better utilization of facilities at University and College campuses like NCC and NSS had done last year in counter-Covid strategy. Expressing his concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, Naidu cautioned that the healthcare infrastructure will inevitably come under tremendous pressure. He called for special focus on 10 states that account for 85% of national cases and 89% deaths reported in the last 14 days. Naidu said the Union government has decided the Covid-19 strategy in close collaboration with the state governments and called upon everyone to keep political differences aside and act unitedly as a team. Endorsing the Prime Minister’s suggestion for an all-party meeting, he said it will help in brainstorming new ideas, sharing of knowledge and exchange of best practices and effective understanding of field concerns and various perspectives. This will help us accelerate the overall Covid-19 management efforts, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ropes-in-governors-l-gs-in-fight-against-covid-19-seeks-consensus-974304.html
15-04-2021||National||Supreme Court cautions HCs over passing orders against arrest||In a significant judgement, the Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that high courts should not routinely, casually or mechanically pass interim orders for "no coercive steps" against accused in criminal cases. Maintaining that the functions of the judiciary and the police are complementary, and not overlapping, it said the court and the judicial process should not interfere at the stage of investigation of offences, except in exceptional cases where non-interference would result in miscarriage of justice. "Normally, when the investigation is in progress and the facts are hazy and the entire evidence or material is not before the high court, it should restrain itself from passing an interim order not to arrest or adopt coercive steps, and the accused should be relegated to apply for anticipatory bail before the competent court," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The top court said the high court is not justified in passing the order of not to arrest the accused either during the investigation or till the investigation is completed, while dealing with a petition under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) or under Article 226 of the Constitution to quash the criminal case. "Extraordinary and inherent powers of the court do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction upon it to act according to its whims or caprice," the bench said. Justice M R Shah, writing the judgement on behalf of the bench, also comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna, laid down detailed guidelines for high courts in dealing with petitions under Section 482. The court passed its judgement, allowing a petition filed by M/s Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt Ltd against an interim order by the Bombay High Court, which protected the accused against any coercive step, including arrest, in an FIR related to forgery and fabrication of board resolution of the company to indulge in sale of property measuring 1,11,882 sq feet in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-cautions-hcs-over-passing-orders-against-arrest-974342.html
15-04-2021||National||Govt yet to receive proposals on 220 vacant posts of judges in HCs||Out of 416 vacant positions of High Courts judges, as many as 196 proposals are under the consideration of the government and the Supreme Court Collegium and recommendations on remaining 220 posts were yet to be received. The sanctioned strength of judges in 25 High Courts across the country is 1,080. Out of 34 total posts of judges in the Supreme Court, there are vacancies of five. For which, the recommendations were yet to be received from the top court's Collegium. These details were pointed out in a note prepared by the Attorney General K K Venugopal on vacancy positions as on April 13. The top court had on March 26 pulled up the central government for delaying the process of appointment of judges, saying that it has been sitting on some recommendations for more than 19 months despite the final nod of the Collegium. The court was then hearing a matter related to appointment of judges. The case is likely to be taken up for consideration on Thursday. Responding to the court's concerns, the note said of 196 names, a total of 80 proposals have been submitted to the Supreme Court Collegium for advice. Two cases have been referred to the SC Collegium for reconsideration and 12 have been deferred to by the SC Collegium itself. A total of 33 recommendations by the High Court Collegium are under examination of the government for submission to the SC Collegium. There are 10 cases in which views from the state governments were awaited. However, there are 39 fresh proposals recommended by the SC Collegium which are under examination of the government. There are four proposals which were earlier deferred by the SC Collegium but now again been recommended for consideration. There are five proposals which have been reiterated by the SC Collegium but are under consideration of the government.  Of 196 proposals, there are 11 names which were not considered by the SC Collegium and to be remitted to the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-yet-to-receive-proposals-on-220-vacant-posts-of-judges-in-hcs-974357.html
15-04-2021||National||Cong to launch its own digital media platform||The Congress party on Wednesday announced the launch of its own YouTube channel —‘INC TV’—to reach out directly to the people and accused a section of the media of being “partisan”. The YouTube channel—with eight hours of programming—will be formally launched on April 24, which is observed as Panchayati Raj Day. “We wish that the Congress ideology should be disseminated on a larger scale through this medium,” Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, told reporters here.  In his interactions with the media and with professors of international universities, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi has been accusing the Modi government of “capturing” institutions, including the media and denying access to them for opposition parties. Congress has often targeted a section of the media as “godi media”, accusing it of doing the bidding of the Modi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-to-launch-its-own-digital-media-platform-974377.html
15-04-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Task is to beat Comedy Central in viewership'||The Congress party on Wednesday announced the launch of its own YouTube channel —‘INC TV’—to reach out directly to the people and accused a section of the media of being “partisan”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-task-is-to-beat-comedy-central-in-viewership-974378.html
15-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 15||India surpassed 1.4 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 14-lakh mark for the first time as governments step up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 29 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  14,074,564 as of April 15, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,73,155||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-april-15-974395.html
15-04-2021||National||ICG apprehends Pakistan boat with 30 kg heroin||Eight Pakistani nationals on board a boat were apprehended with heroin worth around Rs 150 crore off the Gujarat coast in the Arabian Sea early Thursday morning, the state ATS said. Based on a specific tip-off, a joint team of the Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad and the Indian Coast Guard caught the boat, in an operation carried out near the Jakhau port of Kutch district, the ATS said in a release. The spot is located close to the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) separating India and Pakistan in the sea, the ATS said in a release. The tip-off about the drug consignment on the Pakistani boat was shared with the agencies by the Special Operations Group of Devbhumi-Dwarka district police and a senior ATS official, the release said. The joint team of the ATS and the Coast Guard apprehended eight Pakistani men from the boat and seized 30 kg of heroin, a psychotropic drug, from their possession. The value of the seized drug is around Rs 150 crore in the international market, said ATS in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icg-apprehends-pakistan-boat-with-30-kg-heroin-974400.html
15-04-2021||National||For the first time, India sees over 2 lakh single-day Covid-19 cases||The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over 2 lakh infections being reported in a day, while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. With the new cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 1,40,74,564. A total of 2,00,739 new Covid-19 cases have been registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,73,123 with 1,038 daily new fatalities, the highest since October 3, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 36th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 14,71,877 comprising 10.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.31 per cent.   The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,24,29,564, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.23 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,20,03,415 samples have been tested up to April 14 with 13,84,549 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-the-first-time-india-sees-over-2-lakh-single-day-covid-19-cases-974412.html
15-04-2021||National||US, NATO troops pulling out of Afghanistan will raise concerns for India, say experts||In the aftermath of the US and NATO withdrawing their troops from Afghanistan, India will have tremendous concern on the resurgence of the Taliban and its territory being used as a safe haven for terrorist, experts said. US President Joe Biden on Wednesday announced that all American troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan by September 11 this year, thus bringing to end the country's longest war, spanning across two decades. Following suit, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will also pull out its troops from the war-torn country. "Regional countries, especially India, will have tremendous concerns about the US pullout from Afghanistan and the likelihood of a Taliban resurgence in the country,” Lisa Curtis, who was Deputy Assistant to the President and NSC Senior Director for South and Central Asia from 2017-2021 under the previous Donald Trump administration told PTI. “When the Taliban controlled Afghanistan in the late 1990s, they welcomed militants and terrorists of all stripes to train, recruit, and fundraise from Afghanistan. Many of those militants, including the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, trained for operations in India, such as the 2001 attack on the Indian parliament,” Curtis said. An eminent foreign policy and national security expert with over 20 years of service in the US government, Curtis now is a senior fellow and director of the Indo-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) think-tank. “Indian officials also remember the close cooperation between the Taliban and militants who in December 1999 hijacked an Indian airliner. India may seek to use its role in regional efforts to bring peace and stability to Afghanistan, like the recent UN effort, to press its goal of ensuring Afghan territory cannot be used by anti-India militants,” Curtis said. “India will worry about Taliban controlled territory being a safe haven for terrorists again,” former Pakistan Ambassador to the US, Husain Haqqani, who is now Director for South and Central Asia at the Hudson Institute think-tank told PTI. The real question now is whether after withdrawing its troops, the US will continue to help the Kabul government and will the Afghan people be able to keep the Taliban at bay, Haqqani said. The Taliban have shown no interest in peace and the Doha process only reinforced their belief that US eagerness to leave Afghanistan outweighed its concerns about that country's future. “India and Pakistan do not have the luxury of distance that the US has and will remain involved in Afghanistan. Pakistan is too deeply tied to the Taliban to stop supporting them now though it should be concerned about the adverse impact Taliban ideology would further have on Pakistan,” Haqqani said in response to a question. The Washington Post in a lead editorial asserted that the plans of Biden to withdraw all troops from Afghanistan will lead to disaster in the region. "Mr Biden has chosen the easy way out of Afghanistan, but the consequences are likely to be ugly,” The Washington Post said. The New York Times said that stopping terrorism groups over the long term could be harder, an opinion also echoed by The Wall Street Journal. “The symbolic but arbitrary date shows the decision is driven less by facts on the ground than a political desire that is also a strategic gamble. History suggests US interests will suffer,” The Wall Street Journal said in an editorial. “The president's exit means he will have to take responsibility for what happens next. We hope it doesn’t betray the great sacrifices so many have made,” the daily said. The US and the Taliban signed a landmark deal in Doha on February 29, 2020, to bring lasting peace in war-torn Afghanistan and allow US troops to return home from America's longest war. Under the US-Taliban pact signed in Doha, the US agreed to withdraw all its soldiers from Afghanistan in 14 months. Since the US-led invasion that ousted the Taliban after the September 11, 2001 attacks, America has spent more than USD 1 trillion in fighting and rebuilding in Afghanistan. About 2,400 US soldiers have been killed, along with tens of thousands of Afghan troops, Taliban insurgents and Afghan civilians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-nato-troops-pulling-out-of-afghanistan-will-raise-concerns-for-india-say-experts-974415.html
15-04-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Bengali New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted Bengalis on the beginning of their traditional new year. He also tweeted a campaign video of the BJP, which is locked in a keen contest with the ruling TMC in the West Bengal Assembly elections, saying, "A New Year and a resolve for new beginnings and progress for the great land of West Bengal!" "Greetings on Poyla Boishakh. Shubho Nabo Barsho!" Modi said.  Greetings on Poyla Boishakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-bengali-new-year-974417.html
15-04-2021||National||Crunch time: How Lijjat Papad spun the feminist success story||The fairytale success of Lijjat Papad -- a multi-million-dollar venture founded by seven women in a crowded Mumbai tenement in 1959 with a seed capital of Rs 80 -- belies its revolutionary feminist aspirations. The cooperative employs 45,000 women across India, offering them a job for life as "co-owners" of the enterprise, whose wafer-thin snacks -- known locally as papads and as papadums in the West -- have become a byword for good business and female empowerment in a patriarchal country. Life at Lijjat's 82 branches begins early, with women lining up before dawn to drop off finished products, pick up freshly prepared lentil dough, and head home. That's when the work shifts into high gear, as they deftly stretch and roll out the dough -- flecked with cumin seeds and black pepper -- into small flat rounds that are then left to dry. The job relies on skill but doesn't require formal education, opening up opportunities for multitudes of Indian women to become financially independent. That is a huge accomplishment in a country where female workforce participation -- never high to begin with -- has been declining for years, plunging from 34 to 20 per cent in the two decades to 2019, according to the International Labour Organization. As a young bride aged 24, Darshana Pundalik Parab fretted about managing household expenses with her husband's meagre salary, realising that her employment prospects as a school dropout were dire. Then she heard about Lijjat. Not only did the cooperative have a job for her, it allowed thousands of housewives like her to work from home, no questions asked. In the 35 years that followed, Parab was able to keep earning while raising three boys. "It was difficult when the kids were small, to watch over them and do the job," said Parab, recounting the early years when she kept one eye on her sons, and the other on the papads. The extra cash was welcome, she told AFP, relaying her pride in being able to pay her children's school fees and teach them crucial life lessons. "My sons know that there is no such thing as women's work," she said, adding that her youngest, 27, still chips in to help prepare the crunchy snacks. Lijjat's commitment to women's empowerment reflects its inconspicuous beginnings when seven housewives gathered on a Mumbai rooftop one sunny morning to prepare four packets of papads. They ran the business on a shoestring budget, with annual sales in 1959 amounting to just over 6,000 rupees, a fraction of their current revenue. Every woman is paid according to her production capacity and role in the organisation, with Parab earning around 12,000 rupees a month on average. Men are only hired as shop assistants, drivers or errand boys. "Some of our women earn more than their husbands -- and their families respect them for it," said Lijjat president Swati Ravindra Paradkar. Paradkar was just 10 years old when her father died at 37, leaving the family's finances in precarious shape. Every morning before school, she would help her mother -- who was part of the cooperative -- make papads. "I found it very hard... especially during vacations when my friends would all be out playing and I would have to work," Paradkar, now 61, told AFP. She persevered, eventually joining the cooperative full-time and becoming its president, thanks to a policy that sets Lijjat apart from other businesses. "We believe that only someone who can roll out papads can become president," she said. Although the coronavirus pandemic slashed sales by nearly a fifth according to early estimates, Paradkar said there had been no layoffs, with staff even receiving modest salary hikes. The cooperative has expanded into other categories, including chapatis and laundry detergent, but the papad remains its flagship product, sold across India and in foreign markets from Singapore to the United States. The inexpensive snack -- a 100-gram (3.5-ounce) packet costs 31 rupees -- is even making the leap to the silver screen, with Lijjat's story now the subject of a Bollywood film under production. "People will be able to learn something from it," said Usha Juvekar, who has been part of the cooperative for 15 years. "If everyone in this country cared as much about women as Lijjat does, we would make so much more progress," she told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crunch-time-how-lijjat-papad-spun-the-feminist-success-story-974424.html
15-04-2021||National||Mumbai hotels to function as extension of private hospitals as Covid-19 cases see sharp spike||As Mumbai continues to report 9,000 to 10,000 Covid-19 cases on a daily basis, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has begun developing a linkage between hospitals and four- and five-star hotels.                                       The hotels will be used to shift patients who have recovered and where lesser medical intervention is needed. According to Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, the BMC and major private hospitals will identify jointly closely-located four- and five-star hotels and initiate linkage for setting up of step-down facilities between the hospitals and hotels. “It has been observed that many beds in private hospitals are occupied by patients who do not require emergency medical intervention, such patients can be effectively and adequately managed at isolation facilities such as CCC-2 or step-down facilities,” he said. The linked hotel must have at least 20 rooms – and the step-down facilities should be an extension of hospitals, he said, adding that round-the-clock medical services have to be provided in these hotels. Chahal said that if such patients are shifted to step down facilities where minimal medical intervention is required, more number of precious oxygenated/ICU/ventilator beds  would be available for needy patients. “This will help initiative treatment in time and reduce fatality rate,” he said. He said the private hospitals and hotels must have proper understanding of their roles and responsibilities and seamless coordination for smooth functioning. The hotels should have 24x7 doctor consultations, nursing care, medicines, biomedical waste management and ambulance transfers. According to the order, the hotels shall charge patients at step-down facilities Rs 4,000 per bed/per day including meals and taxes which the hospitals would pay. The hospitals will charge extra for medical expenses, doctors visits and other incidental charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-hotels-to-function-as-extension-of-private-hospitals-as-covid-19-cases-see-sharp-spike-974441.html
15-04-2021||National||India's 'double mutant' a cause for concern, says K VijayRaghavan||The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over two lakh infections in a day, while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. VijayRaghavan said, "It’s reasonable to say that the variant (the “double mutation” variant) is of concern because it has been found in a significant number of people. And it’s not just because it’s been found in a certain number of people but we know that these particular mutations have (also) got physiological effects on our context.” As per epidemiologists, "double mutant" refers to an entirely new variant that has the characteristics of two already identified variants. Scientists have warned that delays in testing samples of Covid-19 variants could damage everything from vaccine efficacy to effective hospital treatments in India. On March 4, the Union Health Ministry said that the new "double mutant" variant of the SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places in addition to the three variants of concern (VOC) -- first noticed in the UK, South Africa and Brazil -- that have been found in at least 18 states and Union Territories. VijayRaghavan is the first government official who has said that the variant has become a cause for concern. Last month, Ramanan Laxminarayan, founder of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in New Delhi told Reuters that so far there wasn't enough evidence about this new variant. “We have no evidence (as yet) that these variants are more transmissible or more lethal than what we already have," he added. Even the Union Health Ministry said last month that though VOCs and a new double mutant variant were found in India, they were not detected in numbers sufficient to either establish a direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states. But one month down the line, the Covid-19 scenario in India has changed drastically. He added that vaccines may still offer protection from variants of concern. “The vaccines at hand sometimes offer reduced protection to mild and moderate disease but they still afford protection to severe disease,” he said. Also, he believes that the Covid-19 surge in India will begin to slow down in a week or two because of the strict curbs implemented in various states. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the country stands at 1,40,74,564 while the death toll is at 1,73,123.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-double-mutant-a-cause-for-concern-says-k-vijayraghavan-974449.html
15-04-2021||National||What led to the shortage in Covid-19 vaccines and Remdesivir?||India logged over two lakh new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, as many hospitals treating coronavirus patients continue to report severe shortages of beds, with people being treated in wheelchairs. Amid the unprecedented second wave, the sudden spike in demand for Remdesivir injections and fear of shortage in supply of Covid-19 vaccines has added to the stressful condition across the country. Experts have pointed out other reasons including a halt in production of injections apart from the alarming spike in everyday cases, that may have led to the shortage in supply. Meanwhile, in its efforts, the government recently gave the approval to enhance the production of Remdesivir to around 78 lakh vials per month from the earlier 38.80 lakh vials. Over the reported shortage of vaccines, it has said that it is an issue of planning and not supply.  Let us take a look at what could have led to the sudden shortage in vaccines and the Remdesivir injections: Halt in production of Remdesivir There was a scaling down or stoppage of production of the Remdesivir drug in January and February due to the low Covid-19 caseload. As Remdesivir has a short shelf-life of six-eight months, manufacturers didn't take the risk of "being saddled with huge inventories," pharma industry experts told The Times of India. He further pointed out that the unprecedented second wave of the pandemic also was a reason for a 'mismatch' in the production and demand curve. India on April 11 banned the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and its active pharmaceutical ingredients as demand rocketed due to a record surge in Covid-19 infections, leading to shortages in many parts of the country.  Several companies in India, such as Dr Reddy's and Zydus Cadila among others have been granted permission by the DCGI to manufacture and market Remdesivir for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised Covid-19 patients. The drug is administered in the form of an injection. 'No shortage of vaccines' Even as the Opposition has attacked the government over the export of vaccines when it is in "acute shortage in the country and when there is no vaccine for Indians", the Centre has rubbished the claims and has maintained that there is no "shortage of vaccines". However, multiple vaccination centres in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha have complained of a shortage in supply of Covid-19 vaccines and remained shut as the states rationed their supply of vaccines amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.  “The vaccine shortage is due to poor logistics planning and coordination. If a software platform was built to forecast demand through pre-registration, then there should be no reason for a shortage. Yes, opening up the vaccination to all above 45 years may have some increase in demand but there has not been a population explosion overnight,” a community health specialist told DH. Meanwhile, the Centre on April 13 said that over 1.67 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs, underlining that the problem is not of vaccine shortage but of better planning. “No one expected there would be such a surge in the Covid-19 cases as being witnessed. The vaccination strategy was designed assuming that there was reasonable herd immunity as per the series of serosurveys. But most of the assumptions that formed the basis of the vaccine delivery strategy no longer hold good,” explained Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. Currently, two vaccines -- Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and Oxford-AstraZeneca Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) -- are being used for inoculation in India. India's drug regulator has also recently granted permission for the restricted emergency use of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V with certain conditions. India reported a maximum of over two lakh cases and 1,027 deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday and now has the second-highest number of infections after the United States. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-led-to-the-shortage-in-covid-19-vaccines-and-remdesivir-974454.html
15-04-2021||National||India's daily Covid cases jump from 1 lakh to 2 lakh in just 10 days||India's daily coronavirus caseload has doubled in ten days, with more than 200,000 new infections logged Thursday as authorities grapple with shortages of vaccines, treatments and hospital beds. Having let its guard down with mass religious festivals, political rallies and crowds at cricket matches, India is experiencing a huge second wave, with almost two million fresh infections this month alone. This week, it overtook Brazil to become the country with the second-highest number of cases worldwide. In the past day it also recorded over a thousand deaths, health ministry data showed, taking its total to 175,000, although on a per capita basis India is far behind many other countries. After a lockdown a year ago caused widespread misery and one of the sharpest downturns of any major economy, the central government is desperate to avoid a hugely unpopular second shutdown. But many states are tightening the screws, in particular Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai, which this week introduced tougher restrictions for its 125 million people. This has prompted many migrant workers to flee Mumbai and other cities in the state, in scenes reminiscent of the exodus from Indian towns and cities a year ago when the government halted all activity almost overnight. Hospitals around India are now struggling to cope, running short of beds, oxygen and coronavirus medicines like Remdesivir. The government on Wednesday postponed high school exams for 15 to 18-year-olds, which were to be held in May and June, amid the resurgence of the virus. India's drive to vaccinate its 1.3 billion people has also hit obstacles, with just 114 million shots administered so far and stocks running low, according to local authorities. The government has also put the brakes on the Serum Institute -- the world's largest maker of vaccines by volume -- exporting to other countries. Poorer countries, as well as some rich nations, have relied heavily on Serum for supplies of the AstraZeneca vaccine, but last month New Delhi told the institute to prioritise domestic needs. The ongoing religious festivals include the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar in northern India, which has seen millions of Hindu pilgrims -- mostly without masks -- massing on the banks of the holy Ganges river. The virus was detected in more than 1,000 people in just 48 hours in Haridwar, officials said Wednesday. "Our faith is the biggest thing for us. It is because of that strong belief that so many people have come here to take a dip in Ganga," Siddharth Chakrapani, a member of one of the Kumbh Mela organising committees, told AFP. "They believe that Maa (mother) Ganga will save them from this pandemic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-cases-jump-from-1-lakh-to-2-lakh-in-just-10-days-974458.html
15-04-2021||National||'PM Cares?' Rahul Gandhi calls 'vaccine festival' a sham||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the government over the handling of the Covid-19 situation and alleged that it is only indulging in a "sham" of a 'vaccine festival'. He also alleged that there is no testing, no beds in hospitals, neither ventilators or oxygen and vaccine is also not available. Gandhi also took a jibe asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were given to the fund for handling Covid-19 situation. ना टेस्ट हैं, ना हॉस्पिटल में बेड,ना वेंटिलेटर हैं, ना ऑक्सीजन,वैक्सीन भी नहीं है,बस एक उत्सव का ढोंग है। PMCares? "There are no tests or beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators or oxygen. The vaccine is also not there. But there is a sham of a festival. PM-CARES?" he asked. His attack came after the government celebrated the 'Tika Utsav' (vaccine festival) from April 11 to 14. India saw its highest single-day rise of 2,00,739 Covid-19 infections and 1,038 fatalities pushing the country' tally of cases to 1,40,74,564 and the total death toll to 1,73,123, according to official data. The total number of active Covid-19 cases in the country were recorded at 14,71,877 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-rahul-gandhi-calls-vaccine-festival-a-sham-974459.html
15-04-2021||National||Weekend curfew in Delhi: All you need to know||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced weekend curfew in the national capital amid a surge in coronavirus cases. "To control the spread of Covid-19, it has been decided to impose a weekend curfew in Delhi," Kejriwal said. The chief minister also said there was no shortage of hospital beds and over 5,000 were still available for Covid patients. Efforts to increase beds on a large scale will also be made, he assured. Here's what we know about the restrictions so far: 1. Curfew passes will be issued to those rendering essential services.  2. Malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums will be closed and cinemas halls will operate at 30% capacity only. 3. People will not be allowed to dine in restaurants, only home deliveries will be permitted during the weekend.  4. People attending weddings in Delhi to be given e-passes to facilitate movement during weekend curfew, Kejriwal informed. 5. One weekly market per day per municipal zone to operate to arrest the spread of coronavirus in Delhi. Kejriwal also said that there is no shortage of beds in hospitals in Delhi. "According to the latest data, more than 5,000 beds are available," he added. He also urged everyone to be careful, follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and said that restrictions have bene imposed keeping everyone's health and well-being in mind. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/weekend-curfew-in-delhi-all-you-need-to-know-974472.html
15-04-2021||National||Are petrol pumps being allocated to disabled under Disabilities Act, 2016? HC asks Centre||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre whether allocation of petrol pumps to disabled persons was being done in accordance with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Justice Prathiba M Singh issued notice to the ministries of Petroleum and Social Justice and state-run oil company Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) seeking their stand on a plea for creation of reservation for disabled persons in allotment of petrol retail outlets or dealerships according to the 2016 Act. The plea by a woman, who suffers from 75 per cent visual impairment, has contended that HPCL was still following the older repealed Persons with Disabilities Act of 1995 for allotment of dealerships. In her petition, filed through advocate Sanjay Kumar Singh, the woman has challenged a December 2020 order of the office of the Chief Commissioner, set up under Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, which did not find any fault in HPCL's scheme or manner of allotment of retail outlets for disabled persons indicated in its November 2018 advertisement. The Chief Commissioner, while finding no fault with the allotment scheme, also suggested to HPCL to revise its policy in line with the 2016 Act instead of basing it on the repealed statute, the petition has claimed. The plea has also sought setting aside of the allotment made pursuant to the 2018 advertisement on grounds that it was based on the repealed Act. "The percentage of reservation for the physically handicapped category practised by the respondent company on the basis of the advertisement brought out by it dated November 25, 2018 is not what it is required to be," the plea has contended. The woman has claimed that she had applied for a dealership in 2018 and whenever she enquired about the status of her application, she was told that the selection process was underway. In June last year, she sent a representation to HPCL enquiring about the status of her application and she was informed in July last year that the process was still underway. Subsequently, she filed a complaint in August 2020 before the Chief Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities and in response to the same, the company said that the selection process was completed in February 2019, the petition has claimed. Then in December 2020, in an additional reply filed by the company it indicated that it was following the 1995 Act for making schemes to allot dealerships to disabled persons, the petition has said and added that the office of Chief Commissioner did not permit the petitioner to further argue on this point and passed the order affirming HPCL's allotment process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-petrol-pumps-being-allocated-to-disabled-under-disabilities-act-2016-hc-asks-centre-974484.html
15-04-2021||National||Sharad Pawar discharged from hospital after gall bladder surgery||NCP chief Sharad Pawar, who underwent a gall bladder surgery at the Breach Candy Hospital three days back, was discharged from the facility on Thursday, party spokesperson Nawab Malik said. The 80-year-old leader underwent laparoscopic surgery (a minimally invasive procedure) at the hospital on Monday. "Pawar was discharged from the hospital some time back," Malik said on Wednesday. The NCP chief was hospitalised for the removal of his gall bladder and the surgery was followed by a two-day stay at the medical facility, he said. Pawar will rest for next some days at his residence here, he added. Earlier, the NCP president had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the hospital on March 30. Pawar's party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-pawar-discharged-from-hospital-after-gall-bladder-surgery-974487.html
15-04-2021||National||India reports more than 2 lakh daily Covid-19 cases; nationwide exercise to improve oxygen availability||With India’s daily Covid-19 tally crossing the 200,000 mark and set to grow further, the Centre on Thursday gave a renewed thrust on oxygen supply logistics across the country to ensure that no hospital or Covid care centres are bereft of the life-saving gas as there is adequate production of medical oxygen in India to meet the current requirements. Since India’s daily production capacity (7,287 Metric Tonnes) and the stock (about 50,000 MT) are more than the current daily consumption (3,842 MT), there was no immediate reason for any dearth of oxygen and the consequent panic reactions, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. Following a mapping exercise involving 12 high-burden states including Karnataka, a high-level group of officials has decided that such states would be requiring 4,880 metric tonnes of oxygen by April 20; 5,619 MT by April 25 and 6,593 MT by April 30 as the scale of epidemic is likely to expand. All efforts are now being made to procure the required quantity. In addition, the Union Health Ministry will identify 100 hospitals in far-flung areas where PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) technology-based oxygen generation plants can be set up with government back up. This would be in addition to 162 such plants that are being set up with support from the PM-Cares fund. Moreover, the Centre has decided to import 50,000 MT of oxygen as the reserve. A series of actions have also been initiated to improve the supply network so that states can pick up surplus oxygen from steel plants, reduce its wastage and maintain a steady supply by sourcing the oxygen from multiple points. This happened on a day when India registered 200,739 new cases (Union Health Ministry data released at 8 AM) doubling the size of the previous peak recorded in mid-September. While Maharashtra (58,952 cases) continues to account for the bulk of the cases, the epidemic is on a steady rise in Uttar Pradesh (20,439), Delhi (17,282), Chhattisgarh (14,250) and Karnataka (11,265). Nearly 81% of the new cases come from 10 states. For the second consecutive day, more than 1,000 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Wednesday. Of the 1,038 deaths, Maharashtra accounted for 278 deaths followed by Chhattisgarh (120) and Delhi (104). This for the first time three states registered more than 100 deaths in the second surge. The number of active cases stands at 14.71 lakh. Officials said the current challenge is to move oxygen from states with less necessity to needy states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. An initial mapping exercise has helped Maharashtra to lift surplus medical oxygen on a daily basis from steel plants like JSW in Dolvi (Maharashtra), SAIL in Bhilai (Chhattisgarh) and JSW in Bellary (Karnataka). Similarly, Madhya Pradesh supplemented its oxygen supply with procurement from Bhilai Steel plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-more-than-2-lakh-daily-covid-19-cases-nationwide-exercise-to-improve-oxygen-availability-974490.html
15-04-2021||National||All staffers at residence of SC judge Justice M R Shah test Covid-19 positive||All staff members of Supreme Court judge Justice M R Shah have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus, the judge said during the hearing of a case on Thursday. Justice Shah was sitting on the bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud and broke the news to the lawyers that all his staffers at the official residence have got the viral infection. The bench then rose and would reassemble at 2 pm. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati said the court should take its own time to deal with the situation. Over 40 staffers of the apex court had tested positive for novel coronavirus infection a few days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-staffers-at-residence-of-sc-judge-justice-m-r-shah-test-covid-19-positive-974498.html
15-04-2021||National||Haryana cancels Class 10 board exam, postpones exam for Class 12||Haryana on Thursday announced that it would cancel board examinations for Class 10, along the lines of CBSE, and delay Class 12 exams. "On the lines of the CBSE Board, we have decided to cancel Class 10th board exams and postpone Class 12th exams. Class 10th students will be evaluated based on internal assessment," Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-cancels-class-10-board-exam-postpones-exam-for-class-12-974511.html
15-04-2021||National||ISRO espionage case: SC orders CBI probe into framing of scientist Nambi Narayanan||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the CBI to conduct a probe into the role of Kerala police officers in the framing of ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan in a 1994 espionage case.   "The matter is very serious and it requires CBI probe," a bench presided by Justice A M Khanwilkar said while accepting the report of a panel headed by former top court judge D K Jain which was formed in September 2018. The court asked acting CBI director to take charge of the case and treat the inquiry report given Justice Jain panel as a preliminary inquiry report to conduct further investigation into the matter.  The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Vineet Saran, also asked the CBI to file a status report on its investigation within three months. The top court ordered that panel’s report should be kept confidential in sealed cover.  The Centre has filed an application asking the court to open the sealed cover of the report for the passing of appropriate orders as the matter was of national importance. Narayanan, 79, had waged a legal battle against the Kerala police officers who accused him of being a Pakistan spy in 1994. Besides forming the panel, the top court had directed the Kerala government to pay Rs 50 lakh as compensation for causing immense humiliation to Narayanan. In 2018, a bench of the then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra decided to appoint a committee under Jain and asked the Centre and the Kerala government to name one person each to the committee. While the Centre appointed D K Prasada, a top official, the Pinarayi Vijayan government appointed former Additional Chief Secretary V S Senthil. The ISRO espionage case surfaced in 1994 when Narayanan was arrested on charges of espionage along with another senior official of ISRO, two Maldivian women and a businessman. The CBI had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest. The panel examined the circumstances leading to Narayanan's arrest. It was alleged that confidential documents on India's space programme were transferred to foreign countries. Narayanan had maintained that Kerala police fabricated the case and the technology he was accused to have stolen and sold in the 1994 case did not even exist at that time. Padma Bhushan was conferred upon Narayanan by the Modi government in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-espionage-case-sc-orders-cbi-probe-into-framing-of-scientist-nambi-narayanan-974512.html
15-04-2021||National||India vows to decide on foreign vaccines within 3 days to fast-track imports||India said on Friday its drugs regulator will decide on emergency-use applications for foreign Covid-19 vaccines within three working days from application, as it tries to attract Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna to sell their shots. The regulator "will process such applications for Restricted Use in Emergency Situation" and its chief "will consider and take a decision within 03 working days from date of submission of complete application by the applicant," the health ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-vows-to-decide-on-foreign-vaccines-within-3-days-to-fast-track-imports-974530.html
15-04-2021||National||No heatwave conditions over country on April 15: IMD||A day after several parts of the country recorded temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said there will be no heatwave conditions on Thursday. It said heatwave conditions were observed in isolated pockets over Gujarat and Haryana on April 14. "There will be no heatwave conditions over the country on April 15," the IMD said. It said maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded in parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Bengal, among other places. "Maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded at most places over East Uttar Pradesh; at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Gangetic West Bengal and West Rajasthan; at a few places over Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat state and West Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Odisha, Jharkhand and Marathwada," the IMD said. The highest maximum temperature of 42.8 degrees Celsius was reported at Nowgong (East Uttar Pradesh) over the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-heatwave-conditions-over-country-on-april-15-imd-974537.html
15-04-2021||National||Fears of Covid-19 vaccine exclusion as India uses Aadhaar-based facial recognition||Millions of vulnerable people are at risk of missing out on Covid-19 vaccines as India uses its national digital identity for registration and pilots facial recognition technology at inoculation centres, rights groups and experts said. Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, authorities are testing a facial recognition system based on the Aadhaar ID for authentication in the eastern state of Jharkhand, and plan to roll it out nationwide, a senior official said last week. "Aadhaar-based facial recognition system could soon replace biometric fingerprint or iris scan machines at Covid-19 vaccination centres across the country in order to avoid infections," R.S. Sharma, chief of the National Health Authority, was quoted as telling an online publication. Sharma added later that the system would not be mandatory, but new guidelines indicate that Aadhaar is already the "preferred" mode of identity verification and for vaccination certificates. India reported a record 200,739 Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, health ministry data showed on Thursday, taking its total case load to 14.1 million, just behind the United States on the global tally. As cases soar, several states have warned of vaccine shortfalls, and the Indian government has fast-tracked emergency approvals for vaccines. But a requirement to register for appointments on a mobile app using Aadhaar is excluding millions of people who do not have an Aadhaar ID, said Anushka Jain, an associate counsel at the Internet Freedom Foundation in Delhi. Using facial recognition at vaccine centres risks further marginalising vulnerable people who may be misidentified and refused the vaccine, and raises fears the controversial technology could become the norm at all centres, she added. "Insisting on Aadhaar to register is very problematic as it is very exclusionary - and using Aadhaar-based facial recognition for authentication compounds the problem, as it is riddled with inaccuracies," Jain said. "The government should be making it easier to access vaccines - with any form of ID, not introducing new barriers," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Health ministry authorities did not respond to a request for comment. Left Out Aadhaar, which is linked to an individual's fingerprints, face and iris scan, is the world's largest biometric identity system with more than 1.2 billion IDs issued that are used for everything from school enrolments to tax filings. But more than 100 million citizens including many homeless and transgender people were left out of the system, with several reports of denial of services to even those with IDs because of misidentification and faulty IDs, a 2019 study showed. In addition, technology experts have raised concerns about the privacy and safety of the data, and its potential use for profiling and surveillance, in the absence of legal protections. "It is crucial that the government's focus stays on increasing the speed, range and efficacy of vaccine delivery, and not ... to test out privacy harming technologies," advocacy group Rethink Aadhaar said in a statement. The use of facial recognition for authentication at vaccine centres without assessing its impact on equity and privacy is troubling, said Jain. "It has been more than 10 years since Aadhaar was introduced - people's faces may have changed since then, does that mean they will lose out on access to the vaccine?" she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fears-of-covid-19-vaccine-exclusion-as-india-uses-aadhaar-based-facial-recognition-974548.html
15-04-2021||National||India's military chief concerned about US military pullout from Afghanistan||India is concerned about a vacuum developing in Afghanistan following the proposed withdrawal of United States and NATO forces from the country, the chief of the defence staff said on Thursday. General Bipin Rawat told a security conference that the worry was "disruptors" would step into the space created by the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan. He declined to name the countries that could act as disruptors. President Joe Biden has said that US troops will be withdrawn from Afghanistan starting May 1 to end America's longest war, rejecting calls for them to stay to ensure a peaceful resolution to that nation's grinding internal conflict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-military-chief-concerned-about-us-military-pullout-from-afghanistan-974549.html
15-04-2021||National||Time has come for woman CJI but female lawyers refuse judgeship due to domestic responsibilities: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said time has come for a woman Chief Justice of India but female lawyers often refused judgeship citing domestic and parental responsibilities. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde cited the difficulties faced by the High Court Collegium to choose women lawyers for the post of judges. "Time has come for a woman Chief Justice of India. Chief Justice of High Courts, however, stated that when lawyers are asked to come on the bench they deny saying they have domestic responsibility or their children are in class 11 or 12. These things have been communicated to me," CJI said. The court was hearing a matter related to appointment of ad-hoc judges in the High Courts to deal with huge pendency of cases. It reserved order in the matter. Advocates Shobha Gupta and Sneha Kalita pressed for a direction on a plea filed on behalf of Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association for adequate representation in higher judiciary, as their participation in justice delivery system was an important factor for the societal progress and gender equality. The court refused to issue notice in the matter. It, however, assured that the court had the best interest of women in mind but it required capable candidates. Out of 1080 sanctioned posts of judges (including both permanent and additional judges), we have 661 number of working judges. Out of which, only 73 number are women judges, which accounts for just 11.04 per cent, the association said. Giving a chart, they said the Madras High Court with 13 female judges had the distinction of having the highest number of women judges. However, out of 25 High Courts, five High Courts namely Manipur High Court, Meghalaya High Court , Patna High Court, Tripura High Court and Uttarakhand High Court did not have a single woman judge as on date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-has-come-for-woman-cji-but-female-lawyers-refuse-judgeship-due-to-domestic-responsibilities-sc-974559.html
15-04-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks relief measures for MSME for second Covid-19 wave||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the RBI to issue instructions and guidelines to initiate incentive packages and interim relief for the commercial borrowers attached with small scale business in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. The petitioner, Amaltas Apparel and Accessories Pvt Ltd, an MSME-registered company from Mumbai through advocate Vishal Tiwari, asked the court to ensure that banks desisted from imposing the Non-Performing Assets (NPA) norms for MSME units for a period of two years. "The emergence of the Covid -19 and the subsequent lockdown has impacted the world economically. The MSME Sector in India has faced a huge economic hardship wherein it has become a daily struggle for sustenance," the plea said. The RBI circular extending the moratorium till August 31, 2020, came as oxygen to such entities as it would have become a huge financial burden for the borrowers to pay the EMIs regularly in this period, the petitioner said. However, the emergence of the second wave of the Covid-19 has again pushed the country back to the similar situation of the first wave, requiring urgent measures to enforce the fundamental rights, particularly the right to livelihood and right to dignity, enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution to get the loan restructuring facility as the compulsory legal right, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-relief-measures-for-msme-for-second-covid-19-wave-974568.html
15-04-2021||National||India facing pet food shortages; govt urges industry to boost production||India, which has an estimated pet animal population of 29 million, is facing a shortage of pet foods, a government body said on Thursday and urged the industry to boost local production by taking advantage of the existing central schemes. Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) Chairman O P Chaudhary, addressing a webinar organised by industry body PHDCCI, said the industry players can avail credit facility given under the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Scheme (AHIDS) for setting up animal feed manufacturing facilities. However, pet food makers such as Mars International India and Royal Canine India said higher taxes, ambiguous business environment, absence of uniform framework and quality standards are major hindrances for the sector's growth. "On an average, India requires 30,000 tonnes of pet foods. In India, there are pet food manufacturers but not sufficient enough to meet demand and quality," Chaudhary said while addressing the webinar on the pet food industry. Some quantity of pet foods are imported but are costly to reach the people at affordable prices, he said, adding that the scarcity of pet foods was faced during the Covid-19 lockdown last year and the government had intervened. Asserting that a balanced nutritious diet is key to keep the pets healthy, Chaudhary said, however, pet foods are not reachable to every Indian pet owner because of the cost and availability. Overall, animal nutrition is a concern for Indian livestock sector as there is about 35-40 per cent shortage of animal feed and fodder, he added. Stating that the pet industry in India is growing at a faster rate, the AWBI Chairman said the government is taking measures to address the demand-supply gap and assisting the private sector to invest in setting up of animal feed plant under the Rs 15,000 crore worth AHIDF scheme. Under the scheme, up to 90 per cent credit is given at a lower rate form scheduled banks to the individuals, MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises), FPOs (Farmer Producer Organisations) and Section 8 companies for infrastructure development, he said. "The pet food industry can avail the opportunities to manufacture pet food in India and meet the demand," he added. Further, the Chairman said animal feed is not regulated in India at present. "There is no system in place for meeting licensing norms. Therefore, it is the high time to establish the pet food plants." He also said that raw materials required for pet food is available in the country. India is producing 8.1 million tonnes of meat, out of which chicken meat is 50 per cent. "The offals are wasted and same can be utilised for pet food manufacturing. Not only chicken and meat, India is sufficiently producing foodgrains which can also be utilised," he added. According to AWBI Secretary Sujit Kumar Dutta, there is a huge opportunity in research and development of pet foods as many are demanding vegetarian pet foods. There is scope for development of India-specified pet food, he added. At present, India does not have many pet food manufacturing facilities as it is not considered as a profitable business. Since pet industry is growing at a faster rate, companies can explore tapping this sector availing the support given by the government under the existing schemes, he noted. Talking about opportunities and challenges in the pet food industry in India, Mars International India General Manager Ganesh Ramani said about 45-50 per cent of pet food consumed in the country is met through domestic production and the rest is imported. To develop this sector, the government need to improve ease of doing business, reduce taxes, improve regulatory framework and quality standards, among others, he noted. Echoing similar views, Royal Canine India General Manager Govind Suryavanshi said the pet food industry can grow provided these challenges are addressed. The pet food industry size is pegged at Rs 2,500 crore in India, which has a pet population of about 29 million. Out of them, 24 million are dogs and the rest are cats, as per industry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-facing-pet-food-shortages-govt-urges-industry-to-boost-production-974569.html
15-04-2021||National||Petrol price cut by 16 paise, diesel 14 paise; 4th price drop in 3 weeks||Petrol price on Thursday was cut by 16 paise per litre and diesel by 14 paise -- the fourth minor reduction in rates in three weeks that followed six months of relentless price increases. Petrol now costs Rs 90.40 per litre in Delhi, down from Rs 90.56, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. A litre of diesel comes for Rs 80.73 per litre as against Rs 80.87 previously. Rates have been reduced across the country and vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT). Fuel prices were reduced for the first time in six months on March 24 after international oil prices fell on the prospect of speedy recovery in consumption getting clouded by the second wave of Covid-19 cases. In all, rates were reduced on three occasions, the last being on March 30. They had remained on freeze thereafter as global rates edged up. In three reductions, petrol price has come down by 61 paise per litre and diesel by 60 paise. After Thursday's price cut, the total reduction comes to 67 paise in case of petrol and 74 paise on diesel. Despite bouts of rate freeze, prices had gone up by a record Rs 21.58 per litre on petrol since the government raised excise duty in March last year. Diesel prices had increased by Rs 19.18 a litre. In Mumbai, the petrol price was cut to Rs 96.83 a litre on Thursday from Rs 99.98, while diesel rates were reduced to Rs 87.81 from Rs 87.96, the price notification showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-price-cut-by-16-paise-diesel-14-paise-4th-price-drop-in-3-weeks-974590.html
15-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Delhi announces weekend curfew; gyms, malls to be shut||In your evening news brief, Delhi announced a weekend curfew;  Karnataka government asks those returning from Kumbh Mela to get quarantined and tested and Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai says stringent action against those creating false scarcity of Remdesivir.  Here is the top news of April 15, 2021: Delhi on Thursday announced a weekend curfew and the closure of malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums in a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the city. Kejrwal said essential services and weddings will not be affected during the weekend curfew and passes will be provided to those attending weddings.   The Karnataka government has asked those returning from Kumbh Mela at Haridwar to get themselves quarantined and get tested for coronavirus infection. "Pilgrims returning to the state after taking part in the holy Kumbh Mela at Haridwar must isolate themselves at home and undergo tests for coronavirus. I urge pilgrims to continue with their regular activities only after their Covid negative test report," Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted. A large number of people have thronged Haridwar, an important pilgrimage place for the Hindus, for Kumbh Snan, which occurs once in 12 years, following planet Jupiter's transit in Aquarius (Kumbh) sign.     With reports coming in about black marketing of Remdesivir injection, which is vital for treatment of coronavirus, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday warned stringent action against those creating false scarcity of the drug. With reports coming in about black marketing of Remdesivir injection, which is vital for treatment of coronavirus, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday warned stringent action against those creating false scarcity of the drug. Bommai said there were reports that the injection is being sold at higher prices. The Home Minister also said there was no shortage of vaccines in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-announces-weekend-curfew-gyms-malls-to-be-shut-974593.html
15-04-2021||National||Some allegations against judges are 'shockingly false', says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Thursday said some of the allegations made against judges are so “shockingly false” that if there had been no security of tenure, they could have been easily “knocked out”. The top court favoured fixed tenure of two or more years for ad-hoc judges if they are appointed in high courts to reduce the backlog of pending cases. A special bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, “Position of judge has to be made secure. I tell you, we have seen allegations against judges which are shockingly false. Yes, some of them are shockingly false. You can easily knock out a judge if there is no security. There has to be security of tenure for ad-hoc judges”. A bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, which was hearing arguments on the modalities of appointments of ad-hoc judges, reserved verdict on a plea filed by NGO Lok Prahari seeking appointment of additional judges in the high courts under Article 224A of the Constitution in order to reduce the pendency of cases. Article 224-A of Constitution says that “the Chief Justice of a High Court for any State may at any time, with the previous consent of the President, request any person who has held the office of a Judge of that Court or of any other High Court to sit and act as a Judge of the High Court for that State”. Justice Kaul said he concurs with the views of the CJI as every time a judge is appointed, frivolous complaints are made and the court cannot put the entire system of appointment of ad-hoc judges in question.   “Ad-hoc judges cannot be made vulnerable,” the bench said, adding that too much fine-tuning may lead to losing the objective behind the appointment process.   The top court also rejected the submission of senior advocate Vikas Singh and some of other lawyers appearing in the matter that many of the former judges may not be interested in taking the job as they may be more interested in other lucrative fields like arbitration. “We think this decision should be left to the former judges. We cannot decide for them. The chief justice will definitely discuss with the retired judge which is proposed to be appointed as ad-hoc judge. If the retired judge thinks that he has something better to do, then he can very well say no to the appointment,” the bench said. The CJI also brushed aside the argument that high court chief justices may not be able to hear important matters, if ad-hoc judges are appointed. “I must tell you that I was not able to hear many Constitution bench matters because there were other pressing important cases that needed to be heard at the time. However, if an ad-hoc judge is appointed then regular cases can be dealt by him and the Chief Justice can focus on important constitutional issues”, the CJI said. On April 8, the top court had said that it is facing a “natural deadline” and favoured setting up a mechanism for appointment of ad-hoc judges in the high courts to reduce the backlog of cases. The top court by referring to the "natural deadline" perhaps meant the retirement of Chief Justice S A Bobde on April 23. It had asked group of senior lawyers representing different high courts to hold a virtual conference among themselves to deliberate and prepare within a week a road-map on four major points which could trigger the initiation of appointment process like-what could be percentage of pendency, how many ad-hoc judges could be appointed, how much could be the tenure of ad-hoc judges and what should the procedure.   The top court had said that it want to lay down some guidelines based on scientific mechanism by which if the pendency of cases go above a certain percentage or number, when the difference between disposal rate in comparison to rate of filing of cases goes above a certain benchmark, then the process of ad-hoc judges will get triggered.   It had said that the tenure of such ad-hoc judges and the number of ad-hoc judges to be appointed will be proportional to the percentage of pendency.   The top court had said that higher the pendency in particular branches like civil or criminal or any other branch, the higher the number of ad-hoc judges will be appointed for longer tenure. It had suggested that a benchmark like red or yellow colour shall be made to denote that pendency of cases and trigger the process of appointment. “The Chief Justice of the High Court will have a panel of retired judges from which they can be recommended for appointment as ad-hoc judges. This should be something scientific to prevent any arbitrariness,” it had said. The Centre had earlier said that although the government considers the issue as not adversarial, its stand on the issue is that ad-hoc appointment of judges under Article 224A should be done only after regular appointment of judges is done. The CJI had earlier said that Article 224A of the Constitution is not being used and the court may lay down guidelines for appointment of ad-hoc judges, if the pendency of it goes beyond a certain limit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-allegations-against-judges-are-shockingly-false-says-supreme-court-974594.html
15-04-2021||National||India will not get pushed under any pressure: CDS Gen Rawat on Ladakh standoff with China||India stood firm in preventing a change of status quo on the northern borders and the country proved it will not get pushed under any pressure, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Thursday, referring to the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. In his address at the Raisina Dialogue here, Gen Rawat said China felt that it will be able to compel nations to give in to its demands by doing a little bit of "shove and push" as it has superior armed forces because of technological advantage. "But, I think India stood firm on the northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed," he said at the virtual conference. The Chief of Defence Staff(CDS) said India was able to get support of the international community by standing firm in preventing the attempt of changing the status quo in the region. "They tried to ensure that they can change the status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force...They thought that India, as a nation, will succumb to the pressures that they have been putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have," he said, adding that did not happen. Gen Rawat said the international community came to India's support to say that "yes there is an international base-rule order which every nation must follow. That is what we have been able to achieve." India and China are locked in a military standoff in multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year that has significantly strained bilateral ties. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, India and China completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. "They feel that they have arrived and they have a superior armed force because of the technological advantage that they have," Gen Rawat said. "They have been able to create disruptive technologies which can paralyse systems of the adversary, and therefore, they feel that just by doing a little bit of shove and push, they will be able to compel nations to give in to their demands," he said. Referring to modernisation of the armed forces, Gen Rawat described the F-35 fighter jets of the US as a state of the art platform but added that he was not sure whether the US will share the technology with India. "What they have offered us is a lower version in the F-series," he said. At the conference, Chief of Staff, Joint Staff of Japan Self Defence Forces, Gen Koji Yamazaki said China is attempting to unilaterally change the international order, and that it is necessary for cooperation among like-minded countries in areas of disruptive technologies and counter the "grey zone tactics''. He said China does not recognise the legitimate interests of Japan and other countries in the region and such an approach will heighten tension, adding rules-based order is necessary for stability in the Indo-Pacific region. Gen Yamazaki also noted that any probable contingency in Taiwan directly impacts the defence of Japan. Chief of Defence Force of Australia General Angus Campbell said the "grey zone tactics" are a way to nibble away at territory. "We see this in the South China Sea. It is very challenging to respond without breaching the line that leads to open conflict," he said. Gen Rawat said geo-politics, coupled with geo-economics, is seeking to reshape the rules that govern the world order and that China is attempting to convey a message that it is "my way or no way." "There are some nations which follow international order. There are others which depend on their own law and make their own rules and regulations, try and change the status quo. These kinds of things do lead to conflict situations and that is what we are witnessing on our northern borders," he added. The CDS said the world is becoming "fragile" on account of threat from high-technology warfare. "Nations feel that they have arrived with better technology, and therefore, threaten other nations which probably do not have that kind of  technology." "Unconventional means of conflict being employed by clever use of disruptive technologies could paralyse networks causing breakdown of systems like banking, power grids, transportation and communication to name a few," he added. Organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), a think-tank, in partnership with the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA), Raisina Dialogue is India's premier conference on geopolitics and geo-economics, and its sixth edition is being held from April 13 to 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-not-get-pushed-under-any-pressure-cds-gen-rawat-on-ladakh-standoff-with-china-974595.html
15-04-2021||National||Both Centre, states must work jointly to address air pollution: NGT||Observing that India is witnessing the world's highest death rate from chronic respiratory diseases, the National Green Tribunal has said that concerned authorities must take coordinated efforts to maintain air quality standard in the country. The principal bench of the NGT headed by its chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel said that a holistic and coordinated approach required at the Centre and state government levels to address air pollution. Noting that about 1.5 million people in India die annually due to air pollution, the NGT has also ordered for the constitution of a national level task force headed by the Secretary, Union Ministry of Environment and Forests. The task force, which comprises senior officers from the Central Pollution Control Board, Union Ministries of Road Transport, Petroleum, Power, Agriculture, Health and Housing and Urban Affairs, will meet regularly and monitor remedial steps to improve the status of air quality, said the tribunal. The task force also ensures that all the states and cities, which are having high air pollution, must follow laid down guidelines. The NGT also asked the task force to hold its first meeting within one month and thereafter evolve a mechanism for monitoring by quarterly meetings with the Chief Secretaries of concerned States. Insisting that steps should be taken to check air pollution at all level, the NGT said that the Chief Secretaries of all states should continue to monitor progress in the execution of action plans at the state level with the assistance of monitoring cells in their offices and the Air Quality Monitoring Committee. The state-level monitoring must include action at the ground as per directions to be implemented by the District Magistrates or other concerned departments, the bench said. The NGT, which has been passing several orders to check air pollution, had earlier ordered for setting up an air quality monitoring system in every district. The tribunal also asked urban local bodies to sprinkle water on roads before sweeping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/both-centre-states-must-work-jointly-to-address-air-pollution-ngt-974596.html
15-04-2021||National||Centre postpones NEET-PG exams amid rising Covid-19 cases||Centre on Thursday postponed the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test-PG (NEET-PG) that was scheduled to be held on April 18 on account of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases. “In light of the surge in Covid-19 cases, Government of India has decided to postpone NEET-PG 2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18,” Health Minister Harsh vardhan said. He said the next date of the NEET-PG exam would to be decided later. “Decision has been taken keeping well being of our young medical students in mind,” the minister said. A group of MBBS doctors had approached the Supreme Court seeking postponement of NEET-PG exams citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike JEE, NEET-PG is a pen and paper examination and the doctors, who have been treating Covid-19 patients, pleaded that they would put lives of thousands in jeopardy if they took the exam. The apex court was scheduled to hear the matter on Friday. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor had also sought postponement of the NEET-PG exams. “While the Govt has suspended school exams, the National Board of Examinations has scheduled the NEET PG exam for April  18, 2021. Around 1.7 lakh applicants across India, including residents working in private & govt hospitals, will be exposed to Covid19,” Tharoor had said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-postpones-neet-pg-exams-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-974606.html
15-04-2021||National||These are very difficult times, SC judge says on staff testing positive for Covid-19||Supreme Court judge Justice M R Shah on Thursday announced that all his staff members involved in the virtual hearing have tested positive for Covid-19. Sitting on a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, Shah broke the news to the lawyers, while hearing a case through video conferencing, that all his staffers at the official residence have been affected. "Can we take a break for 10-15 minutes? My entire virtual staff has tested positive," he said. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati said the court should take its own time to deal with the situation. The bench then rose and informed the lawyers that it will reassemble at 2 pm. "These are very difficult times,” Justice Shah observed. A few days ago, 44 staffers at the top court had tested positive for Covid-19. However, the top court’s functioning has not been affected with judges conducting virtual hearing from their home offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-are-very-difficult-times-sc-judge-says-on-staff-testing-positive-for-covid-19-974613.html
15-04-2021||National||Govt to decide on pending names of HC judges in 3 months, A-G tells SC||Attorney General K K Venugopal on Thursday assured the Supreme Court that 10 names sent for appointment as High Court judges as far back as July, 2019 would be considered by the Union government within a period of three months.  "The government will take a decision regarding 10 names sent to it vide letters dated July 25, 2019, October 17, 2019 and August  18, 2020 which are pending from more than six months, within a period of three months and communicate the same to this court accordingly," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde noted. The court recorded submission of the A-G while hearing a matter related to delay in appointment of judges. Out of 416 vacant positions of High Courts judges, as many as 196 proposals are under the consideration of the government and the Supreme Court Collegium while recommendations on remaining 220 posts were yet to be received. There are sanctioned strength of 1080 judges in 25 High Courts across the country. Out of 34 total posts of judges in the Supreme Court, there are vacancies of five. For which, the recommendations were yet to be received from the top court's Collegium. These details were pointed out in a note prepared by the Attorney General on vacancy positions as on April 13. The top court had on March 26 pulled up the central government for delaying the process of appointment of judges, saying that it has been sitting on some recommendations for more than 19 months despite the final nod of the Collegium.  Responding to the court's concerns, the note said of 196 names, a total of 80 proposals have been submitted to the Supreme Court Collegium for advice. Two cases have been referred to the SC Collegium for reconsideration and 12 have been deferred to by the SC Collegium itself. A total of 33 recommendations by the High Court Collegium are under examination of the government for submission to the SC Collegium. There are 10 cases in which views from the state governments were awaited. However, there are 39 fresh proposals recommended by the SC Collegium which are under examination of the government. There are four proposals which were earlier deferred by the SC Collegium but now again been recommended for consideration. There are five proposals which have been reiterated by the SC Collegium but are under consideration of the government.  Of 196 proposals, there are 11 names which were not considered by the SC Collegium and were remitted to the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-decide-on-pending-names-of-hc-judges-in-3-months-a-g-tells-sc-974614.html
15-04-2021||National||ASI monuments closed for visitors till May 15 due to Covid-19||The Archeological Survey of India on Thursday ordered shutting down of all its centrally protected monuments, museums and sites with immediate effect till May 15 due to the surge in coronavirus cases in the country. "Due to the prevailing Covid situation, it has been decided to close all centrally protected monuments, sites and museums under the ASI with immediate effect till May 15 or until further orders," the ASI said. These include 3,693 monuments and 50 museums. Last year, too, all monuments and sites maintained by the ASI were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic on March 17.  They reopened in July last year with strict restrictions like mandatory wearing of masks, cap on the number of visitors and social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asi-monuments-closed-for-visitors-till-may-15-due-to-covid-19-974617.html
15-04-2021||National||India, US can come together to find technology to tackle climate change||United States Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry on Thursday said India and the US can come together to find new fuels and technologies to help deal with climate change.   Kerry also hoped that the two nations build a partnership to accelerate the deployment of 450 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy across India by 2030. Participating in the sixth edition of the Raisina Dialogue virtually, Kerry said that "there is a big appetite in India" and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is deeply committed to moving as fast as possible to living up to Paris responsibilities and beyond.   "I think these two great democracies have an opportunity to come together to harmonize some of our initiatives to find new fuels, new technologies -- battery storage, direct carbon capture... whatever it is that is going to help us meet this challenge," he said. "We share a passion for innovation, research and technology... If India and the US come together, that's a significant step forward," the US envoy on climate added.  India is implementing one of the largest renewable energy expansion programmes with a target of achieving 175 GW renewable energy capacity by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030. During his visit to India earlier this month, Kerry had said that with the implementation of India's plan of 450 GW of renewables by 2030, it will be one of the few nations helping in limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. He had also said it is not an “absolute requirement” for India to announce a net-zero emission target for 2050, as it is “doing all the things that it needs to”. On Thursday, Kerry emphasised that President Joe Biden's upcoming virtual climate summit on April 22-23 is not an effort by the US to prove something.  "Knowing that we are seven months away from a major negotiation internationally, President Biden wants to assist in the process of raising ambitions of countries all around the world. That's the reason for this summit," he said. The president has invited 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Modi, to the virtual summit to underscore the urgency and the economic benefits of stronger climate action. Kerry said the 2021-2030 decade is "absolutely vital" for the world to meet the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius and to achieve net-zero in 2050. A net-zero target means balancing out the amount of greenhouse gasses emitted into the environment by removing an equivalent volume. This may be achieved by various modes, including restoring forests or through direct air capture and storage (DACS) technology, according to the World Resources Institute. According to Climatewatchdata.org, 59 countries, accounting for 54 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions, have communicated a net-zero target so far. China has said it will achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. India is the only major player holding out. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar had on Wednesday said India is the only G-20 country to walk the talk on the Paris climate agreement and "we have done more than we promised". He had said India will continue its fight against climate change but "those who have polluted will have to act more".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-can-come-together-to-find-technology-to-tackle-climate-change-974630.html
15-04-2021||National||Ambani's Reliance diverts oxygen for Covid fight, trucks stuck in Gujarat||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Industries Ltd is diverting oxygen produced at its refineries to supplement availability in worst-hit Covid states like Maharashtra and the trucks carrying supplies are in transit, sources said. Reliance's twin oil refineries in Jamnagar have through minor process modification converted industrial oxygen into medical-use oxygen that can be administered to Covid-19 patients low on oxygen, people aware of the development said. In all, 100 tonnes of oxygen will be supplied from the Jamnagar refineries, they said. "The supplies will be free of cost since it is for a humanitarian cause," one of the persons said. Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde too confirmed that the state would get 100 tonnes of oxygen from Reliance. The person cited above said the trucks carrying oxygen cylinders are in transit. However, another source said trucks are stuck in Jamnagar after local authorities stopped their movement. Unable to get prompt supplies, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While Maharashtra is among the worst-hit states facing a fresh outbreak of the pandemic, Gujarat too has seen number of patients swell. Over four dozen trucks carrying oxygen cylinders are stuck in Jamnagar, sources said. An e-mail sent to the company for comments remained unanswered. Facing a huge shortfall in oxygen supplies, Thackeray is believed to have dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the availability of medical oxygen. He also wrote to Modi saying medical oxygen requirement in the state is projected to reach 2,000 tonnes per day by April-end against the present requirement of 1,200 tonnes. Oil refineries can produce limited volumes of industrial oxygen in air-separation plants meant for nitrogen production. Scrubbing out other gases such as carbon dioxide can convert it into medical-use oxygen with 99.9 per cent purity. Reliance operates the world's largest oil refining complex at Jamnagar in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambanis-reliance-diverts-oxygen-for-covid-fight-trucks-stuck-in-gujarat-974634.html
15-04-2021||National||Boris Johnson's India visit to finalise ‘Roadmap 2030’ for India-UK ties||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will visit India from April 25 and is set to agree on a ‘Roadmap 2030’ for re-energised India-UK relations across trade and investment and climate action, the Indian High Commission in London said on Thursday. Earlier, Downing Street had confirmed that due to the Covid-19 pandemic crisis in India, Johnson has decided to shorten the length of his planned visit – with the bulk of the programme now set to take place during the course of Monday, April 26. The visit, previously postponed from a Republic Day tour in January, is the first major bilateral visit for Johnson outside Europe since the UK general election in December 2019 and the conclusion of the Brexit transition period at the end of December 2020. "The visit of PM Johnson is expected to positively transform the partnership across the wide-spectrum of issues and areas relating to Defence and Security, the Indo-Pacific and Western Indian Ocean Region (WIOR), Trade and Investments, Health care, Climate Change and people-to-people connect," the High Commission of India in London said. "India and UK are set to agree on a ‘Roadmap 2030’ for future relations. The 2030 vision is for revitalised and dynamic connect between people; re-energised trade, investment and technological collaboration; enhanced defence and security cooperation and closer engagement on regional issues – Including the Indian Ocean Region and the Indo-Pacific. The India-UK Partnership in Climate Action, clean energy and health care is geared for mutual benefit and a better world,” it adds. As part of the UK’s post-Brexit Global Britain engagement as a non-member of the European Union (EU), all eyes have been on a proposed Enhanced Trade Partnership (ETP) with India which will pave the way for a full-fledged Free Trade Agreement (FTA) in the future. The ETP was expected to take firm shape during Johnson’s visit this month but it remains to be seen how that progresses given the scaled-back programme. "India-UK successful collaboration in the Covid-19 mitigation efforts over the last year has emerged as the silver lining in the bilateral relationship. Building upon the success achieved in the joint development, manufacture and distribution of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, the visit will provide an opportunity to further consolidate the India-UK joint partnership in addressing future pandemics through health infrastructure development, joint investment in research and development of vaccines, swifter exchanges of healthcare professionals and strengthening existing institutional links/partnerships in the health sector,” the Indian High Commission said. The last bilateral visit by a British Prime Minister to India took place in November 2016 when Theresa May met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for talks, a visit widely seen as unsuccessful largely from the point of view of Britain’s perceived unwelcome visa stance towards Indian students and professionals at the time. Johnson’s visit, which has been repeatedly hit by Covid-19 pandemic constraints, is by contrast expected to deliver a "streamlined and liberalised regime" for the flow of people between the two countries. Downing Street is yet to reveal a detailed itinerary of Johnson's truncated agenda but confirmed on Wednesday that it will include a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi and high-level ministerial as well as business talks. "This programme will be focused on high-level discussions with the Indian government and Indian business leaders. We’ll set out more details in due course, but the visit will include a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi," Johnson’s spokesperson at 10 Downing Street said. The spokesperson said the Prime Minister took the decision to reduce the length of the visit to a shorter programme in New Delhi in light of the Covid situation in India and following discussions with the Indian government. "As with all the Prime Minister’s visits, his trip to India will prioritise the safety of those involved. All elements of the visit will be Covid secure,” the spokesperson said. The visit comes in the wake of the UK’s foreign policy vision for an Indo-Pacific tilt as part of its “once-in-a-generation” Integrated Review released last month, with the India visit highlighted as a central plank of that strategy during its launch in the House of Commons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boris-johnsons-india-visit-to-finalise-roadmap-2030-for-india-uk-ties-974636.html
15-04-2021||National||2020 Delhi riots: Court grants bail to Umar Khalid||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former JNU student Umar Khalid in a case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February last year saying he was not physically present at the scene of crime on the date of incident. “The applicant (Khalid) is not visible in any CCTV footage/viral video(s) pertaining to the scene of crime on the date of incident. There is no identification of the applicant either through independent public witness or any police witness of he being present at the scene of crime on the date of incident,” Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav noted in the order. The court further said that even the CDR location of the mobile phone of applicant was not found at the scene of crime on the date of incident.  The applicant has merely been roped in the matter on basis of his own disclosure statement, fourth disclosure statement of co-accused Tahir Hussain and disclosure statement of co-accused Khalid Saifi, it said, adding that no recovery of any sort has been effected from the applicant pursuant to his disclosure statement. The court rejected prosecution's argument that Khalid had been in regular contact/touch with co-accused Tahir Hussain and Khalid Saifi over mobile phone and said that “prima facie that does not in any way go on to establish the criminal conspiracy alleged against the applicant in the matter.” The FIR in the present case was registered on the statement of Constable Sangram Singh, where he stated that on February 24, 2020 at about 2 PM, a large crowd gathered on the road in a locality in the northeast Delhi and started pelting stones in which he and other police officials got injured as they were thrashed by the mob. They set the vehicles in a parking area nearby on fire, including his motorcycle of the complainant was also burnt by the rioters, he said said. Though Khalid has been granted bail in this case, he will remain in jail as the former JNU student leader is also accused in some other cases including one related to the criminal conspiracy lodged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2020-delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-umar-khalid-974637.html
15-04-2021||National||Centre asks states to ensure availability of essential supplies, stop panic buying by consumers||Amid concerns over availability of essential items in view of rising Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Thursday directed state governments to take steps to stop panic buying by people and ensure there is no hike in prices of key supplies. In a letter written to state governments, Additional Secretary in Union Consumer Affairs Ministry Nidhi Khare said due to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, concerns have been raised about "availability of essential commodities to the common man at fair prices."         To maintain smooth supplies, the states have been asked to keep operations of grocery stores/warehouses and chemist shops outside the restrictions under Section 144.         "It should also be ensured that the prices of all essential supplies are not increased and they are at fair prices, unless necessitated by cost enhancement due to raw material costs and exchange rates fluctuations," she said.         States have been asked to undertake awareness activity and sensitise public at large to address their concerns so as to "mitigate panic buying" of essential supplies, she added.       That apart, states have been asked to set up joint teams of food and civil supplies, legal metrology, food safety, health and policy at state/district level for effective surveillance and enforcement in order to avoid demand-supply mismatch, hoarding and exorbitant pricing of essential supplies.     States have also been directed to set up helplines for consumers to enable them to register complaints for redressal by the public authorities on issue of maintaining essential supplies.   The states have been asked to review the situation and take appropriate action based on exigencies. India added a record over 2 lakh new Covid-19 infections in a day pushing the total tally of cases to 1,40,74,564, while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-ensure-availability-of-essential-supplies-stop-panic-buying-by-consumers-974641.html
15-04-2021||National||India to receive Sputnik V vaccine doses this month: Report||India's ambassador to Moscow said deliveries of Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine to India were expected to begin before the end of April, the TASS news agency reported, after Indian regulators approved the shot for use on Monday. Russia has signed several major vaccine production deals with Indian manufacturers, and India is expected to become a hub for production of the shot. This is expected to begin in May, Ambassador Bala Venkatesh Varma was cited by TASS as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-receive-sputnik-v-vaccine-doses-this-month-report-974644.html
15-04-2021||National||Farmers' protest-hit Haryana tops Centre's wheat procurement chart||Centre has procured 64.79 lakh metric tonnes of wheat within a month, with Haryana – one of the worst-hit states due to protests against three farm laws – accounting for nearly half of the total purchases of the cereal so far. The speed with which Food Corporation of India (FCI) has embarked on procurement of wheat this year is a stark contrast to just 60 metric tonnes of the cereal till April 14 the previous year. During the Rabi Marketing Season of 2019-20, the FCI had procured 12.81 lakh metric tonnes of wheat for the corresponding period. Procurement of wheat begins mid-March in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and from April 1 in Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Due to the Covid-19 situation in the state, Punjab had deferred wheat procurement to April 10 this year. As many as 6.60 lakh farmers from 11 states have received payouts totaling Rs 12,800 crore for their wheat crop that was purchased at the minimum support price of Rs 1,975 per quintal, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey told reporters here. The Centre plans to procure 427 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat this Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) as against the 389 LMT procured last year. Of the 64.79 LMT wheat procured this year, 30.09 LMT has been purchased from farmers in Haryana, 20.63 LMT from Madhya Pradesh, 10.56 LMT from Punjab, 1.8 LMT from Uttar Pradesh and 1.31 LMT from Rajasthan. Pandey said from the current RMS, farmers across the country were getting the payment for the food grains purchased from them directly in their bank accounts. He said the arthiyas – middlemen – will get their 2.5 per cent commission in their bank accounts separately. Pandey said the Centre was also working on improving storage capacity by 100 LMT by building silos under the storage modernisation plan and phase out conventional godowns gradually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-hit-haryana-tops-centres-wheat-procurement-chart-974652.html
15-04-2021||National||'Ramayan' returns to TV screens a year after lockdown telecast||Ramanand Sagar's epic "Ramayan" has started airing on TV again, a year after the drama saw a rerun during the coronavirus-triggered nation-wide lockdown. Aired again after 33 Years, "Ramayan" was re-telecast on Doordarshan National in March 2020. The show is currently airing on Star Bharat. Actor Dipika Chikhlia Topiwala, who played Sita on the show, took to Instagram to inform her fans about its rerun. "So excited to share that 'Ramayan' will be airing on the small screens again this year! 'Ramayan' aired during the lockdown last year, and looks like history is repeating itself. "The show has been a huge part of not just my life, but thousands of Indian families for years. Come be a part of our community and share the knowledge of the 'Ramayan' with generations to come," she added. Written, produced and directed by Ramanand Sagar, “Ramayan”, first aired on Doordarshan in 1987 and acquired a cult status over the years. The show featured Arun Govil as Ram and Sunil Lahri as Lakshman. It also featured veteran actors Lalita Pawar as Manthara, Arvind Trivedi as Ravana and Dara Singh as Hanuman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramayan-returns-to-tv-screens-a-year-after-lockdown-telecast-974654.html
15-04-2021||National||Influential Akhara announces end to Kumbh Mela at Haridwar||Niranjani Akharas, an influential order of saints, on Thursday announced the end of its activities for the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar from April 17 citing the surge in Covid-19 cases. “Considering the Covid-19 situation, the Niranjani Akhara has decided to end the Kumbh Mela on April 17,” Mahant Ravindra Puri, secretary of the Niranjani Akhara said in Haridwar. He said several sadhus participating in the Kumbh Mela have tested positive for Covid-19. Puri also appealed to other Akharas to end the Mela early given the spiralling Covid-19 situation. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar told DH that the main Kumbh Mela was over on April 14 as not all Akharas are going to participate in the ‘shahi snan’ on April 27. “The main shahi snan were on April 12 and April 14,” Kumar said adding as many as 13 lakh devotees took a dip in the Ganga at Haridwar on Wednesday. Kumar said that the number of devotees was one-tenth of the attendance witnessed at the previous Kumbh Mela when over 1.25 crore people took part in the festivities. The Kumbh Mela congregation had come under severe criticism for lack of Covid-19 protocol at a time when the second wave of the pandemic was raging throughout the country. As per reports from Haridwar, at least 12 sadhus, including Narendra Giri, the President of the Akhil Bharitya Akhara Parishad, have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/influential-akhara-announces-end-to-kumbh-mela-at-haridwar-974655.html
15-04-2021||National||Nambi Narayanan welcomes CBI probe into conspiracy angle||ISRO former scientist Nambi Narayanan has welcomed the Supreme Court order to probe into conspiracies suspected in the nearly three-decade old ISRO espionage case, even as the police officials who investigated the case lamented that the Supreme Court-appointed committee headed by justice D K Jain did not hear them. The Supreme Court constituted the D K Jain committee in 2018 to find appropriate actions against three police officials who took key roles in initiating the case in 1994 and the committee had taken a statement by Narayanan, but the statement of the police officials was reportedly not taken. Narayanan reacted that already it was a widely accepted fact that there was a conspiracy in the cases against him. He also wanted to know who hatched the conspiracy. Meanwhile, the police officers who investigated the case, who already retired from service, told a section of media that the Jain committee did not hear their versions before finalising its report. One of the officers also said that there were genuine grounds for initiating the investigation against Narayanan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nambi-narayanan-welcomes-cbi-probe-into-conspiracy-angle-974698.html
15-04-2021||National||Gujarat ATS nabs eight Pakistan nationals with 30 kg heroin in mid-sea operation||Gujarat police's Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Thursday arrested eight suspected Pakistani nationals and seized 30 kg heroin consignment worth Rs 150 crore from their possession kept in a fishing boat, following a joint operation with local police and Indian Coast Guard off Jakhau coast in Kutch district. This is the fourth major case of attempted smuggling from Pakistan through Gujarat seacoast that the ATS has foiled. In another case, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had also busted a similar attempt. ATS officials said that the operation was carried out based on an input that a Pakistani boat "Nooh" was carrying a consignment of heroin off Jakhau coast, about 40 nautical miles from the coast. They said that the consignment was supposed to be offloaded near a creek and sent to Punjab. Based on the specific input, a team of ATS officials led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Bhavesh Rojiya, officers of Special Operation Group, Dwarka district and Coast Guard officials launched a search operation last night in the sea and apprehended the suspected boat. They found eight Pakistani crew and recovered 30 kg of heroin from their possession. "The consignment was to be delivered to someone in Punjab. We are investigating the case. We are seeing that Gujarat coast is becoming a new channel for smugglers from the neighbouring country which we have been able to bust everytime they attempt," Deputy Inspector General, ATS, Himanshu Shukla told DH. As a matter of fact, in the past four years, this is the fourth such operation in which the narcotics consignment has been caught. It started in 2018, when ATS recovered 5 kg heroin in Kutch and further investigation led to tracing of 300 kg heroin in Punjab which was smuggled through the same channel. In 2019, ATS arrested nine Iranian nationals with 100 kg heroin. In 2020, the ATS apprehended five Pakistani nationals and seized 35 kg heroin consignment worth Rs175 crore from a fishing boat in a joint operation in mid sea. Besides, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had also caught 218 kg of heroin from Jakhau port which was being smuggled by a crew of six Pakistani nationals in a fishing boat in 2019. ATS officials said that due to the ban of trade from Line of Control (LoC) and heightened surveillance by Combined Task Force or CTF 150, a combined force of US and Australian among other nations, the smugglers have been using Gujarat's coast as a safe passage. In most cases, the contraband was supposed to be dispatched from Gujarat coast to Punjab and from there to other parts of the country and even abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-ats-nabs-eight-pakistan-nationals-with-30-kg-heroin-in-mid-sea-operation-974712.html
15-04-2021||National||India opened its arms to the world by providing vaccines to combat Covid-19: Maldivian FM||Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid Thursday hailed India for providing vaccines to other countries to combat the coronavirus pandemic, saying it was an example of how multilateralism and the idea of a "global village" should function. Speaking at a session titled 'Beyond Covid: Global Public Health after the Pandemic' at the virtual Raisina Dialogue here, Shahid said the first and the foremost lesson learnt from the pandemic was of the importance of multilateralism and that "we are a global village and can't live in isolation". "We need to unite our efforts to face these global challenges. The manner in which the international community came together in the face of the pandemic initially was commendable," he said. However, Shahid noted that as the pandemic dragged on and the vaccine roll out started, a bit of "fracture in the unity" has been observed in dealing with the challenge. Lauding India for providing vaccines to other countries, he said India has given hope to the international community by becoming an example of how multilateralism and a global village should function. "The manner in which India has rolled out its vaccination programme, not only in India itself, but also how it has opened its arms and heart to the world in providing vaccines was commendable and exemplary," said Shahid, who is on a two-day visit to India. Sri Lanka's Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs Namal Rajapaksa and Bangladesh's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Shahriar Alam also hailed India for its vaccine rollout and asserted that a human-centric approach in dealing with the pandemic was the need of the hour. Shahid, Alam and Rajapaksa also emphasized on equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines for smaller countries. Organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), a think-tank, in partnership with the MEA, Raisina Dialogue is India's premier conference on geopolitics and geo-economics, and its sixth edition is being held from April 13 to 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-opened-its-arms-to-the-world-by-providing-vaccines-to-combat-covid-19-maldivian-fm-974714.html
15-04-2021||National||Telangana cancels class 10th exams; second year intermediate exams postponed||Following the CBSE decision on Wednesday to cancel class 10th exams and postpone class 12th exams, the Telangana government has also cancelled the class 10th board examinations that was scheduled to be held from May 17.. The second year intermediate (+2) exams are postponed, while all the first year intermediate (+1) students would be promoted. “Considering the present pandemic situation prevailing in the state, and also keeping in view the CBSE notification, government hereby cancels all 10th class exams,” stated an order issued by Chitra Ramachandran, special chief secretary, education department on Thursday. The results of class 10th students will be prepared on the basis of objective criteria to be developed by the SSC board later. “Any candidate not satisfied with marks allotted will be given an opportunity to sit in an exam as and when the conditions are conducive,” the official said. In another memo, the official said that “all intermediate second year exams proposed from May 1 to 19 are postponed.” Based on a review in June first week, further dates would be announced with at least 15 days notice for the exams. All intermediate second year students having backlogs would be given minimum passing marks for the backlogs only. “All intermediate first year students will be promoted without exams and exams will be held whenever it becomes possible at a future date,” Ramachandran said. The 25 per cent weightage of intermediate marks will not be considered for the Engineering Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) this year. Meanwhile, Telangana has recorded 3,307 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, testing 1.06 lakh samples. While the active cases in the state are 27,861, individuals kept in home or institutional isolation are 18,685.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cancels-class-10th-exams-second-year-intermediate-exams-postponed-974721.html
15-04-2021||National Politics||Bell for Mamata's departure has already rung: J P Nadda||J P Nadda on Thursday said that the days of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee at power in West Bengal are numbered. Nadda, who addressed four rallies in the state today sought to counter the TMC supremo’s “outsider” jibe at the BJP claiming that it was the saffron party who are “insiders” to the state as they spread the wisdom of the luminaries of Bengal to the country. Taking a dig at Mamata’s frequent visit to temples during campaigning, Nadda said that she may ring the bells of temples as much as she wants to but the bell for her exit from power has already rung. “Mamata didi may ring the bells of temples as much as she wants to but the bell for her exit from power in Bengal has already rung,” said Nadda. He alleged Mamata’s visit to temples and chanting Sanskrit slokas in rallies, was damage control exercise for creating hurdles creating hurdles against immersion of Durga idols and holding Saraswati pujas. Nadda further alleged that the words used by Mamata for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the monikers she used for him goes against the culture and tradition of Bengal. “BJP is spreading the message of Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore and Syama Prasad Mookerjee in the country. Are the words used by her for the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the monikers she added to my name in tune with Bengal’s culture?,” said Nadda. “We are the insiders to Bengal and the protector of it’s culture,” said Nadda. Alleging that the TMC supremo in her 10 year long tenure as the Chief Minister has allowed rampant corruption, extortion and syndicates to have a free run in the State, Nadda urged the people to cast their votes in such a manner that she gets out permanently from power in the interests of the state. “She (Mamata) has become so frustrated that she is even asking the people to gherao the Central forces,” said Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bell-for-mamatas-departure-has-already-rung-j-p-nadda-974307.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in entire Rajasthan from Friday||Amid a surge in coronavirus infection cases, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday decided to impose a night-long curfew from 6 pm to 5 am in the entire state from April 16. The night curfew was declared earlier in 10 urban areas of the state but with the spread of infection showing no sign of abating, the state government decided to enforce the regulatory measure in the entire state. The order imposing the night curfew in the entire state was issued on late Wednesday evening. “Night curfew will be there from 6 in the evening till 5 in the morning and markets will be closed by 5 pm,” the government order said. According to the new guideline, all educational and coaching institutes and libraries too will remain closed from April 16 to 30. The number of guests in private functions, marriages and other social gatherings has been restricted to 50. The directions related to the marriage and social functions will apply from April 16 to May 31, the order said. Not more than 20 persons will be allowed for the funeral, the order said, adding there will be no permission for any kind of public, social, political, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious events, procession, fairs and festivals. Worship at religious places too will be performed only by the authorities of the religious places and the arrangement of online darshan will continue. Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, amusement parks and other places for entertainments will be closed and there will be no permission to operate swimming pools and gyms. Restaurants and clubs will be allowed to open only with 50 per cent seating capacity, the order said, adding the restaurants and clubs will follow the night curfew directions but home delivery will be allowed only till 8 pm. In all government and private offices with more than 100 employees, 50 per cent of staff will be allowed and the rest will work from home. If there is a positive case, the workplace will be closed for 72 hours, the order said. Restrictions were also imposed on public transports. Only two passengers will be allowed in auto-rickshaws apart from the driver while in four-wheeler cabs, 50 per cent of the seating capacity apart from the driver will be permissible, it said. In buses, 50 per cent of the seating capacity will be allowed. No passenger will be allowed to travel while standing in public transport. For private vehicles, the number of occupants shall not be more than the permissible limit. In the guidelines, the government also insisted on following all important measures like maintaining social distance and wearing of face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-entire-rajasthan-from-friday-974344.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||320 doses of Covaxin stolen from Jaipur hospital||Amid a surge in the coronavirus infection, over 300 doses of Covid vaccine have been stolen from a hospital in Jaipur, prompting authorities to lodge a criminal case against the theft. A total of 320 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin went missing from the Kanwatiya government hospital in Shastri Nagar, an official said on Wednesday. The hospital authorities informed the Jaipur chief medical and health officer about the theft on Tuesday night following which an FIR was lodged on Wednesday. “I was informed last night that the doses have been stolen. It is surprising. A police case has been registered in this regard,” Dr Narottam Sharma, Jaipur CMHO, told PTI. The vaccines were stolen apparently on Monday, he said, adding the case was registered by the hospital superintendent, Dr L Harshvardhan, on Wednesday. Sharma said a departmental probe too has been ordered into the theft. “An FIR was registered about the theft of 32 vials of corona vaccine from storage. One vial has 10 doses,” Shastri Nagar police station’s SHO Dilip Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/320-doses-of-covaxin-stolen-from-jaipur-hospital-974374.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||30 shanties gutted in fire in Delhi's Paschimpuri, no casualty||Around 30 shanties were gutted after a major fire broke out in a slum cluster in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Camp of west Delhi's Paschimpuri, a Delhi Fire Services official said on Thursday. No injuries were reported in the incident that occurred on Wednesday night, the official said. According to the fire department official, a call about the blaze was received at around 9.55 pm and 25 fire tenders were pressed into action. The fire engulfed around 30 shanties including pucca structures spread across 1,500 square yards, he said. Two more tenders were rushed to the spot later and the fire was doused while the "cooling process" continued at least till 1:30 am, he added. The cause of blaze is being ascertained, the official said. Despite the night curfew in place, over 200 people had gathered near the spot before they were dispersed by police and fire personnel, he said. “I think a cylinder blast was the cause of the fire as I heard an explosion at around 9:50 pm. I came out in the balcony but couldn’t see anything but after about a few minutes I saw huge flames,” said Deepika, who lives in a locality opposite the slum cluster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/30-shanties-gutted-in-fire-in-delhis-paschimpuri-no-casualty-974418.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||The missing deaths: Is Madhya Pradesh underreporting Covid-19 toll?||The surge in India's coronavirus case tally is showing no sign of slowing down. On Thursday, the nation reported over two lakh new Covid-19 cases for the first time since the outbreak of the virus. All the states are battling to curb the rise in cases by implementing curfews and strict restrictions. According to government figures, 10 persons died in Bhopal due to coronavirus between April 9 and April 13. Pradeep Kannojiya, 32, a staffer at the Subhash Nagar crematorium, told the publication, “I am cremating Covid-19 infected bodies for the past a year, but I have never seen such a pile-up of bodies as I have seen in the past one week. People have to wait for hours for cremation. The relatives are waiting with an ambulance outside the ground for the cremation. This is an endemic now.”   It is not just Kannojiya. "In the last four days, we have cremated 200 bodies, including those that needed to be disposed of as per Covid-19 protocols. Now, we have created a new such facility on two acres of land," said Mamtesh Sharma, secretary of the management committee of Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat, one of the biggest Hindu crematoriums in the Bhopal.   "We have created additional space for 30 pyres in the adjoining open plot...There is no other crematorium in the country to have such a dedicated space (for the cremation of Covid-19 victims)," Sharma told PTI. More space for 20 pyres will be created in the next three days to meet the rising demand. A similar situation is prevailing in Jhada Kabristan, a Muslim graveyard, in Bhopal. But state Health Minister Prabhuram Chaudhary has denied all such allegations. "We came to know about the cremation of bodies in large numbers and we are looking into the matter. But there is no under-reporting of cases and deaths,” he said. Madhya Pradesh, a state with a large population, is now among the top five states with the maximum caseload. Madhya Pradesh recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 8,998 cases on Wednesday. The caseload has increased by more than four times in the last two weeks. The surge in Covid-19 cases has resulted in the breakdown of the state's health infrastructure. The situation is such that even a victim of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy had to wait for 48 hours to get an ICU bed, and his conditions deteriorated in the meantime, Rachna Dhingra, the convener of an organisation working for the victims of the Bhopal Gas tragedy, Bhopal Group of Information and Action, told HT. Angry about not getting a bed, family members of a Covid-19 patient allegedly created a ruckus and abused the staff of a private hospital in Indore on Tuesday.   But Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has refuted the rumours of underreporting and said that the apparent gap between the official figures and the bodies arriving for the funeral at the crematoriums is because the funeral of suspected coronavirus patients is also being done as per Covid-19 protocols, as per a PTI report. "People are dying due to other causes also," he said. When asked about it, Minister for Medical Education Vishvas Sarang told reporters that patients from several other districts are coming to Bhopal for coronavirus treatment, among other things. "This is getting reflected in the situation at the crematoriums," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/the-missing-deaths-is-madhya-pradesh-underreporting-covid-19-toll-974450.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal announces weekend curfew in Delhi||Delhi announced a weekend curfew on Thursday and the closure of malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums in a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the city. "To control the spread of Covid-19, it has been decided to impose a weekend curfew in Delhi," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday. Kejrwal said essential services and weddings will not be affected during the weekend curfew and passes will be provided to those attending weddings. Malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums will be closed. Cinema halls will operate at 30 per cent capacity. People will not be allowed to dine-in restaurants, only home deliveries permitted. Only one weekly market in a zone will be allowed to open per day and steps will be taken to control crowds in those permitted to function.   Kejriwal also said that there is no shortage of beds in hospitals in Delhi. "According to the latest data, more than 5,000 beds are available," he added. He also urged everyone to be careful, follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and said that restrictions have bene imposed keeping everyone's health and well-being in mind. Covid-19 cases, he said, are rising every day in Delhi and the restrictions were needed to check the spread of the virus. The government will also ensure strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, Kejriwal said, noting that many people were still not following it. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-announces-weekend-curfew-in-delhi-974469.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Pharmacist sacked for giving anti-rabies jab to three instead of Covid-19 vaccine||A pharmacist at a government health centre was sacked while another suspended for giving anti-rabies shots to three women instead of Covid-19 vaccine Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district. In an order passed by District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur on Wednesday, the community health centre's incharge, Rambir Singh, was transferred in connection with the case. These officials were charged of negligence on the basis of the inquiry report submitted by Sub-Divisional Magistrate Udav Tripathi. Last week, families of the women -- Saroj (70), Anarkali (72) and Satyavati (60) -- said the three had gone to the community health centre in Kandhla to receive the jab. But after administering the doses, they were handed anti-rabies vaccine slips. Following demands for strict action against the erring medical staff, an inquiry was ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pharmacist-sacked-for-giving-anti-rabies-jab-to-three-instead-of-covid-19-vaccine-974470.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab to promote students of classes 5, 8, 10 without exams||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the Punjab government on Thursday announced that students of classes 5, 8 and 10 will be promoted to the next class without exams. A decision on the class 12 exams by the Punjab State Examination Board (PSEB), which has already been postponed, will be taken later based on the emerging situation. These decisions were taken during a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, according to a government statement here. The announcements came a day after the central government announced the cancellation of class 10 exams and the postponement of class 12 exams conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education. Singh on Thursday said that while the state had closed all educational institutions till April 30, bringing down the positivity rate in the 11-20 age group, relief was needed to be provided to school children going for exams. For class 5 students, since exams for 4 out of 5 subjects have already been conducted, results may be declared by the Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) on the basis of marks obtained by students in respect of 4 subjects, ignoring the 5th one, it said. Results for class 8 and 10 may be declared on the basis of pre-board examinations or internal assessment of respective schools, the CM directed the education department.  Singh, who had earlier this week written to the Union Education Minister on the issue of exams, also expressed satisfaction at the Centre's decision to postpone the class 12 CBSE exams and cancellation of class 10 CBSE exams in view of the pandemic.  The meeting was also attended by Medical Education Minister OP Soni, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and DGP Dinkar Gupta. The PSEB last month had postponed the exams of classes 10 and 12 by about a month. The exams of class 10 were scheduled to start from May 4 and that of class 12 were to commence from April 20.  Punjab on Wednesday had reported 63 deaths and 3,329 fresh Covid-19 infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-promote-students-of-classes-5-8-10-without-exams-974474.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Narco-terror emerges as major concern for agencies in Jammu and Kashmir||The seizure of huge quantities of heroin in the last one week has once again shown how narco-terror in Kashmir has become a major concern for the law enforcing agencies. On April 14, a joint team of Jammu and Kashmir police, Army and the Border Security Forces (BSF) foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) and an attempt to smuggle narcotics in north Kashmir’s Kupwara. The team claimed to have recovered 10 kilograms of narcotics putting its approximate value at Rs 50 crore in the international market. A similar consignment of deadly heroin, with estimated market value, as per the police, somewhere between Rs 50-60 crore, was seized on April 8 along the LoC in the same district. On January 21, a huge consignment of Afghan grade heroin and opium worth six crores in the international market was recovered by the police in Qaimoh area of south Kashmir Anantnag district. As per the data available with J&K Police, in 2020 alone, 36.08 kilograms of pure heroin and 49.7 kilograms of brown sugar were recovered from different parts of the Valley. These recoveries, police say, have clearly shown that the cross border narco-terror threat has become a major area of concern in Kashmir. He said narco-terrorism in Kashmir seems to have a plausible reason for its growth since Pakistan-backed terror operatives in the valley have a readymade network of over ground workers (OGWs) in border areas who have been acting as couriers of arms/ammunition, fake currency etc in the recent past. Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar, said the drug menace is as big a challenge as militancy. “Large quantities of narcotics are being pumped into the Valley from across the border. It is quite clear who is pumping drugs and narcotics here. Our focus is not only on fighting terrorism but on fighting drug trafficking and drug abuse too,” he said. The arrival of such deadly drugs has resulted in heroin abuse showing an alarming increase in Kashmir in recent years. From 15 per cent heroin abuse recorded in 2016, it has now gone up to 90 per cent, said doctors at a government de-addiction centre in Srinagar According to Dr Yasir Rather, a consulting psychiatrist at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, most of the drug abusers reporting at the hospital in the last few years are heroin addicts and their number is increasing constantly. “Almost 90 per cent of drug abusers coming for treatment are those who consume deadly heroin. Even as young as 14-year-old patients are coming to seek help which is more alarming,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narco-terror-emerges-as-major-concern-for-agencies-in-jammu-and-kashmir-974482.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Voting for Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls begins||Voting for the first of the four-phase Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections, seen as a semi-final to the 2022 Assembly election, began on Thursday morning on a peaceful note in 18 districts with ballot papers. More than 3.33 lakh candidates are in the fray in over 2.21 lakh seats in the first phase for the posts of zila panchayat (district council) members, kshetra (block) panchayat members, village panchayat heads and wards. "The polling is going on smoothly and no problem is reported from anywhere in the state. The polling, which started at 7 am, will continue till 8 pm," a senior State Election Commission (SEC) official said here. In Jhansi, Nirmala Sahu, a woman polling officer posted at Jauri Bujurg, a polling centre in Badagaon block died after she felt uneasiness, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), City, Vivek Tripathi said. The woman felt uneasiness and before she could be rushed to hospital she died, the ASP said, adding that the exact cause of her death could be ascertained after post-mortem. The districts where polling is going on included Ayodhya, Agra, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur, Jhansi, Allahabad, Bareilly, Bhadohi, Mahoba, Rampur, Raebareli, Shravasti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Saharanpur, Hardoi and Hathras. For the post of zila panchayat members, 11,442 candidates are in the fray from 779 wards, while 81,747 candidates are contesting in 19,313 wards of kshetra panchayats. For the gram panchayat, there are 1,14,142 candidates for 14,789 posts. For gram panchayat wards, there are 1,26,613 candidates for 1,86,583 seats. Apart from parties like the BJP, Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadi Party and the Congress, among those in the race are the AIMIM, Aam Aadmi Party and Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad's Azad Samaj Party, which are making their debut in the state. The AIMIM will contest polls with the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party. The candidates will, however, contest on 'free symbols' given by the Election Commission. In view of the coronavirus situation, the State Election Commission (SEC) had said in March that not more than five people would be allowed to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning for the panchayat elections. The voting for the second phase will be on April 19, the third on April 26 and the fourth phase on April 29, while the votes will be counted on May 2 along with the assembly election results of five states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-for-uttar-pradesh-panchayat-polls-begins-974486.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC declines bail to man whose gun-wielding photo went viral||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined the bail plea by a Delhi riots case accused whose photo holding a pistol went viral, saying his picture and video clippings have shaken the conscience of the court. "The role attributed to the petitioner is not confined to participation in the mob of rioters but of heading the large crowd, holding a pistol in hand and releasing open fire shots," Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said. The court dismissed the plea by accused Shahrukh Pathan, saying the trial court has rightly held that the petitioner was alleged to have participated in riots and his picture spoke volumes about his involvement. "The video clipping and pictures played before this court have shaken the conscience of this court how petitioner could take law and order in his hands. Whether or not he had intention to kill the complainant or any person present in the public with his open air pistol shots, but it is hard to believe that he had no knowledge that his act may harm anyone present at the spot," the single judge bench said. The court also castigated him for making "highly derogatory and serious allegations against the Government of India, Ministers and judge of this court". Maintaining that allegations were not worth disclosing, it suggested the Bar against making such claims in the petition until and unless supported with factual and material evidence in a particular case. Following the incident on February 24, 2020, between Jaffrabad Metro Station and Maujpur Chowk, an FIR was lodged against Pathan by Delhi police head constable Deepak Dahiya two days after invoking provision for offenses such attempt to murder among others. Having absconded after his picture has gone viral, the police could arrest him from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh only on March 3, 2020. In his contention, the petitioner claimed he has been made a scapegoat and poster boy of the riots and the complainant has become the symbol of bravery before media persons, which was against his fundamental rights. The court, however, relied upon the prosecutor's claim that the call detail record and video footage analysis clearly showed the petitioner’s involvement in the alleged incident of riots. It also noted that at his instance, the illegal weapon used by him with two live cartridges and the shirt worn by him on the fateful day were recovered from his house. "Moreover, it is not the case of petitioner that he was not involved in the alleged incident," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-declines-bail-to-man-whose-gun-wielding-photo-went-viral-974491.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||1,700 test Covid-19 positive in Kumbh Mela over 5-day period||A total of 1,701 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases. The numbers include both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test reports of devotees and seers of different akharas (ascetic groups) over the five-day period in the entire Mela Kshetra extending from Haridwar to Devprayag, Haridwar Chief Medical Officer Shambhu Kumar Jha said on Thursday. More RT-PCR test reports are awaited and the trend shows that the number of infected persons in the Kumbh Mela Kshetra is likely to climb to 2,000, he said. The Kumbh Mela area is spread over 670 hectares covering parts of Haridwar, Tehri and Dehradun districts, including Rishikesh. A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two royal baths (Shahi Snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating Covid norms like wearing of face masks and social distancing. Despite their best efforts, the police could not impose the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and the ash-smeared ascetics thronging Har Ki Pairi ghat on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints. As the 13 akharas had to take their holy dip at Har ki Pairi in accordance with their allotted time slots before sunset, the police and paramilitary personnel were hard-pressed to ensure each of them vacated the ghat before the arrival of the next akhara in line to prevent chaos. As seers were averse to undergoing RT-PCR tests till the Mesh Sankranti Shahi Snan of April 14, both testing and inoculation in the Kumbh Kshetra including the areas allocated to the akharas are likely to be stepped up in the coming days, Jha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1700-test-covid-19-positive-in-kumbh-mela-over-5-day-period-974492.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Syed Ali Geelani's family disassociate itself from strike call from Pakistan||In a major embarrassment to Pakistan-based Hurriyat led by Abdullah Geelani, ailing hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani Thursday dissociated himself from a strike call issued in his name from across the border. Jammu and Kashmir police said that the family of nonagenarian Geelani has said the letter purportedly issued by the ailing separatist leader is fake and not been issued by him. The letter, which appears to have come from across the border, asking people of Kashmir to observe strike on Friday against recent killings has been doing rounds on social media from the last two days. “Police have checked with the family members of Geelani and found that he has not tweeted about any strike call for Friday,” a police official said. The police warned social network users to desist from sharing the press release on social media platforms as it would be perceived as instigation of violence leading to creating a law and order problem. The police also announced that a case FIR number 265/20 13 under sections of the UAPA Act and IPC had been registered at Budgam police station. "Further investigation is in progress,” the police added. Inspector General of police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, requested the people to carry out their normal activities in the holy month of Ramzan and need not pay any heed to rumors on social media. Feeling hurt at being sidelined in decision-making and underhand disparagement of his role within the separatist amalgam, Geelani had resigned as chairman of the hardline faction of Hurriyat Conference last June. Immediately after the decision, he had disassociated himself from a similar strike call issued from Pakistan last July. While announcing his decision to sever his association with the Hurriyat, Geelani had said that Abdullah Geelani will continue to work as his representative in Pakistan and overseas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/syed-ali-geelanis-family-disassociates-itself-from-strike-call-from-pakistan-974494.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt to rush Remdesivir to various districts by air||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday roped in its aircraft to rush Remdesivir injections from Indore to various other districts in the state for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, an official said. Two hundred boxes containing 9,264 Remdesivir injections (a key anti-viral drug) have arrived at the Indore airport, an official from the Chief Minister's Office said. Out of these, 42 boxes will be airlifted to Bhopal, 39 to Jabalpur, 19 to Gwalior, 18 to Rewa, he said. Besides, 75 boxes of the Remdesivir injections would be kept for Indore, the worst coronavirus-hit district in the state, and some stock will also be sent to Sagar, Ratlam and Khandwa, the official said. In the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases, the drug is in high demand as it is used especially in adult patients with severe complications. The state government is trying to ramp up its health infrastructure in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the second wave of the pandemic. On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 9,720 fresh cases of coronavirus, the biggest single-day spike so far, pushing the infection count to 3,63,352. The fatality tally rose to 4,312 with 51 more deaths, also the highest one-day count so far. This month, the state has so far reported 67,841 new Covid-19 cases and 326 fatalities, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-rush-remdesivir-to-various-districts-by-air-974496.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Schools in UP shut till May 15; night curfew extended to districts with over 2,000 Covid-19 cases||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday shut all schools till May 15 and postponed exams for board classes as the state reported its highest-single day spike in coronavirus cases since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The state on Thursday reported 104 deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, pushing the fatality count to 9,480 and the total infection number to 7,66,360. According to a government statement, the government also imposed an 11-hour night curfew with immediate effect in 10 districts having more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases. The decisions were taken during an online meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from his residence, where he has isolated himself after testing positive for coronavirus. Adityanath directed officials to impose the night curfew from 8 pm to 7 am with immediate effect in the districts, including Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur. The statement further said all schools in Uttar Pradesh will be closed till May 15 in view of the rising infection cases. Board exams for Classes 10 and 12 have been postponed till May 20 and the new dates will be decided in the first week of next month, an official said. Schools were earlier shut till April 30. Initially, the board exams were to be held from April 24 but were postponed to May 8. Every year, over 50 lakh students appear for Class 10 and 12 board exams. Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters, "In the past 24 hours, 22,439 fresh cases were reported while 4,222 people were discharged." Earlier in the day, an official had reported 114 deaths but later corrected the figure to 104. This is the second day in a row when the state has reported a record daily increase in the Covid numbers. On Wednesday, 20,510 cases had surfaced in the state. Lucknow recorded the maximum 5,183 cases, followed by 1,888 in Allahabad, 1,859 in Varanasi and 1,263 in Kanpur, a health bulletin said. Lucknow also reported the maximum 26 deaths, followed by 10 in Kanpur and six each in Allahabad and Varanasi, it said. Prasad said the state currently has 1,29,848 active cases. On Wednesday, 2.06 lakh samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to over 3.75 crore, Prasad said, adding that 6,27,032 people have recovered from the infection since last year. Taking a stock of the situation, the CM said people should be told about the importance of wearing masks. Since Lucknow is the state capital, he said, it's obvious that more people will come here. So additional arrangements should be made in the city, he said. "King George's Medical University and Balrampur Hospital should be made dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in a phased manner. In private hospitals, too, the number of beds should be increased," he said. On the panchayat elections, the first-phase polling for which was held on Thursday, Adityanath said all officials on duty should follow Covid-19 protocols. Gloves, sanitisers and masks should be made available, he said. On migrants returning Uttar Pradesh from other states, he asked officials to create quarantine centres in every district with necessary facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-in-up-shut-till-may-15-night-curfew-extended-to-districts-with-over-2000-covid-19-cases-974497.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Vehicle scrapping guidelines of AAP government challenged in High Court||A PIL in the Delhi High Court has challenged the AAP government's guidelines for scrapping motor vehicles claiming the requirements for a license under these norms would oust small and marginal scrap dealers. "The impugned guidelines are heavily tilted against small and semi-formal automobile scrappers who have been engaged in the business for generations," the petition has contended. The plea by Delhi resident Inderjit Singh has claimed that such small time scrap dealers were not heard before issuing the Guidelines for Scrapping of Motor Vehicles of Delhi, 2018. The petition, filed through advocates Sahil Bhalaik, Tushar Giri and Sewa Singh, has claimed that the scrap industry created plenty of job opportunities and the guidelines were issued without considering the feasibility and practicality of organising this sector and without seeking public opinion. The plea has also contended that the 2018 guidelines are "unconstitutional, arbitrary and unfair" and also contrary to the Motor Vehicles Act as only the Centre has the power to make rules prescribing the manner of recycling of vehicles and parts thereof.  It has sought an order from the court declaring the guidelines as null and void.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vehicle-scrapping-guidelines-of-aap-government-challenged-in-high-court-974509.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Kiren Rijiju visits ITBP troops in Uttarakhand, will inaugurate adventure sports institute on Friday||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Thursday visited the China LAC guarding troops of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in Uttarakhand, officials said. The minister, accompanied ITBP Director General S S Deswal and other senior officers, reached the Nelong valley in the state onboard a military helicopter. He is expected to stay at one of the border posts where troops are deployed at heights ranging over 12,500 feet. The minister, officials said, spoke to the troops and said they are rendering "dedicated service to the nation in harsh terrain and climatic conditions." Rijiju is on a two-day visit of the state and he is expected to inaugurate a Water Sports and Adventure Institute (WSAI) in the Tehri Garhwal district along with Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday, officials said. "The institute is an exclusive arrangement by the ITBP in association with the Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB). The force will be running the institute for the next 20 years and will train force personnel as well as those from other central armed police forces (CAPFs), sister organisations and also select youngsters," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. "It is a first-of-its-kind Institute in the country where training of aero, water and land related sports and adventure sports will be given and training of kayaking, rowing, canoeing, water skiing, paragliding, parasailing, scuba diving, paddle boating, speed boating, kite surfing, jet skiing will be imparted," he added. The about 90,000 personnel strong ITBP is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 km long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kiren-rijiju-visits-itbp-troops-in-uttarakhand-will-inaugurate-adventure-sports-institute-on-friday-974510.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand's toll in forest fires rises to eight||The death toll in Uttarakhand forest fires since January this year has risen to eight with one more person dying while dousing a wildfire in Chamoli district, a police official said on Thursday. Raghuvir Lal, 65, a retired PWD employee, was charred to death when he was engulfed in flames while trying to extinguish a blaze in the Soniyala forest area near his farm in Gadoli village on Tuesday, Station House Officer of Gairsain police station, Subhash Jakhmola, said.  A 19-year-old man had died of injuries sustained while dousing a forest fire in his village in the Didihat forest range of Pithoragarh district on Saturday last week.        Two deaths due to forest fire were reported from Almora in January and two each from Bageshwar and Pauri districts in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhands-toll-in-forest-fires-rises-to-eight-974528.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Markets in Lucknow voluntarily closed amid rising Covid cases ||Most of the main markets here, including Hazratganj and Aminabad, were voluntarily closed by traders for a few days on Thursday, to check the spread of Covid-19 and break its chain. "In the wake of increase in the number of coronavirus cases, we have decided to voluntarily close the market for sales from April 15 to April 18. We will review this on Sunday evening. Essential services may, however, continue as per government directions," said Vinod Punjabi, Secretary, Hazratganj Traders Association. Several traders' bodies in Aminabad, including Jhandewala Park Vyapar Mandal, State Bank Vyapar Mandal and Dildar Vyapar Mandal, have decided to close their business from April 15 to April 21. "Even as the marriage season is on alongside festivals of Navratri and Ramzan, we have decided to close our establishments because saving lives is more important," said Sandeep Bansal, President of Uttar Pradesh Udyog Vyapar Mandal. Even though there was no announcement of a lockdown from the government, it was the duty of traders to put an effort in breaking the virus chain, he said. Bansal said Chowk and Gomti Nagar Sarrafa (jewellers) associations have decided to close the market from April 15 to 18. Lucknow Electric Merchants' Association has also decided to close its establishments from Thursday for a week. Uttar Pradesh Vyapar Mandal president Sanjay Gupta said that they were appealing to traders to shut businesses for sometime as they have a social responsibility. In Varanasi as well, attempts were on to motivate traders to close their shops. Police Commissioner A Satish Ganesh told PTI that on Thursday he held a meeting with office bearers of various traders' bodies and asked them to come forward and close their shops for sometime. "These organisations gave important suggestions that will be considered. The traders accepted the appeal and assured that they will support the police administration," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/markets-in-lucknow-voluntarily-closed-amid-rising-covid-cases-974531.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi, Rajasthan order Covid-19 curbs as fresh cases rise||Rajasthan government has ordered a night curfew for a fortnight and Delhi government clamped down with a weekend curfew – both beginning Friday amid a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has announced night curfew for a fortnight beginning Friday from 6:00 pm to 5:00 am and ordered shuttering of educational institutions, coaching centres and libraries from April 16-30 across the state. Earlier, these restrictions were limited to 10 urban centres. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced weekend restrictions beginning 10:00 p.m. on Friday till 6:00 am on Monday to break the chain of the coronavirus. On Thursday morning, Delhi reported 17,282 new cases of Covid-19, the biggest single-day spike for the national capital, while Rajasthan reported 6,200 new cases of the infectious disease. Kejriwal said essential services will be exempt from the night curfew and wedding ceremonies would not be affected as special curfew passes would be issued for such functions. He said orders were being issued to ban in-house dining in restaurants and the operation of gyms, malls and spas, while cinema halls will be allowed to operate with only 30% capacity. He said only one weekly market per municipal zone would be allowed to operate to arrest the spread of the virus. Kejriwal also made it clear that there was no shortage of hospital beds in the national capital and urged citizens not to insist on treatment at a particular hospital. “More than 5,000 hospital beds were available in the national capital,” he said adding that efforts were being made to increase beds on a large scale. In Rajasthan, the state government has also capped the number of guests at private functions, marriages and other social gatherings at 50, while not more than 20 persons would be allowed to attend funerals. No permission for any kind will be granted for public, social, political, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious events, procession, fairs and festivals, the Rajasthan government order said. Worship at religious places has been allowed only by the management committees and not by the general public. Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, amusement parks and other places for entertainments will be closed and there will be no permission to operate swimming pools and gyms, the Rajasthan government said. The Rajasthan government has allowed restaurants and clubs to open only with 50% seating capacity, and home delivery option has been permitted only till 8:00 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-rajasthan-order-covid-19-curbs-as-fresh-cases-rise-974544.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||HC allows 50 people to offer namaz 5 times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan||The Delhi High Court on Thursday allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the Nizamuddin Markaz mosque during Ramzan. Justice Prathiba M Singh directed the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin police station to permit entry of 50 people five times a day to offer namaz only on the first floor of the Masjid Bangley Wali. The court declined to increase the number of people or allow use of other floors of the mosque for offering prayers as sought by senior advocate Ramesh Gupta on behalf of the Delhi Waqf Board, but allowed them to move an application before the SHO for the same. The court said the SHO may decide any such application moved by the Board in accordance with the law. It also said that its order would be subject to any notification issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, which recorded the biggest single-day jump of 17,282 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-allows-50-people-to-offer-namaz-5-times-a-day-at-nizamuddin-markaz-during-ramzan-974564.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Don't mislead on Covid-19 vaccines: Ashok Gehlot tells Harshvardhan||The Centre and the state governments continued to bicker over the availability of vaccines with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot contesting Union Health Minister Harshvardhan’s accusation of states not managing the vaccination drive efficiently. Gehlot said the Union Health Minister should have issued an advisory on the availability of vaccines instead of resorting to misleading statements on adequate stocks of the anti-Covid shots. “I never expected the Union Health Minister to make a completely untrue statement that ‘states have adequate stocks of vaccines’. It was wrong on the part of the health minister to accuse state governments of mismanagement,” Gehlot said. On Wednesday, the Health Minister had said there was no dearth of Covid-19 vaccines in the country and put the onus on state governments of making vaccines available to vaccination centres across the state. His remarks came amid reports that Maharashtra and Rajasthan had to shut down vaccination centres due to a shortage of vaccines. Gehlot accused the Centre of having failed to maintain a regular supply of vaccines to states such as Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Assam forcing the states to shut down vaccination centres. “There is no harm in admitting that the availability of vaccines in the country was low and states should plan the vaccination drive accordingly,” Gehlot said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh demanded that the Centre allow vaccination in the age group under 45 years in areas reporting more cases of Covid-19 as the UK variant of the virus was infecting younger people more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-mislead-on-covid-19-vaccines-ashok-gehlot-tells-harshvardhan-974602.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Head of Maha Nirvani Akhara suffering from Covid-19 passes away in Uttarakhand||The head of the Maha Nirvani Akhara from Madhya Pradesh Swami Kapil Dev who was under treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital here has died, an official said on Thursday. The akhara's Mahamandaleshwar, who had come to attend the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar from Madhya Pradesh, was admitted to the Kailash Hospital here after his RT-PCR test result, Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer S K Jha said.   Swami Kapil Dev passed away at the hospital on April 13, Superintendent of Police (City) Sarita Dobhal said. Over 1,700 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases. Medical workers conducted 2,36,751 tests over the five-day period in the mela site. Out of these, 1,701 came out positive for coronavirus. The numbers include both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test reports of devotees and seers of different akharas (ascetic groups) over the five-day period in the entire mela site extending from Haridwar to Devprayag, Jha said. More RT-PCR test reports are awaited and the trend shows that the number of infected persons in the Kumbh Mela site is likely to climb to 2,000, he said. The Kumbh Mela area is spread over 670 hectares covering parts of Haridwar, Tehri and Dehradun districts, including Rishikesh. A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two 'royal baths' (shahi snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating Covid norms like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. Despite their best efforts, the police could not impose the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and the ash-smeared ascetics thronging Har Ki Pairi ghat on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/head-of-maha-nirvani-akhara-suffering-from-covid-19-passes-away-in-uttarakhand-974608.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||2 to a bed in Delhi's LNJP Hospital as Covid-19 cases surge in the national capital||Gasping for air, two men wearing oxygen masks share a bed in a government hospital in India's capital New Delhi, victims of the country's growing Covid-19 crisis. From reporting under 10,000 new daily cases earlier this year, daily infections crossed 2,00,000 on Thursday, according to official data, the highest anywhere in the world. At Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP), one of India's largest Covid-only facilities with more than 1,500 beds, a stream of ambulances ferried patients to the overflowing casualty ward on Thursday. Some also arrived in buses and three-wheeled autorickshaws. The youngest patient was a newborn baby. "We are definitely over-burdened. We are already working at full capacity," said the hospital's medical director, Suresh Kumar. From an initial 54 beds, the hospital now has over 300 for Covid-19 patients in critical condition. Even that is not enough. Unrelated patients share beds, while bodies of the recently deceased lie outside the ward before being taken to the mortuary. "Today we have 158 admissions in Lok Nayak alone," Kumar said. Almost all were severe cases.   After imposing one of the world's strictest lockdowns for nearly three months last year, India's government relaxed almost all curbs by the beginning of 2021, although many regions have now introduced localised restrictions. LNJP's Kumar said fast-spreading new variants that evade testing were adding to the burden, as was human behaviour as the country reopened. "People are not following the Covid guidelines," he said. "They are just careless." Outside the hospital's mortuary, weeping relatives gathered in the hot sun to wait for the bodies of loved ones to be released. Prashant Mehra, 40, said he had to pay a broker for preferential treatment before he could get his 90-year-old grandfather admitted to the hospital. The hospital did not immediately respond to a request for comment on his remarks. Mehra said the effort made little difference in the end. "He died after six or seven hours," he said. "We already asked for our money back."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-to-a-bed-in-delhis-lnjp-hospital-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-the-national-capital-974622.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Lucknow crematorium covered after disturbing videos of burning pyres appear||In what the opposition parties and some others alleged an attempt to 'hide' the number of Covid deaths in Lucknow, the administration on Thursday erected a temporary wall around the main crematorium in the city and barred 'unauthorised' people from entering the place after disturbing videos of scores of burning pyres went viral on social media. According to the sources the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) ordered to erect a tin wall on three sides of the crematorium to prevent the people and the passers by from seeing the pyres.  Sources said that the people had to wait for several hours, in some cases even a day, to cremate their dead as there was no space at the cremation ground. The officials said that the entry of 'unauthorised' people into the crematorium had been barred as the place was included in the ''Covid affected zone''. As the videos of the burning pyres went viral on social media, the opposition leaders launched a scathing attack on the Yogi Adityanath government in the state and accused it of trying to 'hide' the number of deaths from Covid in the state capital. ''It is useless to waste resources and energy on hiding the numbers...it is better to take effective measures to save the lives of the people,'' Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said. AAP leader Sanjay Singh said that if the state government had established hospitals it would not have to cover the crematorium. Lucknow was among the worst affected districts in UP. It reported over 5400 Covid cases on Thursday while the state reported over 22 thousand cases of Coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucknow-crematorium-covered-after-disturbing-videos-of-burning-pyres-appear-974633.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya administration may ban religious gatherings in the temple town||The authorities here are bracing themselves for the arrival of a large number of seers on Ram Navami after participating in the Haridwar Kumbh, and an official said a ban on religious gatherings cannot be ruled out to prevent a Covid-19 spike. The administration could also consider banning the entry of visitors without a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 48 hours, according to District Magistrate A K Jha. “If required”, the boundaries of Ayodhya will be sealed and the administration will not allow any religious congregation on Ram Navami in Ayodhya, Jha said. According to tradition, seers from all religious seats in the country visit Ayodhya every year to celebrate Ram Navami. The city is likely to witness a tussle between faith and pandemic this year as a large number of saints returning from the Haridwar Kumbh are expected to visit Ayodhya on April 21 to celebrate Ram Navami, point out Ayodhya-based seers. “It will be a very pious moment to visit Ayodhya after taking part in the Kumbh at Haridwar. Many seers from Ayodhya too have gone to Haridwar to take part in Kumbh and they too will return on Ram Navami,” Acharya Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, the Mahant of Saryu Kunj temple in Ayodhya, told PTI. This exposes the temple town to the risk of a spurt in coronavirus cases after the Ram Navami as the number of Covid positive among devotees and seers attending Kumbh has reached over 1,700, confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may turn out to be a super spreader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-administration-may-ban-religious-gatherings-in-the-temple-town-974648.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||Gujarat's Nilanshi Patel with world's longest hair on teenager cuts her locks after 12 years||Guinness World Record holder for the ‘longest hair on a teenager’, Nilanshi Patel from Gujarat, has finally chopped off her hair after over a decade. Patel held the record since 2018, back when she was 16 years old, and had a hair length of 5 feet and 7 inches. More recently, her hair was measured to be 6 feet and 6.7 inches last July before she turned 18 – still defending her title. However, the ‘real life Rapunzel’ has now parted with her record-holding locks. Following bad haircuts, Patel decided to stop cutting her locks since the age of 6. She is parting with her ‘lucky charm’ after 12 long years.   Nilanshi had three options in hand - to auction off the hair, to donate it to charity or to donate it to a museum. After much deliberation with her mother Kaminiben, she decided to display her hair at a museum. Her mother said her story would inspire people. In support, Kaminiben said she will donate her hair to charity. "I'm so excited and a little bit nervous because I don't know how I'm looking in the new hairstyle... so let's see what happens, but I hope it's going to be amazing,” the former Rapunzel said before seeing her newly cut short hair.  Her hair weighed a total of 266 grams and the mother-daughter duo are pleased with the new look and the events surrounding it. "Oh my god it's beautiful! It's amazing - I'm like a little princess!", she exclaimed after the big reveal. Her hair will be displayed at Ripley’s Believe it or Not! Hollywood and then at the Guinness World Records Museum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarats-nilanshi-patel-with-worlds-longest-hair-on-teenager-cuts-her-locks-after-12-years-974700.html
15-04-2021||North and Central||UK Covid variant detected in 70% samples sent by PGIMER||The UK variant of Covid-19 was found in 70 per cent of 60 samples sent to the National Centre for Diseases Control, the PGIMER said on Thursday. “Seventy per cent of the samples had UK variant of Covid-19 and 20 per cent of the samples had 681 H mutant,” said Jagat Ram, the director of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, in a statement here. The majority of the samples were from Chandigarh, he added. He said the PGIMER's Department of Virology had sent 60 positive samples of Covid-19 to the National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC), New Delhi in March. It was found that 70 per cent of the samples had UK variants of Covid-19, one sample was having a double mutation. 681H mutant of Covid-19 was observed in 20 per cent of the samples. Jagat Ram said considering the high transmission and faster spread of Covid-19 by the UK variant, everyone should follow Covid- appropriate behaviour. The director further advised avoiding crowded places and non-essential travels. He also stressed on the need for vaccinating priority groups. The Union Territory of Chandigarh on Thursday reported 412 cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count to 32,397.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uk-covid-variant-detected-in-70-samples-sent-by-pgimer-974706.html
15-04-2021||Oasis||Shades of subjugation||In his really a thought stirring book The Social Contract, Rousseau remarks that, "Man is born free and everywhere he is in chains." Here the fact can not be gainsaid that no one likes to remain in fetters. A caged parrot can never be at ease, it is often found fluttering and flapping its wings in its attempts to break the bars of the cage. Subjugation is extremely disliked by animals and humans alike. The great kings of the yore have an ignominious reputation of keeping a vast number of female slaves. Today, the evil custom of female slavery is no more in practice in the sense it existed in the bygone ages. But the medieval mindedness of society has not changed. Female slavery system is still prevalent in our country. It has only changed its colour and contours. The practice of the Pardha system that has been sternly lambasted by many intellectuals like Amitaz Dharkar is still prevalent in many parts of India. The symbolic veil in which women are wrapped is beyond any penetration. Perhaps, it is too thick to be blown off. Today the women have attained many milestones. They rub their shoulders with men in many spheres. However, the bliss of freedom is not in everyone’s destiny. It brings huge disgruntlement to a sensitive soul to witness the fact that the regressive mindedness is still there in the air in many parts of our country. Still, the birth of a daughter in many families is considered not an occasion to rejoice. While watching a crime show on TV, I was appalled to see when an educated family fall prey to the ruses of a tantric and mercilessly slaughtered an innocent child in the neighbourhood just because the gullible parents were convinced by that if they sacrifice some child of tender age, they would be blessed with a male child. It is not an isolated episode. Many more ghastly tales of the same ilk are there to petrify us. Such deadly superstition only adds to our misery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/shades-of-subjugation-974303.html
15-04-2021||Panorama||Weakened by ‘enemy within’, Nitish Kumar strives to rise again||At a time when the national media is focusing on five Assembly elections and the coronavirus pandemic, one issue which has largely gone unnoticed is how Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been consolidating himself after being consistently weakened by his ‘enemy within’ in the last few months. A few days ago, Nitish made the lone Lok Janshakti Party MLA join the Janata Dal (United), thereby making the LJP, established by his Socialist friend late Ram Vilas Paswan, redundant and non-existent. But more than the senior Paswan, who is no more, Nitish had an axe to grind with Chirag Paswan, Ram Vilas’ son. It was Chirag who had inflicted a body blow to Nitish during the November 2020 Assembly elections and reduced his JD(U) to the third slot (by fielding dummy candidates against the party). Nitish’s pocket organisation could win in only 43 constituencies out of the 115 seats it contested — a relatively poor performance in the 243-member Assembly (and in a state which Nitish has been ruling since 2005). Chirag’s LJP, too, could not win more than one seat but it damaged the prospects of the JD(U) in over 70 seats. This served twin purposes: For the first time in the last two decades, the BJP became an ‘elder brother’ by winning 74 seats. Second, Nitish, who always claimed to have won polls after polls due to his good governance, was stopped in his tracks and lost his bargaining power within the NDA. Nitish was aware of the tacit support extended by the BJP to the LJP (as most of the LJP candidates were BJP rebels). But the JD(U) strongman kept mum, biding his time and waiting for an opportune moment to hit back. Last week, he made the lone LJP MLA Raj Kumar Singh, the legislator from Matihani in Begusarai, join the JD(U) after he sang paeans of the Bihar chief minister and derided Chirag in public. But then, Singh was not the first MLA to cross over the fence. Prior to this, Nitish had made the lone BSP MLA Jama Khan join the JD(U), and eventually elevated him as Bihar’s Minority Welfare Minister. Mayawati’s BSP, too, became non-existent after this episode. The process to woo all those who matter in this part of the cow-belt did not end there. Independent MLA Sumit Kumar Singh, one fine evening, met Nitish and, after pledging his loyalty towards the JD(U) strongman, was made a Cabinet minister. The realignment of forces didn’t stop there. Nitish’s protege-turned-bete noire Upendra Kushwaha, a former Union minister who has changed tracks multiple times in the last two decades, had a closed-door meeting with Nitish at the latter’s official residence 1, Aney Marg. After a few more rounds of meeting with Nitish’s closest aide and Rajya Sabha member Basishtha Narayan Singh, Kushwaha eventually decided to merge his outfit Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) with the JD(U). Kushwaha had floated RLSP in 2013 after severing ties with his mentor Nitish and joining the NDA in 2014. The merger plan was a mutually beneficial decision as Kushwaha represents Koeris, while Nitish is a Kurmi, one of the strong OBCs (other backward castes). Together, Kurmis and Koeris are called Luv-Kush (a term borrowed from the Ramayana) and form 10% of the electorate, which could always tilt the balance. In a caste-ridden state like Bihar, Nitish realised that no matter how good the governance may be, it is the assiduously-cultivated caste configuration that eventually pays electoral dividends. It is against this backdrop that he has been wooing upper castes, OBCs, EBCs (extremely backward castes), Mahadalits and Muslims, so that he could once again build a rainbow coalition of different segments, which helped him assume the chief minister’s chair in 2005 and thereafter made his position unassailable. Suits BJP Secondly, ruling party sources aver that Nitish is aware of the BJP design that “a weakened Nitish suits the saffron camp”. Nitish, therefore, has been showing the sign of resilience so that after the West Bengal elections, the BJP can’t launch an offensive campaign against him. The BJP has already been testing the waters in Bihar by asking its middle-level leaders to suggest that Nitish should adopt the Yogi model of governance and check the crime graph by giving its police a free hand for ‘encounters’. Such a demand has been outrightly rejected by the JD(U). Its Bihar working president and key Nitish aide Ashok Choudhary said, “such incidents lead to human rights violations and won’t be allowed in Bihar”. But more than a suggestion, it was a pinprick by the BJP, which wants a chief minister of its own in Bihar, the only state in the Hindi heartland where there has been no BJP CM till date. “Wait till the Bengal results. If we score a landslide in the neighbouring state, the side effects will be reflected in Bihar too,” a senior BJP MP told DH on condition of anonymity. But political experts don’t agree with BJP’s aggression and termed the plan “over-ambitious and far-fetched”. “Ask anyone who is the BJP deputy chief minister here. Not many would be able to name either of the two DyCMs. The BJP currently faces talent deficit and is bereft of a leader who can match Nitish’s stature,” said political scientist Ajay Kumar. He, however, hastened to add, “But then, Narendra Modi is good at giving us surprises.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/weakened-by-enemy-within-nitish-kumar-strives-to-rise-again-974301.html
15-04-2021||Panorama||Helping children tackle Covid-19 stress||The Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown generated a lot of fear and stress across all age groups. Children usually thrive under predictable conditions, but disruption led by the pandemic greatly impacted them physically and emotionally. Online schooling, isolation, quarantine at home, lack of social interactions, lack of physical sports and parental angst have developed fears, Depression, and boredom among children. While most parents, were involved in dealing with the uncertainty of the pandemic and putting all efforts to keep their family safe and sustainable, the emotional needs of children were somehow ignored. The impact of the pandemic on children The pandemic has changed the way children typically grow, learn, play, behave, interact, and manage emotions. Children have been observed to have conduct problems, peer problems, externalizing problems, and general psychological distress. When compared with children who did not exercise, children with psychical activity had lower hyperactivity-inattention and less prosocial behaviour problems. Moreover, from a more emotional perspective, they have a lot going around in their head, and the biggest worry for them is whether or not they will see their friends in school or will they get sick. The joint effect between lifestyle changes and psychosocial stress caused by home confinement perhaps aggravated behavioural problems in children. In the long run, this can lead to an emotional breakdown among children, and the same may lead to these children resisting to return to school post-lockdown. This can happen primarily because children have lost their pre-lockdown routines and the loss of touch with their peers and mentors. In addition to this, lockdown-related constraints can have a long-term negative effect on their overall psychological wellbeing. How do we tackle this?  Here’s how you can help children cope with Covid-related stress: Addressing fears: Anxiety and emotional depression can be tackled by parents to some extent by addressing fears of children, talking about problems and possible solutions from the child’s perspective Spending time with grandparents: Children who have grandparents can decide to spend some quality time with them Create a routine: Parents can maintain some routines even if confined at home. It is always good if parents and children can plan some activities together. Parents should also plan their children’s tasks one at a time, involve them in various home activities, educate them about following hygiene habits and social distancing Play Games: Engage in indoor play and creative activities. In addition to these activities, children can be advised to be involved in household chores and understand their social responsibilities Virtual play dates: To keep them in touch with friends and classmates, plan a virtual party and playdates Bad behaviours can be redirected and discussed: Parents should pay more attention to the emotional wellbeing of the child. Keep emphasising Covid-19 measures like wearing a mask, social distancing, and frequent hand washing, as the pandemic is not over yet. Also, children should be encouraged to socialise with their friends and classmates through digital forums under the parent’s supervision. (The writer is senior consultant-paediatrician at a hospital in Mulund, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/helping-children-tackle-covid-19-stress-974302.html
15-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Little things count||Little droplets of water make the mighty oceans and whether we are human or divine, it is not huge events, but the seemingly little things that wear us down. There is truism in saying that there is nothing little in this world as one of the greatest episodes of Hindu Mythology, the Samudra Manthan (churning of the sea) was actually precipitated by little bees.  According to the Ramayana, Lord Indra, mounted on Airavata (a white elephant who carries the deity Indra) paid a visit to Sage Durvasa to seek his blessings. As a boon, Sage Durvasa offered Indra a special garland of fragrant flowers which Indra thoughtlessly hung around Airavat’s tusks. The flowers soon drew in the bees and at first Airavat made valiant attempts to ignore them but later their incessant buzzing got to him.  Out of sheer frustration, Airavat threw the garland on the ground and trampled on it to avoid the bees. Seeing the garland thus treated, the infuriated Sage Durvasa exclaimed that fortune itself (Sri) inhabited the garland and now Indra and all the other Gods would be bereft of it. He cursed Lord Indra and all the Gods that they would lose their strength, fortune, and vitality.  A shocked Indra urged Sage Durvasa to reverse the curse. Taking pity on Indra, Durvasa did present him with a solution. Lord Indra and all the Gods could retrieve what they had lost if they could find a way to consume nectar that would emerge by churning the milk ocean. The subdued Lord Indra went to seek the refuge of Lord Vishnu who realised that this task was not something the Gods could do by themselves. He asked the Devas to initiate a discussion with the Asuras and form an association with them to churn the ocean by assuring them a share of the nectar.   Now, churning is the simple process of forging butter from milk, but the mammoth task the Gods had ahead of them required massive planning. For the churning of the ocean, the Devas sought the help of the mountain Mandara to serve as the churning rod. Vasuki, the king of snakes (the snake around Lord Shiva’s neck), was approached to serve as the rope for the churning. The Devas were to pull one end of the giant serpent, and the Asuras, the other. It is said, the churning went on for a thousand years before the nectar was found.   All this because Lord Indra made a slight mistake which was compounded by the tiny bees. Whichever way we look at it, little things are not little and have the potential of becoming infinitely important.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/little-things-count-974300.html
15-04-2021||Second Edit||Not the way to treat a friend||The US Navy’s conduct of what it calls ‘Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPs) in India’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) off the coast of the Lakshadweep Islands on April 7 has raised doubts in India over the strength of the purported friendship between the two countries. The US has been carrying out FONOPs for decades to assert its right to navigate through the EEZs of countries. Apparently, it has carried out similar operations in India’s waters too in recent years.  However, it went too far this time around. Not only did it not seek India’s prior consent to transit its EEZ but also the US Navy followed this operation up with a statement “challenging India’s excessive maritime claims.” India’s demand for “prior consent for military exercises or manoeuvres in its EEZ,” the US statement said, is “inconsistent with international law.” It is ironic that the US, which is not a party to the United Nations Convention for Laws of the Sea (UNCLOS), is now citing this treaty to justify its actions. More than the FONOPs itself, it is the US navy statement that has upset New Delhi, in addition to its aggressive and arrogant content and tone in which it was publicised. If the US differs with India’s position, this should have been raised through diplomatic channels, especially since the two countries are allies. Why did it confront India in the public domain? It is likely that the US’ public upbraiding of India was aimed at sending a message to China that its claims over the EEZ around the artificial South China Sea’s Islands are an ‘excessive claim’ and that Washington would assert its objections to all countries laying such claims, whether these are its friends or foes. Recent weeks have seen a flurry of engagements between India and the US. Senior officials have met in Delhi and the two navies were part of massive multilateral drills in the eastern Indian Ocean. The Quad summit saw the grouping, which shares concerns over China’s rise in the Indo-Pacific, signal a new unity of purpose. However, the recent spat suggests that the bilateral bonhomie is superficial. Even if the message of the US Navy statement was meant for China, the US seems to care little about putting New Delhi in an embarrassing situation. This is not how friends treat each other. Would Washington have meted out similar treatment to its western allies? It has shown the US to be an unreliable friend. Treating Delhi as a partner that is less than equal, is not acceptable. Importantly, the spat suggests that India and the US may not be on the same page in their understanding of a ‘rules-based order’ in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. India must think carefully about its participation in the Quad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/not-the-way-to-treat-a-friend-974296.html
15-04-2021||South||Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll: Ruling YSR Congress in high stakes battle with BJP, TDP||'Jagan Seva versus Jana Seva' (service to Jagan versus service to people) has been the war cry in the campaign for the by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency in Andhra Pradesh, where the stakes have become high for all the main parties. What triggered this was the choice, of the ruling YSR Congress, of a political novice M Gurumurthy as its candidate, whose only credentials were that he accompanied the party chief Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in his 3,600-km-long padayatra (foot march) in 2017-19 and tended to the latter as a physiotherapist. "If you elect Gurumurthy, he will be only in the service of Jagan and not raise voice in Parliament for you," the opposition BJP and TDP have been telling people in the run-up to the April 17 by-election, referring to his role as Jagan Mohan Reddy's personal physio. The YSRC hit back at the opposition parties saying the latter were seeking to make everything an issue as they had nothing else to speak about. Tirupati, an SC reserved constituency, is going to the bypoll due to the death of sitting YSRC member Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September last year. Spread over seven Assembly segments in Chittoor and SPS Nellore districts, Tirupati is witnessing a triangular contest with the BJP, in particular, making a desperate bid to win the seat it last bagged way back in 1999. The BJP fielded K Ratna Prabha, a former IAS officer who retired from service as Chief Secretary of Karnataka, who is fighting her first electoral battle. The Jana Sena of Pawan Kalyan is supporting Ratna Prabha's candidature as an ally and the actor himself campaigned for her. Former Union Minister of State Panabaka Lakshmi is the Telugu Desam nominee while another former Union Minister of State Chinta Mohan is the Congress candidate. Buoyant after the landslide victories in the recent elections to the local bodies, the ruling YSRC is confident of victory in Tirupati and is eyeing a big margin. The YSRC has set a victory margin of five lakh votes as its target as, barring the Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, almost the entire Council of Ministers has taken it upon itself to make it happen. In 2019, the YSRC won Tirupati by a record margin of 2.28 lakh votes. It captured this Lok Sabha seat in 2014 also, but with a much lesser margin. But, it may after all not be a cakewalk for the ruling party given the antagonism being faced by some of the legislators in the Assembly segments under Tirupati Lok Sabha. Realising this, Jagan Mohan Reddy himself wanted to campaign in Tirupati to turn the tide but he cancelled it citing the "coronavirus wave." The chief minister limited himself to writing a letter (pamphlet) to every household in the constituency, listing out the various freebie schemes launched by the government in his and his late father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy's names. Though it did not overtly announce it, the BJP sought to convey to Tirupati voters that they may be electing a "prospective Union Minister" in Ratna Prabha by ensuring victory of the party. AP does not have a representative in the Union Cabinet now. The TDP, on the other hand, wants the YSRC defeated to showcase that the people are vexed with the "draconian, vengeful, despotic rule" of Jagan Mohan Reddy. In equal measure, both the TDP and the BJP sought to rake up religious sentiments, questioning the faith of the YSRC candidate among other things. Being unsuccessful in the contest may not affect the opposition parties much but an adverse outcome, even a reduced margin, could be ominous for the ruling party, political observers feel. The outcome will become clear on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-lok-sabha-bypoll-ruling-ysr-congress-in-high-stakes-battle-with-bjp-tdp-974503.html
15-04-2021||South||Kerala Minister tests Covid positive for second time||Kerala Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar has tested Covid positive for the second time in a gap of seven months. The Minister said in a social media post that his son was also tested Covid positive. He said that he was having cold and lost smell and hence got tested for Covid on Wednesday. Sunil Kumar also said that he was planning to take Covid vaccination on Thursday. Having tested Covid positive earlier, in September last, he was taking adequate precaution while interacting with public, said Sunil Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-minister-tests-covid-positive-for-second-time-974552.html
15-04-2021||South||Sabarimala row: SC judge mentions Malayalam movie to highlight women's plight||'The Great Indian Kitchen', a recently released Malayalam movie that portrays the hardships of a newly married woman in the household, has been highlighted by Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud referring to the Sabarimala women entry issue. Chandrachud was a member of the Constitution Bench that lifted the ban on entry of women in the 10 to 50 age group, considered as menstruating age, to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala in 2018. Speaking at a virtual event organised by LiveLaw on Wednesday, Chandrachud said that he saw the film 'The Great Indian Kitchen' and the woman in the film was not asserting the right to go on pilgrimage but was fighting a much deeper battle as her existence was diminished by her gender. This is a stark reminder of how mere legislative or judicial intervention does not automatically upend the inequalities entrenched in society, he added. He also pointed out that the film juxtaposed the Sabrimala women entry judgment with the lived reality of the woman who was denied of her ambition to take up a job of her choice and facing the harsh isolation and untouchability when menstruating. The film was written and directed by Jeo Baby was already a talking point as it highlighted the plight of an average housewife in Kerala. Nimisha Sajayan played the role of the housewife in the film that was selected for the Shanghai International Film Festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-row-sc-judge-mentions-malayalam-movie-to-highlight-womens-plight-974642.html
15-04-2021||South||Stalin questions need to conduct NEET PG exams amid Covid spread||With the CBSE cancelling Class X board exams due to an alarming surge in coronavirus cases, DMK chief M K Stalin on Thursday wondered if it was the 'right' time to conduct the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for Post Graduate courses. NEET-PG 2021 is scheduled on April 18. In a tweet, Stalin, whose party is a vocal critic of NEET, pointed out at the cancellation of CBSE class X exams "due to the second wave" of covid-19. "CBSE exams have now got cancelled due to the second wave of #COVID19. With increasing cases and fatalities, when our doctors are fighting hard against all odds, is this the right time to hold National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for PG courses," Stalin, Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, said. The CBSE had on Wednesday cancelled its exams for class 10 and deferred those for class 12, due to the surge in coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-questions-need-to-conduct-neet-pg-exams-amid-covid-spread-974671.html
15-04-2021||South||Kerala CM accused of flouting Covid norms, Union minister calls him 'Covidiot'||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who just recovered from Covid, is now facing the blame of allegedly flouting the Covid norms. Vijayan was tested Covid positive on April 8, just two days after the Assembly elections in Kerala. He interacted with many on the polling day and actively took part in the election campaign with a road show on April 4 in Kannur. The opposition parties alleged that the Chief Minister took part in election campaign and interacted with many during the polling day even as he was having symptoms of Covid and his daughter and son-in-law were also tested Covid positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-accused-of-flouting-covid-norms-union-minister-calls-him-covidiot-974697.html
15-04-2021||South||After Dubbaka and GHMC setbacks, Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll compels KCR's on ground involvement||In his election rally in Nagarjuna Sagar on Wednesday, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao assured new ration cards for the poor, government pensions for those above 57 years of age and other benefits, in addition to the lift irrigation waters promised to the parched lands. While asking the people to vote on the basis of development he brought, the TRS supremo played safe and dwelled on his role in the formation of Telangana and “the region's backwardness during the Congress rule earlier.” “I risked my life for statehood and carried on with my fast despite health warnings,” KCR sought to remind the voters of the December 2009 episode when the Congress-led UPA government had for the first time made an announcement in favour of Telangana creation. The Anumula public meeting was the second rally addressed in Nagarjuna Sagar by KCR, as the CM is popularly known, in just over two months. Ahead of the bypoll announcement, KCR has, on 10 February, laid the foundation for few lift irrigation schemes in the region, and later addressing a TRS rally at Haliya launched a political attack on the Congress and the BJP. The bypolls for the assembly constituency would be held on Saturday, necessitated by the death of the sitting TRS MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah in December. KCR's overt involvement in Nagarjuna Sagar is a major shift from the Dubbaka bypoll, where the TRS boasted to win with over one lakh votes majority but ended up losing the sitting seat to the BJP. Confident of an easy victory, KCR had left the poll management to his nephew and finance minister Harish Rao. With the BJP gaining a foothold in the state with Dubbaka in November and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections in December despite his son and IT, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao's extensive campaign in the capital city, analysts say Nagarjuna Sagar compelled KCR's on-ground presence once again. And more so at a time when KCR is midway through his second term and any electoral setback is seen as a sign of the CM's weakening grip on the state. Thus, the ruling party seems to be sweating it out to retain Nagarjuna Sagar with an improved majority of votes, deploying its ministers and other party resources in the predominantly rural-tribal constituency. Even during the height of the statehood agitation and in the first elections post-Telangana creation in April 2014, Nagarjuna Sagar, named after the dam and reservoir on the Krishna river, remained out of TRS's reach. In 2009 and 2014, Congress veteran and former home minister Jana Reddy won the seat. The TRS could gain the segment only in 2018, with Nomula, a Communist leader earlier, becoming the MLA by defeating Jana. Leaning on the sentiment factor, KCR picked Bagath, son of Nomula, as the party's candidate now. The Congress has fielded Jana again now, while the BJP's candidate is Dr Ravi Kumar, a physician from the ST community considering the tribal presence in the constituency. Though the BJP has limited influence in the Nalgonda region, where Nagarjuna Sagar is, the party is trying to make electoral inroads here with this bypoll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-dubbaka-and-ghmc-setbacks-nagarjuna-sagar-bypoll-compels-kcrs-on-ground-involvement-974709.html
15-04-2021||South||Kerala for mass Covid testing targeting 2.5 lakh tests||Kerala government will be conducting a mass Covid testing drive targeting around 2.5 lakh persons below the age of 45 on Friday and Saturday considering the second Covid wave in the state. As many as 8,126 more were tested Covid positive in the state on Thursday taking the number of active cases to 63,650. A meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also decided to urge the centre to allow more vaccines to the state as the state plans to conduct mega vaccination camps apart from tightening enforcement of Covid-19 rules and imposing fresh restrictions aimed at bringing down the surge in the next two weeks. Chief Secretary V P Joy said that at present only seven lakh doses were available in Kerala. Kerala had been ensuring zero wastage of vaccines. He said that the two-day testing drive would be mainly targeting persons like frontline workers and those who often come in contact with the public. Fresh restrictions were also being imposed on gatherings by restricting the functioning of all establishments to 9 pm and limiting the number of participants at indoor gatherings to 75 and outdoor to 150. Participation at events like the upcoming Thrissur Pooram festival would be restricted only to those who have been vaccinated or those who have Covid negative results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-for-mass-covid-testing-targeting-25-lakh-tests-974710.html
15-04-2021||South||Daily Covid-19 cases breach 5K-mark after six months in Andhra Pradesh||In an alarming spike in Covid-19 infections, Andhra Pradesh has on Thursday reported 5,086 new positive cases, out of 35,741 samples tested. The positivity rate stood at 14.2 per cent. The state has witnessed such high daily spike last time in October 2020. According to the Covid-19 bulletin of the state health department, 14 deaths were reported across the state due to the virus infection.  On Wednesday, there were 4,157 new cases and 18 deaths. Total active cases in AP as of Thursday morning are 31,710. The state has so far recorded a total of 9,42,135 positive cases since the first case was seen on 12 March last year. While 9,03,072 have recovered, 7,353 have succumbed so far to Covid-19. On Thursday, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy held a review meeting on the pandemic and the vaccination situation in the state. Officials said that 6.28 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine was administered on Wednesday, achieving the stipulated target of six lakh doses daily. Amid the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, the CM directed the health officials to write to the Centre seeking the vaccine supply on a priority basis. Reddy called for wide publicity to 104 ambulance services, while ensuring availability of beds, proper treatment in the hospitals. Officials said that 15,669 beds are available of which 4,889 are occupied by Covid-19 patients. 1,987 ventilators are available while 22,637 patients are in home isolation. The Chief Minister directed the officials to fix the Covid-19 treatment prices in the private hospitals and check the compliance. “Treatment fees and other charges like tablets and injections should be properly displayed at the hospitals along with details of the authorities to complain if the hospitals charge more,” the CM instructed, asking for strict action against the erring hospital managements. CM said that required oxygen cylinders should be supplied to all the hospitals by ensuring full capacity production in Vizag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/daily-covid-19-cases-breach-5k-mark-after-six-months-in-andhra-pradesh-974717.html
15-04-2021||State||Ramzan: Large gatherings at mosques banned||The state government has issued guidelines to be followed by mosques during Ramzan, an auspicious month for Muslims. A circular said that all mosques inside containment zones will remain closed and large gatherings at mosques have been prohibited. It has also recommended staggered entry of visitors to mosques, apart from disinfection of the mosque at regular intervals. The circular by Minority Welfare, Wakf and Hajj Secretary P Manivannan advised persons above 60 years, persons with comorbidity, pregnant women and children below 10 to stay at home and not participate in rituals at mosques. Devotees are advised to break their fast at their homes and come to masjid only for prayers, do not bring any food items inside the masjid for any reason. “Taraweeh namaz (special prayers offered during Ramzan) shall be performed by taking all the precautions mentioned and if possible two/three jamat (a group offering prayers) can be made,” it said. Any shops, stalls or cafeteria outside and within the premises of the mosque will have to adhere to social distancing norms. Standard operating procedure on suspected or confirmed cases of Covid is also detailed in the circular. After the patient is shifted to a facility from the mosque, “a risk assessment shall be undertaken by the district health authority and accordingly further action is initiated regarding management of case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection,” the circular said. Disinfection of the mosque should be carried out after Taraweeh Namaz and at regular intervals. Any group religious activity apart from prayers will not be allowed at the mosque. Based on the number of devotees offering prayers at any given time, arrangements should be made for one or more jamath. “The management committee is responsible to ensure that these guidelines are strictly adhered to. Every masjid shall form a Covid-19 safety committee to implement and monitor the guidelines...” the circular said. Any violation of the guidelines will attract the punitive provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ramzan-large-gatherings-at-mosques-banned-974308.html
15-04-2021||State||Karnataka Deputy CM Narayan, D K Shivakumar join chorus against lockdown||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan and Congress president D K Shivakumar on Wednesday said no to a lockdown amid fears that the B S Yediyurappa administration would look to impose stricter curbs to contain the fresh wave of Covid-19 cases. The two leaders joined a growing chorus of voices that are dissuading the government from resorting to a lockdown. “There’s no use in another lockdown. No one is in a position to handle the effects of a lockdown,” Narayan told reporters. “People have suffered enough the past year and they shouldn’t be distressed further,” he said, adding that those coming into Bengaluru should get tested for Covid-19 compulsorily. Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, also favoured enforcement of tough rules instead of a lockdown. “A lockdown won’t help anyone. There’s no need for it. Let the government take precautions,” he said, hitting out at the BJP government for doing little to help people financially. “The Centre announced Rs 20 lakh crore and the state government came out with a Rs 1,600 crore package. It didn’t help anybody,” he said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has clarified that the government was not thinking of a lockdown. He has convened an all-party meeting on April 18 to discuss the next steps with the Opposition Congress and JD(S). “So far, the government hasn’t listened to us. They did whatever came to their mind. Now that things are going out of hand, they want to talk to us,” Shivakumar mocked. With Covid-19 cases rising, the state government has imposed a night curfew till April 20 in eight cities, including Bengaluru and Mysuru. Deputy CM Narayan maintained that there was no shortage of vaccines. He was responding to former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s remark that India faced a shortage as it was exporting vaccines. “Kumaraswamy doesn’t have the right information. There’s no vaccine shortage in the state. All preparations have been made,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-deputy-cm-narayan-d-k-shivakumar-join-chorus-against-lockdown-974310.html
15-04-2021||State||H D Kumaraswamy blames govt’s laxity for second Covid wave||Both the Centre and the state have been lax about the second Covid wave. Even though they anticipated a surge in cases, adequate measures were not taken to ensure infrastructure and medication, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has alleged. Taking to Twitter, Kumaraswamy said Yediyurappa’s assurance for an all-party meeting on Covid regulation was a futile effort without the government working on infrastructure building. “What is the point in conducting meetings when the government is not ready with the infrastructure required for Covid management?” he sought to know. “The Covid medication Remdesivir is in short supply. The Centre exported it as it pleased without thinking about local need. It has now put a stop after reports of shortage. It’s too late now. The medication is sold in the black market, not to mention the fake medication,” he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-d-kumaraswamy-blames-govt-s-laxity-for-second-covid-wave-974312.html
15-04-2021||State||H K Patil asks state to declare health emergency||Senior Congress leader H K Patil on Wednesday asked the state government to declare a ‘health emergency’ while criticising “unscientific” decisions such as the night curfew. In a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Patil recommended a number of measures to the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. “Declare and implement a health emergency,” Patil wrote. “Nothing will be achieved with measures such as the corona curfew, which has become a laughing stock.” The former minister also urged the government to ramp up testing with temporary facilities at crowded places and ensure easy availability of medicines at pharmacies. “Create a system for sufficient supply of oxygen. If needed, close down for a while those industries that use oxygen,” he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-k-patil-asks-state-to-declare-health-emergency-974314.html
15-04-2021||State||Five years on, a mere 26% of DMF funds used for projects||While Karnataka set up the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) for development of mining-ravaged districts five years ago, until now, only about 26% of the fund allotted for various infrastructure and development works have been used. According to the latest data available with the Mines & Geology department, over the last five years, works worth Rs 893 crore have been sanctioned, of which only about Rs 238 crore have been made use of.  As per official data, from 2015-16 until 2020-21, Rs 2,336 crore has been collected under DMF approximately. In this, an action plan of Rs 893 crore was approved for various development works until now. Of the approved amount, only about Rs 238 crore have been spent on projects. Further, only a portion of the expenditure has actually materialised into completed works, for several projects taken up in the span of five years, are still under progress. Many have failed to take off, in spite of allocation of funds. According to the available data, at least Rs 33 crore “expenses” have gone towards projects categorised as “yet to start.”  Speaking to DH, Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani acknowledged the poor pace of works. The state government is now working towards policy changes to ensure that action plan is prepared every year for development works. “Until now, the district committees for monitoring DMF did not include the Mines minister. Decisions were mostly taken by the respective DCs. We will bring a new policy by this month-end that will include the Nines minister and also the MLCs,” Nirani said. Not just that, since the money allotted for projects is not made use of all at once but utilised only in phases, a lump sum amount would be parked in current accounts, causing a loss to the state exchequer as current account don’t generate interest. “We will, henceforth, discourage making use of current account and ask officials to save funds in short-term deposit accounts,” Nirani added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-years-on-a-mere-26-of-dmf-funds-used-for-projects-974315.html
15-04-2021||State||Sanjay Raut dares Modi, Shah to resolve Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary row||Shiva Sena leader and Rajya Sabha Member Sanjay Raut dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to resolve the Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute and put an end to the injustices suffered by Marathi speaking people in the boundary areas of Karnataka for over six decades. Both Modi and Shah were talking of bringing in change in West Bengal by resolving the injustices suffered by the people in the state, instead they should resolve the problems of Marathi speaking people that were over 65 years old, he said. Raut addressed a by-election campaign rally for independent candidate Shubham Shelke supported by Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti and Shiva Sena here on Wednesday night. He said: "Modi and Shah talk of West Bengal, but turn a blind eye to the problems and injustices faced by Marathi speaking people in the state ruled by their party Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Modi-Shah boast of abrogating Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, but not of resolving the longest pending dispute in the country. Congress must have committed mistake then, but they can correct it now". "If it resorts to high handedness, Maharashtra could stop drinking water flow to Karnataka, but has not stooped to such level. MES movement was being suppressed here and saffron flag at Yellur village in Belagavi was removed. Marathi speaking people here instead of getting divided should unite under saffron flag and vote for their candidate in the by-election," Raut stated. Earlier Raut staged a road show in which MES supporters and sympathisers participated. They raised slogans demanding merger of Marathi speaking areas of the state with Maharashtra and will not bear excesses by Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sanjay-raut-dares-modi-shah-to-resolve-karnataka-maharashtra-boundary-row-974316.html
15-04-2021||State||Quota demand: Motamma hits out at pontiffs||Former minister and Congress leader Motamma on Wednesday criticised as “shameful” the involvement of seers and pontiffs in various caste-based reservation demands. She was speaking at an event organised by the Karnataka Congress on the occasion of Dr B R Ambedkar’s 130th birth anniversary. “All communities are fighting and protesting for reservation. Even heads of mutts, who are respected in society, are getting involved, which is shameful. Seers and pontiffs are expected to rid the society of discrimination,” Motamma said. Narrating an example close to her, Motamma said her daughter Nayana Jhawar was yet to get a house for herself in Mudigere, the constituency where she is building a base. “Although we’ve seen economic progress, the society still views us the same way,” Motamma said, referring to caste-based discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/quota-demand-motamma-hits-out-at-pontiffs-974319.html
15-04-2021||State||Maski Assembly bypoll likely to go down to the wire||A lot is at stake for disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil when the Maski Assembly constituency will vote on April 17 in what is a high-voltage battle between arch-rivals BJP and the Congress.  Maski is the last of the Assembly constituencies where bypolls were necessitated due to the defection of the incumbent legislators. Patil had won in 2018 as the Congress’ candidate, before jumping ship to the BJP that led to his disqualification.  Patil’s opponent is the Congress’ Basanagouda Turvihal, who was the BJP’s 2018 defeated candidate. The JD(S) has not fielded a candidate. It looks like victory will not be a cakewalk for either of them, leading to hectic campaigning by leaders of both parties by putting their popularity at stake.  Maski is an ST reserve segment that was created in 2008. In fact, Patil was its first legislator, having won consecutively in 2013 and 2018.  On the ground, there is a palpable sympathy among voters towards Turvihal, who lost against Patil by a slender margin of about 200 votes in 2018. Patil, despite his hat-trick wins, faces some ire for not having done visible work. Farmers from some 50 villages are up in arms demanding the implementation of the Narayanpur Right Bank Canal (NRBC) 5-A canal irrigation project, which Patil opposed.  Farmers have been agitating for the past 140 days demanding this project, which will irrigate their agricultural lands. “Patil opposed it although the DPR was ready. So, we’re creating awareness among people on the government’s laxity,” Adesh Naganur, who is among those involved in the effort to see the project through, says.  This, and the sympathy wave in favour of the Congress candidate, could work against the BJP. Also, several BJP leaders are said to be upset with Patil’s candidature.  There is pressure on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to ensure Patil’s victory. After all, he was one of the 17 MLAs whose defection helped the BJP come to power.   The segment has about 40,000 Lingayat votes that are traditionally with the BJP. The Kuruba and Muslims voters number around 15,000 each. BJP vice president and Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra is in charge of the party’s poll effort.  Basavaraj, who owns a petty shop in Maski, says development of the constituency can be expected if we vote for different candidates each time. Voting for a single candidate will pave the way for the growth of his followers and not the constituency, he opines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/maski-assembly-bypoll-likely-to-go-down-to-the-wire-974323.html
15-04-2021||State||Regional commissioners to inquire graft charges against GP members||An increasing number of corruption complaints against elected members of gram panchayats has forced the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department to rope in more officials to conduct inquiries into these cases.  While as per the procedure until now, all the complaints came before the Principal Secretary of the RDPR department, the government has now amended the Panchayat Raj Act, 1993, allowing the four regional commissioners in the state to hear cases on behalf of the principal secretary. This, owing to the rising number of complaints against gram panchayat members, presidents and vice-presidents, according to a government notification in this regard.  According to officials in the RDPR department, having identified this problem, the government had earlier made use of an existing section in the Act, allowing regional commissioners to take up inquiries. “The existing legislation states that the government can ‘cause an inquiry’. This provision was interpreted to rope in regional commissioners. However, we have now amended the Act authorising them to conduct inquiries,” according to a senior official in the RDPR department.  Prakash R, former vice president, Bannerghatta Panchayat was among those who welcomed the government’s move. “In many instances, even if there is a false complaint filed against a member, they have to wait for years together to get it resolved. Now that the regional commissioners have been given power, it will serve the larger good of the members,” he said. However, Nandana Reddy, Convenor of the Karnataka Gram Panchayat Hakkothaya Andolana had a word of caution. Roping in government officials to inquire into complaints against panchayat members is against the spirit of local self governance. There is a possibility of officials misusing this provision to intimidate panchayat members, she pointed out. Moreover, in many instances, government officials are involved in the irregularities and the complaints cannot be looked at in isolation, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/regional-commissioners-to-inquire-graft-charges-against-gp-members-974324.html
15-04-2021||State||Boy suffers burns while taking selfie atop a goods wagon||A 16-year-old boy suffered 50% burns after suffering electric shock while attempting to take a selfie atop an LPG goods wagon at Jokatte near Mangaluru on Wednesday. Mohammed Dishan, who was immediately shifted to a private hospital by the local residents, is in critical condition, sources in Mangaluru Railway Protection Force (RPF) told DH. The station master serving at Jokatte railway station told RPF and Bajpe police that the LPG goods train had arrived at Jokatte railway station on Tuesday evening.  As the train was waiting for the signal to proceed from Thokur, the station master heard screams for help and found three boys, all aged over 15 yrs, climbing down the ladder of a wagon at around 2.55 pm. The boys informed that Mohammed Dishan, a resident of HPCL Colony in Jokatte, had suffered electric shock while taking selfie from atop the wagon. A local ambulance was summoned to the spot and the boy lying near the track with burn injuries was shifted to a private hospital. Later the LPG goods train left from Jokatte to MRPL siding for filling at 3.30 pm. Bajpe police and RPF have registered a case and are investigating into it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/boy-suffers-burns-while-taking-selfie-atop-a-goods-wagon-974331.html
15-04-2021||State||Thundershowers cool parts of Karnataka||Providing much-needed respite from the summer heat, several parts of the state, including Bengaluru, received moderate to heavy rainfall on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) have issued a forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall, coupled with thunder activity, in parts of coastal districts, north and south interiors of Karnataka over the next four days along with gusty winds at 30 to 40 kmph. G S Patil, Director, IMD Bengaluru, told DH that a cyclonic upper air circulation system over north interior Karnataka extending up to 1.5 km above the sea level is one of the causes for the showers across the state. Evidently, a few places in Hassan, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada and Haveri received heavy rainfall of over 60 mm until Wednesday evening. The showers across Karnataka was seen as a relief to people who were reeling under scorching heat in the last few months. Bengaluru also witnessed light to moderate rainfall in the afternoon. Manorayana Palya in eastern Bengaluru received 13.5 mm rainfall while HSR Layout, Ramamurthy Nagar, Horamavu and a few parts in Central Bengaluru witnessed light showers. Weatherman has revealed that parts of Bengaluru are likely to see rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms over the next three to four-days. Sunil Gavaskar, scientist at KSNDMC, said, “Alongside the circulation system there is also a trough in the west coast and two more circulation systems are being formed in southern part of the Arabian Sea leading to rainfall in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu this week.” Meanwhile, the IMD has issued ‘yellow alert’ for Thursday in Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts with a forecast of heavy rainfall in these districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/thundershowers-cool-parts-of-karnataka-974333.html
15-04-2021||State||CBSE exam cancellation leaves Karnataka state board students in confusion||The Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) announcement on Wednesday cancelling board exams for class 10 and postponing class 12 exams has caused much confusion among the students preparing for the Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board (KSEEB) exams. Within minutes after the announcement by CBSE, several parents and students started calling the KSEEB and the Department of Pre-university Education (DPUE), seeking clarification about examinations for SSLC and second PUC in the state. Speaking to DH, Rakshith C N, a student preparing for second PUC exams, said, “We do not want to be passed or promoted without exams.” “The cancellation of CBSE exams has created tension. Hope our exams will be held as per the schedule,” said  another student. A principal of a private unaided school affiliated to KSEEB spoke about the long-term impact of such decisions.  “The same thing happened last year also. Other boards cancelled exams, but the state board conducted exams for both Class 10 and 12. Schools under other boards awarded the marks liberally. But our children were deprived of the benefit. So, they struggled to compete with students from other boards while getting seats,” he explained.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that government had not decided anything on cancellation of SSLC exams. “An appropriate decision will be taken in the future by analysing the situation.” The second PUC exams are scheduled to be held between May 24 and June 16 while SSLC exams are scheduled to begin on June 21.  The CBSE in a notification said that the decision was taken considering the wellbeing of students following the spike in Covid-19 cases across the nation. However, several stakeholders, including senior academicians and management representatives, objected the decision and requested the Union government to make a uniform decision for all the boards in the country. Senior academician Dr V P Niranjanaradhya said, “If a particular board decides to cancel its exams and follow some objective norms to pass children, then the children of other boards have to bear the brunt of board exams. It is discriminatory and a violation of the core principle of non-discrimination. In this situation, it is advisable to cancel all board exams and promote children by following general standard criteria applicable to all,” he said. Meanwhile, the private school managements urged the government to allow schools to conduct exams in online mode D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “The cancellation of CBSE exams for class 10 is an unhealthy development. The schools have provided education for the entire year in online mode and despite that, there is no provision to assess their learning levels. This is a real injustice to students and we urge respective boards to allow schools conduct a minimum assessment, at least in online mode.” Sources in the department of primary and secondary education told DH that the matter is likely to be discussed in the all-party meeting scheduled for Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cbse-exam-cancellation-leaves-karnataka-state-board-students-in-confusion-974334.html
15-04-2021||State||PIL for directions to police not to leak probe details to media||The High Court has ordered notice to the central government and the commissioner of police in response to a PIL seeking directions to the police not to leak investigation details to the media in any criminal investigation. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing the PIL filed by H Nagabhushan Rao, a Bengaluru-based advocate. Besides other prayers, the petition sought for a direction to the effect that any official found responsible for leaking details of investigation should be dealt both departmentally as well as under the criminal law. The bench ordered notice to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru. The petitioner has provided a pen drive along with the petition with clippings of news broadcast by the TV channels relating to cases in the recent times. The petitioner has also sought for a direction to the central government to frame regulation for media houses so as to prevent publishing of indecent, obscene and violent images as well as audio and graphic effects. “The samples are only to show that the clippings are not in good taste and the general public cannot watch such news in the presence of family members. The uncensored clippings are popped up in the between the news,” the petition said. As regards to leaking information to the media, the petitioner says that source of information from police investigation is not privy to the media or public and said that case diary is confidential and available on direction by the court only for itsperusal. The petitioner added that in a majority of sensational cases, media reports details investigation on every stage. This information includes evidence collected and sometimes even the electronic evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pil-for-directions-to-police-not-to-leak-probe-details-to-media-974336.html
15-04-2021||State||Home-bred IT tool for malaria gets global recognition||New cases of malaria decreased by 83% and decades-old transmission cycle of malaria in Mangaluru was finally broken by a home-bred IT (information technology) solution, ‘Malaria Control System (MCS)’, within five years of its implementation. Malaria surveillance is weakest in countries with highest malaria burden, informed Dr Susanta Kumar Ghosh, senior author of the study and former head of Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Malaria Research, Bengaluru field station. Mangaluru was classified as high-risk region for urban malaria by NVBDCP (National Vector borne disease control programme). “Mangaluru was contributing 85% of total malaria cases in Karnataka,” informs Prof B Shantharam Baliga, Professor Emeritus at Kasturba Medical College (KMC). Malaria has been endemic in Mangaluru for three decades (since the boom in construction) and previous anti-malarial initiatives like National Malaria Eradication Programme (NMEP) were not able to contain malaria, he said. Dr Baliga said the programmes failed as reporting of cases and action taken were done manually. This led to delayed surveillance, inadequate vector management among others. After deciding to digitise malaria surveillance and control programme, MCS was launched in October 2015. Under the new approach, a case of malaria diagnosed in any laboraty or malaria clinic, was uploaded online within 48 hours. The online entry of new cases sent an alert to tab devices of 54 trained MPWs (multipurpose workers). These handheld GIS-tagged tabs had apps guiding MPWs on implementing anti-malarial activities like collecting blood smears of contacts (infected Anopheles mosquitoes can continue to transmit parasites to healthy individuals), destroying mosquito breeding sites as per NVBDCP guidelines. Features in software ensured follow-up of patients and closure of malaria cases (14 days in case of Plasmodium vivax Malaria). The IT-driven surveillance faced many hurdles including Mangaluru City Corporation’s (MCC) decision to withdraw MPWs from malarial work in June 2018 and during Covid-19 Pandemic in 2020. Yet house-visits, early reporting and closure of cases (90% cases were closed) continued and broke the chain of transmission cycles, Dr Baliga said. MCS, by emphasising on timely dependent interventions established  accountability, which was missing in previous manual system, informs Dr Baliga. Entrepreneur and MCS architect Naren Koduvattat says the software should be scaled-up for more capabilities. Dr Baliga said MCS, which is still in operation, will reduce malaria incidence to double-digit soon. Dr Shantharam Baliga said that under MCS, timely reporting activated anti-larval, anti-mosquito measures, elimination of breeding was achieved in 98% of reported sites. Increase in active blood smear collection from contacts of newly diagnosed malarial patient (which contributes 1.2% of malaria cases), penal action on construction owners for non-compliance of vector control measures, releasing guppy fish in open wells to control malaria and easy access of data on each malaria case helped in accurate assessing of disease trends in high-risk wards, month-wise and plan interventions. “This method of smart surveillance can also contain all communicable and other vector borne diseases,” informed Dr Baliga. Dr Ghosh said the digitised smart surveillance system fulfils Global Technical strategy (GTS) for malaria elimination from 2016 to 2030 by the WHO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/home-bred-it-tool-for-malaria-gets-global-recognition-974340.html
15-04-2021||State||K-SET examination to be held on April 25||University of Mysore (UoM), the nodal agency that conducts the Karnataka State Eligibility Test for Assistant Professorship, has decided to conduct the examination on April 25. In a communication, KSET convener H Rajashekar has mentioned that the examination has scheduled the date and all preparation have been done. The tests were scheduled for 41 subjects as per UGC guidelines. Covid-19 protocol will be followed and all necessary measures will be taken to ensure the safety of the candidates. It has to be noted that UoM had cancelled the examination scheduled for April 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/k-set-examination-to-be-held-on-april-25-974618.html
15-04-2021||State||Covid-19: Karnataka calls off 'village stay' event||The state government on Thursday decided to suspend its flagship programme in which deputy commissioners and other revenue officials would spend the night in a village, owing to the rising Covid-19 cases. The 'Jilladhikarigala Nade-Halliya Kade' was launched in February. Under this, officials are required to stay over in villages every third Saturday of the month. The programme was held in February and March.  According to a release by Revenue Minister R Ashoka, the programme has been suspended for the month of April in order to prevent people from gathering in large numbers, which could aid the transmission of the infection. Ashoka was scheduled to stay in a village in Yadgir on April 17, which stands cancelled, the release said. According to government data, a total of 25,285 grievances were received by DCs during the two village stayovers held in February and March. Of this, 12,845 applications were resolved. The programme, which was Ashoka's brainchild, is aimed at getting officials acquainted with grassroots issues and so that public concerns can be addressed at the village level without people having to travel to the taluk office. Earlier this month, the government had suspended the programme in Bengaluru (Urban), Bengaluru (Rural), Ballari, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysore and Tumakuru in the wake of the fresh wave of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnataka-calls-off-village-stay-event-974643.html
15-04-2021||State||VTU students seek postponement of exams||Thousands of first-semester engineering students, pursuing studies at Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), have urged the university authorities to postpone the examinations scheduled to be held from April 19 to May 3. Several students have approached the principals of the engineering colleges while others took social media to express their anguish. Some of the parents have joined their wards to meet college authorities and request for postponement of examinations.  According to the students, the university has not taken any measures to trim the syllabus despite the pandemic and hurdles to accessing online and offline classes. “This is too early for us to appear for exams as the syllabus has not been completed,” a student said. “At least, let the university cut the syllabus considering the pandemic. We also urge the university to postpone the exams as the Covid-19 cases are increasing,” another student said. Taking to the social media to express the anguish a student, by the name Neha, wrote on Twitter, “Cancel the VTU exams for the first-year students as it is extremely difficult for us to come back to college from our hometown in this viral mess. The situation is worsening day by day.” The students have started a campaign on Twitter with the hashtag #postponevtuexams. However, the university authorities said there was no question of postponing or cancelling the scheduled exams. Speaking to DH, a senior official of the university said, “We have gathered information from all the colleges and the principals have assured us that the syllabus has been completed. The first semester students have got enough time as the classes were started on December 12 of 2020 and concluded on April 10 of 2021. They got more academic days than usual.” VTU registrar (evaluation) Dr B Rangaswamy said, “We have directed the colleges to follow the SOP strictly and sanitise classrooms after every use and make necessary arrangements for thermal scanning and hand wash. All safety protocols will be followed during the exams.” The engineering colleges, which are the examination centres, have been asked to have separate classrooms for students who tested positive for Covid-19 to write the exams and also the PPE kits for examination staff. “We have also insisted to the college principals to keep in touch with doctors at the nearby hospitals for any kind of emergency,” added Rangaswamy. However, regarding transportation, the university has asked the colleges to provide buses for students, if needed, to attend the exams, owing to the ongoing strike by Road Transport Corporation employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vtu-students-seek-postponement-of-exams-974660.html
15-04-2021||State||Fill up vacancies of medical staff in prisons, Karnataka HC tells govt||The High Court on Thursday directed the government to immediately fill up vacancies in medical staff at the prisons across the state. The court passed this order after noticing that, of the sanctioned strength of 114 posts of medical officers, psychiatrists and pharmacists, 86 posts are vacant. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the petition on the overall condition of prisons in the state. The government had submitted that 86 out of 114 posts of medical officers, psychiatrists, pharmacists are vacant, including all 7 posts of chief medical officers (CMOs). The court directed the government to come out with an outer limit for filling up these vacant posts. The court also directed the government to consider whether government hospital staff can be transferred to prisons hospitals. The bench directed the government to file an affidavit dealing with several aspects concerning the prisoners. ‘Address issues’ The court asked the government to address issues such as hygiene of prisoners, overcrowding of prisons, food provided to prisoners and on the visits by family members and friends.  The bench said the report indicates several shortcomings in the facilities as compared to the guidelines in the model prison manual. The manual prescribes one toilet per six prisoners and one common bathroom for every 10 prisoners. However, at the prisons in Bengaluru, Mysuru and the taluk prison in Kolar, it was found that there is one common bathroom for 15 prisoners. The court directed the government to point out whether any standard size of cells/barracks has been prescribed. The government has also been directed to place on record whether there are any proposals pending for construction of additional premises. The government will also have to record compliance with various directions issued by the Apex Court in regard to the conditions at prisons. The next hearing has been posted to May 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fill-up-vacancies-of-medical-staff-in-prisons-karnataka-hc-tells-govt-974667.html
15-04-2021||State||My past work as district minister will help me do well in bypoll: Satish Jarkiholi||KPCC working president and Congress candidate for by-election to the Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency Satish Jarkiholi is optimistic about putting up a good show. He disputes the BJP’s claim that the constituency is its stronghold. The Congress has won 10 of the 17 elections here so far, he says and that teamwork by party leaders and workers can make a difference. The BJP leaders, before calling me anti-Hindu for creating awareness about superstitious practices, should understand Lord Basaveshwara’s philosophy, he says in an interview with DH. What made you contest the byelection? Congress leaders were of the opinion that we need to put up a good show in the byelection and that fielding me as the candidate will help reorganise the party in the district and woo people from all castes and communities towards it. The party wanted a candidate known across the constituency. I was reluctant initially, but after the party made the decision, I agreed to contest. What issues will Congress raise during the campaign? We will highlight the rise in prices of essential commodities and fuel, the new farms laws that are against the interests of farmers and the flood-affected not getting funds for reconstructing their houses even after two monsoons. Our party will also focus on how Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promises have not been fulfilled and highlight the performance of the previous Congress government led by Siddaramaiah. What are your strengths in the constituency? I have been in public life for over 25 years. I have been working in sectors like education, sports and the industry, which will help me garner votes. As MLC for two terms and MLA for the third term, the people know my style of working. I was the district incharge minister for three years and am aware of the needs of the constituency. Will the CD scandal involving BJP leader and your elder brother Ramesh Jarkiholi affect your prospects? No, the byelection has nothing to do with the case. I have supporters and followers in Gokak and Arabhavi Assembly constituencies. Voters of the Jarkiholi family will stand by me.  The BJP may look to cash in on the sympathy factor in the bylection, necessitated by the death of its sitting member and union minister Suresh Angadi. Will that harm your chances? BJP looks to capitalise on the sympathy factor to get votes. However, we have been working hard and seeking votes for development of the constituency. We are highlighting the failures of the ruling BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/my-past-work-as-district-minister-will-help-me-do-well-in-bypoll-satish-jarkiholi-974682.html
15-04-2021||State||Actor, singer oppose felling trees for Heli tourism||Kannada actor Duniya Vijay has joined hands with the eco-activists and opposed the felling of trees near Lalitha Mahal Hotel in the city for Heli tourism. Vijay has expressed his support for ‘Save Mysuru’, a campaign, launched to oppose the cutting of trees. “Though we cannot grow trees, we should protect the existing trees. The government must re-consider its’ move over Heli tourism,” he suggested on social media. Besides, singer Vasu Dixit has also opposed the felling of trees by rendering a song at the place where the proposed Heli-tourism is planned. Apart from this, the online campaign launched by eco-activist Sapta Girish has been receiving an overwhelming response. As many as 71,300 people have signed the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-singer-oppose-felling-trees-for-heli-tourism-974696.html
15-04-2021||State||Bus strike: RTC employees arrested, 131 cases booked||Ahead of curtains set to fall on the bye-elections in three days, the government has started taking stringent measures to crack down on the employees of the four Road Transport Corporations (RTCs). In the last nine days, 52 KSRTC employees have been arrested, including 47 under the provisions of the Karnataka Essential Services Management Act (ESMA). However, an official claimed that the Act itself has not been invoked as yet. As many as 20 employees of NEKRTC, six of BMTC and four of NWKRTC were also arrested, though not much information was available as to the provisions invoked. The total number of FIRs registered in the four Corporations reached 131. The KSRTC dismissed 85 persons and suspended 15 others. At BMTC, disciplinary action, including dismissal, has been taken against about 500 employees. Other corporations have also initiated similar measures. Sources said the government is likely to initiate stricter action after April 17, when the polling for bye-elections will be over. "There are ample opportunities to initiate action. The soft stance is likely to change once the polling is completed," the source said. Strike to continue Meanwhile, the workers and their families are set to approach their respective MLAs on Friday morning. "Starting at 11 am, please approach the MLAs of your constituency and request them to take up your issue with the government," Anand, joint secretary of the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees' League, appealed to the striking workers in a video message. He said the strike would continue regardless of the government's tactics of suspensions, dismissals and transfers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bus-strike-rtc-employees-arrested-131-cases-booked-974703.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At 11,265 cases, Karnataka records highest ever single-day Covid-19 tally||Karnataka saw the highest-ever single-day case count, even higher than the peak in the first wave last year, as it reported 11,265 cases on Wednesday. On Sunday, the state had reported 10,250 cases which threatened to cross the highest ever number of the first wave’s peak, 10,517 cases, reported on October 10. Wednesday’s new record, experts warned, is only the beginning. Bengaluru Urban alone reported 8,155 cases, the highest-ever single-day rise reported from the district. The city also reported 23 deaths. This has taken the active case count to 85,480 cases (In this, 63,167 active cases are in Bengaluru) and 506 patients are in the ICU (184 in Bengaluru ICUs). As many as 38 deaths were reported on Wednesday that took the death toll to 13,046. Experts said they had recommended the imposing of Section 144 in the state without affecting economic activity. State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) member Dr C N Manjunath told DH, “Section 144 should be imposed so that not more than five people congregate outside. Indoor gatherings, marriage halls, and convention halls should be constantly checked. Economic activities should go on but not crowding. Religious fairs should be restricted. Alternate seating in cinemas has to be followed.” “This (surge) is an all-time record. The time taken for doubling cases has shortened. As per projections by epidemiologists, up to 1.8 lakh tests have to be done per day. Practically, it can be scaled up to 1.5 lakh tests. This requires more manpower,” Manjunath said. The state tested 1,13,242 samples on Wednesday. Dr Manjunath also decried claims of a lower case fatality rate compared to last year. “We cannot say second wave has been less fatal. More than 500 people are in the ICU and mortality is bound to rise. Getting an ICU bed will be an issue soon. Because of this rise, patient families are putting huge pressure on doctors to use Remdesivir in Bidar and Kalaburagi even if the patients have mild symptoms,” he added. Another TAC member and neurovirologist Dr V Ravi said the current reproductive number in the city was 1.65. “This is a result of irresponsible behaviour of citizens. Closed spaces, no masks, crowded areas, are the reasons for the current surge. Only 50% of the people wear masks. Hence, the cases are not surprising and it is going to be extremely bad. I won’t be surprised if this figure doubles in a week or 10 days. We’re heading the Maharashtra way. “I expect case fatality rate to be slightly more. Cinema halls are running full. Gyms are open. Pubs and restaurants close at 10 pm. We can lock ourselves in after work, we don’t need a lockdown,” he added. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, another TAC member, said, “There are no strict actions on reducing congregations, which is a major driver of transmission. We are not doing anything major on preventing further transmission.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-11265-cases-karnataka-records-highest-ever-single-day-covid-19-tally-974309.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stand by my statement, says woman linked to CD scandal||Refuting media reports of her U-turn, the woman linked to the CD scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said she stood by her earlier statements.  "I appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to seek time to provide some of the information (it had sought). However, I have not made any other statement. I stand by the statements I made earlier," she said.  After her visit to the SIT office in Adugodi on Monday, some media reports speculated that she was withdrawing the earlier statement. Reacting to the reports, she issued a video statement.  "There are speculations that I made the previous statement under duress and that after talking to my parents, I would be going back on my words. This is not true,” she said.  She said she had informed her lawyer about appearing before the SIT. “I have also complained to City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant about the authorities not questioning Ramesh Jarkiholi. Jarkiholi is feigning Covid illness to evade an inquiry and may have created these rumours,” she said, alleging another conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stand-by-my-statement-says-woman-linked-to-cd-scandal-974322.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At Nandi Hills, paragliding to take off from September||Paragliding will soon become part of Bengaluru’s tourism activity with a private company finding more thrill seekers for the adventure sport during the pilot phase of its project at Nandi Hills. Bangalore Aviation and Sports Enterprises (BASE) began testing the ground at Nandi Hills during the end of December, after obtaining the necessary permission from the state Horticulture Department and the authorities concerned such as the Airports Authority of India, Director General of Civil Aviation, Bangalore International Airport Ltd and others. While parasailing is being practised at Jakkur Flying School, paragliding, which requires more courage, has slowly attracted more enthusiasts in recent years. At Nandi Hills, the participant jumps from the Mayura Pine Top and glides to reach the ground at the foothills. The activity, officials believe, will not only boost the tourism potential of Bengaluru but also encourages more people to try the adventure sport, which offers a majestic view of the greenery surrounding the hills. B G Kumar Swamy of BASE said the activities saw good response right from the beginning. “We had kept it a low profile event but still saw so much interest. We hope to begin the operations in full scale from September this year,” he said. During the first phase, the company hired one pilot based on the demand. On an average, Swamy said, about eight people tried the adventure. “We charge Rs 2,500 per ride of about 10 minutes. The response has given us to begin full-fledged operations, once the weather permits” he said. The company plans to hire eight to 10 pilots by September to scale up operations. “Getting a pilot with 15 years of experience and necessary clearances is a costly affair. The pilot assists the participant throughout the way, ensuring safety. From September, we will be ready to cater to 60 to 70 participants,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-nandi-hills-paragliding-to-take-off-from-september-974332.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Voters will reply to Congress in bypolls: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that people from Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency and Assembly constituencies of Maski and Basavkalyan will give a reply to Congress by electing candidates of BJP. "KPCC President D K Shivakumar and former chief minister Siddaramaiah were talking lightly about the byelection, but BJP candidates' victory by a huge margin will be the reply for Congress," Yediyurappa told reporters on Thursday. Yediyurappa said campaigning would conclude today evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/voters-will-reply-to-congress-in-bypolls-b-s-yediyurappa-974432.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTC workers strike in Karnataka enters Day 9, bus services hit||The indefinite strike called by the employees of road transport corporations in Karnataka over wage related issue entered its ninth day on Thursday, continuing to affect bus services across the state. With a stalemate between the government and employees of four transport corporations in the state, over their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission continuing, majority workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off road, affecting commuters. Aimed at intensifying their protest, the striking employees have decided to stage a candlelight protest on Thursday evening. They have also planned to approach all the MLAs to urge them to raise their issue at the government-level. Amid threats of tough action, "no work no pay", few RTC employees have returned to work and are operating buses on some routes in the city and different parts of the state. Pegging the revenue loss at Rs 152 crore with buses belonging to all the four RTCs not running, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who also holds Transport portfolio, last evening said over 3,200 buses were operating so far, as employees were returning to work on the request of the government. He also appealed to employees not to listen to vested interests who are instigating for the strike and to get back to work. Savadi in his statement had also said that a total of 60 buses belonging to all the four RTCs were damaged so far by miscreants in the name of protests as he condemned the act. Some Volvo buses have been damaged, he said, adding that police have started taking action against those involved. The government has made it clear that it was not possible to implement the sixth pay commission for the RTC employees, and had ruled out any talks with them. RTCs that have been warning employees against continuing with the strike, have started taking action against trainee and probationary employees by dismissing them for absence from work and not responding to notice. Private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles, whom authorities have roped in to manage the crisis and help commuters, were seen providing services to passengers in different parts of the city and the state. Metro, autos and cabs were also being largely used for commuting within the city. Citing inconvenience caused to the public and that the strike was against provisions of the industrial disputes act, the Labour department last week had issued an order banning the strike, and had referred the dispute to the industrial tribunal, Bengaluru for adjudication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtc-workers-strike-in-karnataka-enters-day-9-bus-services-hit-974456.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government asks Kumbh Mela returnees to self-isolate and undergo Covid-19 test||The Karnataka government has asked those returning from Kumbh Mela at Haridwar to get themselves quarantined and get tested for coronavirus infection. "Pilgrims returning to the state after taking part in the holy Kumbh Mela at Haridwar must isolate themselves at home and undergo tests for coronavirus. I urge pilgrims to continue with their regular activities only after their Covid negative test report," Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted. The Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Services K V Thrilok Chandra too issued a circular to this effect. Citing a Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government of India for the pilgrims visiting Kumbh Mela at Haridwar, Chandra said, "The pilgrims or visitors attending Kumbh Mela should be advised to strictly comply with the SOP. On their return, they should be informed to isolate themselves at home and immediately undergo compulsory RT-PCR testing and following the negative report, should resume normal activities." The circular has been marked to the municipal commissioners, deputy commissioners of the districts, chief executive officers of the Zilla Parishad, district surgeons, district health officers and district surveillance officers. A large number of people have thronged Haridwar, an important pilgrimage place for the Hindus, for Kumbh Snan, which occurs once in 12 years, following planet Jupiter's transit in Aquarius (Kumbh) sign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-asks-kumbh-mela-returnees-to-self-isolate-and-undergo-covid-19-test-974499.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai warns against sale of Remdesivir in black market||With reports coming in about black marketing of Remdesivir injection, which is vital for treatment of coronavirus, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday warned stringent action against those creating false scarcity of the drug. "The Karnataka Health Minister has already said there is no scarcity of Remdesivir injection in the state but a false scarcity is been created in the state," he told reporters here. Bommai said there were reports that the injection is being sold at higher prices. "The government has taken the matter seriously and will initiate stringent action against those who are making a fast buck by creating false scarcity and black marketing this important drug," he added. According to him, the state government had faced many challenges last year. Taking lessons from it, the government this year has taken measures well in advance and has enhanced the health infrastructure in government hospitals. The Home Minister also said there was no shortage of vaccines in the state. Bommai said he would be holding a meeting with senior police officials on Friday to discuss ways to protect the police force from coronavirus and also about the measures to contain the disease. "We will monitor at every level of supply, storage and distribution of Remdesivir. We will keep a track right from pharmaceuticals to the hospitals and initiate action under the Epidemic Act," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-warns-against-sale-of-remdesivir-in-black-market-974533.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC directs strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol, asks cops to register FIRs against violators||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the state DGP and IGP to immediately direct all authorised officers to register FIRs against all who violate Covid-19 rules on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka passed this direction after noticing that police have been reluctant in implementing the cognizable and non-bailable offences under the provisions of Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act 2020. The bench observed that the police officers will have to be educated about the provisions. The court said there have been very few cases of FIRs, though the offences punishable are cognizable and non-bailable. “We therefore direct the DGP to immediately issue directions to all police officers and all officers authorised for strict implementation of the provisions. The DGP shall also constitute a team of senior police officers who will monitor the registration of offences punishable under the said act and investigation thereof,” the bench said.   The court also said that the state government should not tolerate the reluctance by police machinery in enforcing the penal provisions of the act. “The orders passed by this court show that there is a great deal of reluctance on the part of the police in registering FIR for the reason that eminent political and religious leaders are indulging in violation of the rules, regulations and orders passed (by the state government) under the said act. In fact, the political and religious leaders are supposed to lead by example and therefore to give the right signal it is all the more necessary that police act swiftly and strictly against any person, especially prominent religious and political leaders,” the court said. The bench directed the government advocate to communicate the gist of the order to the DGP and IGP immediately without waiting for the copy of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-directs-strict-adherence-to-covid-19-protocol-asks-cops-to-register-firs-against-violators-974571.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister warns private hospitals of strict action if they do not reserve beds for Covid-19 patients||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday warned of strict action against private hospitals if they do not follow its instructions on reserving 50 per cent of the beds for Covid patients. "Government hospitals in Bengaluru are instructed to reserve more beds for Covid patients. Private hospitals have also been instructed to reserve 50 per cent of the beds. Strict action will be initiated against those who do not cooperate," Sudhakar said. Noting that private hospitals have reserved only 15-20 per cent of what has been asked for, he said the government will consider it as a serious lapse, and strict measures will be initiated, if they do not follow the orders. "Only critical non-Covid patients who need hospitalisation should be treated in hospitals. Government cannot keep quiet if Covid patients are denied treatment." "I once again appeal to the private hospitals to cooperate with the government," he said, adding that private hospitals can arrange Covid care centres at hotels. Noting that 400 doctors have been transferred from the Medical education department to the Health department, Sudhakar said the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Disease (RGICD) has been kept reserved for severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illness related cases. "Presently 300 beds are available in Bengaluru's Victoria hospital for Covid patients and will be increased to 500 shortly", the minister was quoted as saying by his office in a release. According to the release, 300 beds in Bowring hospital, 150 in Charaka, 100 beds in HSIS Gosha and 100 beds will be reserved in KC General hospital within two weeks. Stating that the state's Technical Advisory Committee on Covid (consisting of experts) will be submitting its report on surging cases and containment measures to the government, Sudhakar said it will be handed over to the CM and he will take a decision after discussion with leaders at the all party meeting and cabinet colleagues. Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, the state government has convened an all-party meeting on April 18 to discuss strategies to control the spread of infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-warns-private-hospitals-of-strict-action-if-they-do-not-reserve-beds-for-covid-19-patients-974623.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hectic campaigning for Karnataka bypolls ends||Public campaigning for the April 17 bypolls closed Thursday evening with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar helming the final efforts to woo voters.  The campaign ahead of the Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies was a high-voltage one with the BJP and Congress slogging it out in the harsh summer of north Karnataka.  The last day of the public campaigning saw Yediyurappa leading the BJP’s poll effort in Belgaum, whereas Shivakumar sought votes for the Congress in Maski.  Former chief minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, who was confined to Basavakalyan, cancelled his roadshow and rally citing the rise in Covid-19 cases. Basavakalyan is the only bypoll-bound constituency the JD(S) is contesting.  In Belgaum, the BJP has fielded Mangala Angadi, the wife of union minister Suresh Angadi who died due to Covid-19 last year. She is up against Congress’ working president Satish Jarkiholi. In Maski, the BJP has fielded disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil whose opponent is Basanagouda Turvihal of the Congress.  In Basavakalyan, the Congress has fielded Mala, the wife of MLA B Narayan Rao who died due to Covid-19 last year. Her opponent is BJP’s Sharanu Salagar and Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri of the JD(S).  The outcome of these bypolls will have no bearing on the stability of Yediyurappa's government. However, a lot will be in stake in terms of optics and prestige.  In total, there are 30 candidates in the fray: 10 in Belgaum, eight in Maski and 12 in Basavakalyan.  A total of 22,68,038 voters are eligible to vote on April 17 in the three constituencies where authorities have set up 3,197 polling stations, 8,052 ballot units, 7,018 control units and 6,366 VVPAT machines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hectic-campaigning-for-karnataka-bypolls-ends-974640.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka-France launch tech accelerator||In a bid to boost collaboration between Karnataka and France in the realm of innovative technology, the state and the French government kick-started an Indo-French technology accelerator here on Thursday.  Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who was at the event, said that the accelerator would help both countries achieve strategic autonomy in key technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT). The event coincided with the signing of an MoU between the Karnataka Innovative and Technological Society (KITS) and IFCCI (Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry). Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also minister of electronics, said, “The Indo-France accelerator will be a great podium for the startups in India, particularly in Karnataka to explore further growing further in the global ecosystem. The MoU that is signed between KITS and IFCCI will be an official agreement that will chart a suitable way forward for the mutual appraisal of the tech ecosystems of Karnataka and France.” Narayan said that bilateral economic and trade relations will get a boost. He also pointed out that France has emerged as a major source of foreign direct investment for India with more than 1,000 French establishments already present in India. “France is the ninth-largest foreign investor in India with a cumulative investment of $6.59 billion from April 2000 to December 2018 and India-France bilateral trade stood at  11.52 billion,” he said.  Le Drian had visited the campus of the Bangalore Life Sciences Cluster (BLiSc) and ISRO’s Human Space Flight Centre (HSFC) earlier on Thursday. He described the collaboration as “science for good,” and said that it would benefit healthcare, plus sustainability renewability initiatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-france-launch-tech-accelerator-974658.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka submitted third-highest number of Covid insurance claims in India: Data||Karnataka, one of the 11 states of concern as far as Covid caseload goes, submitted the third-highest number of insurance claims for its Covid bills, according to data from the General Insurance Council (GIC) of India. Till April 1 from the start of the pandemic, the state made 75,938 claims, amounting to more than Rs 1,136 crore after Maharashtra (Rs 4,345 crore), and Gujarat (Rs 1,922 crore). Bengaluru, with the highest Covid caseload, made the highest number of claims -- 15,299 -- amounting to Rs 210 crore. The average claim amount was Rs 1.37 lakh. This is followed by Udupi (790 claims amounting to more than Rs 7.95 crore) and Mysuru (592 amounting to more than Rs 6.36 crore). As per Project Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, supported by the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), which did the analysis of the data from the GIC, only 13% of the population has health insurance. Most patients pay out-of-pocket for hospitalisation bills if they are not eligible under any state-sponsored health scheme. Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeeva Raksha, told DH, “Shockingly, there is a 75-80% difference in the average claim between districts in Karnataka. For instance, in Mysuru, the average reported claim is Rs 1.07 lakh, whereas in Belagavi, Chitradurga and Vijayapura, it is Rs 1.75 lakh and in Yadgir, it is Rs 1.84 lakh.” Yadgir District Health Officer Dr Indumati Kamshetty told DH that out of 10,992 Covid cases that the district has seen since the start of the pandemic, only 16 having raised claims (amounting to more than Rs 29.46 lakh) and that too from the private sector is a small number. At least eight must be from a local MLA’s family, which should be quite affordable for them, she said. Ironically, claims from these districts are higher than in Bengaluru Urban at Rs 1.36 lakh, which should have ideally been the other way round because of the cost of running a hospital in terms of rent, manpower, and other administrative expenses in a metropolitan city is significantly higher. “There are several instances where a large number of Covid patients have had to pay over Rs 10 lakh towards hospitalisation. The family members have to borrow and also exhaust their life-long savings to meet the hospitalisation charges,” Mysore added. “The huge variation in average claim amount clearly indicates that the local administration has failed to monitor and regulate the Covid treatment pricing in accordance with the guidelines issued by the state government. The elected representatives need to protect the interest of the people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-submitted-third-highest-number-of-covid-insurance-claims-in-india-data-974663.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Conduct Board exams as per schedule, says Horatti||The chairman of the Legislative Council Basavraj Horatti advised the state government not to cancel or postpone the examinations for SSLC and II PUC. In a letter addressed to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, Horatti said, “There is no benefit for students from cancelling or postponing the examinations. Conducting examinations as per the schedule will increase the interest of children towards learning. Considering this, I request the department of Primary and Secondary Education should take all necessary measures to conduct the exams as per the schedule.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/conduct-board-exams-as-per-schedule-says-horatti-974665.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nomination of members to wildlife board challenged||The High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the government and other respondents in response to a PIL challenging the nomination of 10 members to the Karnataka State Board for Wildlife. The government had re-constituted the Board by a notification dated October 16, 2020. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL filed by Bhoja Raju G M, a consulting environmental engineer. The government had nominated 10 persons from amongst eminent conservationists, ecologists and environmentalists as members of the Board. The petition contended that the re-constitution of the Board contravenes the provisions under section 6 (1) (d) and (e) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The petition challenges the nominations of Chetan B, Dr Somasekhar A R, Alok Vishwanath (son of BJP MLA from Yelahanka S R Vishwanath), Naveen J S, Vinod Kumar B Naika, Dinesh Singhi, K S N Chikkeruru (retired IPS officer), Thyag Uttappa and Joseph Hoover as members of the Board. The petition claimed one of the nominations, representing a non-government organisation dealing with wildlife, is a politically motivated nominee, while the nine others do not possess eminence either in conservation, ecology and environment and none represent the interests of Scheduled Tribes as required under the law. The petition also challenged the proceedings of the 15th meeting of the Board on January 19, 2021, conducted in the presence of S R Vishwanath. The petitioner claimed that the meeting in the presence of Vishwanath, who is also the Chairman of Bangalore Development Authority, is in violation of Rule 9 of the Karnataka State Board for Wildlife Rules,2006. The petition said that at the behest of Vishwanath, the chief minister, who is the chairperson of the Board, rejected the proposal for declaration of ‘Greater Hesaraghatta Conservation Reserve’. The issue was discussed at the 15th meeting of the Board, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nomination-of-members-to-wildlife-board-challenged-974666.html
15-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Mukhyamantri’ play set to enter Guinness record||Kannada play ‘Mukhyamantri’ (Chief Minister) is all set to enter the Guinness Book of World records. Kannada Sahitya Parishat, Mysuru and Bharatiya Dalit Sahitya Academy is making all preparations in this regard. The play has completed 735 shows and the 736th show will be staged at Kalamandira in the city at 6.30 pm on April 18. Actor 'Mukhyamantri' Chandru has been enacting the role of Mukhyamantri since the play was launched four decades ago and it is a record, said Kannada Sahitya Parishat Mysuru city unit president K S Shivaramu. The play 'Mukhyamantri', directed by B V Rajaram, completed four decades and it was first staged on December 4, 1980. Leader of the Opposition party, also former chief minister Siddaramaiah will inaugurate the play. MLA H P Manjunath will felicitate actor Mukhyamantri Chandru and Director B V Rajaram on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mukhyamantri-play-set-to-enter-guinness-record-974701.html
15-04-2021||West||5 years and 11 surgeries later, Mumbai girl with a severe brain injury dances her way back to life||Five years and 11 surgeries later, a Mumbai girl who suffered from a serious brain injury after a road accident got back on her feet to pursue what she was passionate about the most - Bharatanatyam. A team headed by Dr Vishwanathan Iyer, a veteran neurosurgeon at the Kohinoor Hospital in Mumbai, performed a craniotomy on 24-year-old Nirmohi Anil recently, following which she resumed her daily routine and also her love for Bharatanatyam after a 5-year pause. In 2015, Nirmohi met with a ghastly road accident while on her way to a restaurant near her home in Mumbai's Kalina area that severely injured her brain. She had even slipped into a coma and was on the ventilator for 45 days. She was rushed to a local nursing home for initial first aid care and was later shifted to Kohinoor Hospital after her condition deteriorated.  Dr Iyer said that on her arrival, Nirmohi was unconscious and had slipped into a coma.  "We performed a surgery to remove the clots and bones on both sides of the skull. Over the years, she underwent 11 different surgeries to replace the bone flap and to treat water accumulation in the brain. She had been advised to take speech therapy and physiotherapy. Now, the patient is fine and has started her daily routine activities," he said. Thanking the doctors for helping her daughter recover and get back to normal life, Swati Anil said, "We are happy that our daughter received proper treatment over 5 years at Kohinoor Hospital and now she will be able to live a normal life like others. She is back at home and has started doing Bharatanatyam like earlier." She said that Nirmohi was able to deal with the injury due to her willpower and that they were determined to do what it took to save her life. "My daughter is brave and never gives up," Swarti added. While mentioning what is imperative in such cases, Dr Iyer said, “If a person meets with an accident, it is essential to give him first aid at the right time -- within 1-2 hours. One with a brain injury will take time to deal with it. But remember, one will need the family’s support during the course of the treatment.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-years-and-11-surgeries-later-mumbai-girl-with-a-severe-brain-injury-dances-her-way-back-to-life-974411.html
15-04-2021||West||Have not thought of cancelling Goa board exams yet: CM Pramod Sawant||The Goa government has not yet thought of cancelling the state board exams of Classes 10 and 12 in the wake of the Covid-19 surge, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said. The final exams of Classes 10 and 12 of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education are scheduled to be held from April 24. Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, Sawant said, “Right now, we have not thought of cancelling any board exams. We will ensure that all measures (related to Covid-19 prevention) are taken when the students appear for their exams." The Goa education department has already allowed examinations of other classes to be held online after the fresh outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, he said. Sawant noted that the board exams were held successfully in the state last year amid the pandemic by following all the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Only 11 students were allowed to sit in one examination hall last year to maintain proper social distancing, he said. The CBSE on Wednesday cancelled its exams for Class 10 and deferred those for Class 12.  Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra have also postponed their state board exams for these classes due to an alarming surge in coronavirus cases. States like West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh have said they are monitoring the situation and are yet to decide whether to go ahead with the board exams. Karnataka has said it will conduct the exams as scheduled. On Wednesday, Goa recorded 473 fresh cases of Covid-19 and four more casualties due to the disease. With this, the tally of infections in the state has reached 63,815, while the toll has mounted to 857, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-not-thought-of-cancelling-goa-board-exams-yet-cm-pramod-sawant-974419.html
15-04-2021||West||'My eyes burn': In Thar Desert, farmers sweating for salt hit by climate change||Roshni Thakor left school to harvest salt from the sun-baked Thar Desert, a backbreaking trade practised by her ancestors for centuries but now threatened by climate change. For eight months every year, farmers toil in scorching heat to pump out briny water from handmade wells in a sparse corner of Gujarat. A tonne of the resulting salt crystals fetches the meagre sum of 300 rupees, but unpredictable rainfall, rising temperatures and frequent dust storms have slashed yields and made it harder for Thakor and her family. "It's getting hotter and hotter here. My eyes burn and I often feel dizzy and sick," the 20-year-old told AFP, as her mother prepared tea over a wooden stove. Erratic weather has brought mounting losses for her family, but her father Raju says they must keep trying to eke out a living from their four salt pans. "I have no choice but to keep working here as I don't own any agricultural land. I don't have any other source of income," he said. India is the world's third-biggest producer of salt and nearly three-quarters of its annual output comes from Gujarat. The Thakor family are among the tens of thousands of "Agariyas", or salt farmers, who spend most of the year living and working within the barren mudflats of the Thar Desert. They dig 50-foot wells with shovels and their bare hands before using diesel pumps to direct water into large rectangular basins, where it evaporates and leaves salt crystals behind. The work is both tedious and taxing. Farmers prepare the basins by stamping their bare feet to seal in the brine and stop it from seeping back into the earth, a process that leaves them vulnerable to painful foot infections. Heat plays an important part in the process, with 24 degrees Celsius (75 degrees Fahrenheit) the optimal temperature for the formation of salt crystals, Raju said. But climate change is making it harder to plan for the salt harvest and is delaying the onset of the farming season, in addition to bringing unbearable heatwaves to those working the desert lands. Deforestation and unplanned development have already transformed India's monsoon season, with a recent government report warning that climate change was making rains unpredictable and more intense. "Salt production needs dry weather -- if it rains suddenly, all our effort goes down the drain," said Raju Thakor. "The salt dissolves and we have to start all over again." The same government report warned that India faced a 4.4-degree rise in average temperatures by the end of the century. Dhvanit Pandya, who runs a local salt farmer advocacy group, says the mercury has already risen by that much in the Thar Desert over the past decade, with daytime maximums now sometimes topping 54 degrees. Dust storms are also rising in frequency, muddying the salt pans and cutting sale prices "The traders slash the price by half if the salt is not of good quality," Pandya said. Pandya estimated that farmers were now losing a quarter of their harvest each year because of sharp changes in weather patterns, pushing many families towards poverty. The Agariyas say their ancestors have farmed salt in the region for more than 500 years. Their homes in the desert, far from Gujarat's population centres, are not connected to the electricity grid. Fresh water in the desert is scarce, and the community's children spend most of the year out of school. A government initiative launched nearly a decade ago helped some salt farmers replace their diesel pumps with solar-powered motors to help lower their production costs. Pandya has credited the scheme with helping "slowly but surely" improve livelihoods. The desert community is tight-knit, communicating across distances outside of shouting range by using mirrors to flash reflected sunlight at faraway shacks. Most farmers there say they don't want to give up their trade, but acknowledge the work is becoming more difficult as the weather changes. Tejal Makwana told AFP she used to save nearly 50,000 rupees from each farming season -- more than enough to provide for her family for the rest of the year. "But now we can barely make ends meet," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/my-eyes-burn-in-thar-desert-farmers-sweating-for-salt-hit-by-climate-change-974443.html
15-04-2021||West||All you need to know about Maharashtra Covid-19 curbs: What's allowed, what's not||With coronavirus cases rising at an alarming rate, the Maharashtra government on April 13 announced severe, curfew-like restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days across the state to curb the Covid surge. The restrictions came into effect from 8 pm on April 14 till 7 am on May 1. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state in India in terms of Covid-related infecttions and deaths. Here's a look at what is allowed and what isn't as Maharashtra enters a partial lockdown: Can maids, drivers, cooks come to work? Can they travel by local trains/buses?  The state government has allowed local disaster management authorities to take a decision on it as various cities, urban and local areas have different situations and decision should be local.  Can people shift homes and use the services of movers and packers? No. This is not in general a valid reason, the state government said in a notice. "What can be avoided and is not immediately essential must be avoided. If there is a very genuine reason and very essential, local disaster management authority may allow it. It is expected to be very exceptional though," the notification said. Is travel within Maharashtra by private vehicle allowed? "Not without a valid reason," mentioned in the order. One may take public transport -- tickets are enough to move to and fro between stops/stations of public transport vehicles and one's residence. Will wine shops and cigarette shops be open? No. No shops are to open unless a shop falls in the essential category.  Will Maharashtra university MBBS exams continue as scheduled on April 19? Regarding conducting all the exams, a decision shall be made by the concerned department and shall be notified accordingly. This order means that if an exam is being conducted, a hall ticket is a document to prove the movement of a student and an accompanying adult to be a valid reason during these restrictions. What qualifies as essential ecommerce? All goods and services that qualify under the essential services will also be considered qualified as essential ecommerce. For example, all items that are needed for health or medical reasons, groceries, food items etc. Can plumbers, carpenters, electricians, cleaning, disinfection, pest control, refrigerators, AC and other home appliances repair technicians work? If it is unavoidable then water and electricity services by private people are also allowed. Similarly cleaning, disinfection. pest control, as well as residential or home appliance repairs may be considered essential. But it should reasonably be immediately needed. The principle is to discourage unnecessary movements while allowing necessary ones conveniently. It is expected that citizens will demand these services only if necessary, the notification said. Restrictions are not there for the sake of restrictions but to ensure the safety of citizens as well as these service providers, and their families, the state government said in the notice. "If citizens use these allowance in the right spirit, fellow citizens may get these services without any hinderance in the times of need. If these considerations are misused, we may have to control or deny them," it added. Will dental clinics remain open? Yes. Will travel agencies be open? How about travel, visa, passport assistance? Travel agencies will not be open physically. However, they will continue to operate over the internet. As far as visa/passport assistance is concerned, single-window systems -- like that of CSC-SPV in villages, Setu in collector offices have been allowed. Visa/Passport services, that are being run by government office's authorised agencies -- to be considered partof Government offices and thus these are allowed to operate on working days. Can delivery of essential items like food be done post 8 pm -- either by restaurants themselves or through ecommerce sites? There is no restriction for essential services and home delivery timings as per the order. Times of operations for establishments is decided by local authorities. Home delivery is correspondingly within these times. Thus if regular operations timings are beyond 8 pm, home delivery is permitted beyond 8 pm. Local authorities may if so desired. vary these operations timings. What about roadside food vendors? In these locations, both parcels and home deliveries (though home delivery from these is very rare) are allowed between 7 am to 8 pm. Will essential services be allowed only between 7 am to 8 pm? Essential services are allowed throughout the day -- 24/7. If these services are being provided by establishments that have been given timings of operations by the local authority under some other Act (like timings for restaurants on regular days) their operations may be allowed between those times. But there is no restriction under Disaster Management Act.  Can private vehicles ply during the day time to work/office?  If their offices/works are allowed to operate in the order (essential as per section (2) or exemption as per section (5), they can go by private cars and it constitutes a valid reason. Will long-distance trains function? Can general public take local trains? These are essential services and will be on. Anyone may travel on it. The general public will be allowed to travel by local trains as long as they have a valid reason to travel. Valid reasons are enumerated under Section (2) of the order. The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over 2 lakh infections being reported in a day, while the active cases surpassed the 14-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-you-need-to-know-about-maharashtra-covid-19-curbs-whats-allowed-whats-not-974446.html
15-04-2021||West||Maharashtra lockdown: Wine shops to be shut; no jogging allowed||Walking, jogging and cycling will not be allowed in Maharashtra, during the lockdown-like restrictions announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that will be in place over the next 15 days across the state to curb the Covid-19 surge.  Wine shops and cigarette shops will remain shut – as they do not fall under essential services. However, courier services will be allowed only for essential services.   About maids, drivers, cooks and domestic help, the local authorities have been given the authority to take a call. As Maharashtra went under a fortnight-long curfew measure, the government preferred to come out with a set of six-page clarification in form of a Q&A.  As far as travel in the state is concerned by private vehicles, the order is very specific: “Not without a valid reason, mentioned in the order. One may take public transport -- tickets are enough to move to and fro between stops/stations of public transport vehicles and one's residence.” Plumbers, carpenters and electricians, the notification states, can only be called if it is absolutely unavoidable. On the other hand, cleaning, disinfection and pest control are treated as essential services. Travel agencies will not be open, however, they have been allowed to function online. Stationary and book shops will remain closed. About essential services between 8 pm and 7 am, the order said: “These are allowed throughout the day -- 24/7. If these services are being provided by establishments that have been given timings of operations by the local authority under some other Act (like timings for restaurants in regular days) their operations may be allowed between those times.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-lockdown-wine-shops-to-be-shut-no-jogging-allowed-974506.html
15-04-2021||West||Gujarat govt postpones Class 10, 12 board exams as Covid-19 cases surge||Gujarat's state government has postponed Class 10 and 12 board examinations owing to the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases in the state. "The new dates will be announced after reviewing the coronavirus situation on May 15," Gujarat's Chief Minister's Office said in a tweet. The exams were scheduled to be held between May 10 and May 25. Students in Classes 1 to 9 and in Class 11 will be promoted automatically, the office said. In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Gujarat Govt decides to postpone Class 10 & 12 board examinations, scheduled to be held between May 10 to 25, and mass promotion for students of std 1 to 9 & 11. The new dates will be announced after reviewing the coronavirus situation on May 15. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-postpones-class-10-12-board-exams-as-covid-19-cases-surge-974515.html
15-04-2021||West||One year of Maharashtra's Palghar mob lynching case||It is one year since the ghastly mob lynching incident of Palghar district of Maharashtra. Two sadhus, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were brutally lynched to death on 16 April, 2020 in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district, nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai. The two Nashik-based sadhus belonged to the Varanasi-headquartered Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, the biggest order of sadhus in India. Few days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys particularly of children and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil.  The sadhus and their driver were attacked by a group of nearly 500 villagers suspected them to be kidnappers. The Gadchinchale village comes under the Kasa police station of Palghar district police. The incident shook Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray as the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi came under fierce attack of the opposition BJP. Just little over four months in office after breaking three-decade-old ties with BJP and joining hands with the ideologically diametrically-opposite Congress-NCP, Thackeray’s Hindu credentials were questioned by opposition parties – and the matter raged on social media platforms. Besides, the Covid-19 pandemic had just broken out and the lockdown was in force – and with great difficulty the government could sail out of the crisis. As per the 2011 Census, the village has a population of 1,298 residents of which 93 per cent are from the Scheduled Tribes  or Adivasis. The village lies on the border that Maharashtra shares with the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.  The sadhus were on their way to Surat in Gujarat  for the funeral of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri when the incident took place past midnight. The case was handed over to the state-CID, which carried out the investigations. A total of 251 accused were arrested – by the Palghar police and then the state-CID. The accused include 13 juveniles. More than 70 of the accused are still in custody.  Three chargesheets have been filed and the case - and the trial have started. Veteran lawyer Satish Maneshinde is the special public prosecutor while Amrut Adhikar and Atul Patil are representing the accused. The then home minister Anil Deshmukh had sent then Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh on forced leave while 35 officers, other ranks and staff of Kasa police station were transferred.  Three policemen -- assistant police inspector Anandrao Kale was dismissed, while assistant sub inspector Ravi Salunkhe and constable Naresh Dhodi – were compulsorily retired.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-year-of-maharashtras-palghar-mob-lynching-case-974554.html
15-04-2021||West||Declare Covid-19 a natural calamity: Uddhav Thackeray writes to PM Modi||As India continues to reel under Covid-19 and battles the second wave of the pandemic, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday urged the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare it as a “natural calamity” to allow relief funds to be extended by the State Disaster Reserve Fund (SDRF). Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, wrote two letters to Modi on the various measures taken by the Maharashtra government and the shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, a mini lockdown is a necessity. Covid-19 pandemic may be notified as a natural calamity for State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Accordingly, the state may be allowed to pay Gratuitous Relief (GR) of Rs 100  per adult per day and Rs 60  per child per day during the period of lockdown to all the Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority HouseHold (PHH) family members whose names are included in the AAY and PHH rations cards,” he said. According to him, they are the ones whose livelihood is seriously affected because of the lockdown.  “Te entire expenditure may be allowed from SDRF during the current financial year,” he wrote and urged that the first installment of the central share of SDRF may be released to tide over the financial situation. Thackeray also said that several small-scale industries, businesses; startups have taken bank loans under different GOI schemes and have supported the country in becoming Atmanirbhar in various sectors. “These today are reeling under the impact of Covid-19 restrictions on many economic activities. The banks may be asked to defer the installments that are becoming due at least in the first quarter of the current financial year may be postponed without interest,” he added. Thackeray said that Maharashtra has 5.64 active cases – almost 88 per cent more than the previous September peak. “The biggest concern to the state is liquid medical oxygen (LMO) supplies. “The requirement of oxygen is  crossing the total capacity of 1,200 MT of LMO manufacturing. We have projected that the demand would be 2,000 MT April-end,” he said and thanked the Centre for mapping state demand to steel plants in eastern and southern India.  He also urged the Centre to invoke National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) for movement of LMO and look at options of air-lifting. Thackeray welcomed the decision of the government to ban the exports of Remdesivir and requested authorities to grant compulsory license as per section 92 of Indian Patents Act, 1970, which would facilitate approval to those exporting units to produce and sell Remdesvir domestic market. It may be recalled, last week, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) has urged the Centre to allow compulsory license for generic production of Remdesivir, broad-spectrum antiviral drug.  OMAG Secretary General Dr IS Gilada had suggested granting a Compulsory License under section 84 of Indian Patents Act, 1970 to ramp-up Remdesivir production. It can bring-down procurement cost to below Rs.500  per vial, to save lakhs of Indian Covid patients as also several more globally; who will benefit from made-in-India generic Remdesivir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/declare-covid-19-a-natural-calamity-uddhav-thackeray-writes-to-pm-modi-974576.html
15-04-2021||West||Mumbai couple returns home from Qatar after getting entangled in a drugs case ||It was an emotional homecoming for the Mumbai-based couple, Mohammad Shareeq and Oniba Qureshi, who were held in a drugs case in Qatar around two years ago.  For the parents of Oniba and Shareeq, it was a moment of  joy as they also welcomed Aayat, their grand-daughter, who was born in jail in a foreign land. “I cannot forget these two years,” said Shareeq. "We were trapped and entangled in a case with which we had no connection even remotely," he said.  “Life was difficult…I was expecting….emotionally we had broken down,” said Oniba, however, adding that the jail authorities took care of her well during the pregnancy. The couple was arrested at the Hamad International Airport in  Doha, in July, 2019 after Qatar authorities recovered 4.1 kg of hashish in their bag. It later came to light that Sharique's aunt, Tabassum Qureshi, had used them to transport the drugs – on the pretext of sending the couple to the Persian Gulf country for a second honeymoon. They asked them to get a bag delivered to a contact in Qatar saying that it had gutka and zarda in it as these items are costly in the Arabian nation.   “We were initially reluctant for a second honeymoon but accepted it later…and we never realized that we would be in mess,” the couple said. Shareeq and Oniba faced the  in Qatar - and the Supreme Judiciary Council of Qatar had sentenced both of them to serve 10 years in jail and a fine of 3,00,000 Riyal individually. The couple’s family back in Mumbai made all efforts to approach the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to look into the matter after which the  federal agency busted the module involved in the said drug trafficking case and raised the issue with Qatar authorities through diplomatic channels. In December, 2019, Nagpada police seized 13 grams of cocaine from Nizam Kara and Tabassum and arrested them. Simultaneously, in February, 2020, an NCB team intercepted a consignment of the 1.474 kilograms of charas belonging to the same syndicate in Chandigarh and arrested four persons - Ved Ram, Maheshwar, Shahnawaz Gulam Choratwala and Shabana. These details were presented before the prosecution agencies and judiciary in Qatar and the evidence sent there was appreciated by court, which ordered their release. “We hoisted India’s flag in Qatar by getting the innocent couple to meet justice. I am indebted to the support provided by Mumbai media.  This was one of the most satisfying investigations of my career and I owe a lot to your support,” NCP’s deputy director of operations, KPS Malhotra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-couple-returns-home-from-qatar-after-getting-entangled-in-a-drugs-case-974601.html
15-04-2021||West||Gujarat High Court picks hole in state govt's Covid-19 data||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday raised questions over the authenticity of the state government's coronavirus management-related data and said that it had doubts that the set of data was correct. This is the first time that the government has been criticised publicly for not sharing true figures. A division bench of a High Court led by chief justice Vikram Nath raised the doubt on government figures while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on the overall condition of Covid-19 prevailing in the state. On Tuesday, Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi had filed an affidavit in the High Court mentioning that by April 12, the state government had made available a total of over 71,000 beds for treating Covid-19 patients across the state, out of which nearly 53% per cent was occupied. This portion of the affidavit was read out in the court by Advocate General Kamal Trivedi, which was live-streamed on YouTube. After hearing the numbers, chief justice Nath sternly remarked, "We have strong doubt on this figure that only 53% of beds are occupied...there is so much of noise about beds not being available, patients not being admitted in hospitals, in designated hospitals, government hospitals... this figure appears to be a little...not correct." Trivedi tried to defend the figures by saying that it is because of major district hospitals bearing the maximum loads. The bench didn't entertain clarification and ordered Trivedi to provide "details of status of beds, details of medical infrastructures of the entire state especially smaller districts where situation was much worse." Trivedi tried to defend the data by saying that "people prefer to go to selected hospitals." He tried to give an example of Ahmedabad but the chief justice said that he wanted data concerning the whole state. In Ahmedabad city, the civic authority has acquired 152 hospitals for Covid-19 patients that have a total of over 5,903 beds, out of which only 1,326 beds are for critical patients. By Wednesday evening, barely two per cent of the beds were available. According to experts, the government should make the data transparent to say how many beds, of 71,000, are reserved for critical cases, ICU and isolation. They said that the majority of these beds are insolation beds which are largely empty. "The scarcity is for critical beds which are running full across hospitals in the state," said a doctor, part of an expert committee set up by the state government. During the hearing, senior lawyer Percy Kavina also pointed out that the government should be transparent and admit its mistakes so that they can be rectified. He said that the government should work for building confidence and must ensure transparency. He said at present, the government's words are not credible. "Any action of course correction is welcome," he added. For the past two to three weeks, media reports from small towns and cities have been claiming an alarming number of deaths in hospitals but on government records, the numbers are contradictory. The state government doesn't account for deaths of infected persons who had past illness or comorbidities This is the reason while crematoriums are busy round-the-clock in major cities handling corpses, the government data on Covid-19 death across the state shows a low number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-high-court-picks-hole-in-state-govts-covid-19-data-974668.html
15-04-2021||West||Class 10, 12 exams in Goa to be held as scheduled||Over 43,000 Class 10 and 12 students in Goa will have to appear for their board examinations as per the announced schedule, a top official said on Thursday; a day when the state recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in 24 hours amid the second wave of infections Speaking to reporters, chairman of the Goa Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Bhagirath Shetye said that the exams would be conducted with strict enforcement of SOPs and added that students who are in quarantine would be assisted by Goa government's health workers and special isolation centres would be created their examinations. "As of now Goa Board 12th exams will be held from April 24. There is no change. Every examination centre will have a thermal scanner, social distancing will be enforced, face masks are compulsory. Only 12 students will be allowed per examination hall. If it is a bigger hall up to 17 students will be allowed," Bhagirath Shetye said.   "If a student is ill or his or her family member is ill due to Covid, the quarantine period will be taken into account. As regards students who are in quarantine, schools will have to make us the request through the principal. We will conduct the exams at an isolated centre," he added. In all 43,547 students in Goa are qualified to appear for Class 10 and 12 exams which will begin from May 13 and April 25 respectively. Shetye said that the number of examination centres had been increased from 55 to over 100 for better enforcement of SOPs. Explaining the protocol for students in quarantine, Shetye said that Health Department workers would escort the student to and from specially created isolation centres.In case, a student or a member in the student's family has tested Covid-19 positive, the school would have to formally intimate the Board, so that exams can be rescheduled for such students. 757 cases were reported in Goa on Thursday, taking the state's total tally of active cases to 5,682.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/class-10-12-exams-in-goa-to-be-held-as-scheduled-974699.html
