16-04-2021||First Edit||How the Kumbh Mela lays bare BJP's double standards||If the Uttarakhand government’s decision to give this year’s Kumbh Mela event at Haridwar the green signal amid spiralling Covid-19 infections was reckless, its stubborn refusal to cut short the event is not only grossly irresponsible and short-sighted but also unconscionable. Authorities knew that millions would converge at Haridwar. They said that guidelines were in place to ensure that assembled devotees would wear masks and maintain social distancing as per Covid-19 norms. Police would be on hand to enforce the rules and those who failed to adhere to the norms would be given a mask and meted out punishment. Did they seriously think they would be able to control the situation when millions were congregating at the site? It does seem that the Uttarakhand government was not concerned about the implications of its decision to hold the event. Photographs and videos of the event show massive crowding of unmasked people. How could Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat allow this when the country’s daily new Covid-19 cases has crossed the two lakh mark? Over 2,000 people at the Kumbh Mela site have tested positive over the past two days. These numbers will climb in the coming days. One would have thought that having made the mistake of holding the Kumbh Mela, the Rawat government would spring into action to correct it on seeing the chaos unfolding in Haridwar and the large number of Covid cases recorded among those participating there. It has not. Instead of cutting short the Kumbh Mela, it has shortened the night curfew period. Last year, when several participants in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi tested positive for Covid-19, the BJP government and Sangh Parivar activists let loose Islamophobic hate rhetoric. Muslims were blamed for the nationwide spread of the virus and accused of carrying out a ‘corona jihad.’ In the months since, while the Markaz remains shut and restrictions imposed on mass prayers in mosques, no such restrictions are considered necessary for the Kumbh Mela. The BJP’s blatant double standards have been laid bare yet again. The Kumbh Mela may emerge as a ‘super-spreader’ event. Yet Rawat and other BJP leaders are encouraging people to participate in the events claiming that the “blessings of Ma Ganga will ensure that coronavirus does not spread.” They are playing a dangerous game. Meanwhile Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains silent, unwilling to anger the Parivar or alienate the Hindutva hardliners. It is still not too late. The Kumbh Mela must be shut down. Now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/how-the-kumbh-mela-lays-bare-bjps-double-standards-974767.html
16-04-2021||First Edit||India is giving Covid-19 a free run||Though health experts had repeatedly warned of a more serious and severe second wave of Covid-19, the absence of a clear and cogent strategy both by the Centre and the Karnataka government has given the virus a free run. Though the government had the benefit of hindsight after what the country experienced during the first wave and had enough and more time to put an actionable plan in place, it has miserably failed to rise to the occasion. Even as new cases scale one peak after another, the country faces an acute shortage of vaccines, oxygen, essential drugs and hospital beds. The vaccination drive is marked by chaos and a total lack of foresight right from the word go. The Co-Win portal which has been malfunctioning ever since its launch shows all vaccination slots as full, while in reality, many hospitals are running empty. Vaccines were exported without any consideration for domestic demand and the failure to ramp up production in the interim has led to a scarcity when we need it the most. The import of foreign vaccines has also been approved belatedly, after available stocks have already been booked by other countries. This explains why only a small percentage of the population has been fully inoculated even 90 days after the drive began. Remdesivir,  an anti-viral injection that has been found to be effective in treating early stages of Covid, is in short supply across the country. In Karnataka, private hospitals have reported zero availability while government facilities have limited stock, leading to a thriving black market where a single injection costs Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000. To make matters worse, the government has decided to discontinue providing medicine kits to patients under home isolation. In the absence of adequate training, there are also instances where high-risk steroids have been prescribed to patients even where it is absolutely unnecessary. With thousands of civil defence personnel being relieved of their Covid-related duties, Karnataka has also been forced to scale down the successful model it had evolved in the early stages of the pandemic to enforce quarantine and containment measures. In short, it is a complete mess. Besides, the callous attitude towards large gatherings minus any precautions at Kumbh Mela and election rallies is nothing short of criminal and the assurance that strict protocols will follow once these events end, is akin to locking the stables after the horses have bolted. If the positive cases are now spiralling beyond control leading to a possible medical disaster, the government has none to blame but its own mismanagement and inept handling of the situation, though the warning signs were visible all over the horizon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-is-giving-covid-19-a-free-run-975113.html
16-04-2021||In Perspective||Save our planet from unused drugs||Children below the age of five years can have five to eight viral respiratory infections in a year. Fever is often the presenting symptom. Despite telling parents that ‘fever is a friend’, they get anxious and overzealous in treating it. Viral fever usually lasts three to five days. In the meantime, parents visit multiple doctors and each doctor prescribes his/her favourite brand despite the National Medical Council recommendation on generic drugs and not brand names. Habits die hard! I would like to take the example of a four-year-old girl, Meena. Her affluent parents consulted four doctors in five days for her fever. Each doctor prescribed the same paracetamol (drug for fever), but in different brand names. Meena’s parents believed that once the cap of a medicine was opened, the product cannot be used again at a later date. Thus, they had four bottles of paracetamol, that is, 240ml (4x60). My concern is disposal of these medicine bottles. In fact, one bottle of paracetamol can be used for two years as per the expiry date mentioned. We, medical professionals, recommend use of the product till the expiry date and not disposal once the cap has been opened. Why should one be concerned? Because of the cost of the drug at one end and disposal of the unwanted pharmaceuticals. How many of us know how to dispose unused or expired medicines and its threat to environment and mankind? Pharmaceutical waste is any waste that contains medicinal drugs that are unused, no longer needed, contaminated, damaged or expired. A rough estimate of pharmaceuticals waste in Bengaluru is 120 tonnes/year and 480 tonnes/year in Karnataka. Wholesalers and retailers have explicit guidelines for their disposal. But what about the end user in individual homes? We should be concerned about disposal of the medicine and its use beyond expiry date. How are Meena’s parents going to discard the package, bottle, syrup, cap and the measuring cup? Each of these components has a different method of disposal. Is it not the responsibility of the treating doctor to advise parents not only on the drug usage but also its method of disposal and that it should not be used beyond the expiry date? In addition, should not the label on the bottle have one more line — ‘How to discard’? Present drug bottles are provided with a QR code that can be scanned with a smart phone and every information of the product is available except its disposal. Of course, many of our patients/parents do not have smart phones to use the scanner. Expired medicines In the late 1970s, the FDA first began requiring expiration dates on both prescribed and over-the-counter medications — to assure that a drug product meets applicable standards of identity, strength, quality and purity at the time of use and it will bear an expiration date determined by appropriate stability testing. Expired medicines can be less effective or harmful due to decrease in strength or a change in chemical composition. All medicines will have the date of manufacture and expiry mentioned. Do not use medicines beyond their expiry date. What happens if one takes expired medicines? Expired medicines are particularly harmful to children as the drug dynamics are different from that in adults and their bodies are growing. For example, Thalidomide-induced phocomelia (seal-like limbs). Expired antibiotics can lead to increased antibiotic resistance, which is becoming a global pandemic and treatment failure. Sometimes, the expired drug molecule can cause adverse drug reaction. Liquid (syrup) antibiotics degrade more quickly and also diabetic medication like insulin. The effectiveness of the medication is very critical in cardiac drugs, diabetic medication like insulin and antibiotics. Their use beyond expiry date will either make the disease worse or kill the patient. Some of the drugs like Tetracycline can cause serious toxic effects. One should be very careful with eye drops, which may blind a person. Similarly, injectables can cause serious tissue damage. Luckily, cream preparations ‘crack’ once their expiry date is passed. Special precautions must be taken in disposal of non-biodegradable products like antibiotics, anticancer drugs and disinfectants. Inefficient and improper sorting and disposal may allow drugs beyond their expiry date to be diverted for resale to the general public. Pharmaceutical disposal should be undertaken at minimal financial cost and with minimal risk to public health and environment. Disposal should be carried out under the supervision of regional and national authorities. WHO’s guidelines for safe disposal of unwanted pharmaceuticals in and after emergency is excellent. Tips for individual users of medicines: Check the expiry date on all your medicines once a month; Never keep medicines exposed to direct sunlight, heat or extreme cold; Keep all medicines in a locked cabinet; Ensure proper disposal of expired medicines. In Meena’s case, the drug could have been used for two years. We have only one planet, which is threatened with enormous environmental degradation. Waste is overfilling the landfills that are becoming extinct. It is every individual’s responsibility to protect our planet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/save-our-planet-from-unused-drugs-974768.html
16-04-2021||In Perspective||Deep rot at root of violence in West Bengal||Geneticists have never found any special streak of violence in Bengali genes. Then why has Bengal witnessed so much poll violence? Fifty years ago, such incidents were widespread in North India where the upper castes used to stop Dalits and OBCs (other backward classes) from visiting the booths. Twenty-five years ago, violence was still rampant in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Bengal. But times have changed. Now, the savage behaviour of people, particularly in rural areas, is noticed only in Bengal. During the ongoing election season, even women candidates were attacked by men.  The question is: Why does it happen only in Bengal? The answer is simple. Unlike in other states, the elections in Bengal engulf the vested interests of a large number of people dependent on the ruling party for their livelihood, legal or illegal. Let’s see how wide and deep the rot is. In Bengal, people not loyal to the ruling party won’t be enrolled in the rural job scheme Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act or MGNREGA (hundred days’ work). And those who are active workers of the party may get half the wages (with the other half going to the party) even without toiling in the project. Again, the benefits of government schemes are unlikely to reach those who are known to be supporters of Opposition parties. The money for housing will go to a core supporter who may have a good shelter, but not to those without a proper roof over their heads, if they are marked as ‘opponents’. Forget government schemes. Those living in rural or semi-urban areas — a daily wage earner like a hawker or a vegetable vendor, a schoolteacher or a professor or an ordinary farmer — will face different troubles if they are supporters of the Opposition party. They face harassment while trying to obtain necessary certificates from the panchayat or the MLA. If a disaster strikes, say a flood or a cyclone, relief materials are first distributed among party supporters (even if they are not impacted), and the remaining will go to passive supporters. To run such a system of absolute control, the ruling party of the state (or, at times, the party that controls the district panchayat or the block panchayat) needs a network of cadres in every neighbourhood. How is it arranged? First, by distributing ‘favours’, and second, by employing ‘harmads’ (armed criminals). In several states, jobs such as that of teachers, professors and government employees are sold for money. In Bengal, one cannot just buy a job by paying bribes. Here, most of the jobs are distributed among active workers of the ruling party and their children. The rest of the cadres survive on money collected mostly illegally and often through coercion. Across the state, there are lakhs of such ‘political parasites’ whose survival depends on the return of the ruling party to power. They often take the help of seasoned criminals to silence and terrorise Opposition supporters. The situation is unlikely to change. The seeds of this system were sown during the days of Siddharta Shankar Roy, the last Congress chief minister (1972-1977) of Bengal. Left Front rule But it grew to a menacing proportion in the last 20 years of the Left Front’s 34-year (1977-2011) regime, which was then taken forward by the Trinamool Congress (TMC), ruling the state for the last 10 years. The irony is that such a system cannot satisfy the majority of people, which results in some always revolting against it. When the number grows to a dangerous level, the ruling party’s well-oiled mechanism takes recourse to violence and terrorisation of people. Such violence was noticed in the last 10 years of the Left Front government, and is being seen now in the last three years (from the time of panchayat elections of 2018, when the polls were reduced to a farce) of the present TMC regime. When the disgruntled section veers around the Opposition, a section of the ‘cadres’, particularly hooligan elements, breaks ranks to join the Opposition party stronger in the region. But the process becomes intense when the index of voters’ polarisation towards a single Opposition force throughout the state goes up. And it becomes a do-or-die situation for both the main rivals. This type of vested interest does not exist in any other state, which is why they could get rid of political violence and killings. The situation is unlikely to change if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. The party, too, will be happy to continue with the system, for the deep and wide rot is an easy recipe for clinging on to power. (The writer is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of the recently published detective novel ‘Mirchi Memsaab’s House of Faith’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/deep-rot-at-root-of-violence-in-west-bengal-975119.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA Puttarangashetty tests positive for Covid-19||Chamrajanagar MLA C Puttarangashetty has tested positive for Covid 19 on Wednesday. MLA Puttarangashetty had been busy campaigning for the by-elections in Belagavi, Maski and Basavakalyan for the last three days.  He underwent tests after returning from campaign as he developed mild symptoms, and was confirmed  positive on Thursday. He is under home isolation and treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-puttarangashetty-tests-positive-for-covid-19-974724.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Association asks SC/ST employees to end strike||KSRTC SC/ST Employees' Association has called on employees of road transport corporations who are on strike, to return to work to save RTCs from privatisation and their jobs. "BJP government wants to privatise RTCs, and therefore, it is not responding to the demand of agitating employees. To fight against that conspiracy, SC/ST employees should return to work, and another round of struggle for their demands can be launched later," said the association president F H Jakkappanavar. Nearly 40 per cent of employees against whom actions like transfer and suspension are taken belong to SC/ST communities. Utilising the strike, the government is trying to privatise RTCs, he charged. Our main demand is to consider RTC employees as government employees, but only the sixth pay commission issue is being highlighted now, he added. 'Withdraw strike' Meanwhile, a few trade unionists and farmers' leaders also felt that continuing the strike may help the government privatise the RTCs. "The strike was launched without proper discussion, that too during the Covid-19 situation. Employees of the RTCs should withdraw the strike to save RTCs from privatisation, and to end inconvenience being experienced by the public," said AITUC district unit president Devanand Jagapur. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, who is leading the strike, seems to be into an unholy pact with the government which is in favour of privatisation of RTCs, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/association-asks-sc/st-employees-to-end-strike-974906.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Halebeedu closes down tourist spots for a month||The Archaeological Survey of India has decided to close temples and popular monuments in Halebeedu to keep tourists away in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hoysaleshwara, Kedareshwara and Jain temples and monuments were closed from Friday, as Covid-19 cases surged across the state. As per the order issued by the ASI, the monuments and tourist spots will be closed for the public for one month, from April 15 to May 15. As the decision was sudden, tourists who had arrived on the spot had to return disappointed. It may be mentioned that the temples and the monuments were closed for two months from March 17 last year, for the same reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/halebeedu-closes-down-tourist-spots-for-a-month-975024.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||NWRTC driver on duty stoned to death near Bagalkot||A gang of four unidentified men intercepted a North West Road Transport Corporation (NWRTC) bus and stoned its driver to death at Kavatagi in Jamkhandi taluk of Bagalkot district on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Nabi Rasool Avati. It is said he had reported for duty following the advice of his higher authorities. The state road transport corporation employees have been on a strike for the past 10 days demanding salary as per 6th pay commission recommendation. Rasool was driving the bus on Jamakhandi-Vijayapura Road when the incident occurred. As soon as the bus came near Kavatagi, four bike-borne unidentified men, who came from behind, intercepted the bus and attacked the driver with stones. Rasool sustained grievous head injuries and lost consciousness. He died on the way to a hospital in Jamkhandi. Rasool was a resident of Jamkhandi and he is survived by wife and four children. He had one more year of service. His colleague, who wished to be unnamed said that Rasool was felicitated with Chief Minister’s Gold Medal for not causing an accident in his 37 years of service. Rasool’s wife Sairabanu said that the officials of the NWRTC had come to their house and threatened to dismiss him from service if he did not report for duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nwrtc-driver-on-duty-stoned-to-death-near-bagalkot-975070.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||New 'Bhoomi' software to ease securing property documents||Delays in issuing mutation certificates and RTCs due to ‘server problems’ will soon be a thing of the past with the Revenue department launching an improved version of the Bhoomi software. Apart from decentralising data collection at taluk centres to a secure central database, it will also ensure easy management of data on land records. The trial is currently underway in 31 taluks of the state, and the department has sought facilities for 100 Tera Byte (TB) storage and related devices for the database before the web-based Bhoomi 7.0 is launched across the state in a phased manner. The whole exercise is aimed at upgrading Bhoomi - a project aimed at digitising land records apart from enabling a single-window system to access land records. “Till now, each taluk had a separate server used for issuing RTCs, monitoring ownership change of a property etc. The data thus collected is uploaded the Karnataka State Data Centre regularly, which is often hampered by network issues,” a source in the Bhoomi Monitoring Cell told DH. The new web-based system, according to Revenue Minister R Ashoka, would ease the process of issuing such documents, and allow other offices apart from tahsildhar’s office to issue relevant land records of any individual. The new central database system, along with a web portal for updating mutation and RTC details will ensure that all changes made at taluk levels are immediately reflected, sources said. Delay in the process had resulted in several complications in the past. The project, which is currently under pilot mode in 31 taluks, will require augmentation of existing devices. “A centralised database would require storage of around 100 TB, along with corresponding RAM and other hardware. The Revenue department has written to the Centre for e-Governance to provide the equipment,” a source said. At Ramanagar, which is among the 31 taluks where trials are underway, bandwidth was also increased for the taluk control room from the existing 2 Mbps to 20 Mbps, so as to ensure that web-based Bhoomi does not face any network constraints. The department has written to the authorities concerned to increase bandwidth for all taluk centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-bhoomi-software-to-ease-securing-property-documents-975071.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Studying elephant's movements through radio collar||A lone tusker, roaming in villages on the border of the forest, in Hanur and Kollegal taluks created panic among the people. Initially, it was suspected that the jumbo might have strayed from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Later, it was found to be an elephant with a radio collar fixed by Karnataka Forest department. The jumbo had strayed on farmlands at Gundal, Anjaneyapura, Ugani and several places in Kollegal taluk, destroying sugarcane and paddy crops. However, it had not caused any harm to people. The elephant was spotted at Sattegala, Dhanagere, Palya and surrounding villages in Kollegal taluk, on Friday morning. It strayed into several fields before entering Biligiri Rangana Betta via Siddeshwara Betta, passing through Anjaneyapura Main Road. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forest, Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary V Yedukondalu said, "The 35-year-old jumbo was fixed with a radio collar for a study three months ago at Ramapura Wildlife range. The tusker that created panic in the villages was the same jumbo. The officials and the personnel have information about its movement." The radio collar was fixed to study human-animal conflict, conducted by Wildlife Institute of India and Forest department, he said. Besides, this will help in identifying the elephant corridor and the behaviour of jumbos. The jumbo is within the forest area. The animal, which was at Bandalli, Kothanuru moved to Gundal reservoir and Palya region two days ago, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/studying-elephants-movements-through-radio-collar-975110.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vaccination drive launched at railway workplace in Mysuru||With a surge in Covid-19 cases, South Western Railway, Mysuru division, has launched Covid-19 vaccination drive on Friday, to ensure immunisation of eligible employees. Interestingly, the vaccination is being administered at the workplace of the respective employee. All employees above 45 years of age, eligible frontline workforce, under high risk group, are identified for vaccination. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Manjunath Kanamadi said, "All employees are registered online, before vaccine is administered and all safety protocols are being followed. Similar drives are being conducted in major workplaces and in stations like Shivamogga, Harihar, Arsikere and Sakleshpur." Mysuru division was the first under SWR to start the immunisation programme for frontline staff. As on Friday, Mysuru division has administered 2,419 vaccine doses to eligible employees, including frontline staff, health workers, retired employees with comorbidities and their family members and, also to the general public. Dr G S Ramachandra, Chief Medical Superintendent, Railway Hospital, Mysuru, under the guidance of Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, monitored the immunisation programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vaccination-drive-launched-at-railway-workplace-in-mysuru-975111.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid: Temples, monuments closed for one month in Halebid||In the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has closed the temples and popular monuments in Halebid, to prevent tourists from visiting the places. Hoysaleshwara, Kedareshwara and Jain temples and monuments were closed from Friday, due to an increase in Covid cases across the state. As per the order, issued by ASI, the monuments and tourist spots will be closed for public for one month, from April 15 to May 15. As the decision was sudden, some tourists returned, disappointed. It may be mentioned that the temples and monuments were closed for two months from March 17, last year, due to a spurt in Covid-19 cases. People had started arriving at the tourist places from January and February, which started declining from March. Besides, all monuments coming under Archaeological Survey of India in Srirangapatna, Mandya district and Somnathur in Mysuru district will be closed till May 15, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-temples-monuments-closed-for-one-month-in-halebid-975112.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nanjangud temple closed till May 15||As per the directions of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud, Mysuru district, will be closed for the public for a month, till May 15, according to Temple Executive Officer Ravindra. The temple was open on Friday till afternoon. As per the order, the main entrance of the temple was closed from Friday evening. However, pujas and other rituals will be conducted at the temple every day, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nanjangud-temple-closed-till-may-15-975115.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Noted sculptor Janardhan Murthy no more||Noted sculptor N S Janardhan Murthy, who sculpted the idol of goddess Chamundeshwari, that is taken out on a procession during Dasara Jamboo savari, passed away on Friday. He was 72. Murthy is survived by his wife and three sons. The national awardee Janardhan Murthy was the son of N P Srinivasachar and Sharadamma of Nagamangala taluk, Mandya district. He was trained at All India Handicraft Board for a period of three years and served as an instructor at Chamarajendra Academy of Visual Arts (CAVA), then Chamarajendra Technical Institute, for 35 years. Janardhan Murthy sculpted the Panchaloha idol of goddess Chamundeshwari, which is placed inside the 750-kg golden howdah, carried by howdah elephant during the jamboo savari on Vijayadashami every year. Murthy is the recipient of several awards, including Rajyotsava award in 2020, Lifetime Achiever award by Dasara Exhibition Authority, award by Karnataka Shilpa Kala Academy among the others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/noted-sculptor-janardhan-murthy-no-more-975118.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ban on plastic: Vendors change modus operandi||With the district administration and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) enforcing strict enforcement of plastic ban, vendors have changed their modus operandi, in dealing with banned plastic items. The vendors have shifted their stocks and also have changed the mode of transportation of banned plastic. Earlier, vendors used to store the items in godowns. Now, houses have turned into godowns. The vendors keep two to three packs of plastic in their shops as samples, to demonstrate to customers. However, the MCC authorities have raided such stocks at some houses and have warned of stringent action against such illegal activities. The vendors have started storing banned plastic items at garages or cellar of houses and transport in private passenger vehicles, rather than goods, said MCC Environment Officer S Mythri. The officials conducted a raid on the house of a vendor and seized plastic at Sunadakeri in Mysuru. He had stored the items in a room in his house and the authorities levied a fine of Rs 25,000 on him.   The MCC authorities have recovered 1,658 kg of plastic since April 1 and have collected Rs 45,000 as fine in Zone 6. One shop was locked for two days, but a fine was collected from the shopkeeper. The owner of the shop was away in Rajasthan and the worker claimed that he was not aware about the banned plastic. “We have warned him and cleared all plastic materials from the shop,” an official said. There are no plastic manufacturing units in Mysuru. The items banned are: polythene covers, cups, spoons, plates, flags, banners, buntings, flex, cling films, items made of thermocol (polystyrene), and non-woven polypropylene bags. However, polypropylene (PP) can be sold with permission of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). The officer said, "A dealer was supplying banned plastic to street vendors and shopkeepers. Thus, a drive was launched to check transportation of plastic from Bengaluru. Now, the vendors are using passengers vehicles for the purpose. They directly dump the items at houses, cellar or garage." “The MCC had deputed staff to check trucks and lorries transporting banned items. But, we did not find any materials in these vehicles. We had written to KSPCB to check production units in Bengaluru,” Mythri said. The Plastic Waste Management Rule was implemented in Karnataka in 2016 and the MCC authorities have been conducting several raids since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-on-plastic-vendors-change-modus-operandi-975123.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu DC's Grama Vastavya cancelled||The scheduled Grama Vastavya of the deputy commissioner, at the government primary school at Hosaguthi, on April 17, has been cancelled.  The village stay — Jilladhikari Nade Halliya Kade — was started recently. However, due to the surge in Covid cases and the second wave of the pandemic, the village stay has been cancelled, stated a release from the revenue department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-dcs-grama-vastavya-cancelled-975125.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Graduation Day observed at Coorg Public School||Coorg Public School (COPS) held the graduation ceremony for the II PUC students recently. As per the tradition, the school flag and the mace were handed over to principal Dr Benny Kuriakose, by the head boy and the head girl respectively, thereby laying down the office of the prefectorial board for the year 2020-2021. The principal then administered the pledge to the graduates who promised to abide by the values assimilated in the institution. Col Chethan Dhiman, Commanding Officer, 19th NCC, was the chief guest and he called upon the students to make their own story by utilizing the time available. He also urged them to choose their way and move towards the destination with a staunch focus. He persuaded the graduands to join the Indian Armed Forces. President of the school trust M M Thimmaiah appreciated the successful adaptation to the technology by the teachers. He also expressed his concern for the students who missed the co-curricular activities due to the prevailing pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/graduation-day-observed-at-coorg-public-school-975126.html
16-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Muslim youth dedicates devotional song to Kalikamba||A youth from the Muslim community in Savanalu has composed a devotional song in praise of Durga Kalikamba of Kalikabetta. The devotional song has received praise from all. Ramlan’s house is located close to the Durga Kalikamba Temple. He used to participate as a volunteer in all the temple activities. Thus, a decision to dedicate a song to Kalikamba Goddess came to him naturally. An electrician by profession, Ramlan wrote ‘Mahimeda Karanika Kshetra Kalikabetta’ and also sang the song. The song was uploaded on Sri Durga Kalikamba Kshetra Kalibetta Savanalu YouTube page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslim-youth-dedicates-devotional-song-to-kalikamba-975142.html
16-04-2021||Main Article||Tackling the climate emergency||Nearly 100 countries have announced a net-zero emission target by 2050 in the run up to the UN climate conference at Glasgow in November 2021. This target means greenhouse gas (GHG) emission by human activities is to be removed from the atmosphere by methods like forest expansion, cover crops, direct air capture and bio-energy with carbon capture and storage technology. The United States, after Joe Biden took over the presidency, the European Union, South Korea, Japan and the United Kingdom are among the countries that have announced net-zero emission by 2050; China’s target is 2060. Despite global pressure, experts are advising India not to announce a date for zero-emission, but take actions that can radically reduce emissions, rapidly green its economy, tackle air pollution at home and help achieve climate goals globally. ‘Emission gap report’ of the UNEP suggests that GHG emission is annually growing by 1.4% since 2010. However, the increase was 2.6% in 2019 because of forest fires in Brazil, Australia and California. This led to the highest GHG emission of 59.1 gigatons of carbon dioxide equivalent. The report has also ranked countries, starting from the highest polluter, China, followed by the USA, the European Union, the UK and India; each of these countries contributed 14.1, 6.6, 4.3 and 3.7 gigatons, respectively. Germanwatch with Climate Action Network have released Global Performance Report 2020, where the biggest emitter, China, ranks 33rd, the US at the bottom and India 10th. The G20 nations account for nearly 80% of GHG emissions and are not on track to meet Paris agreement, while Australia, the US and Canada are falling short of their targets. Biden has called for a summit of 40 major emitting nations on April 22-23 on virtual mode to make them commit ambitious mitigation targets. His climate envoy John Kerry addressed the World Sustainable Development Summit in February and prioritised two goals - net-zero emission and shutting down all coal plants globally - for the Glasgow summit. Nationally determined contribution (NDC) committed by different countries for the Paris Climate Accord is based on goodwill and there is no penalty for not complying. Trump felt that cutting emission would damage the economy and benefit China; he walked out of the Paris Agreement. India has already moved significantly in de-carbonising its existing energy network, on the lines of the NDC set by us. Our target of generating renewable energy by 2030 is 450 GW. As much as 10% is already achieved and more than one-third of it is in the construction phase. Biofuel production is also being ramped up and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced 20% blending of ethanol in petrol by 2024. Long distance gas pipeline projects like the one along Malabar coast up to Mangaluru, and pipelines from Ankleshwar, Haldia to cater to the energy requirements of northern states etc, will help reduce carbon footprints considerably. Studies have revealed that India would reach peak emission by the middle of this decade, and thereafter the pace of transition would be at an unprecedented level the world has never seen before, if we are to follow the path of net zero by 2050. Other developing countries like the US, China, EU, the UK, and Japan are taking 30 to 40 years for such a transition from peak to net zero. Emissions in advanced economies peaked at much higher levels of development with slower rate of growth and over a longer transition period. During the transition, the cost of domestic electricity and railway passenger fare would increase; more importantly there would be job losses for half a million coal mine workers and impact the fiscal status of coal-dependent states. Further, our per capita income in the post-peak period would be lower than developed economies and insufficient for supporting the transition. Nearly four years back, China projected its peak for 2035 and net zero in 2060. Right time By 2035, there would be technologies to bring down the renewable energy cost on par with fossil fuel-based power tariffs. That may be a proper time to commence the reduction of emissions and achieve net zero by 2060 like China. Our renewable energy target of 450 gigatons by 2030 will have to be increased to 5,000 gigatons for net zero. We should thus aggressively increase the penetration level of renewable energy, introduce cost-effective, green hydrogen-based economy and biomass-based fuel production at scale. We must get time till 2060 to achieve net zero, while developed economies must achieve it between 2040 and 2050. NDCs are the means to achieve the net-zero goal and countries must visit it every five years. Countries pledging net zero should announce their NDC for 2030 but not even 10 countries have enacted a domestic law for net-zero compliance. All others have only made policy statements and cannot be questioned for non-compliance. Forests are the best carbon sink we are blessed with. Forest fire is a double-edged sword, as it releases carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, adds to GHG emissions and also decreases the potential of forests for carbon sequestration. Fires have ravaged the forests across the globe, and in most cases, it has not been quickly brought under control. In our own country, forest fire in Nagaland and Manipur has destroyed 10 sq km of oak forests recently. High biodiversity areas like Simlipal Tiger Reserve in Odisha and Bandavgarh Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh have burnt for days until rain brought some respite. Fire is continuing to ravage Uttarakhand forests for some days now. States must think out of the box in terms of drone surveillance and aerial spraying of water to overcome the problem. (The writer is former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests in Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/tackling-the-climate-emergency-975120.html
16-04-2021||National||Saudi govt locates grave of Hindu man buried as Muslim, Centre informs HC||The Saudi Arabian government has located the grave of a Hindu man who was buried there as per Muslim rites and is considering repatriation of the remains, the Centre informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also told the court that the Indian consulate in Jeddah has initiated legal proceedings in a Saudi court for bringing back the remains. The submissions were made before Justice Prathiba M Singh during hearing of a plea moved by Sanjeev Kumar's widow seeking his remains to perform the last rites here. The mortal remains of the Hindu man were wrongly buried in Saudi Arabia as per Muslim rites due to incorrect translation of his religion on the death certificate purportedly by Indian Consulate officials in Jeddah, she said in a petition. The woman, who had been running from pillar to post to get the mortal remains, approached the high court in March seeking direction to the MEA to take steps to urgently exhume the remains and repatriate them to India in a time-bound manner. On Thursday, the MEA, represented by central government standing counsel Ripudaman Singh Bhardwaj, told the court that they have taken all the steps they can to bring back the remains. The court noted the steps taken by the ministry and appointed an amicus curiae who has experience in such matters to assist the government. The widow, Anju Sharma, in her plea filed through advocate Subhash Chandran has said that on getting the news of her husband's death, the family had requested the authorities to repatriate the mortal remains.   Sanjeev Kumar, 51, died on January 24 in Saudi Arabia, where he was working, due to cardiac arrest and his mortal remains were kept at a hospital there. "Shockingly, on February 18, the petitioner was informed that the body of her husband has been buried in Saudi Arabia while the family members of the deceased were waiting for the mortal remains in India. "The officials in Indian Consulate explained that it was due to a mistake committed by the official translator of the Indian Consulate, Jeddah, who wrongly mentioned his religion as 'Muslim' in the death certificate. They also shared a letter of an apology tendered by the official translating agency of Indian Consulate in Jeddah with the petitioner herein," claimed the petition, filed through advocate Yogamaya M G. Official sources in Delhi said the translator was of the employer and not from the Consulate. In fact, the Consulate and the Ministry are trying their best to help the family and bring mortal remains back, they said. The plea has also said that neither the woman, nor any of the family members gave consent to bury Kumar's body in Saudi Arabia. Thereafter, the woman requested the officials of Indian Consulate in Jeddah to ask the local authorities there to exhume the mortal remains of her husband so that they can be transported to India for performing last rites as per the faith of the family. "Unfortunately, even after seven weeks of the death of the husband of petitioner, the authorities have failed to do necessary formalities to repatriate the mortal remains of Sanjeev Kumar to India for performing last rites," the plea has said. It has also sought direction to the Centre to take appropriate departmental actions against officials concerned of the Indian Consulate at Jeddah for their "willful negligence" and also direct the authorities to obtain a corrected death certificate of the deceased and supply the document to his wife.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saudi-govt-locates-grave-of-hindu-man-buried-as-muslim-centre-informs-hc-974726.html
16-04-2021||National||Govt approves vaccine production at Haffkine||In a significant development aimed at ramping up vaccine production, the Centre has approved rolling out vaccines from the Maharashtra government-owned Haffkine Institute. The Haffkine Institute located in Parel in Mumbai will produce the Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin under a technology transfer agreement. Soon after the approval, Thackeray thanked Modi for the formal nod, a press statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said. Department of Science & Technology Secretary formally informed Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte of the approval for a period of one year, the CMO said. The Haffkine Institute has the capacity to produce 22 crore doses annually. The Haffkine Institute was established in 1899 and is named after the legendary scientist Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine who invented the plague vaccine. Since then, Haffkine Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary institute engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. The first-ever Phase-I clinical trial in India was perhaps conducted by the founder of the Haffkine Institute in 1899, when he injected himself with the plague vaccine he developed for evaluating its safety and efficacy. In the first half of the twentieth century, the institute extended its scope against various other common infectious diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-vaccine-production-at-haffkine-974727.html
16-04-2021||National||Amit Shah's remark on infiltration emerges as irritant in India-Bangladesh relations||Union Home Minister Amit Shah's recent remark on Bangladeshi infiltration has not gone down well with the neighbouring country, with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government in Dhaka conveying to New Delhi its displeasure over the statement. Shah recently told the ‘Anandabazar Digital’, a news portal in West Bengal, that poor people from Bangladesh infiltrated into India as they did not have enough food in their own country. Shah made the statement while campaigning for the BJP in West Bengal, where the saffron party made alleged influx of illegal migrants from Bangladesh a major poll issue. His comment, however, triggered a sharp reaction from Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen. “There are many wise people in the world who do not see even after looking at something. They also do not understand, even after knowing about something,” Momen told the newspaper ‘Prothom Alo’. “But if he (Home Minister of India) has said something like that, I would say his knowledge about Bangladesh is very limited,” he was quoted saying. “No one dies of hunger in our country now," the minister added. Sources told DH that Dhaka had also informally conveyed its displeasure to New Delhi. Shah’s remarks came just a few weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dhaka. Modi lauded Hasina’s government for the socio-economic development of Bangladesh. This is not the first time that remarks made by Shah upset the Bangladesh government. His December 2019 statement about religious persecution of minority Hindus in Bangladesh had also irked Dhaka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shahs-remark-on-infiltration-emerges-as-irritant-in-india-bangladesh-relations-974734.html
16-04-2021||National||High time that a woman became CJI, says S A Bobde||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the time has come for a woman to become the Chief Justice of India (CJI) but that female lawyers often refuse judgeship citing domestic and parental responsibilities. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde pointed to the difficulties faced by the High Court Collegium while choosing women lawyers for the post of judges. "The time has come for a woman Chief Justice of India. The chief justices of high courts, however, stated that when lawyers are asked to come on the bench, they deny by saying they have domestic responsibilities or that their children are studying in Class 11 or 12," the CJI said. The court was hearing a matter related to the appointment of ad hoc judges in high courts to deal with the huge pendency of cases. It reserved its order in the case. Advocates Shobha Gupta and Sneha Kalita pressed for a direction on a plea filed on behalf of the Supreme Court Women Lawyers' Association for adequate representation in the higher judiciary, as their participation in justice delivery system was an important factor for gender equality and societal progress. The court refused to issue notice. The SC, however, assured that it had the best interest of women in mind but required capable candidates. After the hearing, advocate Kalita said it was good that a discussion has started on women's representation but "we were disappointed to hear that some of us refused the offer due to domestic reasons". "It is high time that the man also equally undertook household responsibilities, may be more, if it is required for the cause of the country and also because his wife is getting a chance in the decision-making system," she said. In its plea, the women's body said that out of 1,080 sanctioned posts of judges (including permanent and additional judges), there are 661 working judges. Out of this, only 73 are women. Presenting a chart, they said the Madras High Court, with 13 female judges, had the distinction of having the highest number of women judges. However, out of 25 high courts, five (Manipur, Meghalaya, Patna, Tripura and Uttarakhand) did not have a single woman judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-time-that-a-woman-became-cji-says-s-a-bobde-974738.html
16-04-2021||National||India shifts from mass vaccine exporter to importer, worrying the world||After gifting and selling crores of Covid-19 vaccine doses abroad, India suddenly finds itself short of shots as new infections surge in the world's second-most populous country. India breached 2,00,000 daily infections for the first time on Thursday, and is trying to inoculate more of its population using domestically produced shots. Facing soaring cases and overflowing hospitals after lockdown restrictions were eased, it also abruptly changed the rules to allow it to fast-track vaccine imports, having earlier rebuffed foreign drugmakers like Pfizer. It will import Russia's Sputnik V vaccine starting this month to cover as many as 12.5 crore people. The reversal in fortunes could hamper not only India's battle to contain the pandemic, but also vaccination campaigns in more than 60 poorer countries, mainly in Africa, for months. The COVAX programme, backed by the World Health Organization and Gavi vaccine alliance, aims at equitable vaccine access around the world, and is relying heavily on supplies from India, Asia's pharmaceutical powerhouse. But so far this month India has only exported around 12 lakh vaccine doses. That compares with 6.4 crore doses shipped abroad between late January and March, according to data from the foreign ministry. An official with knowledge of India's vaccine strategy said that available shots would be used domestically while the country faced an "emergency situation". "There is no commitment to other countries," he said. India's foreign ministry, which oversees vaccine deals with other countries, said last week that Indian demand would dictate the level of exports. Resulting shortages are already being felt in some countries in the COVAX scheme, and a UN health official involved in the vaccine rollout in Africa said: "To be so reliant on one manufacturer is a massive concern." The director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, John Nkengasong, said earlier this month delays in supplies from India could be "catastrophic". MISSTEPS Four sources involved in discussions on vaccine supplies and procurement said factors including delays by India and COVAX in placing firm orders, a lack of investment in production, raw material shortages and underestimating the coronavirus surge at home had contributed to vaccine shortages. The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine manufacturer, had vowed to deliver at least 200 crore Covid-19 shots to low and middle-income countries, with nearly half of that by the end of 2021. But it has also come under pressure to meet the needs of other governments, including Britain, Canada and Saudi Arabia, amid AstraZeneca's global production problems. The United States, meanwhile, ring-fenced the supply of key equipment and raw materials for its own vaccine makers, limiting SII's operations and delaying by months its goal of raising monthly output to 10 crore from up to 7 crore now, said one of the sources. A further initial hurdle to SII's supply ambitions was India's hesitation in placing firm orders, two sources said. That could have allowed it to boost output of the AstraZeneca vaccine early, even though regulators had yet to approve it. India spent months discussing the final price per dose, and inked an initial purchase order roughly two weeks after India's drug regulator approved the AstraZeneca shot, according to the sources. At one point, SII ran out of space to store produced doses. "That is why I chose not to pack more than 5 crore doses, because I knew if I packed more than that, I would have to store it in my house," SII Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla told Reuters in January. He said he had spent 2,000 crore rupees ($272 million) on the 5 crore doses that the company started stockpiling since around October. Even now, the government only makes ad-hoc purchases from SII instead of agreeing a longer-term supply schedule, said one of the sources. SII has sought more than $400 million from the government to increase capacity, but no commitment has yet been made. The health department and foreign ministry did not respond to requests for comment on issues of funding, purchasing delays and other aspects of India's vaccination rollout. COVAX CONUNDRUM COVAX also did not green-light shipments to participating countries from SII until after the shot received WHO clearance in mid-February, said a source involved in the COVAX initiative. The source said those delays meant crores of additional doses that the SII could have produced between October and February never materialised. Gavi defended its decision to wait for proper approvals before going ahead with firm orders. And while it is looking for more suppliers, it conceded that much still depended on India's vaccine makers who account for some 60% of global supplies. COVAX has a deal to buy 100 crore-plus doses from the SII. But it has received less than a fifth of the 10 crore or so doses of the SII-made AstraZeneca vaccine it had expected by May. SII is also supposed to make a large number of doses of the Novavax shot for COVAX. Gavi had hoped SII would fully resume vaccine deliveries to COVAX in May, but on Wednesday it said India's Covid-19 crisis could affect that. "We understand the ferocity of the virus in India at the current time, nevertheless we hope and expect deliveries to resume as soon as possible," it said in an email to Reuters. On Thursday India reported 2,00,739 infections over the past 24 hours, a seventh daily record in the last eight days, while 1,038 deaths took its toll to 1,73,123. Its tally of 1.4 crore infections is second only to the United States. Having originally aimed to cover 30 crore of its highest-risk people by August, or just over a fifth of its 135 crore population, the government has now expanded that by another 10 crore, with the promise to widen it further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-shifts-from-mass-vaccine-exporter-to-importer-worrying-the-world-974790.html
16-04-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Don't think it is polite to ask someone's rostrum'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the government over the handling of the Covid-19 situation and alleged that it is only indulging in a "sham" of a 'vaccine festival'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-dont-think-it-is-polite-to-ask-someones-rostrum-974796.html
16-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 16||India surpassed 1.4 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,42,91,917  as of April 16, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,74,308 as of April 16, 2021  
<!-- No. of people discharged:  1,25,47,866 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-16-974804.html
16-04-2021||National||Truly a life-long visa: Indian-Americans welcome revised OCI card rules||Indian-Americans have welcomed the Indian government's decision to simplify the process of maintaining Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards, saying more overseas citizens will now opt for this form of residency. OCI cardholders will now be required to get their document re-issued only once at the age of 20 instead of multiple times needed to be done currently, according to the Indian Union Home Ministry. "This will remove the confusion to many OCI cardholders on the process of renewing the card at the age of 20 and 50 and one doesn't have to go through the whole OCI card renewal process again," Dr Thomas Abraham chairman of the Global organisation of People of Indian Origin (GOPIO) told PTI on Thursday. "This will also encourage more overseas Indians to become OCIs and it will benefit India, through their travel, business and investment in India," he said. Highly popular among overseas Indians, the OCI card provides long term visa free travel and stay in India and gives the cardholders a host of privileges normally not given to a foreign national. So far India has issued about 37.72 lakh OCI Cards. The previous provision of OCI card holders below 20 years of age and above 50 years of age requiring to re-apply for a fresh OCI card every time their passport was renewed was causing a lot of anxiety and travel turbulence to people of Indian origin. "With a view to facilitate the OCI cardholders, it has now been decided by the Government of India to dispense with this requirement," the Union Home Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. A person who has got registration as OCI cardholder prior to attaining the age of 20 years will have to get the OCI card re-issued only once when a new passport is issued after his/her completing 20 years of age, so as to capture his/ her facial features on attaining adulthood. If a person has obtained registration as OCI cardholder after attaining the age of 20 years, there will be no requirement of re-issue of OCI card. "With a view to update the data regarding new passports obtained by the OCI cardholder, it has been decided that he/she shall upload a copy of the new passport containing his/her photo and also a latest photo on the online OCI portal, each time a new passport is issued up to 20 years of age and once after completing 50 years of age. These documents may be uploaded by the OCI cardholder within 3 months of receipt of the new passport,” the government statement said. "OCI process simplification guidelines, issued today (Thursday), truly make OCI a life-long visa. Previously, it was just a long-term visa," New York-based social activist Prem Bhandari said. "Travellers with valid OCI, but renewed passports were denied boarding. The excruciating difficulties NRIs have gone through due to the tedious OCI renewal process after getting a passport renewed, are resolved once for all," Bhandari said. At the same time, GOPIO urged the Indian Government to take steps to address other issues of the overseas Indian community as well. "GOPIO strongly urges the government to treat OCI Card holders who have invested in business and creating jobs in India at par with Indian citizens and they shouldn't be termed as foreign nationals by various govt. agencies while doing business including manufacturing and research in India," Dr Abraham said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truly-a-life-long-visa-indian-americans-welcome-revised-oci-card-rules-974815.html
16-04-2021||National||Former CBI director Ranjit Sinha passes away at 68||Former CBI director Ranjit Sinha died here on Friday morning in what is believed to be a COVID-19 related death, senior officials said. He was 68. It is understood that he was confirmed positive for coronavirus on Thursday night and breathed his last at 4.30 am on Friday, the officials said. Sinha, a 1974-batch officer of the Bihar cadre and who had cracked the coveted UPSC examination at the age of 21, had taken over as the CBI chief in 2012. He had previously headed the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force, the Railway Protection Force and served at senior positions in the CBI in Patna and Delhi during his four-decade-long career in police service. “DG and all ranks of ITBP express their deepest condolences on sad demise of Sh Ranjit Sinha, former DG ITBP today. He served the force from September 1, 2011 to December 19, 2012 as DG and earlier as ADG and will always be remembered for his professional acumen and exceptional leadership. May his soul rest in peace," the ITBP said in a statement. An MPhil from the Indian Institute of Public Administration, Sinha was an avid reader and writer and a regular contributor on police-related issues in various journals and magazines. A recipient of Police Medal for Meritorious Service and the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service, Sinha served as SSP in Ranchi, Madhubani and Saharsa districts and also as DIG of Naxal-affected Magadh Range in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cbi-director-ranjit-sinha-passes-away-at-68-974819.html
16-04-2021||National||Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Digvijaya Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Congress leaders Digvijaya Singh and Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday said they have tested positive for Covid-19. “I have tested positive for Covid-19 today morning. Anyone who has come in contact with me in the last five days, please self isolate & take necessary precautions,” Surjewala, the AICC General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka, said on Twitter on Friday. Surjewala had addressed political rallies for the Maski assembly bypoll on April 11 and a press conference at the AICC Headquarters on April 14. Anyone who has come in contact with me in the last 5 days, please self isolate & take necessary precautions. Singh, former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister, said he has been placed under home quarantine after being tested positive for Covid-19. Badal, a former Union Food Processing Minister, too said she had tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. “I have quarantined myself at home and am taking all the necessary precautions,” the Akali Dal leader said. Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Gen V K Singh (retd) too has isolated himself after several of his ministry employees tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-randeep-singh-surjewala-digvijaya-singh-test-positive-for-covid-19-974821.html
16-04-2021||National||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal tests positive for coronavirus||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. The former Union Cabinet Minister of Food Processing Industries, who resigned over the farm laws, tweeted that she has mild symptoms and has quarantined herself at her home.   “I have quarantined myself at home and am taking all the necessary precautions. I would request all those who came in contact with me to isolate and get themselves tested at the earliest,” the 54-year-old SAD MP from Punjab’s Bathinda said. Badal's husband and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had also recently tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiromani-akali-dal-leader-harsimrat-kaur-badal-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-974824.html
16-04-2021||National||India logs biggest surge of 2,17,353 new Covid-19 cases; 1,185 deaths||India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,74,308 with 1,185 new fatalities, the highest since September 19, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 37th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 15,69,743, comprising 10.98 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate dropped to 87.80 per cent. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and it was at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,25,47,866, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.22 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,34,76,625 samples have been tested up to April 15 with 14,73,210 samples being tested on Thursday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 61,695. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 22,339 while Delhi reported 16,699 new cases. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (349) followed by Chhattisgarh with 135 daily deaths, Delhi with 112, Uttar Pradesh 104, Gujarat 81, Karnataka 66, Madhya Pradesh 53, Punjab 50, Rajasthan 33 and Tamil Nadu 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-biggest-surge-of-217353-new-covid-19-cases-1185-deaths-974816.html
16-04-2021||National||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. He is in quarantine at his residence. "My Covid-19 test report has come up positive. I am currently in quarantine at my Delhi residence. During this time, all the people who come in contact with me keep themselves in isolation and take all precautions related to their health," he tweeted.   मेरी कोविड जाँच रिपोर्ट पॉज़िटिव आयी है। फ़िलहाल अपने दिल्ली निवास पर क्वारंटीन में हूँ। कृपया इस दौरान मेरे संपर्क में आए सभी लोग खुद को आइसोलेशन में रखकर अपनी सेहत से संबंधित सभी सतर्कता बरतें। More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-digvijaya-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-974833.html
16-04-2021||National||UAE mediating between India, Pakistan on Kashmir, says top Emirati diplomat||The United Arab Emirates' envoy to Washington confirmed the Gulf state is mediating between India and Pakistan to help the nuclear-armed rivals reach a "healthy and functional" relationship. Top intelligence officers from India and Pakistan held secret talks in Dubai in January in a new effort to calm military tension over Kashmir, people with knowledge of the matter had told Reuters. Ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba said in a virtual discussion with Stanford University's Hoover Institution on Wednesday that the UAE played a role "in bringing Kashmir escalation down and created a ceasefire, hopefully ultimately leading to restoring diplomats and getting the relationship back to a healthy level". "They might not sort of become best friends but at least we want to get it to a level where it's functional, where it's operational, where they are speaking to each other," he said. Ties between India and Pakistan have been frozen since a suicide bombing of an Indian military convoy in Kashmir in 2019 traced to Pakistan-based militants that led to India sending warplanes to Pakistan. Later that year, India's prime minister withdrew Indian-ruled Kashmir's autonomy in order to tighten his grip over the territory, provoking outrage in Pakistan and the downgrading of diplomatic ties and suspension of bilateral trade. Otaiba also said that Pakistan should play a helpful role in Afghanistan, where the United States plans to start withdrawing U.S. troops on May 1 to end America's longest war. The Emirati official voiced concern that an abrupt US withdrawal would constitute "reverse progress" by serving the interests of "the more illiberal forces" in Afghanistan. "The question is if the three parties (the US, Taliban and Afghan government) can reach an agreement that they can all live with," Otaiba said. "It's hard for us to see a way to stabilise Afghanistan without Pakistan playing a helpful role," he added. Turkey is due to host a peace summit for Afghanistan from April 24 to May 4 meant to jump-start efforts to end the war and sketch out a possible political settlement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uae-mediating-between-india-pakistan-on-kashmir-says-top-emirati-diplomat-974839.html
16-04-2021||National||CM Uddhav Thackeray to meet BMC officials on Covid-19, monsoon||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a meeting through video conferencing on Friday to assess the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai and nearby areas - under the jurisdiction of BMC - and review the BMC's pre-monsoon preparations. Mumbai is one of the worst affected cities in India with over 84,000 active cases currently. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-meet-bmc-officials-on-covid-19-monsoon-974849.html
16-04-2021||National||India to witness normal monsoon; 98% of average rainfall||Amidst the Covid-19 gloom, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday announced a “normal monsoon” this year in which India is expected to receive 98 per cent of the average monsoon rainfall, raising the hopes of better farm productivity. “The 2021 south-west monsoon season will be a normal one with the expectation of 98 per cent of the LPA. There is a 40 per cent probability of normal rainfall (96-104 per cent), which is the highest probability among all the categories. It's good news for agriculture output,” M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences said in a briefing. India’s long period average rainfall is 88 cm, which is the average rainfall the country had received during the four-month-long monsoon season between 1961 and 2010. The hopes for a normal rainfall have been further boosted due to the absence of the dreaded El Nino factor that affects the Indian monsoon adversely. All climate models currently show an ENSO (El Nino Southern Oscillation) neutral conditions after May, which means there would be no El Nino threat — an unusual rise of the Pacific temperature, which in turn plays havoc with the weather systems around the world. The previous year (2020) saw La Nina conditions — cooling of the Pacific and beneficial to Indian Monsoon — which is expected to continue till May end after which the ENSO neutral conditions are likely to set in. Historically, there have been 14 La Nina years since 1951, of which the monsoon rainfall was normal in 11 cases. Out of the three remaining years, two were El Nino years. However, Rajeevan and IMD director general M Mahapatra warned of below normal rainfall for east and north-east India. “It may be a case of decadal variation that eastern India is receiving less rainfall in recent years,” Rajeevan told DH. Next month, the weather office would update its monsoon forecast with specific predictions for four broad homogenous regions besides the overall forecast. For the first time, it would also offer a forecast of the monsoon behaviour in its “core zone”, a vast area spanning over central and western India, which is associated with 88 per cent of monsoon variability and holds key to the monsoon’s “break phases”..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-witness-normal-monsoon-98-of-average-rainfall-974856.html
16-04-2021||National||Here's how you can find details about availability of Remdesivir in India||Dr Reddy's Laboratories has come up with a website that would help users check the availability of Remdesivir, a drug used to treat Covid-19. India is currently dealing with the second wave of Covid-19, as well as a high level of drug black marketing. A Covid-19 vaccine shortage is also affecting a number of states. Following reports of shortage of Remdesivir across the nation, the government announced on Wednesday that production of the antiviral drug would be increased and prices would be reduced.  It also offers access to a 24/7 helpline number, 1800-266-708, for all Covid-drug-related questions. The website was created to provide people with easy access to local areas where the drug can be found. Dr Reddy's Laboratories' local distributors involved in the manufacture and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and medicines are listed on the website. The government has issued a serious warning that the medication should only be provided to patients with life-threatening conditions and should not be used at home. The medication is offered to patients who are in critical medical conditions and need oxygen support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-you-can-find-details-about-availability-of-remdesivir-in-india-974862.html
16-04-2021||National||Covid-19 is deadlier in Brazil than in India and no one knows why||By Chris Kay and Andre Romani, Facing a sudden surge in coronavirus infections, India is once again home to the world’s second-largest outbreak, overtaking Brazil after the latter moved ahead in March. But behind the bleak statistical jockeying is an epidemiological enigma over why the Latin American country has been far more devastated by the pathogen. When it comes to the scale of infections, the two nations are similarly matched, with cases hovering around 14 million and hospitals from Mumbai to Sao Paulo under increasing pressure as admissions continue to rise. But it’s the divergence in fatalities that has scientists puzzled. Brazil, home to almost 214 million, has seen more than 365,000 people die from Covid-19, more than double the number of deaths in India, which has a far greater population of 1.4 billion. While deaths in India have started climbing and threaten to get worse, the macro-level disparity remains and is emblematic of different ways in which the pandemic is playing out across regions. Experts say this needs to be better understood and decoded, to contain this global outbreak as well as avoid future public health crises. Covid-19 death ratios in South Asia, including India, are consistently lower than global averages, just as those in Latin America are consistently higher, forcing virologists to offer a number of theories as to why Covid-19 has cut a more deadly swathe from Brazil to Argentina.   “We’re not comparing apples to apples here, we’re comparing apples to oranges,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, the biostatistics chair at the University of Michigan’s School of Public Health. For now, both countries present an “intriguing puzzle -- an epidemiological mystery that needs a Sherlock Holmes or Miss Marple in action.” Brazil has been hit by multiple waves killing an alarming number of its young and it reported a record one-day jump of 4,000 Covid-19-related deaths last week. Meanwhile, India’s daily surge in casualties have been more than 1,000 in the past few days and was well below that last week. Deaths in the Asian country as a percentage of confirmed cases is 1.2 versus 2.6 in Brazil, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Age Variation Multiple factors could be at play in the fatality gap, including the differences in mean age -- 26 years in India to Brazil’s 33.5. Experts have long criticized India’s broader death statistics, particularly in its rural hinterlands. Before the pandemic about one in five fatalities were not reported at all, according to Mukherjee. But that doesn’t explain why Brazil’s death rate is higher than ageing Western nations that have also been hard hit by the pandemic. “Brazil’s mortality rate is even more shocking because the population is much younger than other countries, such as European ones,” said Alberto Chebabo, the vice-president of the Brazilian Society of Infectious Diseases. The rising infection and death rates come as the pace of the inoculation drives in each country has sped up in the past month after an initially sluggish start. India has managed to administer more than 117 million vaccine doses, compared to Brazil’s almost 33 million -- though the latter has injected a higher proportion of its population. Cross-Immunity Other theories behind the divergence between Brazil and India center around the two countries’ differing environments and experience of the disease. Some scientists say widespread exposure to an array of diseases in India may have helped its citizens build natural resilience against coronaviruses such as Covid-19. Shekhar Mande, the head of India’s Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, is among those who have examined this trend and co-authored a published study on this. His research found correlations where citizens from low-hygiene nations tended to better cope with Covid-19. “Our hypothesis and this is strictly a hypothesis, is that because our populations are continuously exposed to many kinds of pathogens, including viruses, our immune system does not hyper-react to any new variation that comes in,” Mande said in an interview. Many experts acknowledge genetics or cross-immunity could be at play as other South Asian countries including Bangladesh and Pakistan have also seen far fewer deaths than Brazil. That 87% of Brazilians live in urban areas, but two-thirds of Indians live in rural places with more space and ventilation could be another reason, according to University of Michigan’s Mukherjee. Mutant Strains Then there’s the fact that Brazil is where one of the most potentially deadly coronavirus mutations, the P.1 variant, was identified in December. Along with variants first seen in South Africa and the UK, studies suggest these strains are more contagious. “The P.1 variant has spread through a lot of Brazil’s cities and states simultaneously, leading to a collapse of the health system, which has lead to a very high mortality rate,” said Chebabo from the Brazilian Society of Infectious Diseases. Brazil is in a “perfect storm,” he added, with its lack of political leadership in implementing effective measures like lockdowns, compounding the Covid-19 crisis. The rapid and sustained spread of the variant in Brazil also gave its healthcare system no breathing room, unlike a lull between waves over the last months of 2020 in India, which helped hospitals and frontline workers recover and plan ahead. “We’re far better prepared for handling this wave than we were earlier in many, many ways,” Suneeta Reddy, managing director of Apollo Hospitals Enterprises Ltd., said in an interview. “We’ve learned the clinical protocols to treat Covid-19. We’re able to use our assets and beds in a much more rigorous manner.” India could now be facing the prospect of a mutant strain-driven surge that’s worse than its first outbreak, though it’s hard to tell given the Asian nation had done genome sequencing for less than 1% of its Covid-positive samples. India is studying the new virus variant but it wasn’t immediately clear if it was triggering the current wave of Covid-19 infections, Aparna Mukherjee, a scientist at the Indian Council for Medical Research told Bloomberg TV. Complacency, Second Wave Mismanagement and Covid-19 fatigue have also been blamed for the rampant spread and soaring death rates in both countries. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has long-opposed lockdowns, clashing with local governments over pandemic mitigation measures and ridiculing mask-wearing. For India, a months-long decline in daily infections from the first peak in September -- along with officials lifting restrictions on public gatherings -- encouraged people to lower their guard. Many also became indifferent to the dangers of Covid-19 after seeing friends and family with mild symptoms recover and politicians disregard safety protocols. “Brazil is a complete disaster in terms of the political leadership, and India has become complacent after the initial decline in cases,” said Madhukar Pai, the Canada research chair in epidemiology and global health at McGill University in Montreal. It’s too early to say if India can continue to avoid the more lethal fate of Brazil. While some parts of the country have imposed targeted lockdowns, elections are being held in five states -- seeing thousands of voters pack campaign rallies -- along with a month-long Hindu pilgrimage that brings throngs to the banks of the Ganges river. These threaten to undo the benefits that can come from the ramped-up vaccination drive. Daily deaths in the South Asian country have already more than doubled to over 1,000 a day in the past week, with crematoriums in many areas running non-stop and bodies piling up. “Both countries need to greatly increase their vaccination coverage and work harder to implement other public health measures,” said Pai. “What matters is each country needs to work much harder to contain the epidemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-is-deadlier-in-brazil-than-in-india-and-no-one-knows-why-974872.html
16-04-2021||National||Serum Institute of India appeals to US President Joe Biden to lift embargo on raw material exports||The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, on Friday urged US President Joe Biden to lift an embargo on US exports of raw materials that is hurting its production of Covid-19 shots. "Respected @POTUS, if we are to truly unite in beating this virus, on behalf of the vaccine industry outside the US, I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up," SII Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla said in a tweet. SII is making the AstraZeneca shot for the world and will soon start producing the Novavax vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-appeals-to-us-president-joe-biden-to-lift-embargo-on-raw-material-exports-974887.html
16-04-2021||National||Covid-19: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat discharged from hospital||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, who had tested coronavirus positive a week ago, was discharged from a private hospital in Nagpur on Friday, a top official of the hospital said. Bhagwat had tested positive for the viral infection on April 9 and was admitted to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-discharged-from-hospital-974896.html
16-04-2021||National||Supreme Court issues norms for early disposal of cheque bounce cases, asks Centre to amend laws||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a slew of directions for speedy disposal of cheque bounce cases, clogging the justice delivery system, by recommending amendment to the law to allow one trial in multiple offences, if acts were committed within 12 months. A five-judge Constitution bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde directed all the High Courts to issue guidelines for trial courts for speedy disposal of cheque bounce cases. About 40 lakh such cases are pending in the trial courts. As more than half of the cases were pending due to absence of the accused, the top court said the evidence in cheque bounce cases can now be tendered by filing affidavits in suitable cases, without insisting for physical examination of the witnesses. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai, A S Bopanna and S Ravindra Bhat, issued the directions in a Suo Motu case registered in March, last year as 'Expeditious trial of cases under Section 138 (cheque dishonour) under the N I Act. In its orders passed after hearing amici curiae senior advocate Sidharth Luthra and advocate K Parameshwar, and other counsel the bench said, "We recommend that suitable amendments be made to the Negotiable Instruments Act for provision of one trial against a person for multiple offences under Section 138 of the Act committed within a period of 12 months, notwithstanding the restriction in the law." The court noted a committee headed by Justice R C Chavan, former Bombay High Court judge, appointed earlier, will consider the issues not dealt by it. Among other directions, it said the High Courts can issue practice directions to the Magistrates to record reasons before converting trial of complaints under Section 138 of the Act from summary trial to summons trial. The bench also reiterated that there was no inherent power of trial courts to review or recall the issue of summons. However, this does not affect the power of the trial court to revisit the order of issue of process in case it is brought to the notice that it lacks jurisdiction to try the complaint, the court added, maintaining that 'Adalat Prasad' and 'Subramanium Sethuraman' cases have given correct interpretation of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-norms-for-early-disposal-of-cheque-bounce-cases-asks-centre-to-amend-laws-974901.html
16-04-2021||National||Facebook delayed taking action on fake account network giving BJP MP a boost: Report||Did Facebook turn a blind eye to a network of inauthentic accounts generating fake engagement - likes, shares, comments - to boost the popularity of a BJP MP on the platform? The social networking site allowed a network of fake accounts to artificially inflate the popularity of the MP for months even after it was alerted about the issue, according to the publication. Sophie Zhang, a former data scientist at Facebook who unearthed the network, told the publication that all major political parties in India had benefitted from techniques to get fake likes, comments, shares or fans. She added that ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, she had worked on taking down low-quality scripted fake engagement on political pages across all parties, which led to the removal of 2.2 million reactions, 1.7 million shares and 330,000 comments from inauthentic or compromised accounts. In December 2019, Zhang discovered four manually controlled networks of fake accounts with links to prominent political leaders. While two of the four were engaged in supporting the Congress, the other two worked to boost the BJP, including the MP in question.  The publication said that an investigator from Facebook’s threat intelligence team recommended that the accounts be sent through an identity 'checkpoint' – a process by which suspicious accounts are locked unless and until the account owner can provide proof of their identity. While one of Facebook's staffers started checkpointing over 500 such accounts related to three out of the four networks, he halted when he got to the 50 accounts related to the fourth network. He alerted Facebook’s task management system by saying, "Just want to confirm we’re comfortable acting on those actors.” He also added that one of the accounts had been tagged by Facebook’s 'Xcheck' system, which is used to flag prominent accounts and exempt them from certain automated enforcement actions, as a 'Government Partner' and 'High Priority – Indian'.  Zhang told the publication that the 'Government Partner' account was that of the MP's, which indicated that either the MP or someone with access to his account was at the helm and handling the fake accounts' network.  She said that she had sought to take action multiple times since the detection and go ahead with the checkpoint but never got a response.   “It seemed quite concerning to myself because the fact that I had caught a politician or someone associated with him red-handed was more of a reason to act, not less,” said Zhang. “It’s not fair to have one justice system for the rich and important and one for everyone else, but that’s essentially the route that Facebook has carved out,” she said. In response to the allegation, Facebook spokesperson Liz Bourgeois said: "We fundamentally disagree with Ms Zhang’s characterisation of our priorities and efforts to root out abuse on our platform. We aggressively go after abuse around the world and have specialised teams focused on this work. Over the years, our teams investigated and publicly shared our findings about three CIB takedowns in India. We’ve also continuously detected and taken action against spam and fake engagement in the region, in line with our policies." When The Guardian asked Facebook about the suspicious network, the company said that "a portion" of the cluster had been disabled in May 2020 and that it was continuing to monitor the rest of the network’s accounts. It later said that a "specialist team" had reviewed the accounts and that a small minority of them had not met the threshold for removal but were nevertheless now inactive.  (DH could not independently verify this report)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-delayed-taking-action-on-fake-account-network-giving-bjp-mp-a-boost-report-974909.html
16-04-2021||National||Aggressive Covid-19 vaccination: Centre gives states UK example over effort to bend the curve||India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two-lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,74,308 with 1,185 new fatalities, the highest since September 19, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 37th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 15,69,743, comprising 10.98 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate dropped to 87.80 per cent. According to some sources who have spoken to Indian Express, the states have been told: "When people say that the UK, which has a population of 6.6 crore, has vaccinated 2/3rds of its population and the (case) numbers have come down as a result – that is a fallacious narrative. Because if you look at scientific papers on the UK, they are saying the numbers came down because they (the UK) vaccinated large numbers under strict lockdown. Therefore, containment was done. But when you don’t have a lockdown, micro-containment has to be done, the movement has to be restricted, and people have to be tested."   As per the sources, the central team visiting the coronavirus-hit states have reported that the healthcare workers suffering from extreme fatigue. The states have been told that they should have a roster and get a day off and also informed that they have the provision of utilising NHM (National Health Mission) funds to take people on contract. The Centre on Thursday also directed state governments to take steps to stop panic buying by people and ensure there is no hike in prices of key supplies, according to a PTI report. In a letter written to state governments, Additional Secretary in Union Consumer Affairs Ministry Nidhi Khare said due to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, concerns have been raised about "availability of essential commodities to the common man at fair prices." To maintain smooth supplies, the states have been asked to keep operations of grocery stores/warehouses and chemist shops outside the restrictions under Section 144.    (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aggressive-covid-19-vaccination-centre-gives-states-uk-example-over-effort-to-bend-the-curve-974919.html
16-04-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccinations fall from peak, raw-material shortage hits output targets||India's daily Covid-19 vaccinations have slowed from their peak early this month while new infections have set a record, government data showed on Friday, as its main producer of shots urged the United States to end a ban on raw material exports. After giving and selling tens of millions of Covid-19 vaccine doses abroad, India has suddenly found itself short of the drug. It has abruptly changed rules to allow it to fast-track vaccine imports, having earlier rebuffed foreign drugmakers like Pfizer. Vaccinations peaked at 4.5 million doses on April 5 but have averaged about 3 million a day since then, according to the government's Co-Win portal to coordinate immunisations. The AstraZeneca vaccine, locally made by the Serum Institute of India (SII), accounts for more than 91% of the 115.5 million doses given in the country. But production ramp-up at SII, the world's biggest vaccine maker, has been delayed by a raw-material shortage. SII Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla directly appealed to U.S. President Joe Biden to end the supply curb, which is aimed at supporting American vaccine companies, after diplomatic efforts made little progress. "Respected @POTUS, if we are to truly unite in beating this virus, on behalf of the vaccine industry outside the U.S., I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up," Poonawalla said on Twitter. India has reported the most number of coronavirus cases in the world this month. Its total of 14.3 million is the most after the United States, with 174,308 deaths. Many vaccination centres in India are now rationing supplies though it is only inoculating people above 45 years, having started the campaign in mid-January with front-line workers. It has administered the most doses in the world after the United States and China, but it ranks much lower per capita. Many states have sought an expansion of the immunisation drive to include all adults, but the government has said doses are "finite". The government said on Friday the country had a stock of about 30 million doses. Going by its vaccination trend in the past week, that will be enough for 10 days. India this week gave emergency authorisation to Russia's Sputnik V vaccine and imports to cover as many as 125 million people will start this month. The government has also urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson to sell their shots to India. It has also allowed biomedical research body Haffkine Institute, based in the state of Maharashtra, to produce the home-grown shot Covaxin as developer Bharat Biotech struggles to boost its output.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccinations-fall-from-peak-raw-material-shortage-hits-output-targets-974920.html
16-04-2021||National||No state has asked to stop train services: Railway Board chairman||No state has asked the railways to stop any train service yet, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma said on Friday, adding that wherever the states have raised concerns about containment zones, passengers have undergone random tests and checks at the destinations. Addressing a press conference, Sharma said the railways has highlighted that all protocols are being followed by the states on the IRCTC's e ticketing website, advising passengers if they need to undergo an RT-PCR test or carry Covid-negative certificates while travelling to certain areas. "As of now, no state government has asked us to stop trains. However, whenever there are concerns, the state governments have discussed the issues with us and where there are containment zones, they are doing random tests and checks. The railways has all these details on the e-ticketing website and passengers are provided information on whether they have to undergo tests or carry a Covid-negative certificate on arrival," he said. Sharma also said the railways is doing a thermal screening of the passengers and has also notified the fine amounts for not following Covid protocols. He ruled out running Shramik Special trains and said trains will be run wherever there is demand and requirement. Sharma also said the price of platform tickets has been increased at several stations to discourage crowding. "We have 4,000 isolation coaches for Covid-19 at different locations across the country. We have received a demand from Nandurbar in Maharashtra for over 100 coaches and 20 isolation coaches have been provided," he said when asked about the converted coaches that can act as Covid care centres. Sharma said the railways is keeping a close watch on all stations in Mumbai, Gujarat, Karnataka and wherever the demand is high, the zonal general managers have been authorised to operate more trains. "I assure you that there is no dearth of services, the situation is quite normal, particularly in Mumbai, Surat and Bengaluru," he said. The Indian Railways is currently running 1,490 mail and express trains and 5,397 suburban train services on an average per day. "We are also running 28 clone trains of highly-patronised trains and 947 passenger trains," Sharma said, adding that 70 per cent of the train services have been restored. "To clear the extra rush across the country, the railways is operating 140 additional trains," he said. Sharma said the 140 special trains will make 483 trips in April and May. Citing the figures of the additional trains operating in several states, he said the Central Railway is operating 85 such services which will complete 284 trips, the Western Railway is operating 28 trains for 152 trips, the Northern Railway is operating 15 special trains for 19 trips, the East Central Railway is operating two special trains for four trips, the North Eastern Railway is operating nine trains for 14 trips and the North Central Railway is operating one train for 10 trips. Sharma also said trains for high-demand destinations such as Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Varanasi, Manduadih, Prayagraj, Bihar's Patna, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Barauni, Jharkhand's Bokaro, Ranchi, Assam's Guwahati and West Bengal's Kolkata are also being operated. The Railway Board chairman said the national transporter has operated 42 trains between Delhi and Mumbai from April 12 to 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-state-has-asked-to-stop-train-services-railway-board-chairman-974921.html
16-04-2021||National||Ajay Seth takes over as new Economic Affairs Secretary||Ajay Seth, a 1987 batch IAS officer of Karnataka cadre, on Friday assumed charge as Secretary Economic Affairs at a time when the economy which was showing signs of recovery is being threatened by the second wave of Covid-19. Seth replaces Tarun Bajaj, who moved as Revenue Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. "Ajay Seth takes charge as the new Secretary of Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Finance, in New Delhi today," the Finance Ministry said in a tweet. Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by the Prime Minister on April 6 appointed Seth as the new Economic Affairs Secretary. "Shri Seth is a 1987 Batch Indian Administrative Service officer of Karnataka Cadre. Mr Seth previously held charge as Managing Director of Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited," another tweet said. In his previous stint at the Finance Ministry, Seth served as Deputy Secretary and Director in the Department of Expenditure and Department of Economic Affairs between 2000 and 2004. He served as Adviser to the executive director of Asian Development Bank during 2004-2008. He has served as Secretary Budget and Resources in the state and also as commissioner Commercial Taxes Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajay-seth-takes-over-as-new-economic-affairs-secretary-974924.html
16-04-2021||National||PM Modi calls for increasing production of medical grade oxygen||Amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday undertook a comprehensive review to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the country and called for ramping up its production. With cases hitting a new peak in several parts of the country, the demand for medical oxygen has increased as it is a critical component in the treatment of Covid-19-affected patients. Prime Minister Modi took a comprehensive review to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the country, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. Inputs from ministries like health, steel, road transport, and the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) were also shared with the prime minister during the review, it said. Prime Minister Modi stressed that it is important to ensure synergy across ministries and state governments, the PMO said. He also took a detailed review of the current situation of oxygen supply and projected use in the coming 15 days across 12 high-burden states -- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The PMO said that an overview of the district-level situation in these states was presented to the prime minister. He was informed that the Centre and states are in regular contact and estimates for projected demand have been shared with states as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, it said. The PMO said, accordingly, 4,880 MT, 5,619 MT and 6,593 MT have been allocated to these 12 states for meeting their projected demand of medical oxygen as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, respectively. The prime minister was briefed about production capacity in the country to meet the rising demand, it said. He suggested increasing oxygen production as per capacity of each plant. It was discussed that surplus stocks of oxygen supply in steel plants are being offered for medical use, the PMO said. The prime minister also asked officials to ensure seamless and free movement of tankers carrying oxygen throughout the country. The government has exempted all inter-state movement of oxygen tankers from registration of permits to enable easier movement, the PMO's statement said. Prime Minister Modi was informed that states and transporters have been asked to ensure tankers move round the clock with drivers working in shifts to ensure faster turnaround and adequate capacity to meet the surge in demand. Cylinder filling plants will also be permitted to work for 24 hours with necessary safeguards, the PMO said. The government is allowing industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging, it said. Similarly, nitrogen and argon tankers will be automatically allowed to be converted to oxygen tankers to overcome the potential shortage of tankers. During the review, officials also briefed the prime minister about the efforts being made to import medical grade oxygen, the PMO said. India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-increasing-production-of-medical-grade-oxygen-974929.html
16-04-2021||National||10 states, including Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, account for nearly 80% of new Covid-19 cases||Ten states comprising Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have shown a steep rise in daily new Covid-19 cases accounting for 79.10 per cent of the new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. India's daily new cases continue to climb as a record 2,17,353 new infections have been registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 61,695. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 22,339 while Delhi reported 16,699 new cases. India's total active cases has increased to 15,69,743 and now comprises 10.98 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 97,866 cases have been recorded in the total active case tally in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala cumulatively account for 65.86 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 39.60 per cent of the total active cases in the country, the ministry said. Sixteen states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,25,47,866 with 1,18,302 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 1,185 deaths were reported in a day. Ten states account for 85.40 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties with 349 followed by Chhattisgarh with 135 daily deaths. Ten states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Ladakh, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. On the other hand, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 11.72 crore as part of the world's largest coronavirus vaccination drive. Cumulatively, 11,72,23,509 vaccine doses have been administered through 17,37,539 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 90,82,999 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 56,34,634 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,02,93,524 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 51,52,891 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,42,30,842 and 30,97,961 beneficiaries above the age of 60 years have taken their first and second doses, respectively, while 3,87,41,890 and 98,876 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second doses, respectively. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala account for 59.63 per cent of the total doses inoculated so far in the country. Over 27 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. On the 90th day of the vaccination drive (April 15, 2021), 27,30,359 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 21,70,144 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 39,280 sessions for their first dose and 5,60,215 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-including-maharashtra-and-uttar-pradesh-account-for-nearly-80-of-new-covid-19-cases-974931.html
16-04-2021||National||SC appoints special prosecutors for money laundering cases in coal scam||The Supreme Court has appointed former Additional Solicitor General Maninder Singh, and advocate Rajesh Batra, as Special Public Prosecutors to argue for the Enforcement Directorate in the Coal block allocation scam cases.  A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian passed the order on April 12 on a plea by senior advocate R S Cheema to relieve him of the charge to represent the Enforcement Directorate. The ED filed an application seeking directions for the appointment of a new SPP to conduct prosecution of cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, pertaining to coal block allocation matters. Cheema, a senior advocate, was appointed as SPP on July 25, 2014 by the top court to conduct the prosecution of the offences pertaining to coal block allocation, on behalf of the CBI and the ED. He expressed his desire to be relieved in the ED cases.  Though there was no consensus on the names of individuals, the counsel appearing on all sides unanimously agreed that this court should appoint a seasoned trial court lawyer of impeccable integrity and a designated senior advocate to guide him and conduct the proceedings, the bench noted.  "Taking into account the criteria, we hereby appoint Singh, senior advocate and former ASG, and Batra, advocate as SPPs in the place Cheema," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, senior law officer appearing for the Union Government, had suggested the names of Singh and Batra for appointment as the SPPs. The top court had earlier nominated two judges Arun Bhardwaj and Sanjay Bansal to preside over two special courts to try 41 Coal block allocation scam cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-appoints-special-prosecutors-for-money-laundering-cases-in-coal-scam-974948.html
16-04-2021||National||Union Minister Prakash Javadekar tests positive for Covid-19||Union minister Prakash Javadekar Friday said he has tested positive for coronavirus and urged those who came in contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested. Javadekar, who holds the key portfolios of Environment, Forest and Climate Change; Information and Broadcasting; and Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises; informed about it on Twitter. "I have tested #COVID positive today. All those who have come in contact with me in the last 2-3 days may please get themselves tested," he said. Javadekar had received the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine at a private hospital in Pune on March 5. He had appealed to all the citizens to get vaccinated as and when they become eligible.   Javadekar has been busy with engagements related to his ministries till recently, including a bilateral meeting with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and an event at the French Embassy on Wednesday. Several top political leaders, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, have also tested positive for coronavirus recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-prakash-javadekar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-974965.html
16-04-2021||National||UK Home Secretary Priti Patel approves Nirav Modi's extradition to India||UK Home Secretary Priti Patel has signed off on the order to extradite Nirav Modi, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges related to the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, senior Indian diplomatic sources in the UK said on Friday. Modi, 50, who remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, has 14 days to apply for permission to appeal against the Home Secretary’s order in the High Court in London. Back on February 25, the Westminster Magistrates’ Court had concluded that the diamond merchant has a case to answer before the Indian courts, leaving the sign off on the order with the Cabinet minister.   He had allegedly perpetrated the fraud in the Punjab National Bank in collusion with his uncle Mehul Choksi. After a two-year long legal battle, District Judge Samuel Goozee had ruled that Modi only has a case to answer in the Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. He also dismissed the human rights concerns that Modi's medical needs would not be addressed as per several Indian government assurances. "I am satisfied that there is evidence upon which NDM [Nirav Deepak Modi] could be convicted in relation [to] the conspiracy to defraud the PNB. A prima facie case is established," the judge noted. A prima facie case to have been established on all counts of charges brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) money laundering, intimidation of witnesses and disappearance of evidence, he had said. Under the UK Extradition Act 2003, the judge sent his findings to the Secretary of State for Home Affairs. It is the UK Cabinet minister who is authorised to order an extradition under the India-UK Extradition Treaty and has two months within which to make that decision. The CBI had registered the case on January 31, 2018 against Modi, Choksi and others including then officials of Punjab National Bank on a complaint from the Bank on the allegations that the accused had hatched a criminal conspiracy amongst themselves to defraud the public sector Bank by fraudulently issuing Letters of Undertaking. Letters of Undertaking are a guarantee that a bank gives to banks abroad where its client approaches for credit. The figure swelled to Rs 13,000 crore when similar frauds by companies of his uncle Mehul Choksi, an alleged co-conspirator, came to light, officials said. Investigation showed that the accused officials of the Punjab National Bank, in conspiracy with said owners of the firms and others, had fraudulently issued a large number of LoUs to overseas banks for obtaining Buyer's credit in favour of said three firms without any sanctioned limit or cash margin and without making entries in the core system of the bank. The first charge sheet was filed on May 14, 2018 against 25 accused including Modi. The second charge sheet was filed on December 20, 2019 against 30 accused people including the 25 chargesheeted earlier in respect of 150 outstanding fraudulent LoUs which had resulted in wrongful loss of nearly Rs 6,805 crore to PNB. It was also alleged that Modi in conspiracy with other accused had siphoned off the funds obtained as buyer's credit through dummy companies established by him in Dubai and Hong Kong which were shown as exporter of Pearls to three Nirav Modi firms and importer of Pearl studded jewellery from his firms. Modi had escaped from India on January 1, 2018 before registration of case in CBI. A non bailable arrest warrant was issued by the trial court against him followed by a red corner notice in June 2018 by Interpol. He was arrested by the UK Police in London in March 2019 and his repeated applications for bail, were rejected by the Westminster Magistrates' Court and High Court, London. After second charge sheet was filed, additional evidences were submitted to the Court in London for the total fraud amount of Rs. 6,805 crore (approx.). In addition, second extradition request for the offences of intimidating the witnesses and destruction of evidence was also submitted to the UK government. In extradition requests, CBI submitted voluminous oral and documentary evidence to substantiate the charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal misconduct by public servants, destruction of evidence and criminal intimidation of evidence. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the minister who has the authority to order a requested person’s extradition after considering a number of further issues. Under the provisions of the act, the Secretary of State had to consider the possible imposition of the death penalty, in which case extradition cannot be ordered; the rule of specialty, which prohibits a person being dealt with in the requesting state for matters other than those referenced in the extradition request; and whether or not the person was in the UK following extradition from another state, in which case that states permission must be obtained before extraditing to a third state. If these factors do not prevent extradition, the minister had two months within which to sign off on Judge Goozee’s February 25 order. The Home Secretary’s order rarely goes against the court’s conclusions, as she has to consider only these very narrow bars to extradition which did not apply in Nirav’s case. However, as witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya – who remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” matter, believed to relate to an asylum request, is resolved – there is still some way to go before Nirav can be formally moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India. The judge had informed Nirav Modi of his right to seek an appeal in the High Court and has up to 14 days to make that application after the Home Secretary makes her decision known. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London. It is also possible to appeal to the UK Supreme Court but this is only possible if the High Court certifies that the appeal involves a point of law of general public importance, and either the High Court or the Supreme Court gives leave for the appeal to be made. Nirav’s legal team did not immediately confirm if he intends to appeal against order and he will remain behind bars at Wandsworth Prison on judicial remand until the next stage in the legal process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-home-secretary-priti-patel-approves-nirav-modis-extradition-to-india-974968.html
16-04-2021||National||UP sees record daily rise of 27,426 Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh's daily Covid-19 cases surged to a record high of 27,426 on Friday, taking the state's cumulative tally to 7,93,720, an official said. The death toll climbed to 9,583 with 103 more fatalities, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. This is the third consecutive day when the state has reported a record rise in Covid-19 cases. A total of 22,439 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded on Thursday and 20,510 on Wednesday. "In the past 24 hours, 27,426 fresh cases were reported while 6,429 people were discharged," Prasad said. Currently, there are 1,50,676 active Covid-19 cases in the state. Of these, 77,146 patients are in home isolation, 2,435 in private hospitals and the remaining in government hospitals, he said. A total of 6,33,461 people have recovered from the infection so far, he added. Among the fresh cases, maximum 6,598 recovered from Lucknow, 2,344 from Varanasi, 1,758 from Allahabad, 1403 from Kanpur, 846 from Gorakhpur, 497 from GB Nagar, besides others, according to a health bulletin issued here. The state capital witnessed maximum of 35 deaths, while seven deaths were reported from Kanpur, five from Ballia and Ghaziabad, four from Moradabad and Allahabad, it said. On Thursday, 2.23 lakh samples were tested. With this, the total number of samples tested so far has risen to over 3.78 crore, Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-sees-record-daily-rise-of-27426-covid-19-cases-974970.html
16-04-2021||National||India to boost monthly output of Covaxin to 100 million doses by September||The production of indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin will be ramped up significantly and increased to 10 crore doses per month by September, the Department of Biotechnology said on Friday. Covaxin's production will be doubled by May-June and the department has roped in three public sector companies to increase the capacity of vaccine production, it said. Few weeks ago, inter-ministerial teams had visited the sites of two main vaccine manufacturers in India to get their inputs on how production can be ramped up. During this period, there have been extensive reviews and feasibility studies on the plans being discussed with vaccine manufacturers, it said. As part of the augmentation plan, capacities of Bharat Biotech Limited as well as other public sector manufactures are being upgraded with required infrastructure and technology, the DBT said. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council for Medical Research have developed Covaxin, one of the two vaccines being used in the ongoing nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive. Financial support of around Rs 65 crore is being provided as grant by the Centre to Bharat Biotech's new Bangalore facility which is being repurposed to increase the capacity of vaccine production, the DBT said. “The current production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021 i.e. increasing the production from 1 crore vaccine doses in April, 2021 to 6-7 crore vaccine dose/month in July–August. It is expected to reach nearly 10 crore doses per month by September 2021,” the DBT said. The Centre will provide financial assistance of Rs 65 crore to Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai – a public sector undertaking (PSU) under the Maharashtra government, the DBT said. “Financial support as grant from GoI (government of India) to the tune of approximately Rs 65 crore will be provided for this facility to be made ready for manufacturing. The Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals Ltd had asked for around 12 months to complete this task,” it said. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Sandeep Rathod, Managing Director, Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, said its target is to produce around 22.8 crore vaccine vials “but it will take one year for us to start production”. “However, the central government has asked them to expedite and complete the task urgently within six months. The facility will have a capacity of 20 million dozes per month, once functional,” the DBT said. Indian Immunologicals Limited (IIL), Hyderabad, a facility under National Dairy Development Board, and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited, Bulandshahr, a PSU department of biotechnology will also be supported to prepare there a facility to provide 10-15 million doses per month by August-September, the DBT said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-boost-monthly-output-of-covaxin-to-100-million-doses-by-september-974980.html
16-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine must for Hajj pilgrimage||In a significant decision, the Hajj Committee of India has informed that two doses of Covid-19 vaccine are mandatory for those desiring to go for annual Hajj pilgrimage. The Mumbai-based CEO of Hajj Committee, Dr Maqsood Ahmed Khan made the announcement late on Thursday following the latest directives from the health ministry of Saudi Arabia and the Indian Consulate General office in Jeddah. “It is advised those who have applied for the Hajj 2021 to take the first dose of the vaccine on their own now so they can be administered the second dose before departure,” he said. However, Dr Khan made it clear that there is no official communication on the status of the Hajj pilgrimage yet from the Saudi Arabian authorities so far and the entire process would be subject to their approval. In case Indian pilgrims perform Hajj-2021, outgoing flights will start from mid-June. It may be recalled in 2020, because of the pandemic situation, Indians could not undertake Hajj. In 2021, now India is facing the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-must-for-hajj-pilgrimage-974987.html
16-04-2021||National||CISCE postpones Class 10, 12 board exams amid second wave of Covid-19||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Friday decided to defer the ISCE Class 10 and ISC Class 12 examination against the backdrop of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The CISCE said a final decision on conducting the board examinations would be taken in the first week of June. “While the ISC (Class 12) examination will be conducted at a later date, the candidates of the ISCE (Class 10) examination will be given the following options: – to write the offline examination along with the Class 12 candidates or not to write the offline examination,” Gerry Arathoon, Chief Executive of the CISCE said in a statement. He said if the Class 10 students decide not to take the offline examination, the CISCE will develop a fair and unbiased criterion while preparing the results of such candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisce-postpones-class-10-12-board-exams-amid-second-wave-of-covid-19-974990.html
16-04-2021||National||PIL in Supreme Court seeks Covid-19 vaccine to all above 18 years||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for ensuring Covid-19 vaccination for all above the age of 18 years due to a rapid surge of Covid-19 cases across the country. The plea filed by advocate Rashmi Singh said that widespread vaccination of all young and working population is essential to arrest the deadly upsurge of the coronovirus in its second wave. The petition stated that the administration of the vaccine in itself takes between six to eight weeks for both the doses and hence by the time the vaccine reaches the age group of 18 years and above, the Covid-19 virus would have spread rapidly. It also claimed the denial of vaccines to those in the age bracket of 18-45 years is "arbitrary, discriminatory and unreasonable", besides running foul of right to equality and life. It also pointed out that several experts, including the Indian Medical Association, have demanded the ramping up of Covid-19 vaccination and some advised for administering at least 10 million doses daily to tackle the situation. The Union government had on April 1 expanded the vaccine drive to include all persons above the age of 45 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-supreme-court-seeks-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-above-18-years-974992.html
16-04-2021||National||Afghanistan needs double peace: S Jaishankar||US President Joe Biden's announcement to withdraw American forces from Afghanistan is a big step that is going to take the war-ravaged country in a certain direction and it is important for the stakeholders to work together to ensure that the path it takes is the right one and the outcomes are good for the Afghan people, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. In an interactive session with Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif and Afghan National Security Advisor (NSA) Hamdullah Mohib at the Raisina Dialogue, Jaishankar also said Afghanistan needs a "double peace", that is peace within and peace around it. He asserted that India will do whatever is in its power and influence in relationship with its other neighbours to protect the best interests of the Afghan people. "We have always believed that this should be an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process," the external affairs minister said, adding "Afghanistan needs a double peace. It needs peace within and it needs peace around." In his remarks, Mohib said he spoke to his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval on the evolving situation in Afghanistan and that a team will be put together in the next few days that will work with the US and the NATO on a transition plan. He said the big picture point from Biden's announcement of troops withdrawal is that the Taliban will have no reason to continue with its violence in Afghanistan anymore. "The reasons why they continued (violence) are totally out of the picture and I think it is time for them to make real peace with the Afghan government and become part of the mainstream political society," the Afghan NSA said. Zarif said the announcement and commitment of the US to finally withdraw its troops from Afghanistan in a responsible way is a positive move and it has to be taken in the light of the realities of the region that the presence of foreign forces has never contributed to its peace and stability. "The Taliban should start negotiating now with the government of Afghanistan, the people of Afghanistan and various other groups in the country. There should be a broad-based conversation right now," the Iranian foreign minister said. He said waiting for an eventuality will result in a vacuum and the Taliban wanting to fill that vacuum will be a disaster. "That will be the recipe for a new war in Afghanistan and we in the region cannot tolerate it," Zarif said. In a major announcement, Biden on Wednesday said the US troops will be withdrawn from Afghanistan beginning May 1 and the process will be completed by September 11. On Thursday, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said the withdrawal of the US troops from Afghanistan should not create a vacuum for "disruptors" to step in and that India wants a peaceful resolution to the conflict in the country. There have been renewed global efforts to bring lasting peace to Afghanistan. Russia recently organised a conference in Moscow, where all major stakeholders were invited to brainstorm over ways to move forward in the peace process. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. Last month, Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar visited India during which Jaishankar conveyed to him India's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-needs-double-peace-s-jaishankar-975007.html
16-04-2021||National||Covid-19-appropriate behaviour biggest social tool to break the chain of transmission, says Harsh Vardhan||People have adopted a casual approach towards the Covid-19 pandemic which is very dangerous, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday and stressed that Covid appropriate behaviour is the biggest social tool to break the chain of transmission. He made the remarks after visiting the AIIMS Trauma Centre here to assess the healthcare infrastructure in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. In order to encourage the public from following Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB) in the quest for a coronavirus-free environment, the minister put out statistics that demonstrate the diligence of the general public along with the hard-work of healthcare and frontline workers. “India has 52 districts with no fresh cases in seven days, 34 districts with no fresh cases in 14 days, four districts with no fresh cases in 21 days and 44 districts with no fresh cases in 28 days,” a health ministry statement quoted Vardhan as saying. Stating that "we have more experience, knowledge and understanding about the disease as compared to last year”, the health minister said the Centre stands resolute to further strengthen the healthcare infrastructure, from augmenting beds, ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen and therapeutics to expanding the basket of vaccines. During his visit to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, he also assessed the number of beds to be increased at the institute. "There are 266 beds at present, of which, 253 are occupied. Arrangements will be done to increase 70 more beds at AIIMS Trauma Centre," he said. Vardhan said 100 more beds will be added to the AIIMS' Jhajjar campus He also held a detail review meet on the availability of beds/oxygenated beds at the general/ICU wards with the heads of the various departments engaged in treating Covid and non-Covid medical conditions, taking note of difficulties faced by them and their colleagues in carrying out their present duties. He said he will visit various healthcare facilities over the next few days to assess and further scale up facilities. In response to a question on the alleged shortage of anti-viral drug Remdesivir in the country, Vardhan said the manufacturers have been asked to increase the production of the drug. Enforcement authorities have been asked to take stern action against those indulging in black-marketing of Remdesivir, he said. Vardhan will also hold a review meeting with health ministers of states reporting high number of Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Praising the contributions of corona warriors, he observed that with fundamentals of the viral disease known, the task ahead would be comparatively easy. “I am happy to know that our warriors are not only aware but also concerned over the present situation. It is not like we have not faced the problems in 2020. But, in 2021, we have more experience; more knowledge and understanding about the disease as compared to last year,” he said. The health minister also highlighted the journey traversed by India in becoming self-sufficient in medical equipment. “I remember our condition on April 5, 2020 when we did not have PPE Kits, ventilators and N95 masks. We were unfairly criticised all over the world for a perceived lack of health infrastructure. With significant ramping up of infrastructure and production capabilities, we have come a long way. We defeated the virus when we did not know much about it and can do it again with our one year of experience,” he noted. On the importance of attending to non-Covid cases at the time of the pandemic, Vardhan said, “We should not neglect and let their treatment get affected. We are now equipped with all measures; we need to just think about how to overcome the present unfortunate situation. We need to think about developing new models that can be implemented and replicated in other parts of the country.” He also visited the patient ward of the Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre (JPNATC) of AIIMS, and interacted with many patients under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-biggest-social-tool-to-break-the-chain-of-transmission-says-harsh-vardhan-975009.html
16-04-2021||National||Indian economy in better shape compared to previous Covid-19 wave: CEA||The Indian economy is in a better shape as compared to the previous Covid-19 wave witnessed last year because of vaccines, Chief Economic Adviser K V Subramanian said on Friday. Speaking at an event organised by e-commerce major Amazon, he said uncertainty is much lower this time but people should be cautious. "There is a second wave therefore people should be careful about it and follow all regulations. But overall compared to previous episode, we are in a better shape because vaccine is out and vaccination drive is proceeding. So uncertainty is much lower," he said. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, India went in for one of the strictest lockdowns in the world, leading to a massive contraction of about 24 per cent in GDP.  Beginning March this year, the second wave started rearing its head with a sudden jump in cases, forcing many states to go for localised restrictions to break the Covid-19 chain.  India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases.  Subramanian further said "one key thing that stood out during this pandemic is the rollout of e-commerce and digitisation, something that India has embraced." As many as 800 million people were provided essential supplies through the public distribution system and cash transfer through the Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile (JAM) in a seamless manner with a click of button, while most advanced countries like the US provided financial support to its citizens by issue of cheques implemented over 2 months, he added. "I think Indian economy is really equipped very well to usher in the significant growth that is happening in e-commerce," he said. He also suggested that MSMEs should embrace technology and invest in innovation for growth of their businesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-in-better-shape-compared-to-previous-covid-19-wave-cea-975012.html
16-04-2021||National||Army reduces physical attendance in offices by 50% due to Covid-19||The Indian Army has informed its personnel that physical attendance in offices has been reduced by 50 per cent due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the country, officials said on Friday. The personnel who would be physically present in offices will have to avoid crowding, stagger their timings and follow all Covid-19 protocols strictly, they stated. According to the directions, all meetings and conferences should be done virtually as much as possible, they added. India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-reduces-physical-attendance-in-offices-by-50-due-to-covid-19-975032.html
16-04-2021||National||Seers differ on Kumbh closure after rise in Covid-19 cases||Differences emerged on Friday over ending the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar owing to the spike in Covid-19 cases as a section of akharas (orders of saints) objected to the “unilateral” declaration by the Niranjani Akhara to pull out of the religious congregation. Niranjani Akhara, an influential order of saints, had on Thursday evening announced the end of its participation in the Kumbh Mela from April 17. Shri Panchayati Akhara and Anand Akhara also declared an end to their respective participation in the once-in-12 years congregation. Seers belonging to the Nirvani Akhara, Nirmohi Akhara and Digambar Akharas raised strong objections to the announcement to end the Kumbh Mela on April 17 by the Niranjani Akhara. Mahant Rajendra Das of the Nirmohi Akhara accused seers of other akharas of spreading Covid-19 and flouting pandemic guidelines. “None of the Bairagi akharas (Nirvani, Nirmohi and Digambar) have reported Covid-19 cases,” Das told the media in Haridwar. He said the Uttarakhand government had announced that the Kumbh Mela would continue till April 30 and demanded an apology from the Niranjani Akhara for declaring that the congregation would end on April 17. “It is dishonest to declare that the Kumbh has ended early. The Kumbh Parv is decided by the alignment of stars and planets. It will end on the full moon day (April 27),” Swami Avimuketeshwaranand said in Haridwar. He said Covid-19 has spread across the country and there was no safer place to go to protect oneself from the infectious disease. “It would be better if we stay at the Kumbh premises and follow physical distancing protocols and wear masks all the time,” Avimukteshwaranand, the disciple of Dwarkapeeth Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopananda Saraswati, said. He said the religious discourses by the Shankaracharya have been suspended to avoid large gatherings at the mela premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seers-differ-on-kumbh-closure-after-rise-in-covid-19-cases-975036.html
16-04-2021||National||India has a double mutant virus variant — Should we be worried?||By Bhuma Shrivastava, Corinne Gretler and Bibhudatta Pradhan As India’s daily tally of Covid-19 infections surged by a record 200,000-plus cases on two consecutive days, public health experts worry that a new, possibly more virulent, coronavirus variant could be racing through the crowded nation of more than 1.3 billion people. The new variant, which has a so-called double mutation, is thought to be fueling India’s deadlier new wave of infections that has made it the world’s second worst-hit country, surpassing Brazil, and has already begun to overwhelm its hospitals and crematoriums. The nation has reported more than 14 million Covid cases so far and more than 1.74 lakh fatalities. “This is a variant of interest we are following,” Maria Van Kerkhove, the World Health Organization’s technical lead officer on Covid, told reporters Friday. “Having two of these mutations, which have been seen in other variants around the world, are concerning,” she said, adding that there was a similarity with mutations that increase transmission as well as reduce neutralization, possibly stunting the ability of vaccines to curb them. The new strain underscores the insidious nature of viruses and threatens to thwart containment efforts in India, despite stringent measures such as the world’s largest lockdown last year. An exploding outbreak in India risks undoing a hard-won victory over the pathogen for others too, especially as this strain has now jumped to at least 10 other countries. Here’s what we know so far: How did the “double mutation” variant emerge? The new variant, called B.1.617, was initially detected in India with two mutations — the E484Q and L452R. It was first reported late last year by a scientist in India and more details were presented before the WHO on Monday, according to Van Kerkhove. Viruses mutate all the time, as part of evolutionary biology. Some mutations weaken the virus while others may make it stronger, enabling it to proliferate faster or cause more infections. Union health ministry first acknowledged the presence of such a “double mutant” at the end of March but has downplayed it since. While it’s a variant of interest, it “has not been stamped as a ‘variant of concern’ so as to say that it is more lethal or more infectious,” Aparna Mukherjee, a scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research, which works under the nation’s health ministry, told Bloomberg TV on Friday. Is it causing the record surge in infections in India? Genome sequencing indicates the variant as a possible culprit. The average prevalence of the variant surged to as high as 52 per cent of samples sequenced in April from almost nothing in January, according to website tracker outbreak.info, which uses data from global repository GISAID. In some districts in Maharashtra state — home to the nation’s financial hub Mumbai and epicenter of the current wave that’s currently under lockdown-like rules — the prevalence of this variant was more than 60 per cent, according to Anurag Agrawal, director of the state-run Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s genomics institute that’s conducting sequencing. The B.1.617 was present in samples from about 10 Indian states and while the percentage may vary, it was expected to rise as “it has two critical mutations that make it more likely to transmit and escape prior immunity,” Agrawal said. “We did the math — we do believe that a lot of the increase in the reproduction number can be explained by these mutations,” Nithya Balasubramanian, the head of healthcare research at Bernstein India, told Bloomberg TV this week. “So, yes, the mutations are a big cause for worry.” After slowly mapping virus genomes in recent months — India did sequencing for less than 1 per cent positive samples as of last month — the country is now scrambling to cover lost ground. “We are attempting to do at least 5 per cent of whatever samples are there,” said ICMR’s Mukherjee. “It looks like that it is spreading faster than pre-existing variants,” said Rakesh Mishra, the Hyderabad-based director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology — another Indian lab doing genome sequencing of Covid samples. “Sooner or later, it will become prevalent in the whole country, given the way it is spreading.” Has it been found outside India? This variant has been detected in at least 10 other countries, including the US, the UK, Australia and New Zealand, according to the situation report on outbreak.info. As of April 16, 408 sequences in the B.1.617 lineage have been detected of which 265 were found in India, the report shows. A surveillance report by the U.K. government said it has found 77 cases in England and Scotland so far, designating it as a “Variant Under Investigation.” New Zealand has temporarily suspended arrivals of its citizens and residents from India due to the spike in the number returning with Covid. Brazil was also shunned as a Covid superspreader by its neighbors who were nervous about the virus strain next door. India’s second wave — given its size and rapid pace — will worry other nations that have just about managed their own outbreaks after weeks of economy-devastating lockdowns. Is it deadlier than other variants out there? Researchers are still trying to figure that out. The features of the double mutant variant are under investigation, but the L452R mutation is well characterized in US studies, according to Agrawal. It increases viral transmission by around 20 per cent and reduces antibody efficacy by more than 50 per cent, he said. Globally, three worrisome variants that have so far emerged in the UK, South Africa and Brazil have caused particular concern. Studies suggest they are more contagious, and some evidence points to one of them being more deadly while another drives reinfections. The double mutant strain, first found in India, has begun troubling virologists everywhere. “The B.1.617 variant has all the hallmarks of a very dangerous virus,” William A. Haseltine, a former professor at Harvard Medical School wrote in Forbes on April 12. “We must do all that is possible to identify its spread and to contain it.” Do vaccines work against it? It’s hard to know for sure without adequate data and research. India is testing whether the new variants, including the B.1.617, are capable of “immune escape or not,” according to ICMR’s Mukherjee. Immune escape refers to a pathogen’s ability to evade human bodies’ immunity response. This means antibodies created after vaccination or prior infection may not protect a person from getting infected. If the new India variant shows “immune escape” behavior, this would have deep ramifications for India’s vaccination program, which has picked up after a sluggish start and administered 117 million doses so far. India has currently authorized three vaccines. Two of them are already in use while the third, Russia’s Sputnik V, was approved this week. India also fast-tracked approval for foreign vaccines this week. All of these efforts risk being jeopardized if the shots turn out to be less effective against this double mutation variant. “It is one of the ones that’s on our radar, and in doing so, it means it’s on the radar of people around the world,” said Van Kerkhove.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-a-double-mutant-virus-variant-should-we-be-worried-975038.html
16-04-2021||National||Seers of other akhadas demand apology from Niranjani Akhada for announcing end of Kumbh||Seers of other akhadas in Haridwar on Friday demanded an apology from Niranjani Akhada for announcing the "conclusion" of the Kumbh Mela in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, saying it did not have the right to do so.  Niranjani Akhada, one of the 13 akhadas of seers participating in the Kumbh, had announced in Haridwar on Thursday that the Kumbh Mela was over for them. "The main Shahi Snan (held on the occasion of Mesh Sankranti on April 14) is over. Many in our akhada are showing symptoms. So, for us the Kumbh Mela is over," Niranjani Akhada Secretary Ravindra Puri had said. Nirvani Ani Akhada president Mahant Dharmdas said that only the mela officer or the chief minister has the right to announce the "end of the Kumbh Mela".  "By announcing the conclusion of the Kumbh Mela without the agreement of other akhadas, Niranjani Akhada has committed an unpardonable crime of creating chaos and confusion among the seers. Niranjani Akhada must apologise to the Akhada Parishad for what it has done or else it is difficult to keep up ties with them," he said.  Terming Niranjani Akhada's decision as "incorrect", he said any decision vis-a-vis Kumbh is taken collectively by the akhadas.   Bada Udaseen Akhada also made it clear that it was not in favour of early conclusion of the Kumbh Mela. No decision regarding Kumbh can be taken without a meeting of Akhada Parishad, Bada Udaseen Akhada president Mahant Maheshwar Das said   The Kumbh Mela is organised collectively by akhadas through consultation with each other but Niranjani Akhada did not talk to the akhadas before taking the decision, he said.  "Kumbh begins and ends on its 'Muhurat'. It will end as per the schedule. As for the Shahi Snan of April 27, it will be organised adhering to the Covid guidelines," Das said.      Niranjani Akhada Secretary Puri had said that seers of their akhada will wind up their camps and leave the Kumbh Kshetra on April 17.  Those interested in taking part in the April 27 Shahi Snan may come for it separately, he had said.      Many seers have tested positive for Covid-19 after the commencement of Kumbh, including Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri, who is admitted at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh.  Mahamandaleshwar of Maha Nirwani Akhada from Madhya Pradesh Swami Kapil Dev, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a private hospital here on April 13. Haridwar Kumbh Mela medical office said 68 seers have tested positive for Covid-19 between April 5 to 14.  The ongoing Kumbh Mela has been shortened this year to just one month from April 1 to 30 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Three Shahi Snan or royal baths have so far been conducted on the occasions of Mahshivaratri, Somwati Amawasya and Mesh Sankranti or Baisakhi while the fourth is scheduled to be held on Ram Navami.    In normal circumstances, the event, which comes once in 12 years, is held for nearly four months from mid January to April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seers-of-other-akhadas-demand-apology-from-niranjani-akhada-for-announcing-end-of-kumbh-975046.html
16-04-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee opposing citizenship to Matuas due to vote bank, says Amit Shah||Raking up the citizenship issue, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said that Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee was opposing the granting of citizenship to the Matua and Namasudra communities as it will not go down well with her vote bank. “The Matua and Nnamasudra communities are living in the country for 50 to 60 years. But Didi is saying that they will not get citizenship . The reason is her vote bank will not like it,” said Shah. He was addressing a rally at Tehatta in Nadia district. Matuas are Dalit Hindus who came to West Bengal in large numbers from the erstwhile East Pakistan, or modern day Bangladesh, following partition. With population of about 3 crore in the state, they are the determining factor in several constituencies. Shah also said that fund of Rs 100 crore will be created for the development of the Matua and Namasudra communities if the BJP is voted to power. Hurling the dynasty politics barb at the Chief Minister, Shah said that while the BJP wants to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi in the state, Mamata only wants “ Bhaipo (nephew) Samman Nidhi.” “ After May 2, there will be no one to take cut money. The Government of syndicates and the Government which works for the Bhaipo will be a thing of the past,” said Shah. He further alleged that the TMC government failed to curb cross border infiltration in the State and claimed that if the BJP is voted to power then “’not even a bird from across the border” will be able to enter Bengal. Taking potshots at Congress leader Rahul Gabdhi for starting his campaign in Bengal at the fifth phase of the Assembly elections, Shah dubbed him as a “tourist politicians” “ When half of the election is over, a tourist politician came to Bengal and questioned BJP’s DNA. BJP’s DNA is nationalism, Atmanirbhar Bharat and development,” said Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-opposing-citizenship-to-matuas-due-to-vote-bank-says-amit-shah-975056.html
16-04-2021||National||Stakeholders, policy-makers have to give special focus to SMEs, says Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh Friday said all stakeholders and policy-planners will have to give a special focus to small and medium businesses when the Covid-19 pandemic is over. Addressing the 'Amazon Sambhav online Summit', Singh said the post-Covid economy of India will look for unexplored potentials and under such circumstances, the hitherto lesser utilised resources from lesser projected regions will assume an important role. In the aftermath of Covid-19, all the stakeholders and policy-planners will have to give a special focus to small and medium businesses as well as the sustainability of new or recent Start-Ups, he said at the summit -- “Unlocking Infinite Possibilities for India”. Singh, the Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), said that in times like this, joint initiatives and joint ventures will be imperative to put back on track all that had tended to get off the track due to Covid-19 related turbulence. In this regard, he cited the example of bamboo from Northeast and other vast resources in the North Eastern Region as a whole. The minister said every adversity is accompanied with some virtue and one of the positive aspects of tumultuous Covid-19 phase has been that it prompted all to look for new avenues, new potentials and new resources to supplement the economy and make up for the deficit accruing as a result of the pandemic. This, in turn, has led to a situation, wherein the Northeastern region has an opportunity to emerge as the business destination of the entire Indian subcontinent, he said. Lauding the Amazon's new initiative titled “Northeast Spotlight”, Singh said this is indicative of the fact that even the business world of India has begun to realise where it should be looking to make a further headway in a post-Covid economy. He said when all the known conventional resources and potentials across the country appeared to have got saturated or exhausted, the Northeast will still have something to offer and that gives it a pivotal role in the times to come. The Modi government is seriously conscious of this emerging scenario, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stakeholders-policy-makers-have-to-give-special-focus-to-smes-says-jitendra-singh-975060.html
16-04-2021||National||Manufacturers voluntarily reduced Remdesivir prices: Govt||The Centre on Friday said major manufacturers of anti-viral drug Remdesivir have voluntarily reduced the drug's price. "On Govt’s intervention, major Manufacturers of #Remdesivir have voluntarily reduced its MRP ranging from Rs 5,400 to less than Rs 35,00 by 15.04.2021," Union Chemical and Fertilizer Minister D V Sadananda Gowda tweeted. The Department of Pharmaceuticals is continuously monitoring the production of Remdesivir. The production has gone up from 28 lakh vials per month to 41 lakh vials per month during the last week, he said.  The supply has been ramped up in the most effective states. Earlier in the day, Gowda held a meeting with officials to review the drug availability and its production.  A total of 6.69 lakh vials of Remdesivir have been made available during the last five days. Around 4 lakh vials meant for export have been diverted to fulfil domestic needs, Gowda tweeted. The government is taking all steps to increase the production of drugs, he said. The government already banned the export of Remdesivir to meet the domestic demand. Seven Indian companies are producing Injection Remdesivir under the voluntary licensing agreement with M/s. Gilead Sciences, USA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manufacturers-voluntarily-reduced-remdesivir-prices-govt-975066.html
16-04-2021||National||Create more Covid centres to increase number of beds with oxygen facility, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday directed officials to ensure that the beds shown on the Delhi Corona app are actually available in real-time at hospitals and create. He also said that efforts should be made to create more Covid care centres to increase the number of beds with oxygen facility. The directions were issued at a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Delhi recorded 19,486 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest single-day surge till date, and 141 fatalities from the infection, also the highest fatality count in a day, according to health department data. “The chief minister directed officials to create more Covid facilities and to increase the strength of oxygen beds across Delhi. The officials were also asked to ensure real-time availability of beds of the Delhi Corona app and that the information on the number of beds is exact,” a Delhi government official said. “It was discussed that there should be multiple assistance numbers in hospitals and nodal persons should be appointed at every helpline number so that no urgent call is missed or turned down," he said. The official said that health teams must reach out to every patient in home isolation and provide oximeters. "People should receive every assistance while they are in home isolation," he added. The meeting was attended by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Health Minister Satyendar Jain. The additional chief secretary and the health secretary were among the senior officials who attended the meeting. “The chief minister said that the focus of the Delhi government is towards increasing the bed capacity, which will ensure adequate treatment for people who require urgent assistance. In the meeting, bed management was discussed in detail," the official said. “It was directed to create more Covid facilities and to increase the strength of oxygen beds across Delhi,” he said. The Delhi government had on Thursday announced sweeping restrictions, including a weekend curfew and the closure of malls, gyms, spas and auditoriums, in a bid to break the chain of Covid infections in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/create-more-covid-centres-to-increase-number-of-beds-with-oxygen-facility-says-arvind-kejriwal-975072.html
16-04-2021||National||S Jaishankar holds talks with Maldivian foreign minister||The Maldives on Friday requested India for assured supply of essential commodities to it as the two sides discussed a plethora of issues relating to the bilateral, regional and international domains, sources said. The issue of supply of essential commodities figured in the talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Maldivian counterpart Abdulla Shahid who is on a two-day trip to India. The sources said Shahid requested the Indian side for renewal of DGFT (directorate general of foreign trade) notifications regarding assured supply of essential commodities to Maldives from India as per the bilateral trade agreement. They said Jaishankar assured that Indian commitment will be honoured. It was the eighth meeting between the two foreign ministers since November 2018 when the government under President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih took office in the Maldives. Shahid also addressed the Raisina Dialogue. "Welcomed FM @abdulla_shahid of Maldives. Appreciate his participation at Raisina Dialogue. Noted the steady progress in our partnership. Will work closely in the international arena as well," Jaishankar tweeted. The sources said the two ministers discussed issues of mutual interests pertaining to the bilateral, regional and international domains. The coronavirus pandemic and avenues of Indian assistance to the island nation to deal with it was also discussed, they said. In the talks, Jaishankar re-affirmed India's support for the candidacy of the Maldives as the president of the 76th UN General Assembly, the sources said. They said the two sides also expressed satisfaction over growing number of Indian tourists visiting Maldives which is aiding the Maldivian economy in these difficult times. Under the bilateral air bubble arrangement, India is already the number one tourist market for Maldives with Indian tourists accounting for 23 per cent of international tourist arrivals in that country, the sources said. The two ministers also reviewed the status of ongoing India-assisted projects in Maldives. Currently, India is developing projects worth $ 2 billion covering a large number of areas like ports, roads, bridges, water and sanitation systems as well as socio-economic development. Both ministers also exchanged views on international bodies including the UN, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Commonwealth and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, and developments of common interest in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-maldivian-foreign-minister-975075.html
16-04-2021||National||Centre steps in to augment medical oxygen supply as critical Covid-19 cases spiral||Stepping in to address the issue of paucity of medical grade oxygen supply to critical patients while Covid numbers spiral menacingly , Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called for ramping up its production while undertaking a comprehensive review of the matter. Separately in a meeting to review status of Covid-19in Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh and the public health measures taken for containment and management of Covid-19by the state health authorities, Home Secretary Ajay  Bhalla and Health Secretary  Rajesh Bhushan informed that the Union Government has mapped the manufacturing sources of Oxygen with the 12 States reporting the highest number of daily new cases. In a letter to Chief Secretaries of states, Bhalla also emphasized that the availability of "adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen" is an important prerequisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19 and that any impediment in the supplies of medical oxygen, an essential public health commodity may critically impact the management of patients suffering from the disease. The Home Secretary pointed out that to ensure the smooth supply of medical oxygen to concerned agencies, the Empowered Group II, which is mandated for coordinating medical logistics including oxygen, has prepared a supply plan that has to be followed by all states and union territories and directed them to ensure that no restriction is imposed on the movement of medical oxygen among the states and UTs. He asked the Chief Secretaries to instruct transport authorities to allow free movement of oxygen-carrying vehicles. At a time when several states have imposed night curfews and other curbs, the Home Secretary also made it clear that no restriction shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to the hospitals of the state in which they are located and asked the state authorities to ensure free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities without any restrictions of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without restriction. He said the states’ demand for oxygen cylinders (including 10 Litre cylinders and 45 litre jumbo cylinders) and demand for additional ventilators (having high flow nasal cannula) will be met very soon. Cylinder filling plants will also be permitted 24 hour working with necessary safeguards. The Government is allowing Industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging. Similarly nitrogen and argon tankers will be automatically allowed to be converted to oxygen tankers to overcome the potential shortage of tankers. PM Modi in a separate meeting asked for ensuring adequate medical grade oxygen supply and underlined the need to ensure synergy across ministries and state governments.  Armed with the inputs from ministries like Health, DPIIT, Steel, Road Transport, the Prime Minister, who was presented with an overview of district level situation in 12 high burden states (Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan) took a detailed review of current situation of oxygen supply and projected use in the coming 15 days there. Officers also briefed the PM about the efforts being made to import medical grade oxygen and the production capacity in the country to meet the rising demand. Modi asked for increasing  oxygen production as per the capacity of each plant. It was discussed that surplus stocks of oxygen supply in steel plants are being offered from medical use. Modi was informed that states and transporters have been asked to ensure tankers move round the clock with drivers working in shifts to ensure faster turnaround and adequate capacity to meet the surge in demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-steps-in-to-augment-medical-oxygen-supply-as-critical-covid-19-cases-spiral-975077.html
16-04-2021||National||Indian Railways to operate extra trains from high-demand areas||Insisting that its services will not be curtailed, the Indian Railways on Friday said that it is planning to operate additional trains this month and in May from high-demand areas Mumbai, Surat, Delhi, Karnataka towards Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. At present, 1,490 special trains on average per day are being operated, which is 70% restoration of passenger services, Suneet Sharma, Chairman and CEO, Railway Board, told reporters here. Sharma said the national transporter is keeping a close watch on all stations in Mumbai, Gujarat, Karnataka and wherever the demand is high and the zonal general managers have been authorised to operate more trains. “I assure you that there is no dearth of services, the situation is quite normal, particularly in Mumbai, Surat and Bengaluru,” he said. The national transporter is also planned to operate additional 140 special trains with 483 trips this month and next month from Maharashtra, Karnataka and other states for destinations like Gorakhpur, Patna, Darbhanga, Varanasi, Guwahati, Manduadih, Barauni, Prayagraj, Ranchi, Lucknow Kolkata and Bhagalpur. Insisting that no states have asked the Railways to stop trains, Sharma said some states, including Odisha and Uttarakhand, had earlier asked for checking passengers before boarding. To ensure safety, Railways randomly checks passengers, uses thermal guns for checking fever, providing only ready to eat meals. So far 70% of trains are under operation he said, adding that out of the total 11,282 trains in the pre-Covid period, 7,824 are operational at present. Among long-distance mail and express, 84% of trains are running, he said. On the demand for Covid Care coaches, he said Namburdar district in Maharashtra has sought 90. At present 4,000 Covid Care coaches are ready with railways and stationed at 126 locations across the country. As and when the states demand it, same will be provided to them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-operate-extra-trains-from-high-demand-areas-975102.html
16-04-2021||National||CM rules out clamping fresh coronavirus lockdown in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday ruled out clamping a fresh lockdown in the state, despite the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, to ensure the economic activity did not get imperilled. Addressing a videoconference with all District Collectors, the Chief Minister remarked that this was a troubling time, but "we have to contain Covid-19 without imposing a lockdown". "We have seen last year how the financial situation was wrecked due to lockdown and how people suffered. That should not recur. Hence, to ensure that the economic activity does not get jeopardised, we are not going to have another lockdown," the Chief Minister stressed. (During a high-level review meeting last week, the Chief Minister said AP suffered a financial loss of Rs 21,000 crore due to the pandemic last year. "If the situation leads to a fresh lockdown, our financial system will be fully damaged," Jagan had warned). The Chief Minister said that vaccine was the weapon now available to beat coronavirus. "So, you people must focus on containment without the need for a lockdown. Focused testing of the primary contacts of Covid-19 positive persons is essential," he said. The Chief Minister maintained that vaccination was the permanent solution (to the pandemic), but lamented that it was not in their hands as the Centre was controlling the entire process. "Be it production of the vaccine or distribution...Centre is the total regulatory authority. Our government is making all efforts (to get adequate vaccines) so that maximum number of people could be inoculated," Jagan said, referring to the vaccine scarcity being faced by the state. He asked the Collectors to crack the whip on private hospitals fleecing hapless Covid-19 patients for treatment. Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas (Nani), Principal Secretary (Health) Anil Kumar Singhal, Principal Secretary (Transport) M T Krishna Babu, Principal Secretary (Covid-19 Management) Muddada Ravichandra, Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar and other senior officials attended. Meanwhile, the state government revived the State Covid Command and Control Centre in Vijayawada, headed by Principal Secretary Krishna Babu, to monitor various aspects related to Covid management. The government also deputed senior IAS officers to each district for effective handling of the situation in view of the rising number of fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-rules-out-clamping-fresh-coronavirus-lockdown-in-andhra-pradesh-975128.html
16-04-2021||National||Former law minister seeks SC's intervention in handling surge in Covid-19 cases||With India reporting over two lakh fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, senior Congress leader and former Union minister Ashwani Kumar wrote to the Supreme Court seeking its suo motu intervention in addressing the challenge. In his letter to the Chief Justice of India (CJI), Kumar demanded a ban on all political and religious functions. "Considering the gravity of the threat to human life and the constitutional responsibility cast upon this court to protect and secure the lives of citizens, the court may issue suo-motu directions to the central and state governments to ban political rallies, protest assemblies, religious and festive congregations of more than 50 people until the situation is under control," he wrote to the CJI. Kumar also sought a ban on the export of Covid vaccines and permitting the import of vaccines after ensuring their efficacy to treat the viral disease. "The court may issue suo motu directions to make the vaccines available to all age groups and to facilitate in-situ vaccination as far as possible, but especially of the old and the infirm," he said. The former Union law minister said the apex court should take judicial notice of the extraordinary threat to human lives in the country following a devastating surge in coronavirus cases. He cited the Kumbh Mela being held in Uttarakhand's Haridwar as a super-spreader event, where almost 2,000 people have tested positive for the deadly virus. Besides, he also mentioned the massive rallies being organised by political leaders in poll-bound states while flouting the Covid rules. Noting that festivals have also been celebrated, where there have been gatherings in huge numbers, once again flouting the Covid rules, Kumar said such events have contributed significantly to the resurgence of coronavirus cases throughout the country. "Even so, no purposive and effective action has been taken by the central and state governments on a uniform basis across the country to stop such gatherings. There is laxity even in enforcing the limited restrictions announced by some of the state governments from time to time," he said. The Congress leader said apart from banning such events forthwith, the situation demands an immediate halt to the export of vaccines in view of the number of cases continuing to rise in the country and many citizens being denied the urgent use of the vaccines. "The need for easy access to vaccines for all citizens of all ages as a protection against the deadly virus is self-evident," the senior advocate said. He said the country expects that the top court, as the designated protector of fundamental rights, will exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction in these troubled times and vindicate its role as the custodian of the constitutional conscience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-law-minister-seeks-scs-intervention-in-handling-surge-in-covid-19-cases-975129.html
16-04-2021||National||Second wave of Covid-19 can last up to 100 days: Expert's advisory||The second wave of Covid-19 can last up to 100 days and such waves will keep coming till 70 per cent of the population is vaccinated and herd immunity is achieved, according to an advisory prepared by an expert for Southeast Delhi Police. Aimed at creating awareness among police personnel, the advisory by Dr. Neeraj Kaushik said the new mutated virus had the potential to get around a person's immunity and even the vaccine. "This is the reason for reinfection and cases among vaccinated people." This mutated virus is so infectious that if one member is affected, the whole family gets infected. It is preying on children too, said Dr Kaushik in the document. He said that routine RT-PCR tests might not detect the mutated virus. However, a loss of smell is a very strong indicator that a person is Covid-19 positive. "The second wave of novel coronavirus can last up to 100 days. Such waves will keep coming until we attain 70 percent vaccination and herd community. So, do not lower your guard, especially masks," the advisory read. It said surface transmission of virus is no more a threat now as per the recent trends. Hence, not much emphasis on surface disinfection is needed. The doctor told police personnel that the chance of getting infected becomes very high "when you come in contact with the positive person for more than 15 minutes." People with comorbidities such as obesity, diabetes, chronic kidney disease etc. must take extra precautions, he said. Dr Kaushik advised police personnel to avoid over-exercise and junk food. "Go for nutritious foods including juice, coconut water. Dalia in meals," he said. He also suggested the personnel change their "careless mindset and attitude and learn to wear masks professionally." Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena said that Dr Kaushik had been working with the district police since the pandemic began. He had conducted several various campaigns and prescribed medicines for their staff, Meena said, adding that suggestions from him would help them understand and deal with the second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-wave-of-covid-19-can-last-up-to-100-days-experts-advisory-975147.html
16-04-2021||National||Meity extends deadline for IT hardware PLI application till April 30||The Electronics and IT ministry has extended the application window for the IT hardware production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme till April 30. The scheme with an outlay of Rs 7,350 crore will provide an incentive for manufacturers of laptops, tablets, all-in-one PCs and servers. "PLI scheme was open for receiving applications till March 31, 2021, which has been extended to April 30, 2021, with the approval of competent authority," the ministry of electronics and IT said in the scheme guideline issued on Thursday. The latest IT hardware scheme offers incentives between 4-1 per cent on net incremental sales (over the base year 2019-20) of goods manufactured in India and covered under the target segment to eligible companies for a period of four years. The government estimates production worth Rs 3.26 lakh crore and exports of Rs 2.45 lakh crore over the next four years under the scheme, which is expected to create 1.80 lakh jobs. The scheme is expected to usher additional investment in electronics manufacturing to the tune of Rs 2,700 crore. Domestic value addition for IT hardware is expected to rise to 20-25 per cent by 2025 from the current 5-10 per cent due to the impetus provided by the scheme. "For the purpose of determining the eligibility of an applicant with respect to net incremental sales of manufactured goods for any year, the net incremental sales of manufactured goods (covered under the target segment) for such year over the base year irrespective of the invoice value shall be considered," the guidelines said. An empowered group of secretaries, headed by the Cabinet Secretary, will monitor the scheme and undertake a period review of the outgo under the scheme. "The EGoS may revise incentive rates, ceilings, target segment(s) and eligibility criteria as deemed appropriate during the tenure of the scheme," the guidelines said. IT hardware companies having a turnover of over Rs 5,000 crore in the manufacturing of laptops, tablets, all-in-one PCs or servers or more than Rs 10,000 crore for electronics hardware products or sub-assemblies or components in the base year are eligible to apply for the scheme. In the case of domestic companies, the turnover should be over Rs 10 crore in the target product segment or over Rs 20 crore for electronics hardware or sub-assemblies or components, according to the guideline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meity-extends-deadline-for-it-hardware-pli-application-till-april-30-975162.html
16-04-2021||National||Two Maharashtra lab owners held for fabricating Covid-19 test report||The Navi Mumbai police have arrested two laboratory owners from Maharashtra's Thane district for allegedly Covid-19 test reports, an official said on Friday. The police on Thursday arrested Thane-based lab owner Devidas Ghule and Mohammed Vasim Aslam Shaikh from Kalyan, who allegedly fabricated the RT-PCR test reports of 133 employees of a company in Rabale MIDC, assistant commissioner of police Vashi, Vinayak Vast said. Ghule had allegedly roped in Shaikh to collect the swab samples of the employees, which supposed to be sent to another lab or testing, the official said. However, the duo allegedly did not send the swabs to the main lab and instead fabricated a common Covid-19 negative report with the fake letterhead, he said, adding that the accused had collected Rs 86,450 for swab collection. When the fraud came to light, the main lab filed a complaint with the Rabale MIDC and offences were registered against the duo under relevant sections of the IPC, the official said. The police have also seized a computer and laboratory equipment worth Rs. 72,000 from the duo and further probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-maharashtra-lab-owners-held-for-fabricating-covid-19-test-report-975168.html
16-04-2021||National||Bodies of 3 missing fishermen recovered by Naval vessel||Bodies of three missing fishermen were recovered by an Indian Navy vessel during a search operation on Friday even as the mission to rescue six others missing at sea after their boat collided with a foreign cargo vessel off Mangaluru coast continued for the fourth day. A Defence spokesman said INS Nireekshak recovered three bodies of missing fishermen from the fishing boat 'Rabah'. "The naval divers after extensive diving (at depth of 150 metres) throughout the day recovered the bodies at about 8 pm today", he said. The spokesman said the Navy vessel is likely to enter Mangalore port past midnight on Friday for handing over the bodies to Mangalore police. "The ship is presently moving towards Mangalore Harbour at full speed and is likely to reach at about 1 am on April 17, to hand over the bodies to the Mangalore police for further action", he said. The ship, which intends to return to the accident site, will resume Search and Rescue operations for the remaining six persons tomorrow morning, the spokesman said. Of the 14 who ventured in the boat on April 18, from Beypore in Kerala's Kozhikode district, two were saved. The bodies of three other fishermen were recovered and sent to their native places after post-mortem, the sources said. Two of the deceased were from Colachel in Tamil Nadu and one from West Bengal. Vessels and choppers of the Indian Coast Guard, Navy and coastal security police have been searching for the missing fishermen for the last three days. Fishing boats from Mangaluru and Kozhikode also took part in the search operations, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bodies-of-3-missing-fishermen-recovered-by-naval-vessel-975186.html
16-04-2021||National||Centre to ramp up vaccine production amid Covid-19 surge||With India experiencing a crunch in the supply of Covid-19 vaccines, the Centre on Friday announced a ten-fold increase in the production of Covaxin over the next six months besides expanding the production capacities of the homegrown vaccine at four new sites including, one of which is Bengaluru. The Union Science Ministry would invest more than Rs 130 crore to set up the new facilities at four sites, which may take a few months to be ready for production. In the meantime, Covaxin’s manufacturer Bharat Biotech would gradually jack up its existing production capacity over the next few months to deal with the current crisis. “The current production capacity of Covaxin will be doubled by May-June 2021 and further increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021. This would mean increasing the production from one crore vaccine doses in April 2021 to 6-7 crore doses by July–August and reach nearly 10 crore doses per month by September 2021,” the Union Science Ministry said in a release. Bharat Biotech has a capacity to manufacture about 12.5 million doses of Covaxin at the moment, while Serum Institute can produce 70-100 million doses of Covishield per month. The decision to augment India’s Covid-19 vaccine production capacities was taken after inter-ministerial teams had visited Serum Institute plant in Pune and Bharat Biotech plant at Hyderabad to get their inputs on how the production can be ramped up. The Centre will now invest more than Rs 130 crore to enhance vaccine production capacities at four new sites — Bharat Biotech’s new unit in Bengaluru, Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation in Mumbai, Indian Immunologicals at Hyderabad and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited, Bulandshahr. The funds will come from the Department of Biotechnology. India currently uses two shots, Covaxin and AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine, which is being manufactured by Serum Institute under the brand name Covishield, to vaccinate its target population. A third vaccine, Russian origin Sputnik V, has received regulatory approval but is yet to come to the market. The DBT will release Rs 65 crore to Bharat Biotech for its new plant in Bengaluru, which is being repurposed to increase the capacity of vaccine production. Haffkine Biopharma, a public sector unit of the Maharashtra government, will get Rs 65 crore to manufacture Covaxin. While Haffkine sought 12 months to start the manufacturing, the Centre asked the company to complete the task urgently within 6 months. The facility will have a capacity of 20 million doses per month. Indian Immunologicals Limited Hyderabad, a facility under National Dairy Development Board and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Limited (BIBCOL), Bulandshahr which is a central public sector enterprise under the Department of Biotechnology, will also be supported to manufacture 10-15 million doses of Covaxin per month by Aug-Sep 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-ramp-up-vaccine-production-amid-covid-19-surge-975189.html
16-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Now, UP, Chhattisgarh are the new worries||With more than one lakh active cases each and a high case positivity rate, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh—two states with poor health infrastructure—are the Centre’s new worries on the Covid-19 front. In the last two weeks, Chhattisgarh saw a 131% increase in weekly new cases. While 22 out of 27 districts crossed their reported highest cases in the last 30 days, the worst-affected districts are Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon and Bilaspur. Worryingly, the share of RT-PCR tests decreased to 28% in the week of April 7-13 from the level of 34% reported in the March 17-23 week. The share of rapid antigen tests increased from 53% to 62% in the same period. This goes completely against the central government's advice of carrying out at least 70% of the tests using the gold-standard RT-PCR method. Similarly, Uttar Pradesh reported a growth rate of 19.25% in daily new cases. Forty-six out of 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh crossed their reported highest cases in the last 30 days with Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi and Prayagraj being the worst affected districts. The share of RT-PCR tests has decreased to 46% in the week of April 7-13 (from 48% reported between March 17 and 23) while the number of rapid antigen tests increased to 53% (from 51%) in the corresponding period. Experts have pointed out that the share of testing in the two states has not grown corresponding to the rise in the caseload. At a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situations in the two states, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the state officials that their demand for oxygen cylinders (including 10-litre cylinders and 45-litre jumbo cylinders) and demand for additional ventilators (having high flow nasal cannula) would be met very soon. Both states have been advised to increase dedicated Covid-19 beds and use available buildings in hospital campuses (including AIIMS, Raipur campus) for the creation of additional dedicated wards. Moreover, the states have been advised to prohibit unnecessary travel and crowding in public places through strict and effective enforcement. A day before a similar review was held for Madhya Pradesh, which is also witnessing a sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases over the past week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-now-up-chhattisgarh-are-the-new-worries-975198.html
16-04-2021||National Politics||EC has no plans to club remaining phases of West Bengal polls, say sources||The alarming surge in the Covid-19 infection across the country notwithstanding, the Election Commission is not yet contemplating conducting the remaining four phases of polling in West Bengal in one go. Though Aariz Aftab, the Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal, will hold a meeting with the representatives of all political parties in Kolkata on Friday, the EC is not considering any proposal to hold polling in all the remaining 159 Assembly constituencies of the state together, sources in New Delhi said. Aftab, according to the sources, will convey to the political parties the EC’s request that they should advise their candidates and star campaigners to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the poll panel for electioneering during the Covid-19 pandemic. The EC on August 21 last year issued guidelines for holding polls at the time of the pandemic. The commission, however, left it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to chalk out specific plans for holding elections amid the pandemic, based on the broad guidelines issued by it. While 135 Assembly constituencies of West Bengal went to the polls so far, the voting in the remaining 159 will be held in the coming four phases, beginning with 45 on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-has-no-plans-to-club-remaining-phases-of-west-bengal-polls-say-sources-974728.html
16-04-2021||National Politics||Tughlaqi lockdown: Rahul Gandhi slams Centre over Covid-19 strategy||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said its strategy to fight the Covid-19 pandemic consisted of imposing a 'Tughlaqi lockdown, ringing bells and singing praises to the Lord. The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in fighting Covid-19. केंद्र सरकार की कोविड रणनीति- स्टेज 1- तुग़लक़ी लॉकडाउन लगाओ। स्टेज 2- घंटी बजाओ। स्टेज 3- प्रभु के गुण गाओ। In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "The Central government's Covid-19 strategy -- Stage 1- Impose a Tughlaqi lockdown, Stage 2- Ring bells, Stage 3- Sing praises to the Lord." The Congress in the past also has compared some of the government's decisions to those taken by Delhi Sultanate ruler Muhammad bin Tughlaq, to allege that they were arbitrary and not well thought out. The Congress has also taken swipes at the government over its 'taali-thaali' call last year in which people across India clapped, rang bells, blew conch shells and beat metal plates in solidarity with health workers fighting the novel coronavirus. Gandhi's attack on the government came amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases in the country with a record 2,17,353 new infections taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,42,91,917 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tughlaqi-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-over-covid-19-strategy-974847.html
16-04-2021||National Politics||PM Modi should consult states to deal with new Covid-19 situation, says Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday made a strong pitch for conducting virtual rallies for the ongoing elections and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consult state governments on dealing with the surge of Covid-19 cases across the country. “On the one hand we appeal to the people to follow Covid-19 protocol and on the other, there are roadshows and rallies attended by lakhs of people. This has been happening since the Bihar elections. If they decide, political leaders can explore options such as virtual rallies to avoid crowding at such events,” Gehlot said. He said the Election Commission kept announcing elections to fulfil its responsibility, while the Supreme Court and High Courts ordered elections to panchayats and local bodies despite opposition from state governments. “The judiciary and the Election Commission cannot escape from its responsibilities,” Gehlot said. He recalled that Congress President Sonia Gandhi had said political leaders too were responsible for the spread of the coronavirus to some extent. “Now, Covid-19 has reappeared in a new form and the country is facing a terrible situation and facing strict decisions such as lockdown and curfew. The Prime Minister should speak to the states as he did on earlier occasions,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-should-consult-states-to-deal-with-new-covid-19-situation-says-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-974898.html
16-04-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah calls Rahul Gandhi 'tourist politician', blames Mamata Banerjee for denial of citizenship to Matuas||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Friday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of denying citizenship to Dalit Matua and Namsudra communities as her "vote bank would not like it". Reaching out to the two numerically strong communities which can influence the outcome of assembly elections in many seats, Shah said a Rs 100 crore fund will be created for their welfare if the BJP is voted to power in the state. He also mocked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, calling him a "tourist politician". "These Matua and Namsudra families are living here for 50-70 years, for three generations. But Didi says they will not get citizenship, why? Because her vote back would not like it," he told an election rally in Tehatta in Nadia district. Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi who addressed his first two election rallies on Wednesday after keeping off the campaign in the state where his party is contesting in alliance with the Left while fighting against it in Kerala, Shah branded him a "tourist politician". "A tourist politician arrived in Bengal after almost the entire poll got over and questioned our DNA. BJP's DNA is development, nationalism and Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said. Flaying "dynasty politics" in the TMC, Shah said while the BJP wants to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme for farmers in Bengal, "Didi only wants Bhaipo (nephew) Samman Nidhi". Top BJP leaders have been accusing Banerjee's nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee of wielding "unwarranted influence" over the government machinery and running "extortion syndicates". "After people's mandate on May 2 (counting day), nobody will be left to take cut money, the government of syndicates will be no more there, the government that works for Bhaipo will be gone," he asserted. The home minister assailed the TMC government for "failing to check infiltrators who take away the jobs of our youths and food of our poor". "Let alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter Bengal. Not the TMC, neither the Left, nor the Congress....only BJP can stop infiltration," he asserted. He claimed the demography of Nadia district, which shares border with Bangladesh, had got altered because of infiltration||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-calls-rahul-gandhi-tourist-politician-blames-mamata-banerjee-for-denial-of-citizenship-to-matuas-974938.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Centre tells Madhya Pradesh to curb non-essential movements as Covid cases rise||With the Covid-19 situation deteriorating in Madhya Pradesh, the Centre on Thursday held a special high-level review of the ground situation in India’s second-largest state that witnessed a 79% increase in weekly new cases in the last two weeks. Madhya Pradesh has reported a 13.4% week-on-week increase in new Covid-19 cases, as many as 44 districts out of 52 crossed their reported highest cases in the last 30 days. On Tuesday, MP registered 8,998 new cases, breaking into the top five states with the maximum Covid-19 caseload. The number rose to 9,720 cases on Wednesday and 10,166 fresh cases on Thursday, which is the state’s biggest one-day spike since the pandemic began. The worst affected districts are Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Khandwa. At the review meeting attended by the Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and other senior officials, the state administration has been asked to curb the non-essential movement of large groups of people and social gatherings that could turn into super-spreader events. The state has also been asked to draft the final year MBBS and nursing students as well as senior and junior interns as hospital hands to fight the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The Centre has also asked the MP to strengthen and enhance oxygen and ICU beds and effectively implement a five-fold strategy of “test, track, treat, follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccinate” to check the spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-tells-madhya-pradesh-to-curb-non-essential-movements-as-covid-cases-rise-974729.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir HC dismisses suspended DSP Davinder Singh’s case transfer plea||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court has dismissed a plea by the suspended deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Davinder Singh, seeking transfer of his case from a special court in Jammu to Srinagar. Singh, then serving DSP, was arrested in January 2020 while accompanying two Hizbul Mujahideen militants in a vehicle bound for Delhi. The police recovered AK-47s and other arms from the car they were travelling in. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The NIA has submitted a charge-sheet against the suspended DSP and another accused for commission of offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 and various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) before the Court of Special Judge, Jammu. A bench of Justice Sanjay Dhar while dismissing the plea held that a case pertaining to the scheduled offence investigated by the NIA could be tried only by a Special Court that has been constituted by the government of India under Section 11 of the NIA Act. “The transfer of such a case can be made only to any other Special Court constituted by the government under Section 11 of the act and not to any other Special Court constituted under any other provision of the act,” the court said. According to the NIA charge-sheet, Singh, who was posted in the sensitive anti-hijacking unit of J&K police, had been in constant touch with his handlers in the Pakistan High Commission who were later repatriated to Islamabad. The charge sheet, filed last July, has accused Singh and others of allegedly waging “war against India” with the help of Pakistan-based terrorists and members of the country’s high commission in Delhi. The suspended DSP had become infamous after he joined the special operations group (SOG) of J&K police in mid 1990s and his name was embroiled in several controversies-from making money by selling contraband and allegations of extortion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-hc-dismisses-suspended-dsp-davinder-singh-s-case-transfer-plea-974850.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Lucknow's iconic Bada Imambara, other monuments closed for public||Iconic Nawabi-era structure the Bada Imambara and other monuments in the Uttar Pradesh capital have been closed for public till further orders due to the COVID-19 situation. "Bada Imambara (Bhool Bhulaiya), Chhota Imambara, picture gallery and Shahjanaf Imambara have been closed till further orders," an order issued by District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said. “Violators of the order will be liable for punishable action under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code," it said. The monuments were earlier closed in March last year and were reopened in September when the coronavirus cases came down in the state. Bada Imambara was built by Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula in 1784.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lucknows-iconic-bada-imambara-other-monuments-closed-for-public-974853.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Srinagar hospitals stare at bed crisis as Covid-19 cases see sharp rise||Amid the steep rise in Covid-19 cases, hospitals in Srinagar are staring at a bed crisis with most of them underscoring that their critical care units are all occupied. However, as the beds are filling up fast in the city hospitals, dedicated hospitals across the peripheries continue to lie unused. Currently, out of the 328 beds allocated to Covid-19 in Srinagar-based SMHS Hospital, SKIMS Soura and Chest Diseases Hospital, 205 are occupied. From April 1 till April 15, the occupancy of hospitals in Kashmir has risen from 139 beds to 354 beds, an increase of 250 per cent. The rise in admissions has been exponential in April as per official data while the capacity had been curtailed in December when Kashmir saw a sharp drop in daily positive cases. “The surgeries, which are not emergencies, will be avoided and admission will also be restricted according to the number of beds in the city hospitals,” a senior health department official told DH. He said the healthcare system in peripheries could be augmented to share the load of Covid-19 amidst growing fears of a further surge in cases. “But unfortunately, for the past one year, neither has the manpower been allocated for the management of cases in these facilities, nor has the infrastructure been augmented,” he rued. A doctor at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital said the low number of oxygen beds in peripheries was the main cause of the referrals. “Beds have been allocated, but there is very little accomplished in terms of oxygen support,” he said. The number of active Covid-19 positive cases in J&K crossed the10,000-mark after six months on Thursday. While Kashmir has 6,169 active positive cases, Jammu has 3,871 cases. However, Director of Health Services Kashmir, Dr Mushtaq Ahmed Rather said that the hospitals are admitting the patients and they are ready to deal with the situation. “We have never closed any facility,” he said and added that the augmentation was “in progress” in terms of oxygen support at these facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-hospitals-stare-at-bed-crisis-as-covid-19-cases-see-sharp-rise-974860.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 rampaging through Delhi, makes it worst-hit city in India after eclipsing Mumbai||In just a matter of weeks, Delhi has become the worst-hit city in the country in the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, a situation that some doctors are describing as an "absolute rampage”. Delhi recorded 16,699 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, and 112 fatalities from the infection — a frightening positivity rate of 20.22 per cent, the highest ever since the start of the pandemic in March 2020, according to data shared by the health department.  The previous highest positivity rate till the third wave, was on November 14 last year at 15.33 per cent. With an exponential rise in cases, the national capital has left far behind the financial capital Mumbai, which at one point was the largest Covid-19 hotspot in the country.  Mumbai's single-day peak so far has been 11,163 cases, registered on April 4, according to officials figures. "It is an absolute rampage in the city. Young and old, vaccinated or not vaccinated, the virus is just hitting everyone. Delhi's situation is grim," said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, a senior consultant at Apollo Hospitals here. While Delhi's numbers were lower than on Wednesday, that was because it conducted much fewer tests — about 20,000 less, leading to a positivity rate of 20.22 per cent.  On Wednesday, Bengaluru recorded 8,155 cases and Chennai 2,564 cases, their highest daily surge. Pune's highest single-day since the pandemic began was 12,494 cases, recorded on April 4. The unprecedented surge in cases, especially in the last few days, has left other doctors and medical experts baffled, with some conjecturing that the virus has mutated and assumed so many different strains, some of which are far more infectious than others. "Given the surge in cases in the last few days, it is an absolute rampage. We will have to watch for the next few days, as far as hitting the peak of the wave here is concerned," said Dr Avdhesh Bansal, a pulmonologist at the Apollo hospital. "Also, in this wave, the severity is such that in many cases, either majority of family members or all family members are getting infected," he added. He also felt that vaccination for the general masses "started a bit late" and many frontline workers did not opt for the vaccine, leading to its "wastage". "Early vaccination could have given a protective layer to large number of general masses," the doctor said. He said about two per cent of the people admitted to hospital are dying.  The other reason for the surge was the carelessness of people who assumed the pandemic was over when Delhi's numbers went down dramatically in February.  A Delhi government hospital doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said, "people had thrown caution to the wind, and were socialising and partying with gay abandon again. This has led to the surge too". Bansal also expressed worry about the huge number of people testing positive from the Kumbh Mela area in Haridwar, who run the risk of infecting others. Over 1,700 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases. The previous highest single-day spike in Delhi till the third wave of the pandemic -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 18, the city had recorded 131 C-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. That figure was surpassed on April 11 when 10,774 cases were recorded.  Since then Delhi has been on an upward spiral with 13,468 cases on Tuesday, and eventually 17,282 cases on Wednesday. Compare that with the situation in March: Delhi had registered 23,141 cases and 117 deaths that month. In comparison, Mumbai had 88,710 cases and 216 fatalities in March.  Richa Sareen, consultant, pulmonology at Fortis Hospital here, said, "Given the pace of spread, it definitely seems there is a different variant in circulation and it is more infectious than the previous one."   She said the younger population was getting more infected as the elderly have mostly got vaccinated, and the older population is more at home. But the younger people have been going out and meeting others or socialising, partying or travelling, which increases the chance of infection, Sareen said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-rampaging-through-delhi-makes-it-worst-hit-city-in-india-after-eclipsing-mumbai-974861.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Sunday lockdown in Uttar Pradesh||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced a lockdown across the state on all Sundays till May 15 and also said those caught for the second time not wearing a mask will be fined Rs 10,000. The first time fine for not wearing a mask has been doubled to Rs 1,000 and officials have been directed to run a special campaign for sanitisation across the state, according to a statement. "There will be a weekly closure in all rural and urban areas of the state on Sunday. Only sanitation, sanitisation and emergency services will operate during this period," the statement quoted Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as saying. He also directed officials to run awareness campaigns in this regard. Another statement said that "all markets, commercial institutions, offices etc will remain closed on Sundays till May 15 for proper implementation of this campaign. It (the closure) will start from Saturday 8 pm till Monday 7 am. However medical and health-related emergencies will remain open". This is a "weekly closure", it said, adding that chief minister has directed officials to run the "special campaign" for cleanliness, sanitisation and fogging across the state. "A fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed if someone is caught without a mask for the first time. If caught for the second time, Rs 10,000 fine amount will be imposed," the statement said. The state on Thursday reported 104 deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, pushing the fatality count to 9,480 and the total infection number to 7,66,360. The chief minister said that last year, the MLA development fund proved useful in the work related to prevent the spread of the virus. This year also, according to rules, Rs 1 crore from funds of legislators can be used in Covid management on their recommendation, Adityanath said. He said the first phase of panchayat elections was completed in a very peaceful manner and strict legal action should be taken against those involved in breaching peace at some places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sunday-lockdown-in-uttar-pradesh-974879.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: UK variant scare in Chandigarh after several samples test positive||Amid the second wave of coronavirus virus in India, 70 per cent of the 60 positive samples from Chandigarh sent to New Delhi were found to have the UK variant.  One sample among those had a double mutation, while 20 per cent had the 681H mutant. Most of these samples are from Chandigarh.  The Department of Virology, PGIMER, Chandigarh had sent these samples to National Centre for Diseases Control, Delhi in March. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uk-variant-scare-in-chandigarh-after-several-samples-test-positive-974884.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir police arrests female cop for glorifying militancy||Jammu and Kashmir police have arrested a woman special police officer (SPO) for glorifying militancy and obstructing government officials in their duty in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. A police spokesperson said that on April 14 a search operation was launched in Karewa mohalla of Frisal in Kulgam, 60 kilometres from here, after receiving specific input regarding the presence of militants in the area. “During the course of search, the search party was obstructed by a woman identified as Saima Akther daughter of Ghulam Nabi Rah resident of Frisal,” he said and added the woman “resisted the search party and turned violent, and uttered statements glorifying violent actions of terrorism.” The woman, as per the spokesman, captured a video through her personal phone and forwarded it on social media platforms with the aim of disrupting the search. He said taking cognizance of the matter the woman has been arrested and subsequently disengaged from service as the SPO. SPOs are recruited by the J&K police on a fixed monthly remuneration of Rs 12,000. The wages of SPOs are given by the state government and reimbursed by the Centre under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) scheme. The police maintain SPOs are an important element in their strategy to combat militancy. The 30,000 men and women SPOs - bolstering a police force with duties ranging from fighting militancy to maintaining law and order have been targeted specifically by militants in the last few years. However, in recent years several SPOs have deserted the force and joined militant ranks along with weapons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-police-arrests-female-cop-for-glorifying-militancy-974885.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Set up helplines that inform availability of beds in Delhi hospitals, says Anil Baijal||In the wake of an exponential rise in coronavirus cases in Delhi, Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday directed officers to set up helplines that inform availability of beds in hospitals besides establishing help desks to assist patients and attendants, an official said. Baijal, who reviewed the enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, said that concerted and coordinated efforts are required from all agencies and stakeholders to contain the surge of coronavirus in the national capital. The lieutenant governor also directed officers to ensure aggressive deployment and enforcement in areas in peak hours. "The LG asked Chief Secretary Vijay Dev to ensure setting up of helplines that inform availability of beds in hospitals apart from displaying the same on government portals. He also directed to set up help desks to assist patients and attendants in every hospital," the official said. As the number of Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate continue to rise in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the infection. Delhi recorded 16,699 Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities on Thursday, according to the health department. The positivity rate soared to 20.22 per cent, the highest till date in Delhi. The city had registered 17,282 new infections on Wednesday, its highest single-day spike till date. The number of cases has been on an upward spiral in the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/set-up-helplines-that-inform-availability-of-beds-in-delhi-hospitals-says-anil-baijal-974886.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Three held for black marketing Remdesvir injections in UP||Three persons, including two medical representatives, were arrested here for allegedly black marketing Remdesivir injections, the Uttar Pradesh Police said on Friday. A total of 265 Remdesivir injections, used in the treatment of Covid-19, were seized from their possession, a senior UP Police Special Task Force official said. The injections were meant for back marketing, he added. The three persons were arrested on Thursday in a joint operation by the Kanpur Police and the STF after a tip-off regarding black marketing of Remdesivir injections, the official said. As per details, the Remdesivir injections were to be sold to someone at a very high price in Kidwai Nagar, the STF said in a statement. The arrested persons were identified as medical representatives Prashant Shukla and Mohan Soni, residents of Naubasta, and Sachin Kumar of Haryana. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kanpur south, Raveena Tyagi said the batch number on the vials was found to be missing. The arrested persons failed to produce the bill of the vials, she added. Mobile phones of the arrested persons have been seized to scan call details to unearth the scam, Tyagi said. An FIR has been registered at Babupurwa police station in this connection, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-held-for-black-marketing-remdesvir-injections-in-up-974889.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Vaccine reduces severity, not shield against Covid-19, say experts||Amid cases of the coronavirus infection being reported post vaccination from a few parts of the country, experts have said inoculation against Covid-19 "does not produce a shield" against the deadly virus, but helps reduce the severity of the infection and chances of death. They have also said that "no causal link has been established" yet between vaccination and the complications suffered thereafter by a person through any clinical or epidemiological studies. From Delhi to Chennai and even in tier-2 cities like Patna, cases of vaccination beneficiaries contracting the coronavirus infection have been reported in the last couple of months. Thirty-seven doctors at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19 since the latest surge in cases, five of whom were admitted for treatment, hospital sources said last week. Many of them had taken both doses of the Covieshield vaccine, the sources said. A 54-year-old sanitation worker in Delhi died from health complications on February 22. "My father had received his first shot of Covieshield on February 17. That day, when he returned home, he started feeling uneasy and the very next day, he was running temperature, which lasted for two-three days," his son Dheeraj had said. He had said his father continued to go to work despite the "weakness post vaccination", collapsed while being on duty and died at a hospital later. In Chennai, a vaccination beneficiary, who had got his first shot on March 15, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 29. He was hospitalised on March 30 and died on April 4, raising concerns among the family members on the efficacy of the vaccine. While cases of minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported in various parts of the country, in some cases, it has been major too, leading to hospitalisation. The Centre, however, has maintained that both Covieshield and Covaxin are safe to take, and urged people not to get swayed by rumours. Several experts have concurred that vaccination against Covid-19 "does not produce a shield" against the deadly virus, but helps reduce the severity of the infection and chances of death. "We know of cases of the infection reported post vaccination, even after taking two doses. But these cases are largely where the beneficiaries have had very mild symptoms. The vaccine at least reduces the severity of the infection and chances of mortality," Dr Avdhesh Bansal, a pulmonologist at the Apollo hospital here, said. Also, the full efficacy of the vaccine comes in only after two doses, he added. Dr Richa Sareen, consultant, pulmonology at the Fortis hospital here, echoed Bansal, saying, "The anti-bodies fully kick in only after both the doses have been taken. So a person getting infected after the first dose is possible, if exposed to a source of infection." A senior doctor at a Delhi government hospital, on the condition of anonymity, said "the vaccine is not a full safety shield", but wearing masks can complement the fight against the virus, which is mutating in multiple ways. "Many people after getting vaccinated think that now they are immune to getting the infection. So they either do not wear a mask or wear it improperly. The virus first attacks the nasal passage and then the chest region. So if the mouth and the nostrils are exposed, chances are high that a person, after vaccination, may still get infected," he said. Also, the individual immunity level and associated co-morbidities could be a factor when it comes to getting infected after the first or the second dose of the vaccine, the doctor said, adding, "Our mask is our best vaccine now." While medical and pharmaceutical industry experts debate over the efficacy of vaccines, many doctors conjecture that as the coronavirus has been mutating, it will affect the efforts to detect the infection, develop vaccination and capability to develop herd immunity. So far, a UK strain, Brazil and South African variants and a double mutant of the virus have been reported in Delhi. Vaccination of healthcare workers began in India since the launch of the inoculation drive on January 16 and then it was opened in phases to the elderly and those in the 45-59 age group with co-morbidities, with the Centre eventually allowing all aged above 45 to be eligible for immunisation against Covid-19. The post-vaccination infection has brought trauma to the family members of the patients, who were hoping to get some reprieve after getting the shots. Former IT cell head of the BJP and ex-CEO of MyGov Arvind Gupta on Friday wrote on Twitter: "#Vaccine being put to test in our family. All taken Dose2 1. Patient 1 - Infected +- 7 days. In hospital with mild-moderate symptoms 2. Patient 2 - Infected +- 9 days. At home with high fever & cough  3. Patient 3 - Infected +- 14 days. At home with ~100F fever @MoHFW_INDIA." Hyderabad-based doctor Lakshmi Lavanya Alapati replied to his tweet on the microblogging platform, saying, "After both doses are admi­nistered, antibodies develop and severity of infection and chances of death are lowered. There is a 85% reduction in chances of hospitali­sation after vaccination. But vaccines cannot prevent the virus to enter your body - only mask can stop virus entry."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccine-reduces-severity-not-shield-against-covid-19-say-experts-974894.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath orders setting up of 1,000-bed makeshift Covid hospital in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday ordered the establishment of a 1,000-bed makeshift Covid hospital here to tackle the rising number of coronavirus cases. The state had on Thursday reported 104 deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, pushing the fatality count to 9,480 and the total infection number to 7,66,360. The Chief Minister made the direction for setting up the hospital during a review meeting with divisional commissioners, district magistrates, chief medical officers and his Team-11 (a core team of 11 officers). "A 1,000-bed Covid hospital should be established in Lucknow. The venue of the Defence Expo may be a good place for this," said a government spokesperson, quoting the Chief Minister. He directed the officials to review the availability of medical oxygen on a daily basis. "Continuous supply of oxygen to Covid hospitals in all districts must be ensured. The control room set up by the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department in connection with this, should remain active 24 hours,” he said. The department should ensure adequate availability of Remdesivir, he said, adding: “Its monitoring should be done by the Chief Secretary's office. Additional Remdesivir should be purchased while assessing the situation for the next one month.” Adityanath directed the officials to ensure smooth operation of ambulance services. “Besides this, the availability of medical personnel, Covid beds, medicines, medical equipments and oxygen should always be maintained in every district," he said, adding the government should be informed about every need. He also said, "Government and private laboratories should work with full capacity for Covid testing. Any negligence in this work is not acceptable. Rates have also been fixed at the government-level for Covid testing. Ensure that these arrangements are implemented by the district administration with quality control.” Due to the rise in cases, OPD services should be suspended in all government hospitals of the state, teleconsultation should be promoted in its place and only emergency services should be operated in government hospitals, he stressed. He further said: "UP has an excellent experience of Covid management. Our policies have received global acclaim. Our victory in this battle of Covid-19 is certain. Every citizen of the state has an important role in it. Compliance with the Covid protocol is in everyone's interest. Masks, sanitisation and physical distancing have to be included in our lifestyle.” The Chief Minister said the facilities and needs of the people in home isolation should be taken care of and medical kits containing all types of essential medicines should be made available to them. Asking officials to visit the Integrated Command and Control Centre in every district, he said the daily situation should be conveyed to the CM's office. He stressed on carrying out sanitation, sanitisation and fogging activities regularly in all urban and rural areas of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-orders-setting-up-of-1000-bed-makeshift-covid-hospital-in-lucknow-974903.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Deputy CM Sisodia appointed nodal officer for Covid-19 management in Delhi||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was on Friday appointed the nodal officer for Covid-19 management in the national capital, according to an official order. Sisodia will be responsible for inter-ministerial coordination till further orders, it said. As the number of Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate continue to rise in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the infection. Delhi recorded 16,699 Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities on Thursday, according to the health department. The positivity rate soared to 20.22 per cent, the highest till date in Delhi. The city had registered 17,282 new infections on Wednesday, its highest single-day spike till date. The number of cases has been on an upward spiral in the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deputy-cm-sisodia-appointed-nodal-officer-for-covid-19-management-in-delhi-974932.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 patient dies as hospital staffer removes oxygen, kin say||A government school teacher suffering from Covid-19 died at a district hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Shivpuri after a ward boy allegedly removed his portable oxygen support system for providing it to some other patient in the ICU ward, his family members have alleged. The incident took place on Wednesday, but came to light on Thursday after the hospital staff informed the family members about the 52-year-old man's death. “As per the CCTV footage, the patient's oxygen support system was removed by the ward boy and he died within 10-15 minutes,” one of the relatives of the deceased said. His son said, “I was with my father at the hospital till Tuesday night and his condition was stable. He was taking food and water properly. However, on Wednesday, someone removed his oxygen support, following which his condition deteriorated, which resulted in his death." After the allegations, the hospital authorities have formed a committee to investigate the incident. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Dr Arjun Lal Sharma said, "The patient was already on dialysis and his haemoglobin level was also low. We will go through the CCTV footage to probe the incident." "If anybody is found guilty, then that person will be punished," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-patient-dies-as-hospital-staffer-removes-oxygen-kin-say-974942.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||ITBP activates medical setup, special Covid care centre for serving and retired personnel in Delhi||All hospitals of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have been "activated" and a Covid care centre has been operationalised in Delhi for serving and retired personnel of the force in view of the spurt in coronavirus infections across the country, the paramilitary said on Friday. ITBP director general S S Deswal issued a message in this regard to around 90,000 personnel and an estimated 20,000 retired and dependents of the force that was raised in 1962 after the Chinese aggression. "All our hospitals have been activated to treat our 'Himveers' (braves of the mountains) and their families. Our doctors are highly motivated and committed to take care of you." "A helpline is being started in this regard. A Covid care centre has been made functional at Chhawla (south-west Delhi) campus and it is fully equipped," a statement issued by the force quoting the DG said.  It added, "We are always concerned and committed to take care of our veterans and their families. These facilities are available to our veterans also." Deswal said it was again "challenging times for the country in view of the second assault by Covid-19." "Most of you have been vaccinated as per priority given to us by the government. We are warriors, and will fight it out by following the Covid-19 safety protocols," the message said. The ITBP chief asked the personnel not to take any chances. "Himveers have to save other citizens also by rendering all help. Be a sincere follower of Covid-19 safety protocol. Protect yourself, families, and near and dear ones," the message said. The ITBP is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country. As per official data published on April 14, various central armed police forces (CAPFs) are also witnessing a jump in coronavirus infections as the country is witnessing a surge in recent times.  The CAPFs, including the ITBP, have a total of 2,727 active coronavirus cases among them, as per the data. The CAPFs like ITBP, CRPF, BSF, CISF and SSB and two other forces under the command of the Union home ministry, NDRF and NSG, have reported a total of 56,494 Covid-19 infections till now. As per the report, while 53,557 personnel have been cured, these forces have also seen 210 deaths since the pandemic broke out last year around March.  Officials said various forces have again begun preparing their own Covid-19 hospital facilities even as the Greater Noida-based CAPFs referral hospital has been restored to its non-Covid hospital category. Last year, it was designated as an exclusive Covid care centre and it treated numerous CAPF, local police, police veterans and their families and some civilians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/itbp-activates-medical-setup-special-covid-care-centre-for-serving-and-retired-personnel-in-delhi-974945.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||In ‘Naya Kashmir’, even women not spared from cruelty: Mufti on SPO’s arrest||PDP Chief Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said when it comes to cruelty “even women aren’t spared in Naya Kashmir” as she reacted to the arrest a woman special police officer (SPO) from Kulgam district for allegedly glorifying terrorism. Saima Akhter, a resident of Frisal area of the south Kashmir district and working as SPO, was terminated from service for “obstructing” government officials in the discharge of their duty and booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. "Saima Akhter from Kulgam has been slapped with UAPA for raising legitimate questions about searching her home repeatedly without any reasons. Saima's ailing mother understandably exacerbated her worries. When it comes to cruelty even women aren’t spared in Naya Kashmir," Mufti said in a tweet.  According to a police spokesperson, security forces on Wednesday launched a search operation in Karewa Mohallah of village Frisal on a specific input regarding the presence of militants there. During the operation, the search party was obstructed to by Akther, the spokesperson said. “The lady resisted the search party and turned violent and uttered statements glorifying violent actions of terrorists,” he said. Akhter captured a video on her phone and uploaded it on social media platforms for dissemination “with the intent of disrupting the search operation”, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-naya-kashmir-even-women-not-spared-from-cruelty-mufti-on-spo-s-arrest-974951.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||From the Newsroom: India logs over 2L fresh Covid cases||In your evening news brief, India records over 2 lakh Covid-19 cases in a day; Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid-19 and At least eight people were killed in a shooting at Indianapolis, US.  Here is the top news of April 16, 2021: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 and is being taken to Manipal Hospital for treatment, his office said. He had tested positive for the novel coronavirus in August last year and had recovered. Yediyurappa had spent the last couple of days campaigning for the April 17 bypolls in Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly constituencies. During a poll campaign in Belagavi, he developed fever.   India added a record 2,17,353 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,42,91,917, while active cases surpassed the 15-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. This is the second consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,74,308 with 1,185 new fatalities, the highest since September 19, 2020, the data updated at 8 am showed. At least eight people were killed in a shooting at a delivery company by a gunman who is believed to have then turned the gun on himself, police in the US city of Indianapolis said. The victims all died at a Fedex facility where the shooting took place late Thursday, police spokeswoman Genae Cook told a news conference, adding several other people had been taken to hospital.   Four people with gunshot wounds were transported by ambulance, including one in critical condition, police said. Three were transported with other injuries, while two were treated at the scene and then released. The incident in Indianapolis follows a spate of mass shootings across the US in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-india-logs-over-2l-fresh-covid-cases-974995.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||MP: 2 Congress MLAs donate Rs 25 lakh for Covid-19 fight||Amid a sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh, Congress MLAs Sachin Subhash Yadav and PC Sharma on Friday donated Rs 15 lakh and Rs 10 lakh respectively from their MLA Local Area Development Fund corpus for creation of health infrastructure. While Sharma, a former state minister, is MLA from Bhopal South West, Yadav is legislator from Kasravad. Yadav donated Rs 10 lakh for the community health centre in Kasravad and Rs 5 lakh for the district hospital in Khargone. Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sbah MP Digvijaya Singh praised Sharma and Yadav and appealed to all Congress legislators to donate funds from their local area development corpus to provide relief to people amid the outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-2-congress-mlas-donate-rs-25-lakh-for-covid-19-fight-975000.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Those appearing for exams this weekend in Delhi will not require curfew e-passes: DDMA||People appearing for examinations this weekend in Delhi will not require curfew e-passes, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order on Friday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the Covid-19 infection in the city. The DDMA directed that "any person/student shall be allowed for movement during the curfew to appear in examination on production of valid admit card". "The examination staff deployed for exam duties shall also be allowed to travel on production of valid identity card," the order read. According to an official order issued on Thursday, the weekend curfew will be effective from 10 pm on April 16 (Friday) to 5 am on April 19 (Monday).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-appearing-for-exams-this-weekend-in-delhi-will-not-require-curfew-e-passes-ddma-975010.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||E-pass for Delhi night curfew valid for weekend curfew too||Those who have a valid night curfew e-pass are not required to take a separate pass for the weekend curfew, the Delhi government said on Friday. Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the infection. The Delhi government had on April 6 announced a seven-hour night curfew. The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the city. The DDMA order for curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be in force till April 30. "The e-pass possessed by a person for movement connected to essential goods and services during night curfew shall also be valid for weekend curfew period, " read a letter issued by the DDMA on Friday. A notice on the Delhi government website also said, "If you already hold a night-curfew ePass, you DO NOT have to re-apply for the weekend curfew. Your pass shall automatically be considered valid during the weekend (in the day-time)." The e-pass is being issued for those who are engaged in providing essential services, but do not have a government ID. This includes individuals related to commercial and private establishments -- like shops dealing with food, groceries, pharmaceuticals, or people working in banks, insurance offices, private security agencies and petrol pumps, among others -- and those going for Covid vaccination during the weekend curfew. Delhi recorded 16,699 Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities on Thursday, according to the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/e-pass-for-delhi-night-curfew-valid-for-weekend-curfew-too-975013.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Chandigarh administration announces weekend lockdown||The Chandigarh administration announced a weekend lockdown in the union territory from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday, in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases. Announcing the fresh restriction in an official statement here, the administration urged residents to stay indoors. Essential activities and services and home delivery of food are exempted from the purview of the lockdown, it said. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting here chaired by Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, who is also the Administrator of the union territory. The administration also announced other restrictions, which will be in place till April 30. While all gymnasiums and spas in the union territory will remain closed, cinema halls can run with 50 per cent capacity, it said. All government offices will function with 50 per cent staff strength, and general public will be allowed to meet officers only with prior appointment, the statement said. The administration also banned on all social, cultural, political and religious events The existing limit on gatherings in permitted functions will be reduced to 100 for outdoor events and 50 for indoor ones, it said. Buses will run but with 50 per cent capacity only, the administration said. Museums, libraries, coaching institutions etc., will remain closed, it said, adding online coaching will continue. Meanwhile, the administration clarified that candidates venturing out to sit in examinations and those deputed in exam duties will be allowed to travel on production of admit or identity cards. Visitors will be screened at the airport, railway station, ISBT etc., it said. Home delivery of food will, however, be allowed, the statement said. All vaccination and testing centres, dispensaries and other medical facilities will remain open during the lockdown and people going there will not be stopped. Inter-state travellers will be allowed on all days, including the lockdown period, the administration said. The high-level meeting was attended by Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, and Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh, and Director, PGIMER, among others. Badnore expressed serious concerns about the rising number of covid-19 cases in the city and also the high fatality. The union territory reported 412 cases of the coronavirus on Thursday, taking the infection count to 32,397. Badnore directed all the three government medical institutes here to ramp up their facilities so as to accommodate the increasing number of coronavirus patients. All Covid-19-related deaths must be specifically audited, he said, adding that the sector 48 hospital should be made fully operational, so that it can function as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, he directed. Badnore also directed all hospitals to store enough oxygen and vaccines. All Covid-19 patients currently under home-quarantine must be regularly contacted and provided necessary assistance, he said. The UT administrator said all shops must get their staff tested and display signboards stating that their premises are coronavirus-free. Action will be taken against shoppers going to the markets without masks and also against shopkeepers attending them, he said. Badnore also said that mobile teams should be sent to temples, gurdwaras, mosques and other crowded places during festivals so that visitors can be screened and symptomatic cases tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarh-administration-announces-weekend-lockdown-975014.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Be more conservative, considerate in filing applications when judges, staff down with Covid-19: Delhi HC||A Delhi High Court judge on Friday said lawyers "need to be a bit more conservative" while filing applications in the prevailing situation where several judges and staff of the high court are down with Covid-19. Justice Prathiba M Singh said filing of applications for urgent hearing when there was no urgency in a matter was not fair to the judges or the registry staff. "Please be a bit more considerate towards the judges and the staff of the high court which is facing a trying time with so many people being down with Covid," the judge said. The judge's remarks came while hearing a matter in which an application was filed for urgent hearing though there was no urgency in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/be-more-conservative-considerate-in-filing-applications-when-judges-staff-down-with-covid-19-delhi-hc-975033.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Kashmir seems to return to normalcy, but people refuse to accept revoking of special status: Report||Kashmir seems to have returned to normalcy, but people have refused to accept the Centre’s 2019 decision of revoking Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, says a report released by the Concerned Citizens' Group led by former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha. The Group visited Kashmir from March 30 to April 2. It was its third visit to the Union territory after the central government revoked the special status of the erstwhile state and the eighth since violence erupted in the Valley following the gunning down of militant leader Burhan Wani in July 2016. “The Concerned Citizens' Group (CCG) met with a cross-section of representatives of civil society groups, businessmen, politicians, newly-elected members of district development councils, human rights activists, representatives of Kashmiri Pandits, Shia leaders and political leaders, especially those who had been released after being jailed in the wake of the developments of August 5, 2019,” the group said in a statement. The report said Kashmir seemed “more normal” than what the situation was during the group's earlier visits. “On the face of it, Srinagar seemed peaceful. People were seen going about their daily chores. Life seemed more 'normal' compared to our earlier visits,” it said. The group, however, claimed that people were still not ready to accept the Centre's decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. “When asked about the apparent 'sense of normality', people said that life had to go on even after two years of the lockdown. They claimed they had to work for their living and think of their children's future. However, they were also quick to point out that this should not be taken as acceptance by them of the August 5, 2019 decisions,” the report said. In the report, the CCG also mentioned that there is no space for any dissent or criticism of the government policies and police action on any platform - be it social media, print or electronic media. “Journalism has been virtually criminalised. No protests by civil society are allowed, nor are rallies by political parties permitted. The police do not hesitate to summon journalists and ordinary citizens and even lock them up under the Public Safety Act," it said. It suggested that state actors and political parties address the sense of defeat and anger amongst the Kashmiris by opening up the democratic space for people to express themselves. The group members also suggested that security forces not blow-up the houses of villagers occupied forcibly by militants for shelter or for using them tactically against the security forces, and allow civil society organisations to function by holding meetings, seminars and discussions which would allow the people to vent their emotions and relieve the psychological pressure on them. It also said that media persons be allowed to freely report from the ground. “Do not impose artificial political processes on the Kashmiris which seem democratic outwardly but are bereft of any democratic muscle. Allow the national opposition political parties to visit Kashmir, move around freely and meet local political leaders and civil society actors,” the group suggested. The group said there were fewer bunkers and roadblocks, and the deployment of the police and para-military forces appeared slender in the Union territory now. “… during our three-hour up and down road trip to Kulgam from Srinagar, we were not stopped even once by security personnel. There were, however, short traffic stoppages -- never longer than five minutes -- to allow Army convoys to pass,” it said. Referring to the status of businesses in the Valley, the report said after nearly two years of virtually no business, the visiting group found that tourist arrivals had picked up momentum and many of the hotels and guest houses claimed that they have had continuous flow of tourists since the winter. The Sinha-led group said it seemed that the “anger, despair and alienation of Kashmiris that we had witnessed first-hand during our six previous visits to the valley, persisted”. “However, the Centre's virtual obliteration of the political mainstream, nullification of Article 370, abrogation of Article 35A, bifurcation of the state and the enactment of the new domicile laws seemed to have increased the all pervasive sense of fear, humiliation and hopelessness among the Kashmiri population," it said. People are still in shock and seemed psychologically disturbed showing heightened anxiety and paranoia about the future, it added. Apart from Sinha, other members of the group comprise executive secretary, Centre for Dialogue and Reconciliation, Delhi, Sushobha Barve; former chairman of the Minorities Commission and the first chief information commissioner of India, Wajahat Habibullah; Vice Marshal (Retd) Kapil Kak; and former editor and independent journalist Bharat Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-seems-to-return-to-normalcy-but-people-refuse-to-accept-revoking-of-special-status-report-975050.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi Traffic Police suspends process to collect dues for pending challans in cash||The Delhi Traffic Police has suspended the process to collect dues for pending challans in cash in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases here, officials said on Friday. A senior police officer said that the process has been suspended till further orders, following the increasing coronavirus cases. However, people still have the option of e-gateway to pay their challans, police said. Earlier this month, police had issued a circular where they mentioned that cash counters may be made operational in each circle every Saturday and Sunday between 10 am to 6 pm from April 10. "It has been observed that many individuals with pending challans are not able to pay their fines through the online payment system for various reasons. "Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) has desired that the cash counter may be established in each circle on every Saturday and Sunday from 10 am to 6 pm to collect the fine amount for pending challans," the circular had stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-traffic-police-suspends-process-to-collect-dues-for-pending-challans-in-cash-975079.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Nitish Kumar chairs high-level meeting on Covid-19 ahead of all-party meet||A day before an all-party meeting called by the Governor on the Covid-19 situation, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar Friday held a high-level meeting to discuss the steps taken so far to check the spread of the disease and availability of oxygen for critically ill patients. Emerging from the meeting, Kumar refused to divulge details of the deliberations, saying everything will be discussed at the all-party meeting which will be chaired by Governor Phagu Chauhan on April 17. "We will brief about steps taken till now to check the spread of infections and will listen to points of view of others," he told reporters. The chief minister said after talks with political parties, a district level meeting will be held the next day and more suitable measures will be taken to put a brake on the surge of coronavirus in Bihar like other parts of the country in the wake of its second wave. The meeting called by the Governor will be held in virtual mode. Friday's meeting on the coronavirus scenario in Bihar was attended by Deputy Chief Ministers-Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi-besides Health minister Mangal Pandey, his cabinet colleague in Education department Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and Principal Secretary Health Pratyaya Amrit among others. Asked if Bihar was contemplating imposition of lockdown or night curfew in the backdrop of substantial increase in infections, the chief minister did not give any direct answer and said things would be discussed at the Saturday meeting. He said its true that coronavirus cases are rising with every passing day in the state and the government would initiate more steps based on the outcome of the all-party meeting and views emerging from districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-chairs-high-level-meeting-on-covid-19-ahead-of-all-party-meet-975103.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Time for woman CJI not very far off: Justice Nariman||Supreme Court Justice R F Nariman on Friday said the country had a woman President and a woman Prime Minister, but unfortunately never a woman Chief Justice, though the time for this would not be very far off. Delivering the 26th Justice Sunanada Bhandare memorial lecture on "Great Women of History", Justice Nariman said, "In India, we had a woman President. But, unfortunately, given the fact, we had a woman President and a woman Prime Minister, we never had a woman Chief Justice." "In any event, I hope, given the present dispensation, the time for the first (woman) Chief Justice will not be very far off," he said. The comments by Justice Nariman come on the heels of remarks made by Chief Justice S A Bobde on Thursday during the hearing on a matter related to judges' appointment that time has come for a woman Chief Justice of India. Justice Nariman said that according to the Bible, women are said to have been created from the rib of a man and the Rig Veda says do not expect a lasting friendship with women, 'for they are like hyenas'. He added that in ancient Persian texts too, women are depicted negatively, with taboo attached to menstruation, and in history, there was always a perception that women were lower than men. "Misogynistic traditions were there for ages," he said. In his speech, Justice Nariman detailed the role of five remarkable women in history: Cleopatra of ancient Egypt, Pope Joan, Elizabeth I of England, Catherine the Great of Russia and Razia Sultana, as he spoke extempore on their historical significance and emphasised their key achievements. Speaking on the occasion, former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B Lokur said, "Justice Nariman is very versatile in western classical music. He once told me that if he had not been a lawyer, he would have been a music conductor of the Zubin Mehta variety."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/time-for-woman-cji-not-very-far-off-justice-nariman-975106.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi government orders linking of public, private sector labs to ensure timely processing of Covid-19 samples||The Delhi government has issued an order for linking of public and private sector diagnostic labs to ensure timely processing of samples for Covid-19 test, the authorities said on Friday. The order comes amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital. Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of both 19,486 Covid-19 cases and 141 fatalities on Friday, according to data shared by the health department here. A total of 98,957 tests – 64,939 RT-PCR and 34,018 rapid antigen – were conducted in the city on Thursday, it showed. The bulletin said that an "order has been issued regarding linkage of public and private sector labs with each district of the NCT of Delhi to ensure adequate number of slots available in labs to get their samples processed within a stipulated time frame". Delhi has a total of 11 administrative districts and a population of nearly 2 crore. The number of cumulative Covid-19 cases in Delhi on Friday stood at 8,03,623. Over 7.3 lakh patients have recovered from the virus so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-orders-linking-of-public-private-sector-labs-to-ensure-timely-processing-of-covid-19-samples-975122.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh reports highest daily spike of 11,045 Covid-19 cases; 60 deaths||Madhya Pradesh recorded 11,045 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, its biggest one-day spike so far, taking the state's infection count to 3,84,563, health department officials said. The fatality count rose to 4,425 as 60 patients died due to the infection in the last 24 hours, which is also the highest one-day toll for the state since the pandemic outbreak, they said. In this month so far, the state has recorded 89,052 new cases and 439 fatalities. The previous highest one-day count (10,166) and deaths (53) were reported on April 15. A total of 7,496 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, which took the recovery count in Madhya Pradesh to 3,20,955, the health department said. With 1,679 new infections, Indore's caseload went up to 85,969, while that of Bhopal rose to 65,222 with the addition of 1,681 patients. Indore reported the highest deaths at 10, taking the toll in the district to 1,033, while this number in Bhopal rose to 670 with four more fatalities, the officials said. There are 9,848 active cases in Indore at present and 8,055 in Bhopal, they said. The number of active cases in the state has gone up to 59,183. As many as 49,903 more tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, pushing the number of samples examined for coronavirus so far in Madhya Pradesh to 69,70,509. MP's coronavirus figures are as follows: Total cases 3,84,563, new cases 11,045, death toll 4,425, recovered cases 3,20,955, active cases 59,183, number of tests conducted so far 69,70,509.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-reports-highest-daily-spike-of-11045-covid-19-cases-60-deaths-975139.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government submits Covid-19 action plan in High Court||The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday submitted a detailed action plan to the High Court on how it was tackling the Covid-19 surge. The plan was submitted as per the High Court directive on Thursday, state Advocate General PK Kaurav told PTI. He said, as per the plan, testing capacity had increased from 20,000 per day in February to 40,000 now, while consumption of medical oxygen, as on April 13-14, was 281 metric tonnes against an average supply was 285 MT. The state government planned to set up a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plant each in 13 districts, for which bids are invited, while eight districts already have such plants, Kaurav said. The demand for medical oxygen is expected to go up to 651 MT per day by April 30, and the Madhya Pradesh government has approached the Centre to procure around 747 MT in future, he said. The advocate general said rates for testing have been capped for private laboratories, diagnostic centres, hospitals, nursing homes etc at Rs. 700 for RTPCR, Rs. 300 for RAT and maximum of Rs.3000 for chest CT/HRCT scan, while a rate list has also been issued for nursing homes etc treating Covid-19 patients. As of April 14, the state's Covid-19 caseload was 3.63 lakh, with active cases being 49,551, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-submits-covid-19-action-plan-in-high-court-975140.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan ready for bypolls for three Assembly seats||The stage is set for bypolls in three Assembly constituencies in Congress-ruled Rajasthan where voting will be held on Saturday. The three Assembly seats for which the bypolls are being held are Sahara in Bhilwara district, Sujangarh in Churu district and Rajsamand. The three seats have fallen vacant following the deaths of sitting Rajasthan minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal representing Sujangarh, Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi from Sahara and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari from Rajsamand. While Meghwal had died of a brain stroke last year in November, Trivedi and Maheswari had succumbed to Covid-19 around the same time. The Congress has fielded Meghwal’s son Manoj, Trivedi’s wife Gayatri Devi and party leader Tansukh Bohara from the three seats respectively. They are facing BJP’s former minister Khemaram Meghwal, former ex-MLA Ratanlal Jat and Maheshwari’s daughter Deepti respectively at the three seats. In the 200-member Assembly, the Congress at present has 104 members, BJP 72, RLP three, CPI (M) and BTP two each while there 13 independent MLA. Four seats are vacant. The bypolls for the fourth vacant seat Vallabhnagar is yet to be announced. Though the results will have no impact on the stability of the Ashok Gehlot government, rocked last year by a revolt led by former deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, they are likely to reflect the public mood and its assessment of the government's work. The bypolls are also being seen as a test of the leadership of BJP’s state president Satish Poonia, who was given a free hand to handle them but suffered a setback after former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and some other leaders distanced themselves from electioneering on one pretext or the other. The voting will be held on Saturday from 7 am to 6 pm in strict adherence to the anti-Covod protocol. Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said at polling booths, voters will be thermally scanned before being allowed inside and will be given gloves to wear before touching EVMs. Wearing facemasks too will be mandatory, he added. A total of 27 candidates are in the fray in these three constituencies where a total of 7,43,802 voters will be able to exercise their franchise. Counting will be held on May 2. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party headed by Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal has also fielded candidates in the bypolls. On the eve of polling day, Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra exuded confidence that his party will win all three seats, claiming people are very much satisfied with the government work in the last two and half years. Chief Minister Gehlot too earlier on Thursday released a video message, appealing to people to vote for the Congress. “If we win the three byelections, this will be a lesson for all the conspirators, sitting in Delhi, be it Union minister or their leaders who are in the Opposition here (in the state), that public is supreme in democracy and will not tolerate if there is an attempt to topple the elected government,” he said in his message. BJP state president Poonia, however, claimed that there is resentment among people against the Congress government over the worsening law and order in the state. The people have also been resenting the Congress’ failure to fulfil its pre-poll promises, made in 2018. He also exuded confidence that the saffron party will win the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-ready-for-bypolls-for-three-assembly-seats-975150.html
16-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC stays FIR order against animals right activist Ambika Shukla in case relating to 3 Persian cats||The Delhi High Court Friday stayed lodging of FIR against animal rights activist Ambika Shukla for allegedly handing over three rescued Persian kittens to an authorised person and not to the owner despite a trial court order. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice to Delhi Police and asked it to file a status report within three weeks on a petition by Shukla, who is the sister of BJP MP Maneka Gandhi, seeking quashing of the trial court’s two orders and the proceedings initiated against her. “Till further orders, I hereby stay the registration of FIR against the petitioner (Shukla),” the judge said. The high court also directed the concerned Deputy Commissioner of Police to file the report as per the April 13 direction of the magistrate before the trial court and thereafter before the high court, at least a week before the next date of hearing -- July 12. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, representing Shukla, informed the high court that on Thursday evening, barring the three Persian cats, all other 27 animals have been given to the IO and said that the three cats have died is false. The high court questioned the petitioner for giving away the case property, the three cats, to some other person. Aggarwal said the cats have not died and if police goes to the house of the woman to whom the cats were given, they can be recovered and she must have been refusing to return them as she might have developed a bond with them. He said the petitioner was 61 years old and it was difficult for her to go to court and seek bail during the COVID-19 pandemic. On March 30, an FIR was registered at Moti Nagar Police Station against the owner of a pet shop from where 30 animals – six Persian cats, 15 white mice, eight hamsters and one love bird – were rescued from the possession of accused Javed Khan and they were seized and handed over to Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC). Shukla’s petition, filed through advocates Hardik Sharma and Barkha Rastogi, said when one Sumedha Chopra, a long time supporter of SGACC and previous director of the organisation, learnt about the seizure of animals, she contacted the petitioner and urged her to allow her to foster the cats. As three cats were quite young and were susceptible to infection, Shukla agreed to hand over them to Chopra on filling the requisite documents for fostering the cats. However, she took the cats away without fulfilling the paperwork, the plea alleged. When the pet shop owner approached the trial court for release of animals on superdari, it was allowed and the investigating officer (IO) was directed to release the animals to him, it said. It added that the IO approached SGACC and 27 animals were there but three Persian kittens were not there as they were given away to the other woman. When the animals were not handed over, Khan approached the trial court seeking contempt action against the officials of SGACC and the magistrate sought appearance of Shukla. On April 4, Shukla lodged a complaint with the DCP West regarding three Persian cats not being handed over back to SGACC by Chopra. It said that on April 12, Shukla appeared in the trial court proceedings virtually and explained the cause of delay in releasing the animals to the owner. However, the next day, the magistrate passed an order directing the SHO of Moti Nagar Police Station to lodge an FIR against the petitioner and the officials of SGACC to investigate into the alleged offences committed by them and file a compliance report on April 28. The trial court had said that prima facie ingredients of offences under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, causing disappearance of evidence of offences or giving false information to screen offender and punishment for criminal breach of trust are made out. It had said that in view of the blatant abuse of the provisions of law by SGACC officials, the DCP concerned was directed to ensure that a copy of this order is served upon the AWB, through the Commissioner of Police or other senior police officer, so that it may also take cognisance of these activities of SGACC, for taking action under the Act and the relevant rules. On receiving of the same, it be filed by the DCP concerned before the trial court on April 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-stays-fir-order-against-animals-right-activist-ambika-shukla-in-case-relating-to-3-persian-cats-975153.html
16-04-2021||Oasis||Death can't be eulogised||Centuries ago, a mystic in Iran was going with his disciples. Suddenly, they heard plaintive cries come out of a house. “Someone is dead,” said one of the disciples. “Yes, very sad,” replied the mystic. “Sad?” “A mystic is never sad. Death mustn’t unnerve an enlightened person like you,” said one of his over smart disciples. “Does enlightenment mean no feelings or sense of absence? A normal human being always feels sad when someone departs and he must feel sorry at the thought that the departed person will never come back. The so-called enlightenment has nothing to do with it, because death can’t be philosophised or intellectualised,” said the great mystic Jami. Indeed, death cannot be philosophised. All the useless talks of glorifying death and attempts of romanticising it are vain and futile. All man-made bogus religions were woven around the fear of death. Death is frightening and in the words of French existentialist Albert Camus, “ We glamorise death with a view to taking away its sting. Who has seen what’s going to happen once you die?” Eulogising death is a failed endeavour to perpetuate life in absentia. John Donne may have written, ”Death, be not proud,” but how many of us know that the great metaphysical poet also wrote, “I don’t want to die”? So, our sad reactions to the death of someone are absolutely normal. Because any man’s death must diminish us. Otherwise, why are we humans? It's because of the fear of death, ancient Egyptians used to mummify the dead body. Because a relatively intact human body was deemed to be an act of defiance to death. We can only feel at peace with death when we realise that we have lost someone and that person will never come back.  When death strikes, it doesn't think or differentiate as to who's its prey. Ergo, we must be true to ourselves and exude our sentiments as is expected of us. We must feel sorry where it’s required and happy when the occasion demands. We are all mortals and it ill behoves us to act like otherwise. In a nutshell, fear of death is inherent in all thinking creatures. No embellishment can rationalise it. Accept death to be the final blow, of which you can never recover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/death-cant-be-eulogised-974771.html
16-04-2021||Panorama||Bengaluru needs a comprehensive metropolitan governance law||Without bringing in any improvisation, the new BBMP Act has failed to incorporate the mandate of the Constitutional Amendment Act, 1992 (CAA, 1992) for metropolitan governance in letter and spirit. It has all but reproduced the extract of Articles 243‑P[c] and 243-ZE of the Constitution under Section 367 of the new Act. Why is a comprehensive metropolitan law essential? Section 367 alone cannot facilitate metropolitan governance for the entire Greater Bengaluru Metropolitan Area (GBMA), which is experiencing physical, social and administrative complexities with overlapping functional jurisdictions of various statutory bodies. A democratically elected body like the Greater Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee (GBMPC) is the need of the hour to overcome dysfunctionalities arising out of multitude of statutory bodies which are detrimental to the common interest of municipalities and panchayats for their coordinated governance. The CAA, 1992, paved the way for proper governance of metropolitan cities enabling state legislatures to make laws like in West Bengal, Karnataka and Haryana (1994), and later in several other states by either amending the municipal laws or town planning laws. The Karnataka Municipalities Corporations (KMC) Act, 1976, was amended in 1994 to insert Section 503-B to incorporate metropolitan law symbolically by just reproducing the extract of Articles 243-P[c] and 243-ZE without any customisation. Some features of the new Bengaluru metropolitan law: The GBMA comprising Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagara districts spanning an area of 8,005 sq km must be directly specified as its jurisdiction. In order to give proper representation to all constituent municipalities and panchayats in GBMA, GBMPC can have 60 members instead of 30 as specified in the new BBMP Act. A total of 45 members (two-thirds) comprising mayor and chairpersons of zonal/standing committees of the BBMP and presidents of the CMCs and TMCs in the GBMA may be directly specified as members since they are already elected. Seats against the panchayats must be filled by electing the members amongst the presidents of zilla panchayats, taluk panchayats and gram panchayats in the GBMA. The remaining 15 members (one-third) may be nominated from among MPs and MLAs within GBMA. The GBMPC will have representatives of state and Central governments and all statutory or parastatal bodies operating in the GBMA. The chief minister must be specified directly in the Act to be the chairperson of the GBMPC, whether he holds the portfolio of Bengaluru City Development or not. Additional Chief Secretary to the state government, Urban Development Department, having overall administrative control of all statutory bodies under the department, must be designated as secretary of the GBMPC, which may have three or four sectoral committees with different functions allocated to them by the GBMPC. The existing BMRDA must be redesignated as BMRA by remodelling BMRDA Act, 1985, and appointed as technical secretariat of the GBMPC. The BMRA should have expert members having expertise in urban planning, traffic and transportation, environment conservation and institutional finance. The BMRA must be equipped with qualified and experienced staff with additional budgetary grants from the government in addition to its internal revenue resources. Powers and functions of the GBMPC: There is a need to prepare or get prepared a five-year draft development plan by consolidating different sectoral plans. The development plan should be reviewed every year for mid-term appraisal which must incorporate development goals, objects and priorities set by the state and the Central government. The plan must have a linkage to 20-year ‘perspective plan’ for spatial development and investment in the GBMA by mobilising equitable sharing of financial resources amongst investment made through different agencies. On its approval by the government, the plan should be binding on all constituent bodies enforceable by the GBMPC. The annual plans of the constituent bodies should be linked to the draft plan. The GBMPC should monitor compliance of milestones of achievement set out in the development plan. The plan must be prepared having regard to matters of common interest and sharing of natural resources. The GBMPC should be the principal controlling authority on the functioning of the BMRA. The powers of the state government should be exercised by the GBMPC independently on all operative matters of metropolitan administration. Environmental conservation: Efforts to prevent pollution of Bellandur and surrounding lakes under scrutiny of the National Green Tribunal has exposed lack of integrated planning and monitoring through the GBMPC due to overlapping functional jurisdictions of the BBMP and the BWSSB and other agencies. Solid waste infrastructure: The BBMP’s waste disposal projects being implemented in the peripheral areas to process 3,000‑3,500 metric tonnes per day (TPD) to cater to the needs of the eight zones of BBMP, against the estimated current requirement to process 5,000-6,000 TPD, is a classic case of piecemeal approach highlighting lack of integrated planning through the GBMPC. Water supply and sewerage: The BBMP was established in 2006, including erstwhile CMC/TMC areas and 110 villages, without basic infrastructure for water supply and underground drainage. The BWSSB is still implementing these projects. The BBMP has to re-lay roads after the utility lines are laid, a sign that the BBMP and the BWSSB are not working in close coordination. Traffic and transportation: The government is contemplating several policy measures affecting the common man like levy of cess on new BDA layouts, allowance of additional TDR (premium TDR) in the areas of metro alignments outside the outer ring road, levy of impact fees for utilisation of additional floor area ratio, revision of parking fee in public places, taxing on deficit parking etc. These policy measures must not be directly incorporated in the next master plan to be prepared by the BDA without consulting the GBMPC. Way forward: The state government must pursue in right earnest as early as possible to frame a new comprehensive metropolitan law to govern GBMA. Timelines of various statutory activities must be incorporated in the rules which must be appended as Schedule to the Act. (The writers are directors of Bengaluru-based think tank, Centre for Urban Governance Studies and Policy Research)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bengaluru-needs-a-comprehensive-metropolitan-governance-law-974770.html
16-04-2021||Right in the Middle||A paean for paperboys||I am not surprised even when my well-meaning friends declare that they have stopped subscribing to newspapers as they have access to e-editions and myriad other information avenues. As a dyed-in-the-wool print-edition addict, I begin my day with a cup of tea in one hand and a newspaper in the other.  Let me devote this ‘Middle’ for a well-deserved paean for our paperboys who adapt themselves to different weather conditions with undimmed tenacity and reach to us our favourite dailies on time. They all sit in the sprawling courtyard of a temple deftly inserting the fliers, leaflets and handouts. Only the paper boys’ fingers know how to impose the slippery advertisements nimbly between the pages. A sample or two would give us an idea of these adverts’ effusive eloquence. For example, one of them says. ‘You should own a plot right away at a premium budgeted residential layout because it is a confluence of connectivity, convenience and comfort that makes you a true urban!’ The most alluring of them all is the advert of an educational institution for the new generation, ‘Modernised mindful curriculum; Robotics, Science and Technology; Digital education; Creative sports, etc’.  The paper boys’ lives are not drab, dull and an endless saga of sadness. Some of them are highly qualified and have great tales of compassion and kindness to share. Some are showered with various gifts by the aged parents whose wards have moved away in search of greener pastures. Some are given umbrellas during rainy seasons. Some gift them with thick water-proof bags to put the papers in. But it is the milkmen who always look for opportunities to pull the legs of our boys in a friendly banter: “Hey, you do all kinds of circus to protect the papers from rain; look at us: we distribute the milk sachets without any worry!” Of course, these early morning companions know very well that both of them work in tandem to wake up the community from slumber. The paperboys have to be extremely attentive of their task since they have to memorise the mohalla, the street and the door numbers to distribute papers and magazines accordingly. Therefore, they suspend their pranks and jests temporarily between 4 am and 8 am. So, when the paperboy tosses the newspaper from the gate next time, catch it sportively like an IPL cricketer and give a smile. The boy will surely reciprocate it and you can even hear his muffled apology ‘Sorry, sir!’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-paean-for-paperboys-974772.html
16-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Lessons from my old wristwatch||When I entered college, in 1975, my father gave me two things--a bicycle and a wristwatch. One liberated me from the confines of my home and the other helped me in mastering the time.    The Atlas bicycle was second-hand but in good condition. It didn’t give me wings but certainly gave wheels to my feet and that’s all I needed to map the spaces I wanted to map at that stage of my life.  The bicycle proved a trusted companion and a fellow traveller through a crucial stretch of my life’s journey. Then, when I left my home to pursue a career, I passed the bike to my younger brother and lost touch with it.  The wristwatch that my father gave me was brand-new hand-winding stainless steel, an HMT Avinash, purchased from the CSD canteen at the price of one hundred and sixty-five rupees. The figure is stuck in memory because the amount was significant, considering that my father’s salary was then in three figures.   I am indebted to my watch for teaching me many lif -lessons. To begin with, it taught me the difference it makes if one arrives anywhere five minutes early rather than five minutes late. It also gave me a perspective that first and foremost, life is merely a number – of seconds, hours, days and years. It made me so acutely conscious of each passing moment that whenever someone asked me what time it was I would reply to the precise second, like, “It’s …O’clock,…minutes and….seconds.” My watch also gave me the profound understanding that time and life move only in one direction i.e., forward and that ‘constant’ is only a theoretical construct. It also taught me that to complete the journey in time, one must neither hurry nor tarry. One must move at a steady pace like the hands of a watch.    HMT was another name for durability. My watch, therefore, stood by me for many years. There was never any need nor inclination to replace it. However, as newer and fancier models came my way as gifts, my first watch lost relevance and I forgot where it was.    Then, the other day, when rummaging in an old trunk for something, I found my old wristwatch neatly packed away, most certainly by my wife. Just to see if it was still working, I wound it up. To my utter surprise and delight the seconds hand started moving without any problem. And the watch came alive as from a long hibernation. That’s when it taught me the most important lesson: one can always count on an old friend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/lessons-from-my-old-wristwatch-975116.html
16-04-2021||Second Edit||Achieving carbon neutrality is a difficult task||The visit of US President Joe Biden’s climate envoy, John Kerry, to India was part of the initiatives being planned by the US to give a push to the fight against climate change and take it to a higher level by prompting individual countries to improve on their current action plans. The US is active in climate diplomacy ever since Joe Biden announced its return to the Paris Agreement. India will have an important role in the scheme because of its size and emission status. Kerry’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a sign of the importance both countries attached to climate action. Kerry appreciated India’s performance and offered US support for India’s action plan by facilitating access to green technologies and finance. The Prime Minister welcomed this and reiterated India’s commitment to meeting its nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement.  But with the US taking more interest in climate initiatives and concern increasing in the world over climate catastrophes, India and many other developing countries may be called upon to do more. A new emission target, which is described as net zero emission or carbon neutrality, has found favour with some countries. It means achieving a balance between emitting carbon and absorbing carbon from the atmosphere, and marks a shift from the idea of emission reduction, which is the norm now, to zero carbon addition. The thinking behind this is that a more effective target should be set because the climate change situation is worsening and reduction strategies have not worked. The US has said that it would achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, and China has proposed for itself a deadline of 2060. At least 58 countries have declared zero emission targets. So, there will be pressure on India to set a timeline for itself.   India has not made its strategy known, but will find it difficult to accept a zero emission target at the present stage of its development. The country’s energy needs are fast expanding and it will not be able to make a major shift from conventional energy to renewable energy very soon, even though its energy basket is changing. China is in a position to consider a timeline but India and many other countries cannot think of it now. Such a proposal will also go against the principle of "common but differentiated responsibility”,  which stipulates that developed countries must pay for their historically high emissions which have created the present situation. Or they should finance and support with technology the entire shift to the new norm. This is not bound to happen. But the idea will be discussed in this month’s virtual international summit and in the CoP (Conference of Parties) 26 in Glasgow in November this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/achieving-carbon-neutrality-is-a-difficult-task-974766.html
16-04-2021||Second Edit||A 'publicity interest litigation’||The Supreme Court has done well to again strongly uphold the right of an adult person to freely choose, practise and propagate his or her religion, which is a constitutionally guaranteed right. The court has made this assertion in the past also when it dealt with the issue of religious freedom in various ways and in different contexts. It came before the court this time in the form of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) against religious conversions, and the court dismissed it as "publicity interest litigation’’ of a "very, very harmful kind’’ which subverted a citizen’s right to freedom of religion. The petition sought directions to Central and state governments to ban black magic, superstition and religious conversions affected through threats, intimidation or bribes. The court ordered the petitioner to withdraw the PIL or risk the imposition of heavy costs. It is strange that conversions were clubbed with black magic and superstitions.   The petition had also sought directions to ascertain the feasibility of appointing a committee to enact a Conversion of Religion Act to check the "abuse of religion’’. The position of the court is also clear from its refusal to accept the petitioner’s plea for permission to make a request to the Centre and the Law Commission on the matter. The court is also set to examine the constitutional validity of a spate of ‘anti-conversion laws enacted recently by states like UP and Madhya Pradesh. These laws are based on the dubious idea of "love jihad’’ which is being used to persecute lovers and couples belonging to Hindu and Muslim faiths and to prevent religious conversions on any ground. The inference, based on many studies, is that the charge of a conspiracy behind "love jihad’’ to convert Hindus to Islam and to make India an Islamic state is false and completely baseless. The "love jihad’’ laws in effect discriminate against Muslims and will encourage vigilante actions against them.  The clear reiteration of the right to religion, which includes choice, practice and propagation,  should guide the policies of governments and the thinking and actions of all sections of people. It should be understood that conversion from one religion to another is not wrong and the Constitution gives that right to all citizens. Conversion also assumes the right to propagation. That is why the court said, "There is a reason why the word ‘propagate’ is there in the Constitution.” There is an environment in the country now which has made religious conversion a politically loaded idea and expression, and tries to constrain the right to religion in many ways. The court’s ruling has taken it out of this political context, which is wrong, and placed in back firmly in the realm of Constitutional rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-publicity-interest-litigation-975114.html
16-04-2021||South||GMR launches 1,500 acre 'AeroCity' at Hyderabad Airport||Infra major, GMR Group on Friday announced the launch of GMR AeroCity, Hyderabad at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here as part of its vision to provide world-class infrastructure in India. According to a release from the company, spread across 1500 acres, the GMR AeroCity Hyderabad is envisaged to be an integrated mixed-use development, which includes key ports and establishments such as Business Park, Retail Park, Aerospace and Industrial Park, Logistics Park and Hospitality etc. It also provides complete living and working experience, with support infrastructure including schools, healthcare, rental accommodation, leisure & entertainment. "Hyderabad AeroCity is creating a paradigm shift in the way of doing business in India. It offers connected, smart and sustainable workspaces with optimum leasing depths to maximize workspace design efficiency," Aman Kapoor, CEO, GMR Airport Land Development (ALD) said. Spanning around 1 million sq. ft of leasable area, spread over four Towers (being developed in phases, with Tower 1 fully occupied and Tower 2 ready for occupancy), GMR AeroCity Hyderabad has been seamlessly designed for the future business corridor, the release further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gmr-launches-1500-acre-aerocity-at-hyderabad-airport-974925.html
16-04-2021||South||Amid tight security, Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll to be held on Saturday||After a fortnight-long high voltage campaign, bypoll to the Tirupati Lok Sabha Constituency (SC Reserved) will be held on April 17 amid tight security and in line with the Covid-19 protocol. Tight security arrangements have been put in place at all the 2,471 polling stations in all seven assembly segments of the parliamentary constituency, a senior government official said. Tirupati, an SC reserved constituency, is going to the bypoll due to the death of sitting YSRC member Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September last year. Targeting the ruling YSRCP over alleged corruption and nepotism, BJP president JP Nadda and ally Janasena party chief Pawan Kalyan had separately campaigned for BJP candidate K Ratnaprabha, a retired IAS officer. Former Union Minister of State Panabaka Lakshmi is the Telugu Desam nominee while another former Union Minister of State Chinta Mohan is the Congress candidate. Telugu Desam Party supremo N Chandrababu Naidu and other leaders also campaigned vigorously for their party candidate. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had cancelled his election rally here saying he did not want to put the people in the danger amid the Covid-19 surge. However, he deputed several ministers and other leaders for canvassing votes in favour of the YSRCP candidate M Gurumurthy, a political novice, besides writing a personal letter urging electors to bless his party once again in the bypoll. There are 17,09,472 electors in this constituency comprising seven assembly segments and spread over Chittoor and Nellore districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-tight-security-tirupati-lok-sabha-bypoll-to-be-held-on-saturday-974934.html
16-04-2021||South||Jana Sena Party leader and actor Pawan Kalyan tests positive for Covid-19||Telugu film star and Jana Sena Party chief K Pawan Kalyan has tested positive for coronavirus but is now stable, his political secretary P Hariprasad said on Friday. "Kalyan is being monitored closely by his personal doctor as well as a team of experts from Apollo Hospitals. There is some flum in his lungs and he is suffering from small bouts of fever. But he is stable," Hariprasad said in a statement. Kalyan remained in self-isolation at his farm house outside Hyderabad after returning from the by-election campaign in Tirupati on April 3. Initial test turned out a negative result for Covid- 19 but he continued to suffer from slight fever and body pain. "A second test revealed the Covid-19 infection," Hariprasad said. A cardiologist and viral diseases expert Dr T Suman, their family medical advisor, has been attending on Kalyan while a team of experts from Apollo was also treating the star actor. Hariprasad quoted Kalyan as saying that he was stable and would soon come before his fans and party workers in full health. Kalyan is currently savouring the success of his latest film 'Vakeel Saab,' a remake of Amitabh Bachchan's 'Pink.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jana-sena-party-leader-and-actor-pawan-kalyan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-974943.html
16-04-2021||South||Keralite nun found dead inside convent well||A 42-year-old Catholic nun was found dead inside the well of the St Joseph convent at Kureepuzha in this south Kerala district on Friday, police said. The other inmates noticed the body of Mable Joseph, a native of Karunagappally here, inside the well of the sprawling convent campus in the morning. They carried out a search after she failed to turn up for the usual morning prayers. Police said prima facie it was a suspected case of suicide and other details could be known only after the post-mortem and investigation. A suicide note, suspected to be written by the deceased nun, was recovered from her room, they said. As per the note, no one was responsible for her death and she was ending her life due to health issues. Police said an investigation is already on into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralite-nun-found-dead-inside-convent-well-974949.html
16-04-2021||South||DMK complains to EC against 'unauthorised' entry of persons, vehicles in strong room campuses||The DMK on Friday alleged 'unauthorised' entry of persons and vehicles in campuses having strong rooms used to store EVMs used in the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and urged the Election Commission to take action on the matter. In a memorandum to Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and state Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo, DMK President M K Stalin listed out various such instances and urged the EC to ensure no such vehicles or persons entered the premises. In different instances, "covered vehicles" were brought to such campuses in Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Chennai and when asked they were said to be mobile toilets meant for women police personnel. In Chennai, "many numbers of wi-fi connections are found in active mode" near the vehicle, Stalin said. Despite the EC's instructions, "there is total lack of protocol in many strong room campuses, situated across the state, where the polled EVMs are stored," he said. Stalin said that every strong room was located only in reputed colleges, where adequate lavatory facilities are available. "While so, it is not known as to why the so-called mobile toilets are brought inside the strong room, in utter violation of the instructions issued by the Election Commission," Stalin, state Leader of Opposition, said. "The Returning Officers and District Electoral Officers who are duty bound to supervise the strong room campus have deliberately failed to discharge their duty, by allowing the above said vehicles, when it is specifically prohibited by the Election Commission," Stalin added. These incidents have created high suspicion over the security /protocol provided in the strong room premises and thereby the safety of the polled EVMs is in question, he said. Further, there have been instances of individuals also entering the rooms, in Ramanathapuram, Neyveli and Tiruvallur, he said. "In Tiruvallur strong room campus, many unauthorised persons claiming to be computer instructors are allowed to come inside the premises, for undisclosed reasons. CCTV cameras were not working for around 30 mts," he alleged. "All the above incidents have clearly proved that there is a total failure in the protocol/security in the strong room premises in the entire state," he charged. The party requested the EC to ensure complete safety and security of all EVMs in all 234 Assembly constituencies, not to allow any unauthorised person into the entire vicinity of strong room premises, not to permit any type of vehicles to be brought inside the strong room campuses and block and deactivate all wi-fi connections in and around the strong room campuses. The opposition party also wanted the EC to furnish the list of all permitted persons in the strong room premises to the candidates, enabling to watch and monitor entry or roaming of any other unauthorised person inside the campus. Assembly polls to 234 seats in the state were held on April 6 and the counting of votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-complains-to-ec-against-unauthorised-entry-of-persons-vehicles-in-strong-room-campuses-974973.html
16-04-2021||South||Journalist among two nominated to Rajya Sabha from Kerala||The CPM has nominated journalist and party-backed Malayalam channel head John Brittas to the Rajya Sabha from Kerala. While K K Ragesh, whose term is ending on April 21, has not been given extension, CPM state committee member and former SFI leader V Sivadasan was also nominated by the party to the upper house. Apart from that of Ragesh, term of Congress leader Vayalar Ravi and Indian Union Muslim League leader Abdul Wahab are ending on April 21. Considering the present strength in the Assembly the LDF could win two while the UDF may get only one. Wahab also filed nomination to the Rajya Sabha. Brittas was serving as media advisor to the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan till recently. He is managing director of the CPM backed Kairali TV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/journalist-among-two-nominated-to-rajya-sabha-from-kerala-975016.html
16-04-2021||South||'Ran out of vaccines completely': Andhra CM Jagan's second SOS to PM Modi in a week||In his second letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a week, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has sought a supply of 60 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the state. Having set a target of administering over six lakh doses daily, the YSRCP government is facing severe vaccine storage. A note from the AP health department on Friday showed that only 28,677 beneficiaries, including the first and second dose of all eligible categories, could be vaccinated on Thursday. The same note has put the vaccine stocks in the state as “NIL” The CM's missive is also sent at a time when AP is recording a massive spike in new Covid-19 cases. On Friday, the state reported 6,096 new infections (up from 5,086 on Thursday) and 20 deaths. There are 35,592 active cases in the state at present.  Record vaccinations On April 14, the state has administered doses to 6.29 lakh persons, which the CM said is “the highest single-day vaccination number by any state in the country”. “Leveraging the village and ward volunteers system, we have not only established our capability of vaccinating over six lakh people per day but also set up a model for all the states to emulate. However, we could not continue the same drive as the vaccine stocks have completely run out,” Reddy said in his letter on Friday. In response to his previous letter dated April 9, asking for 25 lakh vaccine doses before April 11's Tika Utsav, Reddy said the state has received 6.4 lakh doses. “If sufficient stocks are made available, we are well-poised to make your dream of vaccinating all vulnerable people a reality in the next three weeks,” Reddy wrote on Friday, appealing the PM to instruct the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to supply 60 lakh doses to cover all persons above 45 years age in the state with the first dose. Neighbouring Telangana is also facing a short supply. "Vaccine supply is not according to the demand here," said health minister Etela Rajender.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ran-out-of-vaccines-completely-andhra-cm-jagans-second-sos-to-pm-modi-in-a-week-975017.html
16-04-2021||South||Kerala Police's FIRs against ED officials quashed||In a setback to the ruling Left Democratic Front government in Kerala, the Kerala High Court on Friday quashed two FIRs registered by the Kerala Police against Enforcement Directorate officials. The Crime Branch of the Kerala Police registered the cases based on statements of gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, which stated that the ED officials forced them to give statements linking Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and some other ministers with gold and dollar smuggling. The move of the Crime Branch was widely considered as a politically motivated move of the Kerala government against the central agencies. The ED approached the court seeking quashing of the FIRs. The HC observed that it was for the court to initiate a probe into any manipulations in a case that was already under the court's consideration. The investigation officers were directed to submit all records pertaining to the case before the Special Court in a sealed cover and the special judge considering the case can decide whether to conduct an inquiry or not. The Crime Branch investigation was launched after an audio clip, believed to be that of Swapna, surfaced wherein she stated that ED officials forced her to give statements implicating the Chief Minister and others. Later, portions of statements of the gold smuggling accused to central agencies in which the role of the Chief Minister and others was mentioned also came out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polices-firs-against-ed-officials-quashed-975022.html
16-04-2021||South||Kerala reports over 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases||Kerala's daily Covid-19 case count crossed the 10,000 mark on Friday with the state reporting 10,031 fresh cases, taking the number of active cases to 69,868. After the first Covid-19 wave in Kerala, the single-day cases had come down to almost 1,000 per day. Since the first week of April this year, however, the state has been witnessing a steep rise in the daily Covid cases. Kerala's test positivity rate is also witnessing an escalation with the rate standing at 14.8 per cent on Friday. Meanwhile, despite the government's effort to impose strict restrictions during the Thrissur Pooram to be held on April 23, authorities of various temples have been pressing the district administration to let more people attend the festival. Only those with a negative Covid-19 report or a Covid-19 vaccination certificate would be allowed to enter the venue during the festival. The state government had launched a two-day drive to test around 2.5 lakh persons below the age of 45 on Friday and Saturday. Meanwhile, the state's Covid-19 vaccination drive was badly affected owing to vaccine shortage with many who had taken the first dose about six weeks ago not being able to take the second dose. The government had already initiated a series of measures like reducing the working hours of shops and commercial establishments in view of the Covid-19 second wakeand the state Health Department is expecting to faltten the curve in two to three weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-over-10000-fresh-covid-19-cases-975023.html
16-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 toll crosses 13,000 with 8,449 new cases, 33 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 8,449 new Covid-19 infections and related 33 deaths on Friday, pushing the caseload to 9,71,384 and 13,032 respectively, said the Health Department. Recoveries mounted to 8,96,759 today with 4,920 patients being discharged, leaving 61,593 active infections, a bulletin said. Chennai continued to constitute the major chunk of the new cases, accounting for 2,636 new infections aggregating to 2,77,300. It leads in the number of fatalities, too, with 4,364. A total of 97,201 samples were tested today, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 2,09,76,696. As many as 21 districts added new infections in triple digits, indicating a sharp increase of the virus spread. The districts, which witnessed a rise in new cases, are: Chengalpet 795 fresh cases, Coimbatore 583, Cuddalore 102, Erode 132, Kancheepuram 303, Krishnagiri 167, Madurai 167, Nagapattinam 130, Salem 214, Thanjavur 151, Thiruvallur 453, Tiruvannamalai 125, Thiruvarur 121, Tuticorin 277, Tirunelveli 214, Tiruppur 227, Tiruchirappalli 273 and Vellore 167, the bulletin said. As many as 30 people who arrived from various destinations, including the United Arab Emirates, were among those to test positive. Of the 33 deceased reported today, four of them succumbed without any pre-existing illness, which included a 47-year-old man from Dharmapuri, the bulletin said. The government said a private lab in Chennai was recently accorded approval to take up Covid-19 testing, taking the total number of facilities operating in the State to 263.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-toll-crosses-13000-with-8449-new-cases-33-deaths-975025.html
16-04-2021||South||Chidambaram slams Muraleedharan for 'Covidiot' remark against Vijayan||Hitting out at Union Minister V Muraleedharan's 'Covidiot' barb at Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday called it 'shocking' and asked if there was nobody in the BJP leadership to reprimand the minister. Such language was "unacceptable," the former Union Minister said in a tweet. "Central minister Mr V Muraleedharan is reported to have described CM, Kerala as a "Covidiot". Shocking." Central minister Mr V Muraleedharan is reported to have described CM, Kerala as a "Covidiot". Shocking Is there no one in the BJP's leadership who will reprimand the minister for using unacceptable language? "Is there no one in the BJP's leadership who will reprimand the minister for using unacceptable language?" he asked. The Kerala BJP unit had on Thursday accused Vijayan of violating the Covid-19 protocol, alleging he hid from the public the fact that he was a primary contact of his virus infected daughter and carried out a massive roadshow two days ahead of the April 6 state Assembly polls. "Kerala CM @VijayanPinarayi is a #COVIDIOT.There is no better word to describe a Chief Minister who continuously violates #COVID Protocols," Muraleedharan had tweeted. The allegations came a day after the chief minister, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged from the government medical college here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chidambaram-slams-muraleedharan-for-covidiot-remark-against-vijayan-975042.html
16-04-2021||South||One spray of this disinfectant made by IIT-H researchers claims to protect from Covid-19 for 35 days||Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal launched DuroKea, a series of hygiene products said to be capable of combating the Covid-19 virus spread. The products developed by IIT Hyderabad researchers include an ethanol-based long-lasting surface disinfectant, “with one spray providing protection up to 35 days”, and a hand sanitizer, with one spray providing protection till next hand wash. Other products include an instant antiviral coating spray for masks, which provide protection till discarding or washing with a single spray and an alcohol-free, long-lasting foam hand sanitizer for sensitive and baby skin. DuroKea makers claim their products can instantly kill pathogens including the Covid-19 virus within 60 seconds. “I am delighted to see that IITH researchers are doing notable research for the benefit of the society and environment,” Pokhriyal said during the products' virtual launch on Friday. DuroKea antimicrobial products start at Rs 189, and kill 99.99 per cent germs instantly, leaving behind a protective nano-scale coating for up to 35 days, IITH said in a press statement. The technology is developed by a team led by Dr Jyotsnendu Giri, associate professor in Biomedical Engineering and founder of the IIT incubated EaffoCare Innovation Private Limited. “During this pandemic, IITH has delivered many solutions, including low-cost ventilators, effective masks, mobile apps and a quick Covid-19 test-kit. DuroKea is another such unique invention to come out of IIT-H to fight Covid-19,” said Professor BS Murty, IITH director.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-spray-of-this-disinfectant-made-by-iit-h-researchers-claims-to-protect-from-covid-19-for-35-days-975045.html
16-04-2021||South||Tirupati bypoll on Saturday: BJP sets focus on YSRCP candidate's religion, reservation category||In the celebrated Hindu pilgrimage centre, the BJP has set the focus of the Tirupati bypoll on the religion and the reservation category of YSRCP candidate Maddela Gurumurthy. The SC reserved Lok Sabha constituency spread over Chittoor and Nellore districts is going to polls on Saturday, needed by the death of sitting YSRCP MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September. BJP leaders including party state in-charge Sunil Deodhar are stating that CM Jaganmohan Reddy's former physiotherapist is ineligible to contest from the SC reserved seat; alleging that he is a converted Christian. BJP is calling Gurumurthy an “unbeliever of Lord Balaji” and has produced photos of him on Twitter taking blessings of a pastor to prove its point. "Christians cannot contest on SC Reserved Seats, doing which is against law. But the law is being intentionally trampled under Jagan's watch. Lending your hand to backstabbers of Dalits, you are cheating all Hindus, Christians and even Jesus Christ,” Deodhar said. On Thursday, the last day of the campaign, even TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu joined the issue saying that converted persons from the Scheduled Castes are categorised as Backward Caste-C, not as SC. Naidu demanded Jagan to answer the questions over his candidate's religious credentials. Deodhar, BJP's national secretary, even alleged that several of YSRCP MLAs including “home minister Mekatoti Sucharita are elected from SC reserved seats while in practice and by public admittance they are Christians.” The YSRCP is brushing aside the accusations. “Gurumurthy belongs to a Hindu Mala family, and he has respect for all the castes and communities,” a party functionary said. The religious affiliation of Jagan, a known follower of Christianity, has gained political prominence since he became the Andhra Pradesh CM two years ago. Physiotherapist turned politician A political novice, Gurumurthy was best known for being the personal physiotherapist of party chief Jaganmohan Reddy during his 3648-km “Praja Sankalpa Yatra” traversing Andhra Pradesh ahead of the 2019 Assembly and general elections. Jagan picking Gurumurthy instead of deceased MP Rao's son Kalyan Chakravarthy as YSRCP's candidate is seen as a big reward bestowed for personal service commitment and party loyalty. YSRCP leaders are rallying in support of Gurumurthy, eying a massive victory surpassing the 2.2 lakh votes majority in 2019 polls. The main Opposition TDP has put up former union minister Panabaka Lakshmi, while the BJP, in alliance with Janasena of Pawan Kalyan, is attempting to regain Tirupati with Karnataka former chief secretary Ratna Prabha as its candidate. The saffron party had won here in 1999, then in coalition with the TDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-bypoll-on-saturday-bjp-sets-focus-on-ysrcp-candidates-religion-reservation-category-975132.html
16-04-2021||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa reinfected with Covid-19||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 and is being taken to Manipal Hospital for treatment, his office said. He had tested positive for the novel coronavirus in August last year and had recovered. Yediyurappa had spent the last couple of days campaigning for the April 17 bypolls in Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly constituencies. During a poll campaign in Belagavi, he developed fever.   On Friday morning, Yediyurappa went to MS Ramaiah Hospital for a “general check-up” for the fever. “His Covid-19 test report was positive. So, he’ll be shifted to Manipal Hospital,” the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said. Yediyurappa had received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on March 12. The 78-year-old leader was administered Bharat Biotech's Covaxin at the Bangalore Medical College & Research Institute Superspeciality Hospital. “Upon having mild fever, today I got tested for Covid-19 and my report has come out positive. Although I am doing fine, I am being hospitalised based on the advise of doctors” Yediyurappa said in a tweet. “I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine.”   Upon having mild fever, today I got tested for Covid-19 and my report has come out positive. Although I am doing fine, I am being hospitalised based on the advise of doctors. I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine. Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa had chaired an emergency meeting with Health Minister K Sudhakar, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar and others to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-reinfected-with-covid-19-974881.html
16-04-2021||State||SC stays HC order quashing transfer of KAS officer on Jarkiholi's letter||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the Karnataka High Court's order which quashed transfer of S Nissar Ahammed as Regional Joint Director of land records of Belagavi. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Krishna Murari issued notice to the state government on a plea by Karnataka Administrative Service officer Ahammed against the HC's order which restricted his posting to Belagavi for five years apparently irked over recommendation of his posting made by then Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Senior advocate Basava Prabhu Patil and advocate Chinmay Deshpande, appearing for the petitioner, contended that the High Court by its judgement on February 22, failed to adhere to the apex court's previous judgement wherein it had been clearly stated that the courts cannot impose its own decision in matters of transfer of government employees. They claimed the petitioner's posting on promotion made on September 16, 2020 was in accordance with the transfer guidelines of June 7, 2013. The counsel also contended that the High Court erred in treating the letter by then Water Resource Minister and then district incharge made in the interest of general public and administration, as colourable exercise of power. The petition also claimed the High Court failed to see that the petitioner though promoted on August 24, 2020 as Joint Director was left without posting for 23 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-stays-hc-order-quashing-transfer-of-kas-officer-on-jarkiholis-letter-974999.html
16-04-2021||State||Karnataka HC judge requests advocates to stop using excessive honorifics||Justice P Krishna Bhat of Karnataka High Court has requested the advocates to avoid excessive honorifics, such as ‘My Lord’ or ‘Your Lordship’. Justice Bhat requested the advocates to instead adhere to a more appropriate word in Indian circumstances, like ‘Sir’. The cause list for Friday’s hearing before the bench of Justice Bhat has a note which said, “Learned counsels are requested to avoid addressing the court with such excessive honorifics as “My Lord” or “Your Lordship”; But are requested to adhere to a practice consistent with dignity and decorum of court which is more appropriate in Indian circumstances like Sir.” During the hearing on Friday, Justice Bhat referred to what has been put up on the cause list as a note and orally said that what is required is a contemporary manner of addressing the court/Judges in the Indian context. It could be recalled that several petitions were filed before the High Court and the Supreme Court seeking review on the colonial practice of addressing the judges. The Rajasthan High Court and Calcutta High Court, had in the past, asked lawyers to stop the practice of addressing judges as “My Lord” or “Your Lordship”. The Rajasthan High Court had said that the decision was to honour the mandate of equality enshrined in the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-judge-requests-advocates-to-stop-using-excessive-honorifics-975131.html
16-04-2021||State||Blast in RTPS capacity transformer||A blast occurred in a capacity transformer of the eighth unit of Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) here on Thursday.  The 250 MW-capacity eighth unit had resumed functioning after repair work just two days ago. Earlier, the thermal power production had been suspended in the unit following a technical snag for a year. The reason for the blast is said to be a heavy load on the transformer at 9.30 am. The fire and emergency services rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire. RTPS chief executive director K V Venkatachalapathi also inspected the site and directed the officials to take up repair work immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/blast-in-rtps-capacity-transformer-975137.html
16-04-2021||State||Increase testing for Covid-19 in DK, Minister tells officials||District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary  reviews control measures in Dakshina Kannada via video conference from the hospital where he is admitted in Udupi. District-in-charge minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, who tested positive for Covid 19 on April 10, through video conferencing directed the health department to increase the number of Covid tests across the district on Friday. "There is a need to emphasise on testing, tracking and treatment. The tests should be conducted in primary and secondary contacts of the infected," stressed Poojary who was being treated at Adarsha hospital in Udupi. All the Covid-19 guidelines should be strictly adhered to, he added. The number of cases in Dakshina Kannada district is also increasing. The rapid increase in cases indicates a second wave of Covid 19 infections in the district. All precautionary measures should be taken to contain the spread of virus, the minister stressed. The commercial establishments, including shopping malls, petrol bunks among others should ensure that people follow Covid appropriate behaviour in their premises. The night curfew should be enforced strictly and Covid-19 negative certificates should be made mandatory for those arriving from Kerala, he said. Asha workers and health workers should monitor Covid positive patients undergoing treatment in home isolation. Nodal officers should be appointed to hospitals to ensure that there is availability of enough beds in private and government hospitals for treating Covid 19 patients. Poojary directed DK Deputy Commissioner Dr  Rajendra K V  to ensure sufficient number of beds, ventilators are available in all hospitals across the district. The district has 4,978 beds in government and private hospitals. Government will supply adequate quantities of remdesivir, PPE kits, masks and testing kits, he said. About 50,000 people above the 45 years age group had availed the vaccine in the district. A campaign to encourage people to take vaccination should be taken up by organisations including Yuvaka Mandala. Separate arrangements should be made for treating the pregnant women who had tested positive for Covid 19. The treatment under Ayushman Bharath Arogya Karnataka Scheme should be made available in hospitals. Zilla panchayat CEO Kumar, Mangaluru City Corporation commissioner Akshy Sridhar, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar, DK Superintendent of police Rishikesh Sonawane among others participated in the video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/increase-testing-for-covid-19-in-dk-minister-tells-officials-975138.html
16-04-2021||State||Nanjangud temple to be shut till May 15||As per the directions of Archaeological Survey of India, the Srikanteshwara temple at Nanjangud in Mysuru district will be closed for the public for a month, till May 15, according to Temple Executive Officer Ravindra. The temple was open on Friday till afternoon. As per the order, the main entrance of the temple was closed for the public entry from Friday evening. However, pujas and other rituals will be conducted at the temple every day, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nanjangud-temple-to-be-shut-till-may-15-975173.html
16-04-2021||State||KU dismisses deputy registrar over fake caste certificate||Following an order issued by District Caste Certificate Committee, Kuvempu University issued an order dismissing Deputy Registrar M Seetharama from service for submitting a fake caste certificate to get employment. Seetharama was appointed as second division assistant in the university on November 4 in 1989 by submitting an ST caste certificate.  He was a native of Kamalashile village, Kundapur taluk, Udupi district. He had faced a charge that he obtained the government job by submitting a fake caste certificate and later, the Udupi district Caste Certificate Committee proved his certificate to be a fake. He had been promoted as deputy registrar on the basis of service. The committee has directed the university to initiate criminal proceedings against him. Reacting to it, Kuvempu University Registrar S S Patil told DH that he has been dismissed from service but criminal proceedings are yet to be initiated against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ku-dismisses-deputy-registrar-over-fake-caste-certificate-975184.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||With over 14,000 cases, Karnataka sees highest single-day Covid spike||Karnataka on Thursday reported its highest single-day Covid spike of 14,738 cases and 66 related fatalities.  With this, the total number of infections has climbed to 11.09 lakh and the toll to 13,112. The state had previously reported its biggest single-day spike of 11,265 cases on Wednesday. Out of the cases reported on Thursday, 10,497 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. “Government hospitals in Bengaluru are instructed to reserve more beds for Covid patients. Private hospitals have reserved only 15-20% of what has been asked for. The government will consider it as a serious lapse. Strict measures will be initiated if they do not follow government orders,” warned Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. He said the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases has been reserved for SARI and ILI cases. “Presently, 300 beds are available in Victoria for Covid patients and it will be increased to 500 shortly; 300 beds are in Bowring, 150 in Charaka, and 100 beds in HSIS Ghosha and 100 beds will be reserved in KC General hospital within two weeks,” said the minister. He added that the Technical Advisory Committee will submit its report on the surge in Covid cases and containment measures to the chief minister, who will take a decision after an all-party meeting.  The day also saw 3,591 patients getting discharged. The state has so far seen 11,09,650 Covid-19 positive cases, which include 9,99,958 discharges. Out of 96,561 active cases, 555 are in ICU. Among 66 deaths reported on Thursday, 30 are from Bengaluru Urban. Among the districts, Kalaburagi reported 624 new cases, Tumakuru 387, Bidar 363, and Mysuru 327. A total of over 2.31 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,29,400 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-over-14000-cases-karnataka-sees-highest-single-day-covid-spike-974736.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Deciphers | The bus strike and the riddle called the 6th pay commission||More than one lakh out of the total 1.11 lakh employees of the four road transport corporations in Karnataka have been striking work since April 7, demanding salaries as per the Sixth Central Pay Commission recommendations. The state government has flatly rejected the demand, and the resultant deadlock has crippled public transport for more than a week now. As things stand, neither party is in a mood to budge. Let's understand why the bus strike has dragged on for so long and if there's a way out: Why are the RTC employees hell-bent on the sixth pay commission? Unlike other government departments, road transport corporations (KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC) have to fend for themselves. The government seldom helps them in times of crises. The salaries of the nearly 12 lakh employees of the state government are decided as per the pay commission. But this doesn't necessarily apply to the 120-odd government corporations and boards. Only some of them go by the commission's recommendations. The RTC employees have traditionally depended on their trade union (the KSRTC Staff and Workers' Federation), which successfully negotiated big salary hikes for them in 2012 and 2016. The RTC employees were looking forward to a hike by the end of 2020. They also demanded the status of government employees because of a lack of information on the pay hike. In the meantime, the pandemic happened. As people stayed indoors, the earnings of the RTCs took a big hit. The transport corporations were too broke to give the employees the promised hike. The employees became inpatient. They abandoned their union, formed a new one called the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League and went to strike in December.   The December talks The employees, led by farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar, had called off their strike in December after four days following talks with the government. They say the government had promised to pay them as per the sixth pay commission. The government, however, claims it made no such promise but had only assured to "look into the demand". With both sides having their own version of what transpired at the closed-door meeting, it's hard to say whether the government made a promise which it couldn’t fulfill. The financial and technical problems The main reason why the government has rejected the league’s demand is its financial burden on the exchequer. The salary expenditure of the four corporations, the government says, will result in an additional burden of Rs 800 crore per year. Another worry, according to a senior official in the finance department, is that fulfilling such a demand might embolden the employees of other boards and corporations. One of the technical issues cited by the government is the lack of matching job profiles and salary scales. For example, the pay commission doesn’t have many allowances that RTC employees get at present. Officials in the finance department say the RTC workers were asking for the best of both, which is impossible to fulfill.   The deadlock The government has threatened to invoke the Essential Services Management Act, which applies to the RTCs, to punish the striking workers. But the league argues that it had followed the rules and given the government a 22-day notice before launching the strike. The government’s attempt to break the deadlock by deploying private buses or declaring the strike illegal has had a negligible impact on the employees.   The way forward Except for the Rs 2,400 crore released in last year, the government has never paid for the hike of RTC employees. Until last year, the RTCs proposed a hike and the government cleared it, with the rider that the additional burden would have to be met by by the internal revenues of the respective transport corporation. However, given the precarious financial situation of the RTCs and the need to provide sustainable public transport, it's time that the government started investing in them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-deciphers-the-bus-strike-and-the-riddle-called-the-6th-pay-commission-974763.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa calls for emergency meet on Covid-19 situation||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday called an emergency meeting at his residence to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. Yediyurappa had earlier hinted at more stringent regulations after April 18 to mitigate rising Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. The government may consider extending night curfews to few more district centres. Karnataka reported over 14,000 single-day Covid-19 cases on Thursday, of which more than 10,000 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-calls-for-emergency-meet-on-covid-19-situation-974813.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Night curfew in Bengaluru, 7 other cities to be extended beyond April 20||The Karnataka government on Friday decided to extend the night curfew beyond April 20 in eight cities of the state, Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said. Briefing reporters after an emergency meeting with Health and Family Welfare minister K Sudhakar and other officials, Yediyurappa said that the government was looking to extend night curfew to other district centres of the state to contain the pandemic. Suggestions by experts were discussed in the meeting chaired at CM's official residence in the city. "We have taken no other decision now. We will sit again on April 20 to decide till when the night curfew should be extended," he said. The pandemic, Yediyurappa said, was going out control. Responding to media queries, the chief minister said that the state had its own reasons for the surge in cases and could.not be compared with other states of the country. Yediyurappa is scheduled to chair an all-party meeting on Sunday, April 18, to discuss measures to contain the pandemic. The CM has hinted at imposing additional Covid-19 regulations after the meeting. Karnataka had imposed night curfews from April 10 in eight cities, including Bengaluru and Mysuru, from 10 pm to 5 am in the wake of the Covid-19 second wave. The other district centres where night curfew is in place are Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Udupi, Manipal, Kalaburagi and Bidar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/night-curfew-in-bengaluru-7-other-cities-to-be-extended-beyond-april-20-974843.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa hospitalised||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was hospitalised on Friday after suffering from fever. He was admitted to Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in Bengaluru after having fever for the last two days. He tested negative for Covid-19 two days ago, however, he will be tested again, news agency ANI reported. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-hospitalised-974875.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Getting married in Karnataka? You can't have more than 100 people indoors||Karnataka will reduce the number of people allowed for marriage gatherings, Health and Family Welfare minister K Sudhakar said Friday, as the state government mulled more restrictions to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.  While the limit of guests for indoor and outdoor marriages is 200 and 500 respectively, it will be reduced to 100 and 200, Sudhakar said, following a meeting with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and other officials. He also tried to allay fears on the severity of infections in the second wave of Covid-19. "As many as 95% of the people testing positive for the infection do not require treatment," he said, requesting only those with complications to get admitted to the hospital. There is no need to rush to the hospital when the results come out positive, he said, urging media to refrain from creating 'unnecessary panic'. Sudhakar said that there was no shortage medicine and the state was well-equipped to deal with the cases. "We have 30,000 vials of Remdesvir in stock. We have invited tenders for 80,000 vials, which will be finalised in a day or two. The government will supply the medicine to private hospitals," he said. While government medical colleges of the state have oxygen units to treat patients, it will be set up in district government hospitals too. Tenders are being invited, he said.  State government has requested the Centre to supply 5,000 oxygen cylinders. Industries Department will also assist in procuring jumbo oxygen cylinders, like last year, Sudhakar said. In order to tide over the crisis of frontline workers at hospitals, direct recruitment will be done for the personnel with a six months contract, he said.  The number of helplines to assist those testing positive will also be scaled up. Those with medical backgrounds will be hired for efficient counselling of patients, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/getting-married-in-karnataka-you-cant-have-more-than-100-people-indoors-974908.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Stage set for bypolls to one Lok Sabha seat, two Assembly segments on April 17||The stage is set for bypolls to one Lok Sabha and two Assembly constituencies in Karnataka on Saturday, where over 22.68 lakh voters are eligible to cast their votes. By-elections to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly segments will begin at 7 AM on Saturday and will go on till 7 PM, where a total of 30 candidates are in the fray. While, Belgaum has ten candidates, Basavakalyan and Maski have 12 and 8 respectively. As many as 26 out of the total 30 candidates are men, among 4 women include two from Basavakalyan and one each from Belgaum and Maski. By-polls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats were necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi and MLA B Narayan Rao respectively due to Covid-19 in September last year. Maski seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil who had won in 2018 from Congress and is now with the BJP. A total of 22,68,038 voters (including service voters) are eligible to cast their votes at 3,197 polling stations in the three constituencies, where 8,052 ballot units, 7,018 control units and 6,366 VVPATS will be pressed into service. Among voters from all the three segments, over 11.37 lakh are men, and over 11.22 lakh are women. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. The ruling BJP and opposition Congress are battling it out in all three constituencies, while JD(S) has limited itself only to Basavakalyan, as the regional party has not fielded any candidates in Maski and Belgaum. Though the outcome of these bypolls will have no impact on the stability of the government, it is in a way crucial for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to consolidate his position within the party, amid growing resentment within, against his leadership and speculations that he may be replaced. The BJP, which has won most of the bypolls after coming to power is aiming to continue its winning streak. Meanwhile, the Congress which has been targeting the ruling party for its alleged failures in providing good administration, corruption and impropriety following the sex scandal is hoping to make a mark by winning seats. It at least aims to retain Basavakalyan and Maski, which it had won in the 2018 Assembly elections. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy is also hoping to make it big in Basavakalyan, which he has said is the party's "stronghold". The ruling BJP has fielded Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Suresh Angadi, from Belgaum Lok Sabha seat. Pratapagouda Patil, who quit the Congress and joined the party as its candidate in the Maski Assembly segment; while youth leader Sharanu Salagar has been fielded in Basavakalyan. BJP rebel and former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba is in the fray as an independent candidate from Basavakalyan. The Congress has fielded its state working president Satish Jarkiholi, who is currently the MLA of Yamkanmaradi Assembly segment, as its candidate from Belgaum. Mallamma, the wife of late legislator B Narayan Rao is the grand old party's candidate from Basavakalyan seat, while Basanagouda Turvihal, who recently joined the party has been fielded in Maski segment. Turvihal, who was BJP's candidate from Maski in 2018 had lost by a wafer thin margin of just 213 votes against, Prathapagouda Patil, then with the Congress. The JD(S) has named Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who was with the Congress earlier as its candidate from Basavakalyan, the party has not fielded anyone from Maski and Belgaum. For the smooth conduct of polls that will be held by following the Covid guidelines, a total of 6 CoYs of CRPF have been deployed for security, 4 CoYs for Belgaum and one each for Basavakalyan and Maski segments, poll officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-stage-set-for-bypolls-to-one-lok-sabha-seat-two-assembly-segments-on-april-17-975034.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||95% of Covid-19 cases require no treatment in second wave, says Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar||Allaying fears on the severity of Covid-19 infections in the second wave, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said that 95% of the people who test positive for the virus did not require any treatment. Speaking to reporters, Sudhakar said that many people think that they should be admitted to the hospital as soon as they test positive. Patients with mild and moderate symptoms can be treated at temporary facilities such as hotels where doctors will monitor their conditions, he said. "In the second wave, 95% of the people who test positive do not require treatment or hospital admission. Only 5% people require it," he said, noting that there was "unnecessary anxiety" among people. "I request only those with severe symptoms of the disease to get admitted to the hospital. (If you are admitted) without any symptoms, you will be affecting those who need beds," he said. Sudhakar said that due to anxiety, a patient who had tested positive feared that Covid-19 was more serious than cancer and committed suicide three days ago. The minister said that there was no shortage medicine and the state was well-equipped to deal with the cases. "We have 30,000 vials of Remdesivir in stock. We have invited tenders for 80,000 vials, which will be finalised in a day or two. The government will supply the medicine to private hospitals," he said. While government medical colleges of the state have oxygen units to treat patients, it will be set up in district government hospitals too. Tenders are being invited, he said. State government has requested the Centre to supply 5,000 oxygen cylinders. Industries Department will also assist in procuring jumbo oxygen cylinders like last year, Sudhakar said. In order to tide over the crisis of frontline workers at hospitals, direct recruitment will be done for the personnel with a six months contract, he said. The number of helplines to assist those testing positive will also be scaled up. Those with medical backgrounds will be hired for efficient counselling of patients, he added. No shortage of Remdesivir, says CMO The Chief Minister's Office said Friday that the government was "examining" the request made by private hospitals to supply Remdesivir, while stressing that there was no shortage of the injectible drug used for Covid-19 treatment. "Government has placed orders for purchasing 70,000 doses of Remdesivir and 20,000 are being supplied today. Government has stock of 30,000. There is no shortage," the CMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/95-of-covid-19-cases-require-no-treatment-in-second-wave-says-karnataka-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-975053.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to book Remdesivir scaremongers: Bommai||At a time when there are several complaints about shortage of Remdesivir in hospitals, the state government will slap cases against those creating an artificial scarcity of the injectible drug, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Friday. Speaking to reporters here after a high-level meeting with officials on Covid-19 management, Bommai said there were many complaints about short supply of Remdesivir.  "There is an artificial creation of scarcity by vested interests so that they can sell it at double the price and in the black market. The government will investigate the matter and take action against anyone involved in such irregularities," the minister said. "Be it pharmacies, hospitals or any officials involved in exporting it across the state border, the government will initiate strict action," he added. Bommai also said that the night curfew imposed by the government has been successful, thanks to cooperation from the public. "Until now, the police have registered 65,634 cases of violation against people for not wearing masks in public spaces and penalty has been collected from them," he said. The Home Department is also taking precautions to ensure that the police personnel on duty in the thick of the pandemic do not fall victims to the crisis. About 30 police personnel have tested Covid-19 positive in the second wave of the pandemic, while 450 of their family members have also tested positive. To ensure that all these patients get timely treatment, an ADGP-rank official has been placed in charge of the coordination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-book-remdesivir-scaremongers-bommai-975067.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka cracks down on events, tightens borders||Karnataka on Friday announced fresh curbs on various social events and tightened its borders, signalling the government’s desperation in containing the fresh wave of Covid-19 cases. There are indications that the government will extend the night curfew, currently in force in eight cities, beyond April 20.  The fresh curbs came after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa chaired an emergency meeting early in the day to take stock of the pandemic situation. “This pandemic is getting out of hand,” Yediyurappa said.  In an order, the government said the number of guests at marriages should not exceed 100 in an indoor venue and 200 outdoors. Earlier, the cap for indoor and outdoor events was 200 and 500, respectively.  While prohibiting religious gatherings, the government has capped political events at 200 people. This came after public campaigning ended for the April 17 bypolls, where thousands of people were seen at rallies organised by the BJP, Congress and JD(S).  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who huddled with senior officials, said those crossing into the state’s borders will be asked for a Covid-19 negative certificate. “Only those who get tested and are negative will be allowed inside,” he said. “We’ll also talk to the health department to see if samples for the RT-PCR test can be collected at the borders.”  Authorities will further intensify Covid-19 rules in airports, bus stands and railway stations, Bommai said. “Thermal screening, rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests will be made mandatory,” he added.  Speaking to reporters after his emergency meeting, which lasted more than an hour, Yediyurappa said he took stock of recommendations made by experts. “We’re thinking of other districts where the night curfew should be imposed,” he said. “We will sit again on April 20 to decide till when night curfew should be extended and other measures that need to be taken.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-cracks-down-on-events-tightens-borders-975073.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Deputy Speaker, MLA Hebbalkar test positive for Covid-19||Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani has tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. As per the suggestions of the doctors, he will remain in home isolation for 17 days at his hometown Saundatti. Taking to Twitter on Friday, Mamani said, he tested Covid-19 positive following an antigen test. He asked those who have come in his contact to get tested at their nearest health centres and take care of their health. He said he shall recover soon and will resume his service for the people. Mamani also appealed to the voters to cast their votes during the polling to be held for Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency from 7 am to 7 pm on April 17 (Saturday). Hebbalkar tests positive Belgaum Rural MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar also tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and she will remain in home isolation. In a tweet, Hebbalkar informed that she, her brother Channaraj Hattiholi, and the driver have tested Covid-19 positive and those who have come in their contact should get themselves tested as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-deputy-speaker-mla-hebbalkar-test-positive-for-covid-19-975135.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt yet to take a call on decision on criteria to promote students of classes 1 to 9||The state board schools, students and parents are under tremendous stress as the government is yet to announce the decision on criteria to promote students from classes 1 to 9. Schools are getting repeated queries from parents as the process has been completed for children enrolled in schools of other boards.  It's almost 10 days since Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar convened a meeting with various stakeholders to discuss the assessment criteria to promote children of classes 1 to 9. After the meeting on April 5, the minister assured of announcing a decision in two days. But so far no decision has been taken. "We are asking the department officials every day, but they are saying no decision has been made at the government-level. We are waiting for the decision to complete the process and wind up the academic year for these grades," said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Two days after the postponement and cancellation of Board exams by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations issued a notification deferring the examinations of class 10 and 12 Board exams scheduled to be held from May 4.  The Council, in a circular said that the exams were being deferred in the wake of increase in Covid-19 cases. "The Covid-19 situation will be closely monitored and the deferment of the ICSE and ISC 2021 examinations will be reviewed and a final decision on the conduct of the Board exams will be taken by the 1st week of June 2021," reads the circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-yet-to-take-a-call-on-decision-on-criteria-to-promote-students-of-classes-1-to-9-975136.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Allotment of 33-acre land to BDA staff association is illegal: Karnataka HC||The bulk allotment of land by the BDA to its staff association 15 years ago without governmental approval is both "illegal and unconstitutional", the high court has ruled.  In November 2006, the Bangalore Development Authority executed the sale deed for 33.02 acres of land in Doddakallasandra village, Uttarahalli hobli, in favour of the BDA Employees' Welfare Association. The association formed a housing colony on the land and allotted sites to its 759 members.  A PIL petition, filed by one B V Sivaswamy, challenged the land allotment on the grounds that it was done without prior approval from the state government.  While a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka declared the land allotment "illegal and unconstitutional", it declined to give any other relief to the petitioner stating that he hadn't impleaded the 759 allottees.  The BDA and the staff association contended that the government did give prior approval to the land allotment on April 19, 2006.  The bench, however, noted that as per the Bangalore Development Authority (Bulk Allotment) Rules, 1995, any bulk allotment exceeding five acres must not only have prior approval from the state government but that it shall also record the reasons in writing.  "As no reasons in writing have been admittedly recorded by the government in its order dated 19th April, 2006, the bulk allotment of the land made by the BDA in favour of the 4th respondent is completely illegal, being manifestly arbitrary and the same will have to be held violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” the bench said.  Quoting the Supreme Court judgement in the Akhil Bhartiya Upbhokta Congress case, the bench said land allotment must be done in a manner consistent with the doctrine of equality. The BDA should have invited similarly situated eligible people, institutions and organisations to participate in the process of allotment, either by way of auction or otherwise, it stated.  The court rejected the petition only on the grounds of non-joinder of 759 allottees who may have created third party interests. (Non-joinder is the failure to join some person as a party to a suit, whether as plaintiff or as defendant, who should have been joined according to the law).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/allotment-of-33-acre-land-to-bda-staff-association-is-illegal-karnataka-hc-975141.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports biggest single-day spike of 14,859 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka recorded yet another highest single-day spike on Friday with 14,859 Covid-19 positive cases. Of these, 9,917 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The state had previously reported its biggest single day spike of 14,738 cases on Thursday. The number of active cases in the state stood at 1,07,315 with 577 patients in intensive care units. As many as 78 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Friday, taking the total number of deaths to 13,190. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 57 deaths. “As many as 1,800 beds will be made available for Covid treatment in KIMS and BMCRI. KIMS will reserve 500 beds within two or three weeks. Private medical colleges are arranging 5,000 beds shortly,” said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. He was speaking to the media after inspecting BMCRI, KIMS and St John’s hospitals. He held a meeting with the administration of St John’s hospital and instructed them to make alternative arrangement in a nearby hotel for mild symptomatic patients. “6,000 beds are available in Bengaluru including those in hospitals and Covid Care Centres of which 3,869 been occupied. Another 2,131 are still available for patients. The number of beds will be increased further in the coming days,” said the minister. The positivity rate for the day stood at 11.11%, while the case fatality rate was 0.52%. Around 1.33 lakh tests were conducted on Thursday including 1.2 lakh RT-PCR tests. The day also saw 4,031 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively, 11,24,509 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 10,03,985 discharges. Kalaburagi reported 488 cases, Tumakuru 432, Mysuru 415, and Bengaluru Rural 358. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive continued with 1,89,238 people taking the shot on Friday. Since the start of the drive, 69,08,663 people have received the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-14859-covid-19-cases-975143.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Surging Covid-19 numbers: Karnataka HC passes interim directions to courts||In view of rising numbers of Covid-19, the High Court on Friday passed an interim order extending its earlier order (on guidelines to be followed) till May 29, 2021. The court said that all orders on eviction, dispossession or demolition shall remain in abeyance till May 29. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said that all interim orders passed by the High Court which are due to expire in the period between April 17 and May 29, 2021, shall continue till May 29.   "It is however made clear that if any party desires to apply for vacating the interim orders, it will be open for the said party to apply to the concerned courts praying for vacating the orders. If such applications are made the courts are free to consider the same," the bench said. The bench also pointed out that in a notice issued on Thursday, restrictions have been imposed on recording of evidence in civil and criminal cases in courts situated in nine districts, including Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural, that have recorded more than 1,000 positive Covid-19 cases. In the notice, courts were also requested not to pass any adverse orders on the ground of absence of advocates and the accused on bail. "In case of District and Trial Courts of other districts where number of active cases are more than 1,000, the restrictions on par with District and Trial Courts in Bengaluru Urban District shall be followed," the notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/surging-covid-19-numbers-karnataka-hc-passes-interim-directions-to-courts-975148.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All-party meeting called by CM in Karnataka postponed||The all-party meeting called by Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on April 18 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state has been postponed, his office said on Friday, citing unavoidable reasons. According to official sources, Yediyurappa testing positive for Covid-19 and his hospitalisation for the treatment is the reason behind the postponement. The Chief Minister had invited floor leaders of both the legislative assembly and council for the meeting that was scheduled at 4 pm on Sunday at Vidhana Soudha. It was widely expected that the government may announce some strict containment measures to control the Covid spike in the state after consulting leaders of the political parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-party-meeting-called-by-cm-in-karnataka-postponed-975157.html
16-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NWKRTC driver's death: Minister blames striking employees||The ongoing tussle between the striking workers of the state road transport corporations (RTC) and the government led to the death of a driver who defied the strike and reported to work only to be stoned to death by miscreants. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi blamed the striking workers for the death of Rasool Avati, a 59-year-old driver belonging to NWKRTC, who was killed while driving the bus near Jamkhandi. "The striking workers said it will be a peaceful protest but have claimed the life of their colleague now. The government will not forgive this. Those on strike are not allowing workers to return to duty and think they can deter the loyal workers through criminal acts," he said in a statement. Those leading the strike failed to provide any response to the incident or the minister's accusation. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, the farmer leader heading the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League as well as R Chandrashekhar, the president, did not respond to DH despite repeated queries. Another leader said the death has come as a big setback for the League, which has failed to ensure that the strike will go on peacefully. "They will have difficulty in any negotiation with the government. At the same time, the future of hundreds of workers dismissed from service seems to be sealed now," he said, adding that there was a possibility of strike being revoked. The four RTCs on Friday sacked 254 employees, taking the total number of such workers to 1,054. In addition, 489 employees remain suspended from service. The murder of employee is expected to bring more edge to the government's stern action starting Saturday, when the polling in the byelections are set to be completed. Meanwhile, more employees reported to duty on Friday, helping the four RTCs to run more buses instead of depending on private players. By 9 pm, 5,639 buses were operated from the four corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nwkrtc-drivers-death-minister-blames-striking-employees-975169.html
16-04-2021||West||Maharashtra wants to inoculate up to 7 lakh people daily: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra wants to vaccinate 6 to 7 lakh people against Covid-19 on a daily basis and to achieve the target, the state needs 40 to 45 lakh vaccine vials every week, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday. A large-scale vaccination will help to bring down the Covid-19 cases and stem its spread, he said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, “Maharashtra wants to vaccinate 6 to 7 lakh persons on a daily basis, for which we need to receive 40-45 lakh vaccine vials on a weekly basis.” "If we manage to vaccinate so many people on a daily basis, it would be a major step in curbing the Covid-19 spread in the state,” Tope said. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country when it comes to cumulative infections and deaths due to Covid-19. “I think if a delegation from the state, including members from the opposition, visits New Delhi and takes up the issue with the Centre, we will get more vaccines to save lives. We will work it out,” he said. Commenting on shortage of Remdesivir, he said, “Seven manufacturers had reduced their production when Covid-19 cases were coming down. "Now, they have ramped up production, but it takes some time to deliver stocks. By April-end, there will be supply of one lakh Remdesivir vials in the state."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-wants-to-inoculate-up-to-7-lakh-people-daily-rajesh-tope-974740.html
16-04-2021||West||NGT steps in to save Panje wetland, asks CIDCO to clear choked water inlets||In a success for the environmentalists’ efforts to rescue Panje wetland in Uran in Raigad district from being choked, the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) Pune Zonal Bench has asked CIDCO to ensure that all the fine tidal water inlets to the 289-hectare property are opened immediately. The Tribunal bench chaired by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, heard the petition by Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, complaining against the frequent blocking of the water inlets to the wetland thus rendering the area dry and making it inhabitable for thousands of migratory birds. The Bench comprised of judicial members justices Sudhir Agarwal and Brijesh Sethi, while Dr. Nagin Nanda was the expert member on the Bench. Advocate Meenaz Kakalia who appeared for Pawar pointed out that the blocking of water flow is a violation of an earlier High Court order. Environmentalists have been fighting for a long to keep the Panje wetland intact to protect biodiversity. On NGO NatConnect Foundation’s plea, the State Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray had on March 4, 2020 even ordered halting of construction at Panje despite which intermittent landfill has been going on there. As the order to Raigad Collector and CIDCO went unimplemented, NatConnect moved the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who asked the Environment department to step in. In fact, in November Environment Director Narendra Toke ordered the Collector and CIDCO to adhere to the Minister’s order and pointed out that the stoppage of water flow to the wetland was a clear violation of the CRZ norms. The government has already submitted to the Bombay High Court that Panje falls under CRZ-1 and as such there can be no construction without the approval of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA). “We are not against any development activity that would bring jobs and prosperity to local people,” said Kumar, director or NatConnect Foundation. “The so-called development should spare mangroves and wetlands which are very important to maintain the fragile bio-diversity of Uran,” he said. Pawar also urged the NGT, pending the hearing and final disposal of this matter, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) be directed to conduct a site inspection in the presence of the applicant and submit a report to the Tribunal stating the current status of the Panje wetland. Pawar’s petition to NGT pointed out that coastal wetlands are important features in the landscape that provide numerous beneficial services for people and for fish and wildlife. Some of these services, or functions, include protecting and improving water quality, providing fish and wildlife habitats, storing floodwaters and maintaining surface water flow during dry periods. These valuable functions are the result of the unique natural characteristics of wetlands. The Panje coastal wetland is low-lying and spread over an area of approximately 289 hectares and is bounded by the villages Panje, Phunde, Dongari and Bokadvira. It is bordered by mangroves on the west and the east and has mangroves inside the wetland at some locations. It is an intertidal wetland that has been formed naturally in abandoned saltpans. Due to its geographical location, it was earmarked by the planning authorities as a flood control zone since the regular tidal influence made it easy to soak and drain the water from the nearby areas. Panje Coastal Wetland comprises salt marshes and mangroves. Before the artificially created blockages, the wetland would also get inundated during the high tide, indicating that it is an intertidal area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ngt-steps-in-to-save-panje-wetland-asks-cidco-to-clear-choked-water-inlets-974829.html
16-04-2021||West||Stray dog burnt alive, case registered in Maharashtra||Police have registered an offence against unidentified persons for allegedly burning a stray dog alive in Thane city of Maharashtra, an official said on Friday. A complaint in this regard was lodged by a 20-year-old member of the Citizens for Animal Protection Foundation at Rabodi police station, he said. "The complainant said he got a message on Tuesday evening about a stray dog being burnt by some unidentified persons at Masanwada. He rushed to the spot and found the partly-burnt dog, which he took to a veterinary hospital. But the animal died there," the official said. An offence under IPC section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, was registered against the unidentified accused on Wednesday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stray-dog-burnt-alive-case-registered-in-maharashtra-974836.html
16-04-2021||West||HC agrees to hold in-camera proceedings in Mumbai scribe's anticipatory bail plea in rape case||The Delhi High Court on Friday agreed to conduct in-camera proceedings in the anticipatory bail plea of a Mumbai-based television journalist in a rape case. Justice Mukta Gupta said the matter will be taken up at 3:30 pm and a separate web link will be created for the lawyers appearing for journalist Varun Hiremath, the complainant and the Delhi Police. The case will be heard after all the listed matters for the day, the court said. A request for in-camera hearing was made by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Hiremath. He also informed the court that a status report has been filed by the police in the case. The court had, on April 9, granted interim protection from arrest to the journalist in the case till April 16, provided he joined the police investigation. It had issued notices and sought the responses of the police and the complainant on the journalist's plea seeking anticipatory bail in the case. The court had also asked the police to verify the documents to be given by the accused and file a status report. The journalist approached the high court after his anticipatory bail plea was dismissed by a trial court here on March 12. The 22-year-old complainant has alleged that she was raped by Hiremath (28) at a five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri on February 20. The counsel for the accused claimed before the court that there was a history of sexual relationship between the complainant and the journalist. The complainant was represented in court through senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan. The trial court, while rejecting the journalist's anticipatory bail plea, had said consent cannot be implied from the complainant's previous experiences with the accused and if the woman stated in her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did not. The accused's counsel had highlighted WhatsApp and Instagram chats between the complainant and the accused before the trial court "in order to show the love and passion between them for each other". The trial court had also noted in its order that some WhatsApp chats of the victim and the accused after the alleged offence indicated "towards the feeling of sorry by the accused for his acts". It had said the question of consent coupled with the conduct of the complainant and the accused was a matter of trial and that it was only considering the anticipatory bail plea. On the basis of the woman's complaint, an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 376 (punishment for rape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) was registered at the Chanakyapuri police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-agrees-to-hold-in-camera-proceedings-in-mumbai-scribes-anticipatory-bail-plea-in-rape-case-974892.html
16-04-2021||West||Meet Neola Pereira, the 20-year old fighting for Goa's forests||Fronted by a 20-year-old in pigtails, the dancing flash mob swings into action, campaigning to save a threatened wildlife reserve — part of a growing, youth-led environmental movement rattling Indian authorities. The battle between the state and environmental activists is not new in India, where impoverished tribal communities have long complained of being displaced in the pursuit of economic growth. But it has rarely been fought by young women like Neola Pereira, who turns up at protests dressed in skinny jeans, fluent in internet-speak, and ready to dance. "People think only environmentalists need to fight for the environment, but that's not true," the business student told AFP. Pereira has campaigned for months to stop a government plan to expand train tracks, widen a highway and build an electricity transmission line that will slice through Mollem National Park — home to endangered tigers and other big cats. The existing railway line transports thousands of tonnes of Australian, South African and Indonesian coal daily through Goa, on the coast of the Arabian Sea. It snakes through the park, part of a mountain range named by the United Nations as one of the world's eight "hottest hotspots" of biodiversity. Further expansion, activists say, would devastate the ecologically sensitive reserve and turn the lush state into a coal hub. By her own admission, Pereira never expected to get her hands dirty in the fight against fossil fuels. India's urban middle-class youth have, until recently, been far more preoccupied with securing university admissions and competing for a limited pool of white-collar jobs than environmentalism. But that is starting to change, sparking a heavy-handed government response. In February, police arrested Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate campaigner, on charges of sedition, for allegedly creating a "toolkit" on organising protests and sharing it with Swedish activist Greta Thunberg on social media. "Young women like me don't just want to build a career, we want to use our voice for change," said Pereira, who was herself detained by police in December and sees Ravi as a hero. The #SaveMollem campaign has won support from retirees, churchgoers and especially youth, thanks to internet-friendly tactics, including a "Jerusalema" dance challenge taken up by hundreds of people across Goa. "Social media is helping a lot... it means the flame travels faster", said zoologist Hycintha Aguiar, who conducted research in Mollem from 2019 to 2020. "I had refrained from getting involved in activism earlier but what is happening here is very disturbing," the 26-year-old told AFP. Every day, huge ships laden with imported coal dock at Goa's Mormugao port, where the cargo is loaded onto trucks and finally into railway wagons destined for neighbouring states. Infrastructure giants JSW Steel and the Adani group, whose billionaire owners are said to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, operate their own coal handling facilities at the port. It has sparked allegations that the controversial projects are intended to boost their bottomline. Goa's power minister Nilesh Cabral — who is also its environment minister — dismissed fears of the state turning into a coal hub as a fiction conjured up by campaigners. But he defended the Mollem plans, saying that although the park's biodiversity would be "disturbed" by the rail expansion, it would eventually recover. The projects would also improve connectivity for Goans, he told AFP, adding: "When we say standards of living, why should we not be (on) par with other people?" Many locals are unconvinced. "As a child I enjoyed the nature of Goa," said Mariano Proenca, a 68-year-old priest who attended one of Pereira's recent protests. "Now, because of these projects destroying it, children will not be able to see nature," he told AFP. Pereira is preparing for a long fight, dismissing fears of a crackdown. But in December, officers boarded a private bus carrying protesters, and ordered the driver to take them to the police station. "We were trapped... screaming for help", Pereira recalled. Minutes later, they were livestreaming the incident on Instagram, racking up over 200,000 views and prompting others to come to their aid. "The government is scared because... we have reached so many people", she said. "I am very sure of winning this battle."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/meet-neola-pereira-the-20-year-old-fighting-for-goas-forests-974907.html
16-04-2021||West||Gujarat: 15-day-old infant dies of Covid-19 at Surat hospital||A 15-day-old baby girl, who was born to a Covid-19 patient, succumbed to coronavirus at a hospital in Gujarat's Surat city, an official said on Friday. The infant was born with the infection on April 1, as her mother had also contracted the disease, a statement issued by Diamond Hospital said. While the child's mother was shifted to another hospital, the newborn was under intensive treatment and was also administered remdesivir injection when her condition started deteriorating, it was stated. The baby, who was on ventilator support, breathed her last on Thursday night, the hospital said. Former mayor of Surat Dr Jagdish Patel, who had recently recovered from coronavirus, donated his blood plasma for the infant's treatment, it was stated. Surat city on Thursday registered 1,551 new cases of coronavirus and 26 casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-15-day-old-infant-dies-of-covid-19-at-surat-hospital-974913.html
16-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Isolation coaches on standby in Mumbai||With the total Covid-19 active cases in Mumbai inching towards the one-lakh mark, the Mumbai-headquartered Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) has kept the isolation coaches ready for asymptomatic positive patients. It may be recalled that in 2020 after the pandemic broke out, the Indian Railway has decided that over 5,000 coaches have been converted into Covid-19 isolation coaches across the country. In Mumbai or the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) - these Covid isolation coaches have not been used so far – however, now with the growing number of cases, the isolation coaches have been kept in a state of readiness. Around 153 isolation coaches for Mumbai are presently available, of which 128 coaches are available with the WR and 25 with CR. These have been parked at different sidings and can be easily put into action after necessary cleaning, washing and installation of oxygen cylinders inside it. As far as putting these into operation, Railway officials said that it could be done on short notice. One has to take the coaches to designated places. However, the places where these would be parked have to be marked and movement has to be restricted. The SOPs of the Maharashtra government has to be followed in these field hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-isolation-coaches-on-standby-in-mumbai-974941.html
16-04-2021||West||Sena, NCP slam Fadnavis for 'campaigning against Marathi candidate' in Belgaum||Two constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) - Shiv Sena and NCP - on Friday criticised BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for "campaigning against a Marathi-speaking candidate" for the Lok Sabha bypoll in Karnataka's Belgaum, which continues to remain centre stage in the decades-old border dispute between the two neighbouring states. The parliamentary bypoll, which was necessitated following the death of Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi due to Covid-19 last year, will be held on Saturday. While Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that political leaders from Maharashtra should not campaign against a Marathi-speaking candidate in Belgaum, Maharashtra NCP president and state Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil accused the BJP of betraying the Marathi people of that city in Karnataka. The bypoll will witness a straight fight between the BJP and the Congress, while the Shiv Sena is supporting the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) candidate Shubham Shelke. Talking to reporters on Friday, Raut who campaigned for Shelke, said that for 65 years, the MES has symbolised the struggle of the Marathi-speaking people in Belgaum. "At least Marathi politicians from Maharashtra should not campaign against a Marathi candidate in Belgaum," he said. Raut was referring to Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, who campaigned against Shelke. "Fadnavis has been a former chief minister of Maharashtra. During his tenure, the MES leaders had met him and he had assured them that the Maharashtra government and the BJP were firmly with the MES on the merger of the Marathi-speaking areas in Karnataka into Maharashtra. But he is taking a different stand now. The NCP campaigned for Shelke and even Congress leaders from Maharashtra, although their party candidate is also in the fray there, campaigned for Shelke," he claimed. Under Fadnavis's tenure as CM, a resolution seeking the merger of Belgaum and other areas into Maharashtra was passed, the Sena leader said, adding, "He had also assured support to the MES. But now he has taken a different stand." When asked about the Covid-19 restrictions imposed in Maharashtra by the MVA government, Raut said, "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been very mild. He is very disturbed about loss of livelihood to several people because of the curbs. But people shouldn't force him to impose harsher curbs. The chief minister has shown his humane side by the current restrictions. The coronavirus situation in the state is not good." Meanwhile, addressing a press conference in Belgaum, NCP's Jayant Patil pledged his party's support to MES candidate Shelke. "When the BJP was in power for five years in Maharashtra, Fadnavis neglected the demands of the MES and now he has campaigned against their candidate. Fadnavis has proved that he is against the Marathi people, and he has hurt their sentiments," he said. Patil said his party has always stood for the unity of Marathi people in Belgaum and the state of Maharashtra. "Fadnavis is always busy pleasing his party bosses in Delhi. "We experience this in Maharashtra as well. For coronavirus management or any other issue of Maharashtra, he should support the state government, but that doesn't happen," the minister said. The MES had earlier contested the Lok Sabha polls to highlight the issues of Marathi people in Belgaum. "We are confident that Shelke, a young Marathi candidate, will highlight in the Parliament the issues of Marathi-speaking people there," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sena-ncp-slam-fadnavis-for-campaigning-against-marathi-candidate-in-belgaum-974993.html
16-04-2021||West||Maharashtra to face Remdesivir shortage for 2-3 days, says minister||Maharashtra will face a shortage of 12,000 to 15,000 Remdesivir injections, used to treat Covid-19 patients, for the next two to three days, state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Minister Rajendra Shingane said on Friday. He said pharma companies manufacturing Remdesivir have stepped up production but it will take time for the new stock to reach the market. Speaking to reporters here, he said, “Companies that produce Remdesivir injection have increased their production but it will take some time for the vials to hit the market. If we consider a 10-12 per cent shortage, Maharashtra will continue to face a shortage of 12,000 to 15,000 Remdesivir vials for the next two to three days.” Blaming companies for delay in supply of the much sough-after Covid-19 drug, the FDA minister said, “The heads of Remdesivir-making companies had 15 days back assured me to supply around 55,000 vials of the injection. However, till April 15 these companies could provide only 37,000 to 39,000 vials to the state.” “I held a video conference meeting with the CEOs and MDs of some of the companies that produce Remdesivir today again. These companies have now assured me that supply will be streamlined April 19 onwards,” he said. He lauded the Centre's move to ban the export of Remdesivir. "Ready stocks of Remdesivir (which were bound for shipments abroad) are available even in Maharashtra. Some of the company representatives met me with a proposal of allowing these stocks to be sold in Maharashtra,” Shingane said. "Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray has also issued orders allowing export-bound stocks to be sold in the state (following the ban). I do not know how much such vials are available (with companies)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-face-remdesivir-shortage-for-2-3-days-says-minister-974998.html
16-04-2021||West||Maharashtra may strengthen Covid-19 curbs as crowds continue to gather||With people still seen in roads other than those in emergency services and crowding in grocery and vegetable shops in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), the Maharashtra government is working on further strengthening of norms that came into force couple of days ago in wake of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Despite imposition of section 144 CrPC throughout the state, people were seen in the public transportation system including the local trains of Mumbai. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has repeatedly asked people to stay indoors. On Friday, three senior functionaries of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government – home minister Dilip Walse-Patil, public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope and relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar – indicated fresh curbs. “If people do not cooperate, we may have to strengthen the restrictions,” Walse-Patil said. Wadettiwar pointed out that to save the lives of people the government may have to announce new curbs. “The state may announce curbs on supply of fuel (petrol and diesel)…people are still using local trains even though they are not in essential services,” he said. Dropping hints, Tope said: "We would require complete lockdown for 15 days to three weeks even though I am not in favour of that immediately. If hospitals are crowded, if there is a shortage of medicines and if the government is unable to cope with the growing number of patients then such a step can be taken.” Over the last two days, Thackeray himself has been in touch with divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and took stock of the emerging ground situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-may-strengthen-covid-19-curbs-as-crowds-continue-to-gather-975021.html
16-04-2021||West||Maharashtra sees record spike in daily Covid-19 cases with 63K new infections||The 24-hour jump in Covid-19 cases touched a record high of 63,729 in Maharashtra on Friday. This takes the total caseload of the state to 37,03,584. The state recorded 398 deaths, pushing the death toll to 59,551. Meanwhile, 45,335 patients were discharged during the day taking the total to 30,04,391, thus crossing the 30-lakh-mark. More than 35 lakh people are now in quarantine because of the viral infection. The total active cases in the state now stand at 6,38,034.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-record-spike-in-daily-covid-19-cases-with-63k-new-infections-975041.html
16-04-2021||West||Release real Covid data: High Court tells Gujarat govt||The Gujarat High Court on Friday asked the Vijay Rupani-led BJP government to announce the real number of Covid-19 positive patients, number of deaths and fatalities due to comorbidities so that "faith and trust can be restored in the minds of public".  The special division bench of the high court comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Bhargav Karia made these observations after reprimanding the government for the gap in the figures on paper and on the ground. "We know that the state is not responsible for increase in upward swing of Covid patients, but at the same time the state should publish data by making efforts to find out actual number of Covid positive cases," the bench stated in the order. After a few months into the pandemic last year, the state government had stopped including the death of Covid patients with comorbid conditions from the list of daily fatalities. This brought down the fatality rate, which was soaring at the national level. Since then, the number of deaths in government records has been low but crematoriums in the state were running round-the-clock to cremate bodies. On many occasions, the government defended its move stating that those last rites of patients with comorbid conditions also have to follow Covid guidelines. "The state must come up publicly in a transparent and fair manner with complete details with regard to availability and modalities of the required amenities, medication and related infrastructure for the treatment of the Covid patients, who require either facility of Covid care centre, hospitalisation with oxygen, ventilator, medicines, etc...State should take up the onus of declaring the accurate data so as to eliminate the others from propagating the same with spice and causing panic amongst the people," the order notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/release-real-covid-data-high-court-tells-gujarat-govt-975117.html
16-04-2021||West||NCB busts cannabis cultivation in Thane 2BHK flat||In a major breakthrough, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) unearthed a modus operandi by busting a gang with international ramifications that was cultivating Cannabis inside a 2BHK flat in Dombivli in the neighbouring Thane district. “It is a big case and we are investigating the entire network that was involved in the cultivation of Cannabis by hydroponic technique,” NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede said on Friday. Hydroponics is an effective method for growing plants that places the plants in a water solution that’s rich in nutrients. Instead of using soil to grow the plants, the roots of the plants come into direct contact with the nutrient-rich solution. Earlier this week, acting on an intelligence input, the NCB raided a 2BHK flat in Palava City where they found Cannabis being cultivated. Two persons, Javed Jahangir Sheikh and Arshad Khatri were grilled by the NCB sleuths. “We found that Cannabis was being cultivated there through Hydroponic techniques. From the site we have recovered cultivation setup, PH regulators, plant nutrients, clay pebbles, water pumps, air circulation systems,  CO2 gas cylinders, photosynthesis lighting systems,” Wankhede said. This indoor facility was running in the house of Rehan Khan who is in Saudi Arabia and financing all this activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-busts-cannabis-cultivation-in-thane-2bhk-flat-975192.html
16-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Goa BJP urges CM to impose restrictions on inbound tourists||As Goa's Covid-19 count crept above 900 cases in 24 hours on Friday, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade met Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, urging the latter to impose restrictions on inbound tourists. Speaking to reporters here, Tanavade said the rising trend of Covid-19 cases was "dangerous" and also called for restrictions on big functions, including big-ticket weddings held in the state to contain the spread of infections. "People coming from outside should be checked. In this regard, some decision will be taken today evening or tomorrow. I have spoken to him (CM) in this regard," Tanavade said.   "The manner in which Covid-19 cases in Goa are rising, it does appear dangerous to some extent. I have spoken to CM, there is a need for some restrictions. 100% lockdown cannot be a solution. Some functions or large events need to be controlled," Tanavade told reporters.   On Friday, Goa recorded its highest daily count of Covid-19 cases with 927 people testing positive, taking the total count of active cases to 6,321. Six Covid-19 positive persons also died on Friday. Sawant has ruled out a lockdown and said that restrictions like night curfews would impact the state's economy. "Being a touristic state, if we impose night curfew, it will create a spin-off effect. People should remain alert. We have issued an advisory. We are continuing to create awareness. They should not go to crowded places, maintain social distancing," Sawant told reporters on Friday. "I have maintained right at the outset, we need to take care of ourselves. We cannot have a lockdown and shut down all activities right now. The maximum a government can do is provide testing facilities, hospitals, quarantine centres and vaccination," he also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-bjp-urges-cm-to-impose-restrictions-on-inbound-tourists-975195.html
