17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five KSRTC workers suspended||KSRTC Shivamogga Division, on Friday, has suspended five more workers for not reporting for duty. While workers of regional transport corporation have carried on their strike demanding for the implementation of 6th pay commission report. KSRTC Shivamogga Division Controller Naveen has issued an order suspending the workers Tyavara Naik, Veeresh Handegara, Shivakumar, H E Prakash and Kotresh. Four workers had been suspended on April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-ksrtc-workers-suspended-975203.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Muslim youth dedicates devotional song to Kalikamba||A youth from the Muslim community in Savanalu has composed a devotional song in praise of Durga Kalikamba of Kalikabetta. The devotional song has received praise from all. Ramlan’s house is located close to the Durga Kalikamba Temple. He used to participate as a volunteer in all the temple activities. Thus, a decision to dedicate a song to Kalikamba Goddess came to him naturally. An electrician by profession, Ramlan has written ‘Mahimeda Karanika Kshetra Kalikabetta’ and also sang the song. The song is uploaded on Sri Durga Kalikamba Kshetra Kalibetta Savanalu YouTube page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muslim-youth-dedicates-devotional-song-to-kalikamba-975302.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru ESI hospital, NITK block likely to be Covid Care Centres||The Mangaluru district administration and department of health and family welfare have identified ESI hospital in Mangaluru and a block in NITK-Surathkal to double as Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in emergency situations that might arise with the surge in Covid-19 cases. As of now, no CCC has been set up in the district. About 90% of positive cases in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district are in home isolation and undergoing treatment, District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Kishore Kumar told DH. ESI Hospital has 50 to 75 beds while a block of the NITK can accommodate 100 beds. “We have already inspected both the spots and informed officials concerned about the need to convert them into covid care centres in case of emergency,” he said. In the past, there was no concept of home isolation treatment for mild and asymptomatic patients. As a result, covid care centres were opened in the district. Now the government has approved home isolation for mild symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. “Compared to previous wave, the severity in infected is less during the second wave in district. Thus people are opting for home isolation,” Kumar added. As Covid-19 cannot be predicted, the district administration is mentally prepared and equipped to set up the centres in case the situation demands, he added. As of April 14, out of 1,152 active cases, a total of 953 patients were in home isolation. No shortage of beds The DHO clarified that there was no shortage of beds in hospitals for treating Covid-19-infected patients. There are enough ventilators and oxygen-supported beds in hospitals across the district, he said. About 4,800 beds are available for treating the infected. Further, a meeting of private hospital representatives has been called on Saturday, to discuss sharing of beds for covid patients by DK Deputy Commissioner, he added. “If an institution is declared as covid containment zone, then all the infected and the immediate contacts of infected are quarantined in the institution itself instead of being admitted to all hospitals depending on the severity of the infection,” the DHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-esi-hospital-nitk-block-likely-to-be-covid-care-centres-975307.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Voting underway for bypolls to one Lok Sabha, two assembly seats in Karnataka||Voting is underway for by-election to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Maski and Basavakalyan assembly segments in Karnataka on Saturday, poll officials said. A total of 22,68,038 voters (including service voters) are eligible to cast their votes at 3,197 polling stations in the three constituencies where voting began at 7 am and will go on till 7 pm. Among voters from all three segments, over 11.37 lakh are men and over 11.22 lakh are women. A total of 30 candidates are in the fray from all three constituencies. While Belgaum has 10 candidates, Basavakalyan and Maski have 12 and eight respectively. Twenty-six out of the total 30 candidates are men. Among the four women include two from Basavakalyan and one each from Belgaum and Maski. The counting of votes will take place on May 2. Bypolls are being held by following the strict Covid-19 protocols, especially social distancing, wearing masks, using hand sanitisers among others, officials said, adding the last hour is reserved for coronavirus positive patients or those with symptoms. By-polls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats were necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi and MLA B Narayan Rao respectively due to Covid-19 in September last year. Maski seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil who had won in 2018 as the Congress candidate and is now with the BJP. The ruling BJP and the opposition Congress are battling it out in all three constituencies, while the JD(S) has limited itself only to Basavakalyan, as the regional party has not fielded any candidates in Maski and Belgaum. The ruling BJP has fielded Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Suresh Angadi, from the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat. Pratapagouda Patil, who quit Congress and joined the BJP is the saffron party's candidate from the Maski assembly segment, while youth leader Sharanu Salagar has been fielded in Basavakalyan. BJP rebel and former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba is in the fray as an independent candidate from Basavakalyan. The Congress has fielded its state working president Satish Jarkiholi, who is currently the MLA of Yamkanmaradi assembly segment, as its candidate from Belgaum. Mallamma, the wife of late legislator B Narayan Rao, is the grand old party's candidate from Basavakalyan seat, while Basanagouda Turvihal, who recently joined the party, has been fielded in the Maski segment. JD(S) has named Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who was with the Congress earlier, as its candidate from Basavakalyan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/voting-underway-for-bypolls-to-one-lok-sabha-two-assembly-seats-in-karnataka-975309.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Polling for Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency by-election begins||Polling for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency commenced on Saturday.  Polling began on a slow note with election staff delaying the installation of EVMs and VVPTs at many polling stations. There are 10 candidates in the fray. A total of 18.13 lakh voters will exercise their franchise. BJP candidate for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency Mangala Angadi cast her vote at a polling station in the premises of Government Higher Kannada Primary School at Visvesvaraya Nagar here and was among the early voters. Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Dr K Harish Kumar visited some of the polling stations in the city and reviewed the implementation of Covid-19 safety guidelines. Polling staff were seen asking the voters to use face masks, sanitise their hands before casting vote, and maintain social distancing while standing in the queue. Owing to summer, many of the voters preferred to cast their vote early to avoid standing in a queue under the hot sun. With voter slips not being distributed to voters by election authorities, many voters rushed to their nearby polling stations to search for their serial numbers in the voter rolls. Updated voter rolls not being made available to representatives of candidates led to voters themselves checking their names online based on Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC) numbers, voters list enrollment, and name transfer acknowledgement numbers available with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/polling-for-belgaum-lok-sabha-constituency-by-election-begins-975315.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka bypolls: 13.20% turnout in Belgaum, 19.48%, 19.30% in Basvakalya and Maski assembly seats till 11 am||The Belgaum Lok Sabha seat in Karnataka has recorded a voter turnout of 13.20 per cent, while Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments reported 19.48 and 19.30 per cent respectively during the first four hours of voting for the bypolls, poll officials said on Saturday. Polling began with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols in all three constituencies at 7 am and will go on till 7 pm. A total of 22,68,038 voters (including service voters) are eligible to cast their votes at 3,197 polling stations in the three constituencies. A total of 30 candidates in the fray from all three constituencies. While Belgaum has ten candidates, Basavakalyan and Maski have 12 and 8 respectively. 26 out of the total 30 candidates are men, While four are women, including two from Basavakalyan and one each from Belgaum and Maski. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. By-polls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats were necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi and MLA B Narayan Rao, respectively, due to Covid-19 in September last year. The Maski Assembly seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil who had won in 2018 from Congress and is now with the BJP. The ruling BJP and opposition Congress are battling it out in all three constituencies, while JD(S) has limited itself to Basavakalyan, as the regional party has not fielded any candidates in Maski and Belgaum. The ruling BJP has fielded Mangala Suresh Angadi, the wife of late Suresh Angadi, from Belgaum Lok Sabha seat. Pratapagouda Patil, who quit Congress and joined the party is the saffron party's candidate in the Maski assembly segment; while youth leader Sharanu Salagar has been fielded in Basavakalyan. The Congress has fielded its state working president Satish Jarkiholi, who is currently the MLA of Yamkanmaradi assembly segment, as its candidate from Belgaum. Mallamma, the wife of late legislator B Narayan Rao is the grand old party's candidate from Basavakalyan seat, while Basanagouda Turvihal, who recently joined the party has been fielded in Maski segment. JD(S) has named Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who was with the Congress earlier as its candidate from Basavakalyan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bypolls-1320-turnout-in-belgaum-1948-1930-in-basvakalya-and-maski-assembly-seats-till-11-am-975357.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Madhuswamy blasts officials for improper utilisation of food grains||District in-Charge Minister J C Madhuswamy on Saturday blasted the officials of backward classes, social welfare and scheduled tribes welfare departments for not properly utilising food grains. "Food grains needed for one year have been supplied to the backward classes, social welfare and scheduled tribes welfare departments. The district administration would have properly utilised them had the officials sent them. In order to hush up, the officials used the food grains that had worms, prepared food and served the same to the children. The children were treated like cattle," he expressed anger. The Minister chaired a progress review meeting. Grains to go waste About 20,000 quintals of food grains served to the hostels managed by three departments are about to go waste. During the lockdown, these food grains were not used. Rice, daal and other grains now have worms. There was a discussion in the meeting that the officials failed to take appropriate steps to use the food grains. Madhuswamy lost cool as district backward classes welfare department officer Subranayak said that just 10,000 quintals of food grains had been rotten. "The officials of the social welfare department returned the food grains. What were you doing? Rice sufficient for one year has been wasted. It is not an easy task to waste 20,000 quintals of food grains. There can be no example for worst administration than this," he blasted. The backward classes welfare department received 3,300 quintals of food grains. Including social welfare and scheduled tribes welfare departments, about 20,000 quintals of food grains were supplied. It had come to light that rice in Huliyar and other areas had worms. The officials were examining if the rice was fit for consumption, Subranayak told DH. On district industrial centre Madhuswamy also targeted the officials of the district industrial centre's style of function. "Coconut has been identified as a crop under one district, one crop scheme. The government is awarding Rs five crore subsidy per unit to start coconut-based industries. The department has not taken any steps to start even one industry," he expressed displeasure. 'Don't narrate your tale' Social welfare department officer Prema was also targeted. "The construction of the community hall is pending for the last seven years. Every time, the progress is reviewed at the meeting. There are just assurances. Are elected representatives here to listen to your tale?" he asked the officer. Madhuswamy was upset by the move to run hostels in private buildings instead of government structures. "SSLC students from rural areas attending schools in other areas are facing troubles due to strike by road transport corporation workers and Covid-19. Hostel facilities should be made for such students," he directed. KSFC officials blasted He vented anger over the fact that Karnataka State Finance Corporation (KSFC) lent loans to just 22 units. "Who will be prepared to pay commission and documents sought by the Corporation officials?" he sarcastically remarked. "The corporation should have lent loans to start 500 industrial units. The State government won'g grant subsidy if loans are not borrowed from KSFC. The officials should lend more loans to industrialists," he directed. The Minister blasted the scheduled tribes welfare department for releasing funds before the construction of the hostel was completed and cancelling the construction work on the ground that length of the terrace was not proper after the construction work was over at Tiptur. "Why are you here if you are unable to examine a four-storey building. Go home," he slammed. 'Visit taluks once a week' The Minister directed the district-level officers to visit taluk headquarters once a week without fail. Details of the visits to rural areas should be submitted to Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer, he said. On Kunigal tank "There is a lot of sewage in the tank that supplies drinking water to Kunigal. It has not been cleaned for the last 13 years. The sewage water is being supplied for drinking purposes. The officials will have to be behind bars if someone moves the court over the matter," he warned. He directed the Hemavathi nala division engineer to release water from the tank, clean it, get rid of sewage and then supply the Hemavathi water to the lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/madhuswamy-blasts-officials-for-improper-utilisation-of-food-grains-975470.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||55 new Covid-19 cases in Kodagu||With the Covid-19 graph moving in an upward direction in the state, Kodagu district registered 55 new cases on Saturday. Of 55 new cases, 28 were from Madikeri taluk, while five were from Somwarpet taluk. The district has so far registered 6,806 fresh Covid cases and 6,431 infected people have recovered. The district has 292 active cases undergoing treatment, said Deputy Commissioner Charulata Somal. Meanwhile, with the rise in Covid cases, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Home Minister S R Bommai and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar held a video conference with the deputy commissioner on Saturday and directed the officials to strictly adhere to the guidelines to check the spread of Covid-19. In a separate meeting, Zilla Panchayat project director Srikantamurthy said that everyone should be cautious and awareness should be created in villages. “The Covid-19 cases are on the rise. There is a need to maintain health by boosting immunity. Masks should be worn by all and there is a need to maintain social distancing. In addition, people should wash their hands frequently. There is a need to emphasise personal hygiene,” he added. All those who are above 45 years of age should get themselves vaccinated. The government’s Covid-19 rules should be strictly followed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/55-new-covid-19-cases-in-kodagu-975544.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Beehive boxes distributed to 130 families||Kodagu Seva Kendra and Kodagu for Tomorrow organisation handed over beehive boxes to 130 families in Soorlabbi, Kumbaragadige, Mankya, Kikkaralli and Muttlu. Each family was given two boxes. All the beehive boxes along with the families of bees have been procured from Everyday Honey Farm in Tumakuru. Seva Kendra’s Pramod Sommaiah said that whoever engages in apiculture using the beehive boxes will get additional four boxes next year. Kodagu for Tomorrow convener Ponnolatanda Kaverappa said that the organisation will impart training in beekeeping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/beehive-boxes-distributed-to-130-families-975545.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Quarry headache for Hoskeri villagers||The villagers of Hoskeri have been literally shaken following the continuous work at the stone quarry unit. Residents have growing concerns over the impact of noise from the quarry site. The dust that rises because of the blasts settles on agricultural land nearby to the quarry site, said the villagers. A private firm from outside the state had sought permission from the district administration to construct a residential school at the site in the past. But, following the concerns raised by the villagers about the destruction of the forest, permission was denied for the same. However, now, on the same site by availing permission for the construction of a house, the quarrying is taken up on 20 cents of land. Huge machines are working round the clock. As the area is situated in an elevated position, there is an impending threat of cave-ins, during the monsoon, said women from Hoskeri village. Villagers alleged that the issue of removing huge boulders at the site has been brought to the notice of the mines and geology officials on March 23. Even the deputy commissioner is also appraised of the situation. The officials should visit the spot immediately and assess the damage, they added. “If the permission is given for a huge work in Hoskeri, then the natural terrain of the region will be harmed. We are not against the building of a school. However, local students should be given priority. We suspect that some other work is taken up, instead of the school,” said the villagers. The entire greenery will be damaged and the trees will be felled, which in turn, will affect the biodiversity of the land. Kodagu has already experienced massive natural calamities for the last three years, said the residents. Stone mining will affect the natural flow of water from the forest as well. The unscientific work on stone mining will have its impact on the wildlife as well. The use of explosives has inconvenienced the residents and is causing air and noise pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/quarry-headache-for-hoskeri-villagers-975549.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cops say fire at library was due to careless matchstick thrown by smoker||The library of Syed Issaq was gutted due to negligence of a smoker, who threw a matchstick after lighting a beedi and the police denied any foul play in this regard. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta said, "Due to the negligence of one Syed Nasir, 35, the library gutted. Nasir, who is in police custody, threw the matchstick after lighting a beedi and it caused fire." According to the commissioner, Nasir was in an inebriated condition when the incident took place. Nasir left his house after a clash with his mother and brother. He purchased a pack of beedi and a match box at a shop near the gutted library. He lit a beedi in front of a sofa repair shop, next to the library and threw the matchstick, which fell on a sofa. A few minutes later, the sofa caught fire, but two persons Syed Asgar and Syed Ayazuddin, who noticed the fire, doused it. However, the fire spread to the library, said the commissioner. Syed Nasir is in police custody and there is no proof that the incident is intentional. The incident is due to negligence, he said. When asked it is possible to store 11,000 books in 10X18 sq ft structure, the commissioner said, “We investigated about how the library was gutted and it is not the Police department’s duty to look into the number of books inside the structure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cops-say-fire-at-library-was-due-to-careless-matchstick-thrown-by-smoker-975554.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah, minister Narayana Gowda indulge in verbal spat||A verbal spat broke out between MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah and the District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda in full public during a programme at Mini Vidhana Soudha here, on Sunday.  The MLA raised objection against the officials for mentioning as ‘Revenue Adalat’ in invitation. The MLA questioned, “Though the event is not Revenue Adalat, why it has been wrongly mentioned. The government is anti-people and failed to manage Covid situation. There are no ventilators and funds have not been released to the people who supply food. The officials are involved in corruption.” The MLA also took Tahsildar M V Roopa to task and said that he will make public all the irregularities in a meeting convened on Monday. The MLA also warned the officer when she came forward to answer him. The MLA also charged the minister for claiming that the MLA needs patience and it is not right to abuse the officials in public. However, the MLA said, “I need not learn lesson from you. You have no value for loyalty. I will be a minister in the days to come.” In his reply, Narayana Gowda said, “I was elected as MLA thrice and now, I am minister. Even I know to handle such situation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-ravindra-srikantaiah-minister-narayana-gowda-indulge-in-verbal-spat-975569.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vehicles to be arranged for villagers for Covid vaccination: Gopalaiah||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah on Saturday said that separate vehicles will be arranged for Covid-19 vaccination drive at rural region. In a press conference, after meeting with the officials here, the minister said, "Due to KSRTC employees strike and second wave of Covid-19, the people are reluctant to get vaccination. The Health department will arrange vehicles to pick people to vaccination centre from their villages. He urged the people to get vaccination without any hesitation. The state government has considered Covid-19 seriously and the people have to follow the norms for the safety. The district administration has taken all the necessary measures to contain the spread and 188 Covid-19 infected patients are under treatment at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) and another 200 beds are ready, he informed. The minister said, "There is need for funds to control spread of Covid-19 and directions will be given to release Rs 2 crore under National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) scheme. The government has ordered for closure of hostels and the matter will be discussed with the concerned authorities to make arrangements for the students."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vehicles-to-be-arranged-for-villagers-for-covid-vaccination-gopalaiah-975570.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Court summons officials in connection with heli-tourism project||The First Additional Civil Judge and JMFC, Mysuru, has issued summons to Deputy Commissioner, Tourism Department Deputy Director, Deputy Conservator of Forests and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner in connection with the proposed Heli-Tourism project. The court has summoned the officials to appear before the court of May 27. Eco-activists K S Venkatesh and Banu Mohan, also president of Parisara Samrakshana Samithi, have filed application before the court seeking permanent injunction against cutting of trees for developing a helipad near Lalitha Mahal Helipad for the proposed heli-tourism project. The activists also have written to the President of India Ram Nath Kovind requesting him to direct the state government not to allow the project at the cost of trees. The Tourism Department has proposed heli-tourism project to be taken up in association with Jungle Lodges and Resorts, a government undertaking. However, the project received severe opposition from eco-activists, people representatives, as hundreds of trees need to be cleared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/court-summons-officials-in-connection-with-heli-tourism-project-975571.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heli-tourism: Pramoda Devi supports eco-activists, claims land to be private property||Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, has come in support of eco-activists, in connection with the much-debated heli-tourism project, proposed by Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara. Even though the support for the cause and opposition to the proposal is mixed with safeguarding the interest of her family, her letter to the Conservator of Forest, Mysuru division, on Friday, April 16, 2021, has given a new twist to the issue. It has to be recalled that a section of people of Mysuru and also from other parts have raised objection to the project, which needs felling of 150 trees on the premises of Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel to build a helipad to promote tourism. It has to be noted that Pramoda Devi Wadiyar and her family members, including her son Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, do not have any constitutional sanction as royals. However, she is still revered as ‘Rajamatha’, while her son is revered as ‘Maharaja’ by those who have regards for the erstwhile royal family. Such people form a considerable percentage among natives in the districts of the erstwhile Mysore state. The letter reads, “I write to draw your attention to the writ petition filed by me in the High Court of Karnataka and the court’s verdict dated June 19, 2020, where in, it was held that the entire extent of Survey No 4 of Kurubarahalli in Mysuru is a private property and the land parcel in question is a part of that survey number.” “In the light of the court’s judgement, the proposed felling of trees in unauthorised and amounts to trespassing. Thus, drop the unauthorised activity of public hearing, failing which I will be constrained to take steps to safeguard my interest and to save the trees from being felled,” the letter reads. It has to be noted that a public hearing is convened by the Forest department at its office, in Aranya Bhavan, Ashokapuram, Mysuru from 11 am on April 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heli-tourism-pramoda-devi-supports-eco-activists-claims-land-to-be-private-property-975573.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Objections invited over helipad construction||Following the proposal to cut 150 trees for the heli-tourism project, the Forest department has decided to gather public opinion and has invited objections, in this regard. In the place, identified by Karnataka Tourism department to build a helipad, on 4 acres of land on Kurubarahalli Survey No 4, in front of Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel, it is intended to cut down 150 trees of various species. The public is allowed to file objections by April 23. As per Karnataka Tree Conservation Act case 8 (3), if more than 50 trees are to be cut, public opinion should be invited and debated, before taking a decision. The public grievances meeting will be held at the office of Deputy Conservator of Forests, Ashokapuram, Mysuru, on April 23 at 11 am. The public can attend the meeting in person or send their objections in writing to the Technical Assistant, Aranya Bhavan, First Floor, Sixth Cross, Ashokapuram, Mysuru - 570 008 before April 23. The objection can also be sent to e-mail dcfmdm@gmail.com, says a press note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/objections-invited-over-helipad-construction-975574.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||AIISH, an agency to educate public on communication disorders||All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) Director M Pushpavathi, who has over 22 years of experience in teaching undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral students, took charge in 2018. She did her undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD degrees from AIISH, Manasagangothri, Mysuru. Her areas of interest include speech disorders related to orofacial anomalies and voice disorders. She has guided 75 masters and eight doctoral students for their thesis. She is a member of Board of Studies and Board of Examiners of several universities across India. Pushpavathi has published 75 scientific papers in national and international journals. She has also completed 10 projects funded by AIISH Research Fund. She is a recipient of ‘Prof Rais Ahmed Memorial Award’, instituted by the Acoustical Society of India. Speaking to DH, Pushpavathi said that serving as a professor and now as director, she clearly understands what measures should be taken at AIISH for the benefit of people with speech-hearing impairment and other related issues. What are the future plans of All India Institute of Speech and Hearing? AIISH is an autonomous institute under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which plans to establish a few more AIISH like institutes for the benefit of the people with speech and hearing impairment. Land is allocated in Kanpur to establish an institute similar to that in Mysuru. Its construction will start soon. What are the immediate plans of AIISH-Mysuru? The ministry has recommended to begin small clinical units at all district hospitals across India, for early identification of any impairment. There are already 23 such outreach centres and six of them are in Karnataka. The ministry wants to have 100 centres established this year at district hospitals. What measures are taken at AIISH campus in Mysuru, during Covid-19 crisis? All safety measures are taken on the campus. But, we never stopped working even during lockdown. We have tele-rehabilitation system to help outstation patients. Around 40% to 50% cases avail treatment through tele-rehabilitation. They can contact us through video call, for consultation. What is the status of the Speech and Hearing Museum on AIISH campus? The work is under progress. Although it was partially affected due to lockdown. The outer structure, that resembles a face, is 50% completed. The interior works will start once the outer work is completed. The interiors are unique and elaborate. They require more time. It may be completed in a year. How is the response for phone-in programmes that are held off late? The initiative was to give publicity to the services available at AIISH. There is a good response for the programme. While it is being uploaded on social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp, it is liked and shared by many, reaching around 8,000 people. What is the role of Forensic Voice Analysis facility at AIISH? Like fingerprint, Forensic Voice Analysis helps to identify the voice print of a person. It is helpful if there is a kidnap case and a person demands a ransom. AIISH is helping the Police department in such cases. What are the facilities lined up for the benefit of the public? We have newborn screening facility in around 14 hospitals of Mysuru. We have plans to setup such facilities in more hospitals of Mysuru district. This will help to identify the impairment right from birth. A newborn will be screened for one month, diagnosed and the rehabilitation starts by the sixth month. This is the need of the hour, as early rehabilitation is a must for any child with impairment. Any expansion activities in Mysuru? Yes. The state government has allotted 10 acres land at Chikkahalli in Varuna hobli, for expansion activities. We are planning for a few projects and will decide in six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/aiish-an-agency-to-educate-public-on-communication-disorders-975577.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP candidates will win in the bypolls: V Somanna||Minister of Housing V Somanna on Saturday said that BJP candidates will win bypolls for two assembly seats and one Lok Sabha segment. The Minister along with his family members visited Chamundi Hill. He said, "The bypolls were unexpected and BJP candidates will win all the three seats- Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency and Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly constituencies." Somanna said that the Congress party is making baseless allegations that BJP has distributed money to lure voters.  He added that it is necessary to take strict measures to contain the Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has tested positive for Covid-19 and he will convene an all-party meeting to discuss the measures to be taken to contain Covid-19 after his recovery," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-candidates-will-win-in-the-bypolls-v-somanna-975353.html
17-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP expels ex-MLA Mallikarjun Khuba||The BJP on Saturday expelled its former legislator Mallikarjun Khuba for six years on the grounds of indiscipline and “anti-party activity”.  Khuba has been expelled from the BJP’s primary membership, the party’s disciplinary committee chairperson Lingaraj Patil said in his order.  “By contesting as a rebel against the party’s candidate Sharanu Salagar in the Basavakalyan Assembly bypoll, you have violated the party’s discipline,” the order stated. “You did not withdraw from the contest, despite last-minute attempts by the party to get you to do so.”  Khuba is the BJP’s defeated candidate from Basavakalyan in the 2018 election. He was expecting the bypoll ticket, which went to Salagar. Disgruntled, Khuba contested the election as an Independent, which left the BJP worried about a possible split in the Lingayat votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-expels-ex-mla-mallikarjun-khuba-975581.html
17-04-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru man kills uncle over property row||A man killed his 50-year-old uncle, over a property row in Aalambur, Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district. Siddaraju killed his uncle Lakshman in connection with a dispute over a money matter of one gunta land. Siddaraju attacked Lakshman with a knife before fleeing the spot. Deputy Superintendent of Police Govindaraju and Circle Inspector Lakshmikanth Talwar visited the spot. Biligere police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-man-kills-uncle-over-property-row-975627.html
17-04-2021||National||DH Toon | 'The campaign worked. The virus has become more Atmanirbhar!'||UK health authorities have identified 77 cases of the highly infectious B.1.617 variant of coronavirus which causes Covid-19, first found in India, and has designated it a Variant Under Investigation (VUI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-campaign-worked-the-virus-has-become-more-atmanirbhar-975270.html
17-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 17||India surpassed 1.4 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,45,26,609  as of April 17, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,75,649 as of April 17, 2021 
<!-- No. of people discharged:  1,26,71,220 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-17-975282.html
17-04-2021||National||India sees over 2 lakh new Covid-19 cases for third straight day||India added a record 2,34,692 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,45,26,609, while active cases surpassed the 16-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. This is the third consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,75,649 with 1,341 new fatalities, the highest this year, the data updated at 9 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 16,79,740, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate dropped to 87.80 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,26,71,220. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-2-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-for-third-straight-day-975301.html
17-04-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi says Kumbh Mela participation should now be kept symbolic amid Covid-19||After many seers contracted Covid-19 in Kumbh Mela and the event threatened to turn into a superspreader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday stepped in and suggested the need to minimise the gathering and keep the event now as "symbolic", an idea which was endorsed by Swami Avdheshanand Giri of Juna Akhara. After PM Modi spoke to the Hindu seer over the telephone, Giri put out a tweet tagging the Prime Minister and urging people not to gather in large numbers bathing during the Kumbh keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation and following the rules. PM Modi had earlier said he has requested that since two 'shahi snan' have taken place, the  Kumbh should now be kept symbolic keeping in view the coronavirus crisis. He also averred that this will give a boost to the fight against this crisis. Responding to PM's tweet, Giri said, "We honour the appeal of the Prime Minister. Saving life is a great virtue (punya)." Earlier he had quoted a verse from the Gita to hammer home the point that "Life is precious and divine. Appreciate the value of every moment and use it meaningfully." On Friday also in a tweet, he had asked the devotees participating in the Kumbh to follow the government guidelines and take efforts to save their life from coronavirus.   On Thursday, Niranajani Akhara had announced the end of its participation in the Kumbh Mela from April 17, which was followed up by Shri Panchayati Akhara and Anand Akhara also declaring an end to their participation. The unilateral announcement by Niranjani Akhara was later resented by some other Akharas, who insisted on continuing it till at least April 27, the day of the last Shahi Snan of this Kumbh. This year, the ongoing Kumbh, which is usually a three to four-month affair, was shortened to just one month from April 1 to 30 due to the coronavirus pandemic. A number of seers have tested positive for Covid-19 during the event and some deaths have also occurred. While Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri was admitted at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, the Mahamandaleshwar of Maha Nirwani Akhada from Madhya Pradesh Swami Kapil Dev, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a private hospital in Delhi on April 13. Haridwar Kumbh Mela medical office said that 68 seers have tested positive for Covid-19 between April 5 and April 14. In his tweet, Modi also said that while he spoke to Swami Avdheshanand Giri, he enquired about the health of saints, many of whom have contracted the infection. The Prime Minister's intervention into the issue came amid growing criticism for allowing the event despite the massive spike in cases across and India. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Ashwani Kumar this week wrote to the Supreme Court seeking its suo motu intervention and demanding a ban on all political and religious functions. Kumar cited the Kumbh Mela being held in Uttarakhand's Haridwar as a superspreader event, where almost 2,000 people have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-says-kumbh-mela-participation-should-now-be-kept-symbolic-amid-covid-19-975313.html
17-04-2021||National||Aadhar-related problems and resultant denial of rations||On March 17, 2021, the Supreme Court issued notice to the Centre on a plea alleging cancellation of around four crore ration cards in the country due to non-linking with Aadhaar cards, resulting in starvation deaths. The plea was filed by Koili Devi, mother of an 11-year-old girl, who allegedly died due to starvation on September 28, 2017. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "The matter is too serious. We have to hear it." The court issued notice to the Centre seeking its response within four weeks in the petition pending since 2018. It also asked the Union government not to treat the matter as adversarial litigation. In the National Election Study that the Lokniti-CSDS conducted after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the voters were asked, "Have you ever been denied these following things because you didn’t have your Aadhaar card/number or your biometrics didn’t match or because of some technical glitches or the server being down?" The options were: A. Foodgrains/ration that you were supposed to get,  B. Any government scheme benefit that you were eligible.  On analysing the responses of those from ration-card-holding households, it turned out that 28 per cent households had indeed experienced such a situation. The survey was conducted on over 12,000 electors. As per the survey, the problem of denial of rations is faced by people in both urban and rural areas. It showed that 28 per cent of respondents belonging to ration card-holding households in rural areas were refused ration due to Aadhaar-related issues at some point, in urban areas it was 27 per cent.  And it was the poorer sections who were hit the most with 39 per cent of households with a monthly income below Rs 2,000 said that they were at some point denied PDS ration due to Aadhaar problems. This percentage of denial is higher in seven states: Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The petition, based on which the Supreme Court issued the notice to the Centre, claimed insistence on Aadhaar and biometric authentification led to the cancellation of nearly four crore ration cards in the country as per the Union government. "The Union government casually explains that these cancelled cards were bogus. The real reason is that the technological system based on Iris identification, thumbprints, possession of Aadhaar, functioning of the internet in rural and remote areas led to large scale cancellation of ration cards without notice to the family concerned," it said. The problem is not just with foodgrains, but with coronavirus vaccination as well. As per rights groups and experts, millions of vulnerable people are at risk of missing out on Covid-19 vaccines as Aadhar card is used for registration and pilots facial recognition technology at inoculation centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aadhar-related-problems-and-resultant-denial-of-rations-975329.html
17-04-2021||National||Delhi court grants bail to Red Fort violence accused Deep Sidhu||A Delhi Court has granted bail to actor Deep Sidhu in connection with a case relating to violence in and around Red Fort on Republic Day.  However, he was arrested by the Delhi police crime branch in another case related to the incident. Additional Sessions Judge Nilofer Abeeda Parveen allowed bail plea of Sandeep Singh Sidhu alias Deep Sidhu. The court directed him to furnish a bail bond of Rs 30,000 and two sureties of like amount.  The court noted the prosecution seeks to make an example out of the case of the accused-applicant, he being a popular public figure, such an endeavour however hazards a failure of justice as a result of compromised objectivity. The specific allegations against him, however, cannot be lost sight of and nature of incriminating material cannot be disregarded at any cost. It would lie with the prosecution to establish the accusations by collecting cogent material and leading credible evidence in the course of trial, the court added.  The Punjabi actor was first arrested in February 9 following the incident on Republic Day during the tractors rally by the farmers taken out to demand repeal of three farm laws. Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-red-fort-violence-accused-deep-sidhu-975335.html
17-04-2021||National||Manipur imposes night curfew after surge in Covid-19 cases||The rise in Covid-19 positive cases has prompted the Manipur government to impose night curfew across the state with immediate effect. A statement issued by the state government on Friday night said the curfew would remain in force from 8 pm to 4 am. The curfew has been imposed under the provision of the Disaster Management Act 2005, with a target to check further spread of the virus. Vehicles carrying goods including oxygen, essential service providers, veterinary services and the government officials assigned with the Covid-19 duties and emergency services have been exempted from the purview of the night curfew, said the official statement.  A bulletin issued on Friday night said Manipur reported 29 Covid-19 positive cases and another two belonging to central security forces in the past 24-hours. However, no death was reported during the period.  The fresh cases were reported from Imphal West district (12), Imphal East (9), two cases each in Thoubal, Bishnupur and Kangpokpi and Kakching and Tengnoupal district saw one case each.  Manipur has reported 29,610 cumulative Covid-19 positive cases so far and the death toll stands at 376. People requiring to go out for emergency purpose including marriage and funerals are required to take permission from the respective deputy commissioner's office, said the statement.  A total of 1,02,470 people including healthcare workers have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-imposes-night-curfew-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases-975345.html
17-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre to depute 25 doctors, 75 paramedics from paramilitary forces in Gujarat||The Centre on Saturday decided to depute 25 doctors and 75 paramedics from the paramilitary forces at an upcoming 900-bed Covid hospital being set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Gujarat's Ahmedabad, officials said. Gujarat is one of the states from where a high number of Covid-19 cases are being reported during the second wave of the pandemic. "On the request of the Gujarat government, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has decided to depute 25 doctors and 75 paramedics from the paramilitary forces at the upcoming 900-bed Covid hospital to be set up by the DRDO in Ahmedabad," a ministry official said. Gujarat reported 8,920 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the state's tally to 3,84,688, while a record 94 patients died due to the infection. The 94 fatalities recorded on Friday pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 5,170 in the state. The Covid-19 tally of Gujarat climbed to 3,84,688 with 8,920 fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-to-depute-25-doctors-75-paramedics-from-paramilitary-forces-in-gujarat-975346.html
17-04-2021||National||Ban gatherings of more than 10 for next two months: Lancet Covid-19 India Task Force||India may see 1,750 coronavirus deaths per day, rising to approximately 2,320 by the first week of June, a report of the Lancet Covid-19 Commission's India Task Force has said. The report, titled 'Managing India’s second Covid-19 wave: Urgent steps' is a joint effort of experts from across the country, including the Union health ministry and ICMR. The report highlights the key points of the second wave of the pandemic and recommends steps needed immediately to help slow down the spread of infection. A temporary ban on gatherings of groups larger than 10 for the next two months has been recommended to control the spread of infection. "As of April 1, 2021, 84.61% of all new infections were concentrated in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh...Preliminary analysis indicates that while the pandemic has spread, the geographic contours of the second wave closely mirror those of the ﬁrst wave, though with a deeper penetration into tier 2, tier 3 cities," the report said. The report urges an expansion of genome sequencing of the coronavirus to understand if mutants or variants are responsible for the current surge, and if so, the nature and type of such variants. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu who is part of the 21-member task force of the Lancet Covid-19 Commission told DH, "The most important aspect of the report is to place a temporary complete ban on gathering of groups of more than 10 for the next two months. If this is done immediately, we can control the spread of infection. "First, the State needs to ensure adequate allocations are made for testing and treatment to sustain the Covid-19 response. Secondly, disruptions to regular health services such as routine immunisation and delivery care should be minimised while addressing the second and multiple waves," he said. "Thirdly, the report has recommended including all adults with severe co-morbidities into the priority group. The state can prepare micro plans based on this for rolling out vaccination on priority for reducing mortality as we move ahead. Fourthly, the state needs to promote vaccine acceptance, especially among the vulnerable and minorities," he added. Other actions that the state can include are not to resort to blanket lockdowns and provide resources to NIMHANS and NCBS-inStem to increase genomic sequencing of at least 5% of outbreaks, Dr Babu said. These two Bengaluru-based labs are a part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-gatherings-of-more-than-10-for-next-two-months-lancet-covid-19-india-task-force-975349.html
17-04-2021||National||Jharkhand High Court grants bail to Lalu Prasad Yadav in fodder scam case||Former Chief Minister and RJD president Lalu Prasad was granted bail by the Jharkhand High Court on Saturday in one of the three fodder scam cases. The order was passed by Justice A K Singh in Ranchi who overruled CBI’s demand not to grant bail to the incarcerated RJD chief. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal argued on behalf of Lalu. Lalu, who has been languishing in jail since December 2017, after the CBI court convicted him in different fodder scam cases, was recently shifted from Ranchi to AIIMS, New Delhi after he developed multiple organ ailments. Earlier, Lalu was convicted and sentenced in three fodder scam cases related to fraudulent withdrawal from government treasuries in Dumka, Deogarh and Chaibasa, all part of the undivided Bihar (when Lalu was Chief Minister between 1990 and 1997). While the Jharkhand HC had already granted him bail in Deogarh and Chaibasa case (where he had served half of the jail sentence in which he was awarded 3.5 years of imprisonment), the High Court on Saturday granted him bail in Dumka case too after Lalu served half of the jail sentence, a condition mandatory for securing bail. “We are happy that Lalu Ji has been granted bail. All the poor and downtrodden in Bihar are happy over the development,” a relaxed Tejashwi Yadav, Lalu’s son, said after meeting his father in AIIMS, New Delhi. Former Chief Minister of Bihar Rabri Devi and her daughter Misa Bharti, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, too met Lalu in the hospital. “We will seek the advice of doctors as to when and how to take Lalu ji back to Patna, as he is suffering from numerous ailments,” Tejashwi added. Suffering from multiple ailments after being jailed in Ranchi’s Hotwar Jail, Lalu was eventually shifted to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi for proper medical treatment. His ailments included hypertension, chronic kidney disease and hypertrophy of the prostate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-high-court-grants-bail-to-lalu-prasad-yadav-in-fodder-scam-case-975351.html
17-04-2021||National||DPIIT notifies PLI scheme for ACs, LED lights, says assembly of finished goods not to be incentivised||The department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) has notified the PLI scheme for ACs and LED lights and said that selection of companies to avail the incentives would be done to support manufacturing of components which are not made in India presently. It said that mere assembly of finished goods would not be incentivised and companies investing in basic/core components would get a higher priority. Earlier this month, the government approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for white goods - Air Conditioners (ACs) and LED Lights - with a budgetary outlay of Rs 6,238 crore. It will be implemented over 2021-22 to 2028-29. According to the notification of the DPIIT, the Empowered Group of Secretaries chaired by Cabinet Secretary will monitor the PLI scheme, undertake periodic review of the outgo under the scheme, ensure uniformity of all PLIs and take appropriate action to ensure that the expenditure is within the prescribed outlay. The group will be empowered to make any changes in the modalities of the scheme within the overall financial outlay of Rs 6,238 crore. It said that the incentive per beneficiary will be applicable on incremental sales (net of taxes) of manufactured goods (as distinct from traded goods) over the base year (2019-20) subject to ceilings. "Mere assembly of finished goods shall not be incentivised. Selection of companies for the scheme shall be done so as to incentivise manufacturing of components or sub-assemblies which are not manufactured in India presently with sufficient capacity," it said. Support under the scheme will be provided to companies/entities engaged in manufacturing of components of ACs (such as copper tubes, aluminium foil and compressors) and LED lights (like LED chip packaging, resisters, ICs, and fuses). Enlisting the eligibility criteria to avail the benefits under the PLI scheme, the notification said incentives would be provided to companies making brown-field (existing facility) or green-field (new) investments for the manufacturing. "One entity may apply for one target segment only. However, separate group companies may apply for different target segments. Further, sales by entities to their group companies should be at an arm's length price as those to outside group companies," it added.  The scheme proposes a financial incentive to boost domestic manufacturing and attract large investments in the white goods manufacturing value chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dpiit-notifies-pli-scheme-for-acs-led-lights-says-assembly-of-finished-goods-not-to-be-incentivised-975359.html
17-04-2021||National||Ten states form nearly 80% of India's new Covid-19 cases||Ten states and union territories, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi account for 79.32 per cent of the new coronavirus cases in the country, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. It said Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 63,729. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 27,360, and Delhi with 19,486 fresh cases. Ten states — Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan — reported 79.32% of the new cases, the ministry said. Sixteen states and UTs — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, and West Bengal — are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, it said The ministry said five states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, and Kerala — cumulatively account for 65.02 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 38.09 per cent of the total active caseload of the country. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country nearly reached 12 crore on Saturday as part of the world's largest vaccination drive. Cumulatively, 11,99,37,641 vaccine doses have been administered through 17,37,539 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. These include 91,05,429 healthcare workers who have taken the first dose and 56,70,818 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,11,44,069 frontline workers (first dose), 54,08,572 FLWs (second dose), 4,49,35,011 first dose beneficiaries and 34,88,257 second dose beneficiaries who are more than 60 years old and 3,92,23,975 (first dose) and 9,61,510 (second dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years, as per the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-form-nearly-80-of-indias-new-covid-19-cases-975360.html
17-04-2021||National||Actor Sonu Sood tests positive for Covid-19||Actor Sonu Sood on Saturday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under quarantine, nearly ten days after receiving the vaccine. The actor was recently made the brand ambassador for Punjab's anti-coronavirus vaccination programme. Sood had also met Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on April 10. The 47-year-old actor, who catapulted to the national spotlight for helping migrants reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown last year, said he will continue his work for those in need. "This is to inform you that I have tested positive this morning for Covid-19. As a part of precautions, I have already quarantined myself and taking utmost care." "But don't worry, this gives me ample time to solve your problems. Remember, I'm always there for you all," Sood tweeted. The actor had received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on April 7. According to the health ministry on Saturday, a record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 16,79,740.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-sonu-sood-tests-positive-for-covid-19-975364.html
17-04-2021||National||Not wearing a face mask on trains and in railways premises now attracts a fine of up to Rs 500||Not wearing masks on railway premises and in trains can attract a fine of up to Rs 500, with the national transporter now incorporating it as an offence under the Railway Act, according to an order issued on Saturday. This is the latest in a slew of measures that the railways has taken to ensure compliance of the various Covid-19 protocols issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs to restrict the spread of the virus. "One of the specific guideline is to wear masks in order to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for movement of trains as brought out by Indian Railways on May 11, 2020, says that it should be advised to all passengers that they shall be wearing face cover/ mask at entry and during travel," order issued by the railways said. The mandatory use of masks and the fine will now be listed under the Indian Railways (Penalties for ctivities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, which also has the provision of fines for those found spitting on rail premises, it said. "In view of the Covid-19 situation, controlling spitting and act of similar nature due to any person not wearing mask and entering railway premises (including trains), is important to avoid creation of unclean and unhygienic conditions which may cause danger to life and public health, " the order said. "Accordingly, to prevent spitting and act of similar nature and thus, to ensure wearing of face masks or face cover by all persons at railway premises (including trains), fines (up to 500) under Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at Railway Premises) Rules, 2012, shall be imposed by railway officials...," it stated. The order also said that this would come into immediate effect for a period of six months till further instructions are issued in this regard. A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-wearing-a-face-mask-on-trains-and-in-railways-premises-now-attracts-a-fine-of-up-to-rs-500-975376.html
17-04-2021||National||Covid vaccines don't stop one from getting infected, but help in reducing severity: Health economist||Covid-19 vaccines do not stop one from getting infected but instead help in curing the disease faster and reducing its severity, said health and development economist Professor Anup Malani. He also said that reinfection can be one of the reasons behind the recent surge in cases in the country. Malani, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School and the university's Pritzker School of Medicine, has been leading a series of Covid-19 serosurveys in cities and states across India with economic development-focused think-tank IDFC. In an interview with PTI, Malani said, "I fear this is the biggest misunderstanding around India and even in other countries today. Previous infection and vaccines do not stop you from being infected. That was never how immunity worked. Instead, natural and vaccine-acquired immunity is helpful because it helps you clear the infection faster once you are infected." "This has two benefits – it helps you avoid death or other serious health harm from the infection, and it helps reduce the probability you will infect someone else. So it is possible to be reinfected, but the harms of the infection will be lower," he said. The level of reinfection in the population depends on the prevalence of the infection and the prevalence of immunity, natural or vaccine acquired, Malani said. "The level of reinfection is driven up by more activity (like large gatherings), and down by immunity rates.  What may be going on in India is that activity recently increased at a faster rate than immunity. This is the most optimistic interpretation of the surge,” he said. Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava earlier this month had said that reinfection of cases are around one per cent. "We have studied the data of reinfection cases in India. Globally, reinfection cases are around 1 per cent,” he had said. India is battling to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. The number of new coronavirus cases hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with 2,34,692 new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609, according to health ministry data updated on Saturday. Malani said there can be two possibilities behind the recent surge in cases – one is people are not wearing masks and gathering, and the other is emergence of new strains of the coronavirus. “First is that people are not wearing masks and gathering more. The second is that there are new strains that are more transmissible. But the question we must ask is why people are more non-compliant now? Is it that they are just tired of Covid, or they think the vaccination campaign is reducing risk -- even if they personally are not vaccinated -- or fatality rate has fallen as more people are naturally immune,” he said. On ways to tackle the second wave, Malani said wearing masks, more testing, tracking peoples' recovery or death, and sequencing positive cases can be among the ways to handle the surge. “What is best to do in response to the surge really depends on what the explanation is for the surge. If the optimistic explanation is correct (that is activity increased faster than immunity in February and March), then the solution is that we should increase vaccination," he said. The health and development economist said raising immunity levels is better than reducing activities like gatherings as he fears that people are less compliant with or tolerant of lockdowns now. "If the pessimistic scenario holds, which is new strains have emerged and existing or vaccine immunity is less effective against them, and so they have the same or higher infection fatality rate, then we have to start first with lockdowns. But we should be smarter about them," Malani said, adding that previously, "we seemed to mainly want to stop activities". The aim should be to stop crowding, "while contact tracing and quarantining are helpful, it also causes people to avoid being tested or reporting symptoms. This can just mask the problem", he said. On nationwide lockdown, Malani said lockdowns seem to harm the poor more than the rich. "But the new thing we've discovered is that lockdowns can cause people to move to escape them.  Perhaps we will see lockdowns in Maharashtra causing people to leave the state to return to their ancestral homes in other states.  This could actually increase crowding at train stations and thus, the level of infection," he said. "It could also spread the infection.  If a national and abrupt lockdown is not possible, and I don't think it is feasible, then we need to use more intelligent strategies. Wearing masks is the easiest. We can engage in economic activity and mask, so opposition to this form of control should be less,” he said. Maharashtra is among the 12 high-burden states in the country. Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are also part of this group. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the health ministry's data showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent. Of the fresh cases reported on Saturday, Maharashtra reported 63,729, followed by Uttar Pradesh(27,426) and Delhi (19,486), according to the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccines-dont-stop-one-from-getting-infected-but-help-in-reducing-severity-health-economist-975403.html
17-04-2021||National||Kumbh Mela returnees will spread Covid-19 like 'prasad', says Mumbai mayor||As India is struggling with the rapidly rising Covid-19 cases, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar expressed concern that people returning from Kumbh Mela will further add to the woes. Drawing comparison with the Tablighi Jamaat incident last year, Kishori said that the Kumbh Mela returnees will spread Covid-19 across the country like "prasad". “I don’t know who has gone and who is coming back from the Kumbh Mela. But just like the event of our Muslim brothers in Delhi last year, those who are returning will spread the disease like prasad in every state and the situation will become worse,” she told ANI. The Mumbai Mayor further said that all those returning from Kumbh Mela should be mandatorily quarantined and tested at their own expenses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kumbh-mela-returnees-will-spread-covid-19-like-prasad-says-mumbai-mayor-975430.html
17-04-2021||National||Caught off guard by second wave: Sonia Gandhi slams Modi over Covid-19 handling||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday accused the Modi government of maintaining a “thundering silence” on demands from chief ministers of Congress-ruled states for supply of vaccines, oxygen and ventilators to deal with the challenging Covid-19 situation. Addressing a virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi also urged the government not to take an adversarial position by getting into a “convoluted ‘me versus you’ debate” with the opposition. She attacked the government over “the gross unpreparedness and avoidable adhocism on part in foreseeing, evaluating and managing the crisis.” “Our Chief Ministers have spoken to the Prime Minister and written to the concerned minister from time to time pleading for relief. Some of them were left with only a few days of vaccine, no oxygen or ventilators. But there has been thundering silence on the part of the Government,” Gandhi said in her opening remarks at the CWC. She also asked the government to reconsider its priority for vaccine candidates by reducing the immunization age to 25 years and above as also for all younger persons with at-risk health disorders like asthma, angina, diabetes, kidney and liver diseases and other similar ailments. “We cannot, however, lose sight of the fact that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the country with fury. Despite a year to prepare, we have, regrettably, been caught off guard again,” Gandhi said. She asked the government to consider the suggestions made by the Congress in the “spirit of true democratic traditions.” “Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true Rajadharma,” she said asking the government to waive GST on medicine and medical equipment required to fight Covid-19, provide Rs 6,000 per month of financial assistance to the needy families and ensure safe transportation for the migrant workers who have already started returning home due to partial lockdowns in various cities. Drugs like Remdesivir and medical oxygen as also other basic supplements were subjected to GST @ 12 per cent. Even basic equipment like oximeters and life-saving critical equipment like ventilators were subjected to 20 per cent GST. “In the current state of affairs, this is inhuman and untenable,” Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caught-off-guard-by-second-wave-sonia-gandhi-slams-modi-over-covid-19-handling-975445.html
17-04-2021||National||No pressing need for Kumbh with surge in Covid-19 cases, says BJP leader||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar on Saturday said the coronavirus situation is worsening in the country due to the fresh surge of cases adding that there was no need to organise the ongoing Kumbh Mela during such times. The most unfortunate thing is that this time around the government and political leaders bear most of the responsibility for the alarming situation, he said in a press release issued here. "In the past 15 days, coronavirus patients have risen by five fold in West Bengal and a similar alarming situation is also there in other states where elections are underway,” the veteran BJP leader added. “It is written in our scriptures, 'Aaapat Kale, Maryaada Nasti', which means that when life itself is at stake, all rules can be broken. In today's situation, there was absolutely no need to perform Kumbh Mela, where thousands of people are taking baths," the former Union minister added. "Crowds are gathering in temples too. The disease increases in such conditions. God is everywhere; it is also in our houses, where we could perform our poojas. If all kinds of religious and political programmes would have stopped, many could have been saved of this deadly disease,” he said. Shanta Kumar said economic activities should continue to an extent but in addition to this, all kinds of religious, social and political events should have been stopped. He requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to stop all tours taken out by leaders. “Ministers and leaders could probably do more work by sitting in the office. Virtual programmes can also be conducted, when needed. This disease is not going to stop; the government should start to use all steps to get the rules to be followed by the public." The fine amount could be increased as every necessary step must be taken by the governments when life itself is at stake, the former Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-pressing-need-for-kumbh-with-surge-in-covid-19-cases-says-bjp-leader-975459.html
17-04-2021||National||Indian Naval Air Squadron 'Harpoons' celebrate golden jubilee||The Indian Naval Air Squadron (INAS) 330, popularly called the “Harpoons”, celebrated its golden jubilee on Saturday. The squadron was commissioned on April 17, 1971 and received baptism by fire when the India-Pakistan war broke out in December 1971. The squadron was initially equipped with Seaking Mk 42 ASW helicopters, acquired from British Westland Helicopters Ltd and is presently operating the Mk 42 B variant.  Named as the “Flying Frigate”, the helicopter is among the most potent weapon platforms in the naval inventory capable of launching anti-ship missiles, anti-submarine torpedoes and depth charges. On July 26, 1971, Seaking landed on INS Vikrant for the first time and from that day on, the indomitable team of Harpoons and the aircraft carrier Vikrant saw a series of firsts. The first operational ASW mission was flown on October 18, 1971. On November 30, 1971, the first vectored attack was carried out on a suspected submarine contact. The squadron shifted to NAS Kunjali, (now INS Shikra, Mumbai) from INS Garuda, Kochi in Oct 1995 and has been based there ever since. The Squadron has won the coveted ‘Best Frontline Squadron’ and ‘Best Naval Air Squadron’ award on numerous occasions and continues to remain the eyes and ears of the fleet. The squadron has proved to be a force multiplier due to the Seaking's all weather, day and night capability. The unbridled commitment of the squadron is captured in its motto — ‘Any sea, Any mission, Any deck’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-naval-air-squadron-harpoons-celebrate-golden-jubilee-975460.html
17-04-2021||National||PM Modi calls for Covid-19 review meeting at 8 pm||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a review meeting with top officials over the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination exercise in the country, government sources said on Saturday. Top officers from various ministries will participate in the meeting scheduled for 8 pm on Saturday. The meeting comes amid a huge surge in Covid-19 cases across the country with reports pouring in from many states about the shortage of hospital facilities and essentials like oxygen supply. The prime minister has been holding meetings with chief ministers and officials on a regular basis to discuss the situation and take measures to curb the pandemic. A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said earlier on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has also surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-covid-19-review-meeting-at-8-pm-975476.html
17-04-2021||National||Plea filed in SC against mass gatherings in Haridwar, election rallies||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for immediate directions to the Centre and the Uttarakhand government to clear mass gatherings at Haridwar for Kumbh Mela in view of the worrisome surge in Covid-19 cases. A Noida-based lawyer, Sanjai Kumar Pathak, in his petition, also sought a direction for withdrawal of all the advertisements inviting people to Haridwar. He contended the Union as well as Uttarakhand government and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) should be directed immediately to clear the mass gathering from Haridwar city and prescribe a safety protocol for the people returning from Kumbh Mela to their homes.  He also said a direction should be issued to the Election Commission to strictly enforce Covid-19 guidelines for the candidates, campaigners and public during the election process and to take appropriate action against the violators in accordance with law. "On April 16, 2021, India reported more than 2 lakh new cases of Corona positive patients. The health infrastructure is crumbling in many states. Hospitals and crematoriums are running out of space. Shortage of essential drugs is reported from many cities," Pathak said.  India witnesses its highest surge in Covid-19 cases, since the onset of the pandemic, but visuals have surfaced of lakhs of devotees crowding in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, for Kumbh Mela and in the election rallies in States, ignoring the most basic of Covid-19 protocols, he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-against-mass-gatherings-in-haridwar-election-rallies-975477.html
17-04-2021||National||States raise with Centre issues of increasing supply of oxygen cylinder, Remdesivir to hospitals||Increasing supply of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir in hospitals, adding ventilator stocks and enhanced supply of vaccine doses were issues raised by 11 states and Union Territories at a meeting convened by the Centre on Saturday amid a spurt in coronavirus cases. The high-level meeting was chaired by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan with the health ministers of 11 states and union territories to review measures taken by them for prevention, containment and management of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases. The states, including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, have been reporting an unprecedented surge in new Covid cases. In a statement, the Health Ministry said issues pertaining to augmenting the supply of oxygen cylinders, stepping up supply of Remdesivir in hospitals, adding to the ventilator stock, and enhanced supply of vaccine doses were raised by almost all the 11 states that participated in the meeting. "Many of them raised the issue of dovetailing the medical oxygen supply lines and capping of prices of essential drugs like Remdesivir which has been sold in the black market at exorbitant prices. "Double mutant strain in Maharashtra was a key point of concern. The Delhi government requested for additional beds in central government hospitals as was done in 2020 to help tide over the emergent health crisis," the ministry said. The notification of the Home Ministry, granting permission to states to utilize up to 50 per cent of their annual allocation of State Disaster Response Fund, and that of the Union Health Ministry, allowing utilization of unspent pending balance under National Health Mission as on April 1, 2021 for Covid management purposes, were reiterated, it said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan informed the states on the steps taken to provide medical grade oxygen and augmenting Remdesivir stocks in the country. The states were also informed about the issuance of the calendar of medical oxygen supply from different oxygen manufacturers in the country. The steps taken for unhindered movement of oxygen cylinders from their manufacturing units across states were also detailed, the ministry said. Taking note of the active surge in cases witnessed since last February in which most states have now crossed their highest tally, Harsh Vardhan exhorted states to plan in advance and increase Covid hospitals, oxygenated beds and other relevant infrastructure to deal with any further spike in cases. He urged the states to give special focus on the prominent five to six cities in their administration and map medical colleges to either these cities or adjoining 2-3 districts. The states were asked to seek out positive cases with the onset of early symptoms so that prompt and effective treatment checks the deterioration of health in the diseased, the statement said. Large containment zones for achieving community quarantine were also suggested as a strategy. The Union minister reminded states to send clinical and epidemiological pictures to assess genomic mutants of the pathogen to the coordinating INSACOG nodal officer and attempt to correlate the public health scenario with the clinical picture, it said. During the metting, Vardhan assured fresh supply of the lifesaving machines, saying 1,121 ventilators are to be given to Maharashtra, 1,700 to Uttar Pradesh, 1,500 to Jharkhand, 1,600 to Gujarat, 152 to Madhya Pradesh and 230 to Chhattisgarh. Detailing the number of beneficiaries vaccinated in each targeted segment of the population, Vardhan also addressed the issue of vaccine shortage. "The total consumption of vaccines so far (wastage included) has been approximately 12.57 crore doses against the 14.15 crore doses provided by the Centre to the states," he said. Vardhan said about 1.58 crore doses are still available with the states while another 1.16 crore doses are in pipeline, to be delivered by next week. "Stocks of every small state are replenished after seven days. For big states, the time period is four days," he added. Emphasizing that there is no shortage of vaccines, he strongly pushed for further ramping up the vaccination exercise. Vardhan also detailed the corresponding rise in health infrastructure to cope with the crisis. "From just one lab at the start of the pandemic, we now have 2,463 labs that have a combined daily testing capacity of 15 lakhs. 14,95,397 tests conducted in the last 24 hours have increased the total tests conducted to 26,88,06,123. "The three-tier health infrastructure to treat Covid according to severity now includes 2,084 dedicated Covid hospitals (of which 89 are under the Centre and the rest 1,995 with states), 4,043 dedicated Covid health centres and 12,673 Covid care centres. They have 18,52,265 beds in total including 4,68,974 beds in the dedicated Covid hospitals," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-raise-with-centre-issues-of-increasing-supply-of-oxygen-cylinder-remdesivir-to-hospitals-975479.html
17-04-2021||National||'Pilot who pressed eject button during emergency': Priyanka Gandhi's dig at PM||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday over the government's handling of the coronavirus pandemic, describing him as the "pilot who had his photo plastered on boarding passes only to press the eject button during an emergency". The Congress-led opposition has been criticising the government over its handling of the pandemic and the vaccination drive, while the Centre has maintained that its timely steps have been instrumental in fighting Covid-19. "Shocking that while Covid ravages India, from being a vaccine exporter, it has been compelled to become a vaccine importer undoing 70 years of government effort," Priyanka Gandhi tweeted. "@narendramodi: the pilot who had his photo plastered on boarding passes only to press the eject button during an emergency," the Congress general secretary said in another tweet. There was no immediate reaction from BJP leaders. Priyanka Gandhi also stressed the importance of RT-PCR testing to combat Covid-19 spread in Uttar Pradesh. "In UP, infection has increased seven times in 10 days. Now, it is also moving towards villages. There is a terrible shortage of tests in cities and RT-PCR is less than half of them while the rest are antigen. One has to wait for testing in Lucknow, Noida, Ghaziabad, Benaras, Allahabad also. If the state is to be saved, do maximum RT-PCR testing," she said. Priyanka Gandhi's attack on the government came amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases in the country with over two lakh new infections daily in the last three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilot-who-pressed-eject-button-during-emergency-priyanka-gandhis-dig-at-pm-975480.html
17-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India records 2 lakh Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day||In your evening news brief, India recorded 2lakh Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day, former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy tested positive for Covid-19 and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad was granted bail in one of three fodder scam cases.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 17, 2021: India added a record 2,34,692 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,45,26,609, while active cases surpassed the 16-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. This is the third consecutive day that the country has reported over two lakh cases. The death toll increased to 1,75,649 with 1,341 new fatalities, the highest this year, the data updated at 9 am showed. Former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy on Saturday said that he had tested positive for Covid-19 after having spent days campaigning in the Basavakalayan assembly constituency for a bypoll.  According to a statement from his spokesperson, Kumaraswamy did not find a bed for treatment at Manipal Hospital. Even Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s intervention did not help, the statement claimed, adding that Kumaraswamy managed to find a bed at another private hospital. Former Chief Minister and RJD president Lalu Prasad was granted bail by the Jharkhand High Court on Saturday in one of the three fodder scam cases. The order was passed by Justice A K Singh in Ranchi who overruled CBI’s demand not to grant bail to the incarcerated RJD chief. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal argued on behalf of Lalu Source: DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-records-2-lakh-covid-19-cases-for-third-consecutive-day-975497.html
17-04-2021||National||US ban on export of vaccine material hampering production in India: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) urged the US on Saturday to lift its ban on the export of vaccine material, alleging that it has hampered the production of vaccines in India due to a shortage of such materials. In a statement, the politburo of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said the stand of the Joe Biden-led US administration is one of "doublespeak". "The scaling up of vaccine production in India is being hampered by the shortage of the intermediate material required for vaccine production. Much of this material such as filters, solutions and plastic bags come from the United States. But the US administration has banned the export of vaccine material under its Defence Production Act. "Despite requests by the Indian authorities, no relaxation or exemption has been given for the export of these items. The biggest vaccine manufacturer in the country, the Serum Institute of India, has been drawing attention to this problem for quite some time," it said. Accusing the US of "doublespeak", the Left party pointed out that at the Quad summit held on March 12, a joint statement issued by the member-countries stated: "We will join forces to expand safe, affordable and effective vaccine production and equitable access to speed up economic recovery and benefit global health." Further, the US promised to finance production of vaccines by an Indian company, Biological E Limited, to help India become a hub of vaccine production in the Indo-Pacific region, it said. "The ban on exports of materials used in vaccine production goes completely against these stated aims. The (Narendra) Modi government, which sets much store on the Quad alliance, must ensure that the Biden administration keeps to its committed word and immediately ensure the supply of essential vaccine material to India. This is the least that must be done when India is facing a vaccine shortage in the face of an unprecedented surge of Covid infections," the CPI(M) said. India, the US, Australia and Japan are the member-countries of the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition. A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 38th day in a row, the tally of active Covid-19 cases has climbed to 16,79,740 in the country, accounting for 11.56 per cent of its total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 87.23 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-ban-on-export-of-vaccine-material-hampering-production-in-india-cpim-975498.html
17-04-2021||National||Indian expedition to Antarctica returns to Cape Town||The Indian scientific expedition to Antarctica successfully returned to Cape Town last week after completing a journey of 12,000 nautical miles in 94 days, including stopovers, the Ministry of Earth Sciences said on Saturday. This achievement concludes four successful decades of India's scientific endeavour in the continent, it said. "The 40th Indian Scientific Expedition to Antarctica (40-ISEA) hosted by the Ministry of Earth Sciences successfully returned to Cape Town on April 10, 2021, after completing a journey of 12,000 nautical miles in 94 days, including stopovers," the ministry said in a statement. The 40-ISEA comprised scientists, engineers, doctors, and technicians, who began their journey from the Mormugao Port of Goa to Antarctica in January, it said. The team reached its destination Bharati station on February 27 and Maitri station on March 8 in Antarctica, according to the statement. Bharati and Maitri are India's permanent research base stations. The stations are approachable only during the austral summer season between November and March. On its way to Antarctica, the voyage team deployed four autonomous Ocean Observing DWS (Directional Wave Spectra) wave drifters between 35-degree and 50-degree south latitudes in collaboration with Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) Hyderabad, the statement said. The drifters would transmit real-time data of spectral characteristics of waves, sea surface temperatures, and sea-level atmospheric pressure to INCOIS, which will help validate weather predictions in a big way, it said. The 40-ISEA was on board the MV Vasiliy Golovnin, a chartered ice-class vessel, the statement said. It made stopovers at Cape Town for picking up helicopters and replenishing fuel and provisions and at the Indian research bases Bharati and Maitri for resupply and changeover of winter crew, it said. The expedition positioned a team of 20 personnel at Bharati led by Atul Suresh Kulkarni from the Indian Institute of Geomagnetism and 21 personnel at Maitri led by Ravindra Santosh More from the Indian Meteorological Department, the statement said. In the spirit of international cooperation in Antarctic science, MV Vasiliy Golovnin took a slight denture while returning to Cape Town in March and retrieved two remotely operated Norwegian Ocean observing instruments -- a sea glider and a sail buoy, the ministry said. These ocean observing systems deployed during the onward journey and retrieval during the return voyage will help to fill in the gaps of the scantily available information in the Indian Ocean sector of the Southern Ocean, it said. The 40-ISEA was conducted under innumerable challenges due to the persisting coronavirus pandemic, the statement said. Necessary measures were taken to keep the Antarctic free of coronavirus. The team was subjected to a stringent medical examination by the Goa Medical College before departure and was quarantined for 14 days before boarding the ship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-expedition-to-antarctica-returns-to-cape-town-975499.html
17-04-2021||National||Private vehicle not 'public place' under NDPS Act: SC||The Supreme Court declared that a private vehicle will not come within the expression of a "public place" under the Narcotics Drug and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and hence, officials cannot search it without warrants or recording reasons for the same. In a judgement delivered on Friday, a bench of Justices U U Lalit and K M Joseph allowed an appeal filed by three persons against the Punjab and Haryana High Court order. The top court set aside the judgement which had affirmed their conviction and 10 years' rigorous imprisonment with Rs 1 lakh fine, after the three were allegedly found with 75 kg poppy straw in their jeep. The court noted that as per Section 42 of the NDPS Act, the raiding officials have to record the reasons for searching a private vehicle, which they didn't do in the instant case. The officials claimed that the vehicle was parked in a public place, i.e. road, allowing them to search it without warrants or recording reasons. They cited Section 43 of the Act to argue that if a public conveyance is searched in a public place, the officer is not required to record the reason, as contemplated by the proviso to Section 42. The top court rejected their contention. "The evidence in the present case clearly shows that the vehicle was not a public conveyance but was one belonging to the accused (Boota Singh and two others). The Registration Certificate of the vehicle also does not indicate it to be a public transport vehicle," it said. It further pointed out that the explanation to Section 43 showed that a private vehicle will not come within the expression of “public place”. The court noted that there was total noncompliance of the statutory requirement under Section 42, and thus, the accused were entitled for release. "We allow this appeal, set aside the view taken by the high court and acquit the appellants of the charge. They will be released forthwith unless their custody is required in connection with any other offence," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-vehicle-not-public-place-under-ndps-act-sc-975530.html
17-04-2021||National||Poll at time of pandemic: EC conducts voting in West Bengal, bypolls in Karnataka and nine other states||Amid the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country, the Election Commission on Saturday conducted voting not only for the assembly polls in the 45 constituencies in West Bengal but also for bypolls in Karnataka and nine other states. The commission claimed that voting in the 15789 polling stations in 45 assembly constituencies in West Bengal was held with strict adherence to the Covid-19 safety protocols. Apart from the fifth phase voting for the assembly elections in West Bengal, the EC also conducted voting in two parliamentary constituencies in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh and 10 assembly constituencies in nine states. The EC stressed on maintaining the Covid-19 safety protocols during the fifth phase voting for the assembly polls in West Bengal, as well as the by-polls. “The commission thanks voters for strictly following the protocols laid down for controlling Covid-19,” the poll panel stated in a press release issued in New Delhi. All the polling stations were sanitised on Friday and thermal scanning of the voters was arranged during voting on Saturday. Hand sanitisers and face masks were also made available at the polling stations and proper arrangements for social distancing were put in place, the poll panel stated. The EC claimed that the Booth Level Officers and the volunteers “monitored and regulated strict compliance of social distancing norms at the polling stations”. Apart from Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency in Karnataka, polling for by-elections in Maski and Basavakalyan assembly constituencies in the state were also held on Saturday. The by-election was also held in 10 assembly constituencies in eight other states — Gujarat, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Polling was not required for the by-elections at Noksen in Nagaland as a candidate was elected unopposed. The poll panel stated that the voting was conducted peacefully and in an orderly manner. The EC on Friday curtailed time for campaigning for the remaining phases of the assembly polls in West Bengal in view of the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country. The commission barred campaigning between 7 pm and 10 am for the constituencies which would go to polls on April 22, April 26 and April 29 next. The poll panel also extended the campaign silence period from 48 hours to 72 hours for the last three phases of polling in the state. The commission asked the “star campaigners” of all the political parties to personally set examples by urging people attending rallies and public meetings to wear masks, use sanitizers and maintain social distancing. It wrote to the presidents and general secretaries of all political parties, stressing that it would henceforth be the responsibility of the organizers of the public meetings and the rallies to provide mask and sanitizer to everyone attending the events in the poll-bound constituencies of the state. The EC ordered that all candidates and the political parties should ensure “absolute adherence” to the guidelines it had issued on August 21 last year for conducting polls during a pandemic. It warned that violation of the guidelines would be sternly dealt with and action, including criminal proceedings, would be taken as per extant legal framework.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poll-at-time-of-pandemic-ec-conducts-voting-in-west-bengal-bypolls-in-karnataka-and-nine-other-states-975572.html
17-04-2021||National||Young and infected: Covid-19's new patients as India battles huge surge||Ajay Singh Yadav only managed a final video call with Raj Karan before his close friend became the latest of an alarming number of young Indians, including children, falling victim to the new coronavirus wave sweeping the country. Some doctors say the reason that under-45s are now vulnerable is that they go to work and eat out more, but no there is no definitive proof. They could also be more prone to a new "double mutant" variant found in 60 percent of samples in Maharashtra, the hardest-hit state. Karan, 38, was campaigning in village elections when he fell ill. Yadav rushed him to a hospital, but he too tested positive and was put into isolation. "I am devastated... I could only see him via a video call," Yadav, 39, told AFP in the northern city of Lucknow. The nation of 1.3 billion people has been hit by a new wave that has caused one million positive tests in a week, and authorities are rattled. At the start of the year, India thought it had beaten the pandemic and had kicked off a mass vaccination drive. Face masks and social distancing were cast aside and huge crowds flocked to religious festivals and election rallies. But in hospitals, doctors started warning of a rise in cases, including a new phenomenon -- younger patients -- for a disease usually viewed as riskier for older adults. In a country where around 65 per cent of the population is under 35, there is growing concern about the impact on the young. New Delhi's chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said 65 percent of new patients are below 45. India's medical research agency does not have a demographic breakdown of cases, but doctors in major cities confirmed that more young patients are coming to hospitals. "We are also seeing children under the ages of 12 and 15 being admitted with symptoms in the second wave. Last year there were practically no children," said Khusrav Bajan, a consultant at Mumbai's P.D. Hinduja National Hospital and a member of Maharashtra's Covid-19 taskforce. In Gujarat state, pulmonologist Amit Dave said young people were experiencing "increased severity" from coronavirus for their lungs, hearts and kidneys. One Gujarat hospital has set up the state's first paediatric coronavirus ward. States across India have reported a similar increase of young patients. In the southern IT hub of Bangalore, under-40s made up 58 per cent of infections in early April, up from 46 per cent last year, data aggregator Covid19india.org said. "I haven't seen such a rise in cases in the last one year as I've seen in the last one week," Delhi-based book publicist Tanu Dogra, 28, who was bedridden for a week after testing positive in March told AFP. "Everybody on my timeline, on my WhatsApp, is frantically messaging each other because they've all tested positive." In Brazil -- which like the rest of the world had more severe cases and deaths among the elderly during the first wave -- doctors are also seeing a higher prevalence of younger patients. Experts say more data is needed to back up the anecdotal evidence in India, with genome sequencing of samples playing a key role. "Sequencing will tell you about the mutant that's emerging," added virologist Shahid Jameel. "But it doesn't take away from everything else that you should be doing -- that is to wear a mask and avoid crowded places." Authorities have imposed weekend lockdowns and night curfews to stem the virus spread. But medical professionals say India's sluggish vaccination drive -- currently limited to over-45s -- should also opened up to everyone. Their call was echoed by young Indians in Delhi, who told AFP they felt more exposed as they had to go to work, many as breadwinners for their families. "Right now young people need (vaccines) more... I see every day that people in their early 30s are getting hospitalised," 25-year-old pharmacist, Muzammil Ahmed, told AFP. With hospitals overwhelmed, specialists like Venkat Ramesh, an infectious disease consultant at the Apollo Hospital in Hyderabad, said the crisis is already "severe" with worse to come. "When I speak to my colleagues in major metropolitan cities across India, they have numerous calls from patients trying to find a bed," Ramesh told AFP. "I'm quite afraid for the next one month. Given the rapidity of the rise in cases, it is certainly worrying."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/young-and-infected-covid-19s-new-patients-as-india-battles-huge-surge-975576.html
17-04-2021||National||'Humility, clear vaccine strategy, income support' needed to contain Covid-19: Rahul Gandhi||As the country reeled from a fierce Covid-19 wave, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the government's "arrogance and suppression of truth is killing people". He suggested that a clear vaccine strategy and income support are needed to contain the damage due to the virus. "We need humility, a clear vaccine strategy, and income support to contain this virus and related damage. "GOI's mix of arrogance and suppression of the truth is killing lakhs of people," he said in a tweet. We need humility, a clear vaccine strategy & income support to contain this virus and related damage. In a video attached to the tweet, he hit out a what he called the "constant declaration of victory" and a "sense of arrogance" on the part of the government with its claim that "we have done it". "It is the nature of this government, the way of their action, that is causing this problem," he alleged. The former Congress chief alleged that the government "has taken off all our warning systems and shut them down." "And, we are in the middle of the ocean and a storm. And, now the ship has no idea where to go," he said on the situation arising out of the pandemic. In another tweet, he also accused the prime minister of being responsible for the current Covid situation in the country. A record single-day rise of 2,34,692 cases and 1,341 fatalities have pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,45,26,609 and the death toll due to the viral disease to 1,75,649, the health ministry said on Saturday. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has surpassed the 16-lakh mark, the ministry's data updated at 8 AM showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humility-clear-vaccine-strategy-income-support-needed-to-contain-covid-19-rahul-gandhi-975588.html
17-04-2021||National||Utilise entire national capacity to ramp up vaccine production: PM Modi at Covid-19 review meet||Chairing a review meeting on India's Covid-19 situation on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed authorities to speed up the installation of approved medical oxygen plants in several states and union territories and utilise the entire national capacity to ramp up vaccine production. On the issue of supply of medical oxygen, Modi was informed that officers were in constant touch with 12 high-burden states in assessing the current and future requirement of medical oxygen and that a supply mapping plan for 12 high-burden states till April 30 has also been undertaken. Against the backdrop of several states and UTs flagging the falling number of hospital beds, Modi sought additional supply of beds through temporary hospitals and isolation centres and said that all necessary measures must be taken to ramp up the availability of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. The prime minister said that the country would fight the virus "with even greater speed and coordination." "Reviewed preparedness to handle the ongoing COVID-19 situation. Aspects relating to medicines, oxygen, ventilators and vaccination were discussed. Like we did last year, we will successfully fight COVID with even greater speed and coordination," he tweeted after the meeting.   PM Modi was briefed by Cabinet Secretary, Principal Secretary to the PM, Union Home Secretary, Union Health Secretary, Pharma Secretary and Dr V K Paul of the Niti Aayog. Reviewing the status of the supply of Remdesivir and other medicines, the Prime Minister spoke about the need to utilize the full potential of India’s pharmaceutical industry to meet the rising demand of various medicines. Officials told him that through the efforts of the government, capacity and production augmentation for manufacturing of Remdesivir has been ramped up to provide around 74.10 lakh vials/month in May while the normal production output in January-February was just 27-29 lakh vials/month. Modi took note of the ramped up production capacity and directed the officials to urgently resolve issues relating to real-time supply chain management to states in coordination with the states. The Prime Minister said that the use of Remdesivir and other medicines must be in accordance with approved medical guidelines and that their misuse and black marketing must be strictly curbed. The Prime Minister also said that the supply of oxygen required for the production of medicines and equipment necessary to handle the pandemic should also be ensured. The Prime Minister said that local administrations need to be proactive and sensitive to people’s concerns and close coordination with states must be ensured in handling the pandemic. On the status of availability and supply of ventilators, the Prime Minister noted that a real-time monitoring system has been created, and directed the officials to  sensitized the concerned state governments to use the system proactively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/utilise-entire-national-capacity-to-ramp-up-vaccine-production-pm-modi-at-covid-19-review-meet-975589.html
17-04-2021||National||Man arrested for passing sensitive information to foreign intelligence agency||The Delhi Police has arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly passing sensitive information about Army deployment to a foreign intelligence agency, officials said on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Harpal Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab, they said. "A highly motivated and radicalised man was arrested for passing sensitive information to foreign intelligence agency. He conveyed details related to Indian Army personnel, Army movements, location of Army and BSF posts and bunkers on the outposts of India at India-Pakistan border,” a senior police officer said. The money routed through hawala channels was used for funding the espionage operation, he said. According to police, they got a tip-off that the accused was having links with intelligence officers of foreign countries and that he had been receiving funds from his handlers through illegal means for conveying sensitive information regarding national security. During investigation, it was found that he was working as a farm machinery operator. While doing fencing work at the India-Pakistan border, he found a way to convey the secret information or documents across the border, the officer said. “On Monday, police received information that Singh was coming to Delhi. He was about to receive some secret documents from his sources. Thereafter, a trap was laid and Singh was apprehended from Majnu Ka Tila area in north Delhi,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sajeev Kumar Yadav said. During interrogation, Singh disclosed his involvement in procuring sensitive information and further conveying it through different digital channels to his Lahore-based handler Jaspal, police said. He was receiving money from his handler through hawala channel for funding the espionage operation. He got the chance to meet his handler during his visit to Oman, police said. A mobile phone with two SIM cards, confidential documents of Indian Army and two bus tickets used for the journey were recovered from his possession, they said. Identities and roles of other foreign nationals involved in the conspiracy are also being ascertained. Further investigation is on, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-arrested-for-passing-sensitive-information-to-foreign-intelligence-agency-975590.html
17-04-2021||National||Colossal mismanagement: Congress on Modi's Covid response||Congress on Saturday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for campaigning for the West Bengal elections instead of staying back in the national capital to coordinate the country’s response to Covid-19. In a 14-point chargesheet against the Modi government, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), at a meeting chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi, slammed the prime minister for “colossal mismanagement” of the fight against Covid-19. Gandhi set the ball rolling with scathing criticism of the Prime Minister for maintaining a “thundering silence” to demands from opposition ruled states for supply of vaccines, oxygen and ventilators and unleashing union ministers to attack opposition leaders giving suggestions for effective Covid-19 response. “He (Modi) should be in Delhi fighting the war instead of addressing rallies. Is this the time to hold large rallies,” senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said briefing reporters about the deliberations at the CWC. He said former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh would be writing a letter to the Prime Minister on Sunday making suggestions for the war against Covid-19 based on the deliberations at the two-and-a-half-hour long CWC meeting. In a statement, the CWC faulted the Modi government on 14 counts, including failing to create sufficient awareness that a waning pandemic could be a precursor to a second wave, failure to scale up supply of two approved vaccines, failure to universalise vaccination and failing to provide adequate funds to state governments despite accumulating hundreds of crores of funds in the “opaque” PM-CARES Fund. “We regret to say that the nation is paying a very heavy price for the thoughtlessness and unpreparedness of the NDA government to tackle the gravest disaster that has hit the country,” the CWC statement said. The Congress President also lashed out at the Centre’s decision to export vaccines at a time when the country was facing severe shortages of the shots. “How is boasting about our generosity to other countries going to help the thousands of our people who are dying,” she said. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said the government has shut down all the warning systems that could have alerted the citizens on the gravity of the pandemic. “We are in the middle of the ocean in a storm and not the ship has no idea where to go,” Rahul said during the meeting. The CWC asked the party’s state units to set up helplines and control rooms to help the needy who were suffering. The Congress President asked the government to reconsider its priority for vaccine candidates by reducing the immunisation age to 25 years and above as also all younger persons with at-risk health disorders like asthma, angina, diabetes and kidney and liver diseases. She also suggested that as a preliminary measure, all equipment, instruments, medicines and support required to prevent and treat Covid-19 should be made free from GST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/colossal-mismanagement-congress-on-modis-covid-response-975591.html
17-04-2021||National||Over 12.25 cr vaccination doses administered till now, says Health ministry||Over 12.25 cr vaccination doses administered till now: Health ministry New Delhi, Apr 17 (PTI) More than 12.25 crore vaccination doses have been given till now with over 25.65 lakh administered on Saturday, the health ministry said. In a statement, the ministry said that 60,057 Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) were operational on Saturday, marking a rise of more than 15,000 operational Vaccination Centres (45,000 CVCs on an average are functional on any given day). "Workplace vaccinations have also enabled such a high turnout of beneficiaries," the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 12,25,02,790 as per the 8 PM provisional report today. These include 91,27,451 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 57,07,322 HCWs who have taken the second dose. Also, among the frontline workers -- 1,12,29,062 have got first dose and 55,08,179 have got second dose; for over 45 years old to 60 years old -- 4,04,16,170 have got first dose and 10,76,752 have got second dose; for above 60 years -- 4,55,60,187 got first dose and 38,77,667 have got second dose. A total of 25,65,179 vaccine doses were given till 8 PM today, the 92nd day of nationwide Covid19 vaccination. Out of these, 19,24,416 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 6,40,763 beneficiaries received second dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1225-cr-vaccination-doses-administered-till-now-says-health-ministry-975597.html
17-04-2021||National||High-burden states to get Covid vaccines by next week: Govt||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday assured the high burden states to supply nearly 1.17 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines by next week and more than 6,300 ventilators to fight the unprecedented second surge of the epidemic. At a review meeting with state ministers and officials Vardhan said the total vaccine consumption (wastage included) so far was nearly 12.57 crore against the 14.15 crore doses provided by the Centre. About 1 crore 58 lakh doses are still available with the states while another 1.17 crore doses are in the pipeline, to be delivered by next week. “Stocks of every small state are replenished after 7 days. For big states, the time period is 4 days,” he added. Vardhan reviewed the situations in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh that are reporting an unprecedented surge in new Covid-19 cases. As the states raised the issue of shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, the officials informed them about the steps that have been taken to ensure better supply of both. A calendar of medical oxygen supply from different oxygen manufacturers was shared with the states so that they can plan better in securing the life saving gas from the nearby sources. On ventilators, the minister assured a fresh supply of the lifesaving machines: 1,121 ventilators are to be given to Maharashtra, 1,700 to Uttar Pradesh, 1,500 to Jharkhand, 1,600 to Gujarat, 152 to Madhya Pradesh and 230 to Chhattisgarh. Vardhan said India was currently reporting the sharpest growth rate of 7.6% in new Covid-19 cases, which is 1.3 times higher than case growth rate of 5.5% reported in June 2020. This has led to an alarming rise in the number of active cases, which currently stand at nearly 17 lakhs. “There is also a sharp growth of 10.2% in the number of deaths. The widening gap between daily new cases and daily new recoveries reflects that the infection is spreading at a much faster rate than recoveries with consistently growing active cases,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-burden-states-to-get-covid-vaccines-by-next-week-govt-975599.html
17-04-2021||National||Covid-19: 500 bedded DRDO facility to start operating in Delhi||Struggling for more Covid beds, Delhi is set to get a new 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 facility, which has been built by the Defence Research and Development Organisation near Delhi airport. Ready to take patients from Monday, all beds in the DRDO facility have oxygen supply. It would also have a large number of ventilators and basic testing facilities. For any complicated neuro or cardiac cases, the patient will be referred to AIIMS Delhi. "A medical team from the Director General Armed Forces Medical Services will run the new facility. Also there will be no charge for the patients,” said N K Arya, DRDO spokesperson. Last year, the defence research agency established a 1,000 bed facility at the same spot during the first wave of the pandemic. But it was folded up in the first week of February due to a dearth of patients. “Now again a 500 bed facility is being set up at the same place. By Monday it should start taking patients. While 250 beds will be ready by Monday, the remaining will be in place in another few days,” he said. Out of 16,979 Covid-19 beds in hospitals in Delhi, as many as 12,699 are occupied as on Saturday afternoon as the new infections continue to rise sharply in the national capital. More than 24,000 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours with a positivity rate of nearly 25%, which means one out of every four persons tested in Covid-19 positive in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-500-bedded-drdo-facility-to-start-operating-in-delhi-975601.html
17-04-2021||National||J&K: Migrant co-ordination committee delegation meets LG; raises issues of Kashmiri Pandits||A delegation of the All Parties Migrant Co-ordination Committee (APMCC) on Saturday met Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha here and apprised him about various welfare issues of the Kashmiri pandit community, an official spokesman said. The delegation was led by APMCC chairman Vinod Pandit and the members drew the Lt Governor's attention towards the issues of Kashmiri migrant employees working under the Prime Minister's Special Employment Package, he said.    Interacting with the delegation, Sinha said his administration is working on the principles of equitable and holistic development of all sections of society. “For the welfare of the Kashmiri Pandit community, we have accelerated the work on 6,000 jobs for them, and this process will be completed soon,” he said. The Lt Governor also assured the delegation that all the issues presented by them would be looked into and addressed on merit, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-migrant-co-ordination-committee-delegation-meets-lg-raises-issues-of-kashmiri-pandits-975605.html
17-04-2021||National||Ensure labs don't have pending samples before giving them more to test: Delhi CM to DMs||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday instructed district magistrates to check whether or not a laboratory has any pending samples before giving them more to test, in order to prevent any delay in test reports. He cautioned that a serious patient could lose his life if it takes three days for the results after sample collection for Covid-19 testing. "You are playing with their life. Strict action would be taken against such labs that collect more samples than their actual capacity and do not provide the report within 24 hours," he said. Amid escalating cases of Covid-19, Kejriwal said the pandemic situation in the city has become "very serious and worrisome", with oxygen stock, remdesivir and tocilizumab drugs for patients in short supply. The number of Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly with around 24,000 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, Kejriwal said in an online media briefing. This is the highest single-day surge in the national capital till date. A day before, 19,486 Covid-19 cases and 141 deaths were reported. "All DMs have also been instructed that before giving samples to any lab, they must check whether these labs have any pending samples or not. Such labs that do not provide reports within 24 hours must not be given the samples," he added. He said that some labs in the city have been taking more samples than their capacity, because of which results are getting delayed by three-four days. "From the past few days, it has been noticed that results are taking 3-4 days. The reason behind this is that some labs have started taking up more samples than their actual capacity. For instance, if their capacity is 5,000 tests per day, they are collecting approximately 10,000-15,000 samples, and then take 3-4 days to provide the result," Kejriwal said. He added that strict action would be taken against labs that do not provide the report within 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-labs-dont-have-pending-samples-before-giving-them-more-to-test-delhi-cm-to-dms-975610.html
17-04-2021||National||Halt 'illegal' construction at Shiva temple: Pak Hindu leader to authorities||A prominent Hindu leader in Pakistan on Saturday alleged "illegal" construction at an ancient Shiva temple in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and demanded that the authorities should stop the work immediately. Leader of Hindu Community in Peshawar, Haroon Sarab Diyal, in a statement here said the government must stop unplanned construction at the site of Shiv Temple at Gandhiyan in Mansehra district. "We would like to bring it to the notice of the authorities concerned to stop these illegal and unethical constructions at the site to ensure the sacredness and authenticity of this important temple," he said. Diyal said during his visit to the temple on April 11, he noticed that some toilets are being constructed at an unplanned manner in the temple which is destroying not only its sacredness, but also its historical and architectural authenticity. "Being one of the few Shiva temples in Pakistan, the temple at Gandhiyan is of great religious significance and has the potential to attract tourists and pilgrims from across the country and abroad," he said. The Shiv temple is a double storey structure with square layout. The lower chamber of the temple is buried; while the upper chamber is accessible from the outside at the southeast corner. The Garbhagriha (sanctum sanctorum) of the temple accommodating the Shiv Lingam is octagonal in shape and is surmounted by a ribbed dome, showing an interesting blend of the Muslim and Hindu architectural features. According to the latest research, the present building of the temple is a renovated form of the original structure constructed during the middle of the 19th century. As per the Pakistan Hindu Council, there are around 8 million Hindus living in Pakistan, comprising 4 per cent of the total population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/halt-illegal-construction-at-shiva-temple-pak-hindu-leader-to-authorities-975614.html
17-04-2021||National||8 Indian states highly vulnerable to climate change: Report||Eight Indian states -- Jharkhand, Mizoram, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh and West Bengal -- are highly vulnerable to climate change, according to a national climate vulnerability assessment report. These states, mostly in the eastern part of the country, require prioritisation of adaptation interventions, the report pointed out. Among all states, Assam, Bihar and Jharkhand have over 60 per cent districts in the category of highly vulnerable districts. Lack of forest area per 100 rural population was found to be one of the major drivers of vulnerability for Assam despite the fact that the state has a forest cover of 42 per cent, followed by low road density, the report said. In case of Bihar, the report cited poor health infrastructure to be the key vulnerability driver in 36 districts, followed by a high percentage of marginal and small operational holders in 24 districts. The lack of implementation of the rural employment scheme MGNREGA, causing a lack of alternative livelihood opportunities, appeared as a key driver in 14 districts of Bihar, followed by a lack of women's participation in the workforce in 11 districts. Lack of crop insurance and rainfed agriculture were key drivers of vulnerability for Jharkhand. The report, titled 'Climate Vulnerability Assessment for Adaptation Planning in India Using a Common Framework', which identifies the most vulnerable states and districts in India with respect to current climate risk and key drivers of vulnerability, was released by Department of Science and Technology (DST) Secretary Ashutosh Sharma. Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Sikkim and Punjab have been categorised as lower-middle vulnerable states. Uttarakhand, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Nagaland, Goa and Maharashtra have been categorised as states with low vulnerability. “We have seen how extreme events are on rise both in terms of their number and severity. Mapping the parts of India that are vulnerable to such changes will help initiating climate actions at the ground level. “The report should be made easily accessible to all stakeholders so that it can benefit climate-vulnerable communities across India through development of better-designed climate change adaptation projects,” said Sharma. He also suggested that the maps should be made available to people who need it. “Assessing vulnerability was the first step towards assessing climate risk. There are two other components like hazard and exposure that need to be also assessed to arrive at overall climate risk. “DST would take up these assessments in the next phase along with sectoral vulnerability assessments and assessments at sub-district levels,” said Akhilesh Gupta, Head, Climate Change Programme (CCP), DST. Prof N H Ravindranath, retired climate change expert from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), explained that the report has helped identify the most vulnerable states, districts and panchayats and will aid in prioritising adaptation investment, developing and implementing adaptation programmes. Director of IIT Mandi Professor Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi and Director of IIT Guwahati T G Sitharaman hoped that the report will be taken up by the states for initiating climate action. A total of 94 representatives from 24 states and two Union Territories participated in the nationwide exercise jointly supported by the DST and the Swiss Agency for Development & Cooperation (SDC). Corinne Demenge, Head, Swiss Cooperation Office, Embassy of Switzerland in India, hoped that the assessments will contribute to the development of more targeted climate change projects and that they will support the implementation and the potential revisions of the State Action Plans on Climate Change. “The assessments can further be used for India's reporting on the Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement. And finally, these assessments will support India's National Action Plan on Climate Change,” she added. The assessment will help policy-makers in initiating appropriate climate actions. It will also benefit climate-vulnerable communities across India through development of better-designed climate change adaptation projects. In a developing country such as India, vulnerability assessment is considered as an important exercise to develop suitable adaptation projects and programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-indian-states-highly-vulnerable-to-climate-change-report-975620.html
17-04-2021||National||Centre still mum on double mutant virus link to surge in Covid-19 cases||The double mutation variant of the coronavirus may be a key driving force behind the ballooning Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, but the Centre is silent on the variant’s link to the second surge even after three months of genome sequencing and research. Besides Maharashtra, the variety — known as B 1.617 lineage in scientific parlance — has been found in eight other states and two Union Territories -- West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. “At least in Maharashtra, there is ample proof that B1.617 is driving the surge. The lineage has also spread across multiple states,” a scientist involved in sequencing and analysing SARS-CoV-2 samples from states told DH. The double mutation variant carries two signature genetic changes known as E484Q and L452R that allow the virus to escape the immune system and spread faster. Scientists said they detected the variant well in time, but the Union Health Ministry and the National Centre for Disease Control prefer to underplay its role in the Covid-19 second wave. More than 2.34 lakh new cases were reported on Friday, of which 63,000-plus were from Maharashtra. However, the ministry in a press release claimed that higher transmissibility of the double mutation variant had not been established as yet. It also asserted that identification will not change the treatment strategies and RT-PCR tests didn’t miss out such variants. Scientists admit that there are unanswered questions on the B1.617 lineage, which has also been seen in Australia, Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Namibia, New Zealand, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the USA. One such question is about the vaccine's efficacy to counter the double mutant variety. As the virus continues to evolve, scientists have also recently spotted a new lineage of the SARS-CoV-2 known as B1.618 among the samples from West Bengal, said a source in the Indian SARS CoC-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) — a group of 10 laboratories carrying out the genome sequencing of the virus. But Pune-based National Institute of Virology's persistent refusal to share the sequencing data with other laboratories in the consortium is slowing down the entire process of identifying new lineages and subsequent studies. Till April 15, the INSACOG carried out 13,614 whole genome sequencing and found the “variants of concern” in 1,189 samples. They include 1,109 UK variants, 79 South African variants and one Brazilian variant, according to a health ministry statement, which is silent on how many double mutant varieties were identified from Maharashtra and other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-still-mum-on-double-mutant-virus-link-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases-975623.html
17-04-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi demands Covid-19 vaccination age be reduced to 25 years||Accusing the Modi government of "gross unpreparedness" and "adhocism" in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday made a slew of suggestions to the Centre to deal with the pandemic such as reducing the immunisation age to 25 years and providing income support to people. In her opening remarks, while chairing the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi also accused the Centre of giving preferential treatment to some states while maintaining "thundering silence" on requests of states ruled by the Congress and opposition parties. The Congress has always believed that fighting the Covid-19 pandemic is a national challenge that should be kept above party politics, she asserted. "We have extended our hands of cooperation right from February-March, 2020. We cannot, however, lose sight of the fact that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the country with fury. Despite a year to prepare, we have, regrettably, been caught off guard again," Gandhi said. Instead of listening to the constructive suggestions of the opposition, Union ministers are pressed into service to attack leaders of opposition for giving those suggestions, she said. "This convoluted 'me versus you' debate is childish and totally unnecessary," Gandhi asserted. Making a host of suggestions to the government, she said the Centre must also reconsider its priority for vaccine candidates by reducing the immunization age to 25 years and above as also all younger persons with at-risk health disorders like asthma, angina, diabetes, kidney and liver diseases and other similar ailments. "In the course of my talks with our chief ministers, the question of GST (Goods and Services Tax) came up. They felt that as a preliminary measure, all equipment, instruments, medicines and support required to prevent and treat Covid-19 should be made free from GST," Gandhi said. It is a matter of grave concern that life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and medical oxygen as also other basic supplements are subjected to 12 per cent GST, the Congress chief said. "As the central and state governments move ahead to control the situation by resorting to partial curfews, travel restrictions, closure and lockdowns; we will again be restricting economic activity that will hit the already beleaguered people, especially the poor and the daily wagers," she said. It is, therefore, imperative to provide monthly income support and transfer an amount of Rs 6,000 in every eligible citizen’s account, Gandhi said. Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true 'Raj dharma', she stressed. The CWC meet was also attended by former party chief Rahul Gandhi, general secretaries, other permanent invitees and state in-charges of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-demands-covid-19-vaccination-age-be-reduced-to-25-years-975372.html
17-04-2021||National Politics||Narendra Modi should cancel political rallies in light of Covid-19 surge: Ashok Gehlot||Expressing concern over the spread of Covid-19 infections across the country, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the Prime Minister should stop his political programmes and rallies. “The Covid situation has become dangerous across the country. Now, this virus is spreading rapidly among the youth and children as well. The Prime Minister should now stop his political programmes, rallies and road shows,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi. He said that like before, PM Narendra Modi should make regular contact with the Chief Ministers of the states to know the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-should-cancel-political-rallies-in-light-of-covid-19-surge-ashok-gehlot-975493.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Mismatch between govt’s death figures, bodies arriving for last rites in Bhopal||Last rites of 108 people who died of coronavirus in Bhopal were performed on Thursday, a figure vastly different from the Madhya Pradesh government's claim on Covid-19 fatalities that day, according to records maintained by crematoriums and graveyards in the state capital and officials working there. The government had claimed that only eight people had died of the infection in Bhopal district in the last 24 hours (on Thursday). According to the records with two crematoriums and a graveyard, last rites of 156 people were performed on Thursday in the state capital. Of them 108 were coronavirus-infected, the documents showed. "Eighty-eight people were cremated in our crematorium on Thursday. Of them, 72 were the ones who had died of coronavirus," Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat (crematorium) secretary Mamtesh Sharma told PTI. Out of the 72 Covid-19 deceased, 45 were from Bhopal, while 27 were from other districts, he said. Coronavirus patients who come from other districts to Bhopal for treatment and die here are cremated in the state capital itself, Sharma said. Bhadbhada and Zada graveyards are authorised to perform the last rites in the district. But due to a rise in fatalites, another crematorium, Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat, too, has been roped in for funerals, Sharma said. "Last rites of 51 people (21 of them Bhopal residents) were performed at our crematorium on Thursday," Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat manager Sobhraj Sukhwani said, adding that of these 26 had died of the respiratory disease. "Burial of 17 people took place in our cemetery. Of them, 10 were the ones who died of coronavirus. Eight of the deceased were local while the two hailed from other districts," Zada Graveyard Committee, Jahangirabad, president Rehan Golden said. "Between April 1 and April 15, we have laid to rest 117 people. Of them, 65 were coronavirus victims," Golden said. According to a state government bulletin of Thursday, 666 patients had died of Covid-19 in Bhopal district since the outbreak. District Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Prabhakar Tiwari could not be contacted for his comment on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mismatch-between-govt-s-death-figures-bodies-arriving-for-last-rites-in-bhopal-975240.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Bypoll to Uttarakhand's Salt Assembly seat begins||Bypoll to the Salt Assembly seat in Uttarakhand's Almora district began Saturday morning with people queuing up outside polling booths to cast their votes. Elaborate security arrangements have been made to ensure peaceful polling in the constituency, Almora District Magistrate Nitin Singh Bhadauria said. Polling began at 7 am and will go on till 5 pm, he said. The bypoll to the seat was necessitated after the death of sitting BJP MLA Surendra Singh Jeena due to Covid-19 in November last year. The BJP has fielded his elder brother Mahesh Jeena from the seat against Congress' Ganga Pancholi. There are 95,241 voters in the Salt assembly constituency, out of which 48,682 are male and 46,559 female.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bypoll-to-uttarakhands-salt-assembly-seat-begins-975290.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday will hold a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation as the national capital has been witnessing an exponential rise in coronavirus cases. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who is also nodal minister for Covid-19 management, and Health Minister Satyendar Jain will also attend the meeting. "To monitor the current situation of Corona in Delhi on a day-to-day basis, Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal will convene a review meeting on COVID management along with the nodal minister, health minister and officials at 1 PM today," the chief minister's office tweeted. Weekend curfew is currently underway in the national capital to arrest the spread of coronavirus. On Friday, Delhi recorded the biggest single-day jump of 19,486 fresh Covid-19 cases and 141 deaths. On November 18 last year, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, which was the highest single-day fatality count in Delhi till April 15 since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-975332.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Life comes to halt as weekend curfew underway in Delhi||Life in the national capital has come to a halt as the city grappling with soaring Covid-19 cases observed weekend curfew, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealing to people to adhere to the restrictions. The weekend curfew aimed at breaking the chain of spiralling coronavirus infections was clamped at 10 pm on Friday and will continue till 5 am on Monday. "There is curfew in Delhi today and tomorrow due to Corona. Please follow it. Together we have to defeat Corona," Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi government and the police have issued e-passes to exempted category people who need to go out during the curfew for necessary services and activities like vaccination, going to railway stations, airports, grocery and fruit and vegetable stalls. The e-passes issued for already imposed night curfew will be applicable during the weekend curfew as well, the government has said. Public transport including DTC and cluster buses and metro trains are running at reduced capacity and frequency for those involved in essential services and activities. Delhi recorded its highest-ever one-day Covid-19 figures on Friday when 19,486 cases and 141 deaths were reported, prompting Chief Minister Kejriwal to order to set up more coronavirus facilities and increase the strength of oxygen beds. The government will review the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi following the weekend curfew and decide the future course of action including its extension or some other measures, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/life-comes-to-halt-as-weekend-curfew-underway-in-delhi-975354.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM expresses shock at Indianapolis shooting||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed shock on Saturday at a mass shooting incident at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis in the US that killed eight people, including four Sikhs. "Shocked by the mass shooting incident at FedEx Ground facility in Indianapolis which took the lives of 8 people including 4 Sikhs. Pray for strength to their families in this hour of grief," Singh said in a tweet.  Four Sikhs, including three women, were among the eight people who were killed in the Indianapolis incident. Brandon Scott Hole (19) and a former employee at the facility in Indianapolis carried out the mass shooting late on Thursday, before allegedly committing suicide. About 90 per cent of the workers at the delivery service facility in Indianapolis are said to be Indian-Americans, mostly from the Sikh community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-expresses-shock-at-indianapolis-shooting-975368.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Srinagar hospital shuts OPD||Amid the steep rise in Covid-19 cases, authorities at Srinagar’s super-speciality SMHS hospital have stopped the functioning of the out-patient department (OPD) with only surgeries of emergency nature and other referral cases being entertained. To deal with the rising number of novel-coronavirus-positive patients, the hospital administration has also designated 12 wards, including paid rooms as Covid-19 designated wards. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by Principal Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar to review the preparedness of SMHS and other associated hospitals in Srinagar to deal with the Covid-19. “In the meeting, it was decided to stop the operation of OPDs. Only surgeries of emergency nature, malignancies and other referral cases shall be entertained,” an official of the GMC told DH. He said the patient load vis-à-vis duty roaster of doctors and paramecia staff shall also be regulated and rationalised. From April 1 till April 15, the occupancy of hospitals in Kashmir has risen from 139 beds to 354 beds, an increase of 250%. The rise in admissions has been exponential in April as per official data while the capacity had been curtailed in December when Kashmir saw a sharp drop in daily positive cases. Medical Superintendent of the SMHS Hospital, Dr Nazir Chowdhary said that 203 beds have been designated as Covid beds at the hospital. He said that the rush of patients has been increasing with each passing day, saying that nearly 30 patients are being admitted to the hospital on a regular basis. Meanwhile, the J&K government Saturday has constituted a high-level committee to ensure adequate and timely supply of medical oxygen to all hospitals. An order issued by the Commissioner Secretary to the government Manoj Kumar Dwivedi reads that to meet frequently and make necessary arrangements for ensuring regular and adequate supply of medical oxygen to all hospitals to meet any current and future needs. “To ensure adequate stocking of medical oxygen, wherever necessary, the committee shall be serviced by Industries & Commerce department,” it reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-srinagar-hospital-shuts-opd-975371.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||'Notorious' criminal arrested in Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi||A “notorious” criminal who was evading his arrest for the last three years was arrested in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Mohammad Jameel, a resident of Kalyanpur-Marh, was wanted in two cases of kidnapping and attempt to murder registered at police station Reasi between 2018 and 2019, a police spokesman said. He said Reasi police arrested the accused on specific information from Jammu. His two other associates, Mohd Murrid and Mohammad Qadir, were arrested by Reasi police this month, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/notorious-criminal-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-reasi-975405.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 positive cases in Kumbh Mela put Akhadas in damage-control mode||The footfall in this year’s Kumbh Mela and the lack of adherence to Covid-19 norms have further raised concern regarding India's Covid-19 situation. With the country grappling a new wave of infections, thousands of people have been flocking to the holy gathering that has been cut short to a month’s time. The worrying part is many of the attendees have tested positive for the virus. In the wake of several sadhus at the Kumbh Mela testing Covid-19 positive, some of the akhadas have already taken steps to control the situation. On Thursday, the Head of the Maha Nirvani Akhara, Swami Kapil Dev, who had attended the Mela in Haridwar, passed away while battling Covid-19. On the very next day, various Akhadas decided to take ‘precautionary steps’ upon realising the danger Covid-19 poses. Attendees have been subject to nationwide criticism for flouting preventive norms such as wearing face masks – and doing so brazenly. Police have fined 2,641 people for not using face covers and 2,342 for not maintaining social distancing. In order to limit the ongoing chaos, The Niranjani Akhada announced an end to its participation in the festival and Taponidhi Shri Anand Panchayati Akhada reportedly announced ‘symbolic participation’ at the next royal bath (Shahi Snan) on April 27. They will participate “with a minimum possible number of sadhus” and have requested their followers to leave the Mela and quarantine themselves in Ashrams. However, this is not the unanimous view all Akhadas hold. With the Niranjani Akhada announcing the ‘end of Kumbh’ for them, they have angered other Akhadas who have demanded an apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-cases-in-kumbh-mela-put-akhadas-in-damage-control-mode-975418.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala urges PM Modi to resume talks with protesting farmers||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resume talks with farmers' unions agitating at the borders of the national capital demanding repeal of the three farm laws. Chautala, a coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana, also asked the Prime Minister to set up a panel of senior ministers to discuss the issues surrounding the three farm laws with the farmers’ representatives. “Our ‘annadattas' are on roads at Delhi border agitating in respect of newly enacted three farm laws of the Central Government. It is a matter of concern that such agitation is going on for more than a hundred days. I truly believe that every problem has a solution by way of mutual discussion,” Chautala said in a letter to the prime minister. “The earlier discussion between the Central Government and farmers' union brought few solutions to the concerns raised by Sayunkt Morcha. In this regard, a team consisting of three to four senior cabinet ministers may lead the delegation for resuming talk with farmers so as to bring an amicable conclusion in this issue,” he added. Farmer unions, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at the borders of the national capital since November 27 demanding rollback of the farm sector reforms. The government had held 11 rounds of talks with the agitating farmers led by a three-member ministerial panel helmed by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The panel had offered to suspend the three farm laws for 18 months, an offer rejected by the agitating farmers who insisted on a complete repeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-urges-pm-modi-to-resume-talks-with-protesting-farmers-975420.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||UP: Covid-19 patient told to 'go die' after he dials government helpline||In an incident reflective of Uttar Pradesh government's Covid-19 assistance to positive patients, a man, who had tested positive and had dialed the Covid helpline number to seek help, was instead asked to 'die'. The matter came to light when the patient, a resident of Mahanagar area in Lucknow, uploaded an audiotape of his purported telephonic conversation with one of the employees at the Covid Command Centre on social media. The patient, a lawyer by profession, told the helpline employee that he was neither contacted by any doctor nor was asked to download any App, though he had tested positive on Thursday. ''Mar jao na jake...ganwar to ho hi'' (why don't you die?....You are uncouth), the employee told the patient. The patient said that he had lodged a complaint with the UP Chief Minister's Office in this regard. Lucknow was the worst affected district in the state with nearly 6,000 cases being reported in the past 24-hours. UP reported over 27,000 cases in the past 24-hours. As many as 120 people have died from the virus in the same period in different parts of the state.  Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had tested positive earlier this week and is currently in home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-covid-19-patient-told-to-go-die-after-he-dials-government-helpline-975427.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Ceiling on social gatherings restricted to 100 in Jammu and Kashmir||Concerned over the spike in coronavirus cases, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday restricted the ceiling on social gatherings to 100 people and also announced the postponement of Class 11 examination. The latest directive comes two days after Lt Governor Manoj Sinha-led administration deferred biannual 'darbar move' to Srinagar, extended closure of all schools up to and including Class 12 till April 30 along with private coaching centres. It also cancelled the ongoing Class 10 examination being conducted by the Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education (JKBOSE). There will also be ceiling on gatherings and functions restricting to 100 persons from earlier 200. “In view of #COVID-19, class 11th exams have been postponed. There will also be ceiling on gatherings and functions restricting to 100 persons from earlier 200,” the office of the Lt Governor said in a tweet. There has been a spike in coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir over the past one month. On Friday, the Union Territory recorded 1,144 new Covid-19 cases, including 180 travellers, taking the infection tally to 1,44,021, while two more coronavirus-related deaths pushed the toll to 2,048. On April 15, the Jammu and Kashmir administration came out with a series of Covid-control measures and announced deferment of the bi-annual darbar move, over a century-old exercise under which the government functions six months each in the twin capitals of Srinagar and Jammu. The civil secretariat – the seat of Jammu and Kashmir government – and other move offices including the Raj Bhavan were scheduled to close in Jammu on April 30 to May 1 and set to begin functioning in the summer capital Srinagar from May 10. "In view of sharply rising cases of COVID in J&K, the government has taken a few important decisions ensuring safety of employees. Darbar move deferred because of COVID. Secretariat to function in both #Srinagar & #Jammu. Office functioning not to be affected because of e-Office," Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said in a series of tweets on Thursday. The administration has also ordered the cancellation of Class 10 examination and the postponed of Class 12 papers, besides ordering testing of all incoming travellers at Lakhanpur and inter-state movers at Thandi Khui in Samba district. It also ordered the closure of private coaching centres till April end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-ceiling-on-social-gatherings-restricted-to-100-in-jammu-and-kashmir-975429.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Hospitals turning away Covid-19 patients despite bed availability will face action, says Manish Sisodia||Hospitals giving wrong information or turning away Covid-19 patients despite beds being available will face action, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday. Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister of the Delhi government for Covid-19, said no patient should be denied treatment. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation along with Sisodia, Health minister Satyendar Jain and top officials. "Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal reviewed the Covid Management System. Hospitals turning away patients despite availability of beds or giving wrong information about beds will face action. No patient should be denied treatment," Sisodia tweeted after the meeting. Delhi government is ramping up availability of beds for Covid-19 patients and recently urged the Centre to do so at hospitals run by it in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hospitals-turning-away-covid-19-patients-despite-bed-availability-will-face-action-says-manish-sisodia-975457.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||India's largest Covid-19 facility in South Delhi to be revived as cases soar||The country's largest Covid-19 facility at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in South Delhi, which was closed down in February, is being revived considering the unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, officials said on Saturday. The management at the spiritual organisation's centre in Chattarpur confirmed that the facility will be restarted soon. "The government is planning to restart the facility soon. Officials are likely to conduct a survey on Saturday evening and finalise the modalities," Vikas Sethi, the secretary of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre, told PTI. Asked if the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre is being revived, South Delhi District Magistrate Ankita Chakravorti replied in the affirmative. The 10,200-bed facility was inaugurated on July 5 last year and was operated by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police.   The centre was 1,700 feet long and 700 feet wide -- roughly the size of 20 football fields -- and had 200 enclosures with 50 beds each.  The Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre was closed in February when coronavirus cases in the capital had reduced significantly. The facility had admitted patients referred by 11 hospitals in the city, including AIIMS and Safdarjung. On Friday, Delhi recorded its highest-ever one-day Covid-19 figures when 19,486 cases and 141 deaths were reported, prompting Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to order setting up more coronavirus facilities and increase the strength of oxygen beds. On Thursday and Friday, the city had recorded 16,699 and 17,282 cases, respectively.   Kejriwal appointed his deputy Manish Sisodia the 'nodal minister' for overall Covid-19 management in the city and assigned him the responsibility of inter-ministerial coordination. With the unprecedented rise in coronavirus cases, the AAP government also appointed 10 IAS officers as "nodal officers" for Covid-19 hospitals run by it and asked them to work from the health care facility they have been assigned. The government had on Thursday announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-largest-covid-19-facility-in-south-delhi-to-be-revived-as-cases-soar-975467.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||For people-friendly look, army convoys in J&K to carry blue flags instead of red||In an endeavour to make cantonments and military convoys more people-friendly, Army has changed the colour of flags on its vehicles to blue from red. Hitherto, the army vehicles used to have red flags and even the soldiers in road opening parties (RoPs) carried red flags while paving way for convoys. The army has also asked troops carrying lathis (a bamboo stick) to only use whistles in order to stop vehicles. “The army soldiers travelling in the convoys have also been asked to behave more politely with the people during stopovers,” sources said. The Army says these steps are being taken to make the force more people-friendly. “This is a step towards more friendly relations with aawam,” General Officer Commanding (GOC) Kilo Force, Major General H S Sahi said. “Once our vehicles move, we want there must not be any inconvenience to the people.” “Our basic purpose is to go after militants who create disturbance. Our aim is not to cause inconvenience to the civilian population who are not indulging in arson or violence,” he added. Sources said that in future walls around cantonments will be having pictures of young achievers from Kashmir. In March 2019, the government had restricted the movement of civilian vehicles on Srinagar-Jammu national highway twice a week. It had cited 14 February 2019 suicide bombing of a CRPF convoy in Pulwama — which killed 40 paramilitary personnel — as the reason for restricting traffic. However, after huge outcry the order was rescinded after one and half months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-people-friendly-look-army-convoys-in-jk-to-carry-blue-flags-instead-of-red-975469.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||J&K Congress leader accuses govt of failing to tackle Covid-19 pandemic||Jammu and Kashmir Congress vice president Raman Bhalla on Saturday termed the Covid-19 situation in the union territory as "worrisome" and claimed that the government has run out of options as it has failed to tackle the pandemic. The Congress leader demanded massive testing, tracing of contacts of Covid-19 cases and their isolation to check the spread of the infection. "The rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths due to the deadly virus in J&K is worrisome. The Jammu and Kashmir government has run out of options and has failed to tackle the pandemic," Bhalla said, addressing a party workers meeting here. The former minister said the infection is growing exponentially in Jammu and Kashmir and there seems to be no plan with the government to tackle the threat. "The policies to tackle the pandemic and their implementation only underline the mess created by the government, which utterly failed to utilise the lockdown period to expand the infrastructure of the public health system, ensuring adequate medical equipment, personal protective equipment (PPE) and other supplies. "The government should have strengthened the public health system on a war-footing basis during the lockdown period (last year), but unfortunately its priorities laid somewhere else. All these point to the all-round failure of the government in tackling the pandemic," Bhalla said. He said it looks as if the government has run out of options and is reconciled to the pandemic running its course. "There is an urgent need for massive testing, tracing and isolating cases on a large-scale in a systematic way. The government must rely on health experts and epidemiologists to formulate policies with regard to testing, contact tracing and isolation of people affected by the virus," he said. Bhalla said the policies to tackle Covid-19 are being formulated by the bureaucrats that has proved a "disaster". The Congress leader said the Covid-19 pandemic is at a "dangerous stage" and until an effective mechanism is developed it will be a long and hard battle. "The government should increase beds with high-flow oxygen in hospitals at the earliest. The government must also purchase more ventilators to augment the capacity of hospitals and increase the strength of doctors and paramedical staff," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-congress-leader-accuses-govt-of-failing-to-tackle-covid-19-pandemic-975478.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||ASI to take up conservation work in Taj Mahal, Agra Fort during closed period||With monuments run by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) closed due to a spike in Covid-19 cases, the central government organisation will use the time to carry out conservation work at Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri premises in Agra. The aim behind carrying out such work was to make the monuments more beautiful for the tourists when once they reopen, a senior ASI official in Agra said on Saturday. On April 15, the iconic Taj Mahal and other ASI centrally protected monuments, sites and museums were shut till May 15 by the Ministry of Culture due to the rise in coronavirus cases across the country. Superintending Archaeologist, ASI, Agra Circle, Vasant Kumar Swarnkar told PTI, "As monuments have been closed till May 15 due to the spike in COVID cases, we will utilise that time in conservation of Taj Mahal premises, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri." He added, "During the closed period, mud pack treatment will be applied to the main dome of Taj Mahal while conservation of minars in the monument will be done." "The old stones of pietra dura art at the royal gate will be changed and the royal gate itself will be given a new look," Swarnkar added. Mud packs have been regularly used by the ASI to remove yellow stains that have appeared over the years on Taj Mahal’s white marble facade. The treatment is believed to help in restoring the natural shine and colour of the monument. The senior official said renovation of the fortification of walls of Agra Fort is also in the list along with other renovation work of Amar Singh Gate, Diwan-e-Aam, Musamman Burj, etc. In Fatehpur Sikri, the ASI will carry out conservation of Todarmal Baradari, Hamam and Samosa Mahal inside the Mughal-era premises. During the time of renovation and conservation, the guidelines of Covid-19 will be followed, Swarnkar added. "The budget for the renovation and conservation of the monuments' premises was about Rs 1 crore and that was proposed in the last financial year," the ASI official added. Vice-president of Tourism Guild of Agra Rajeev Saxena appreciated the step and said, "It will give a new look to Taj Mahal and other monuments. The initiative would give a 'Wah Taj!' experience to visitors when the monuments will be reopened based on the government guidelines." He added that the Indian railways had last year utilised the pandemic related lockdown months in renovation and other development works for better experience of travellers. Similarly, the step taken by ASI, Agra would make a good impression on tourists, Saxena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asi-to-take-up-conservation-work-in-taj-mahal-agra-fort-during-closed-period-975502.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Hospital declared Covid-19 patient dead twice before he actually died, family claims||A 58-year-old coronavirus patient was declared dead twice in a day before he actually died at a government hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Vidisha district, his family claimed on Saturday. The hospital management blamed a nurse for the mix-up but claimed it happened only once. Goralal Kori, a railway employee and resident of Sultania village, was admitted to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Hospital here on April 12 after he developed coronavirus-like symptoms, his son Kailash Kori said. Around 2.30 am the next day, a hospital official informed him over phone that Goralal was critical and put on a ventilator, he said. "The same day (April 13) around 3 pm, I got a call that my father was in a very serious condition. When I rushed to the hospital, a nurse told me that they couldn't save him,” Kailash said. But then another nurse told him that he was alive but struggling to breathe, he added. "Around 5 pm, I was told that my father needed tracheostomy (a surgical procedure carried out to help a person breathe). Late in the evening we got a call saying he died during the procedure. When we reached the hospital, the management said they cannot hand over the body as my father had tested Covid-19 positive," Kailash said. “The next morning they gave us the death certificate but my brother said he wanted to see the body. When they showed him the body, it was of another person's. My brother went inside the ward to find my father on ventilator support," he claimed. The hospital then retracted the death certificate and Kori's family returned home, only to receive a call in the evening informing that Goralal had finally succumbed. This time the sad news turned out to be true. Asked about the mix-up, hospital dean Dr Sunil Nandeshwar said Goralal's heartbeats stopped when he was being put on ventilator but he was resuscitated. "In the meantime, a nurse misunderstood the situation and gave the wrong information," he said. "The story is being blown out of proportion. We spent more than an hour resuscitating him but nobody is talking about that,” Dr Nandeshwar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hospital-declared-covid-19-patient-dead-twice-before-he-actually-died-family-claims-975504.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||India will stand with people of Afghanistan, S Jaishankar tells Afghan counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday conveyed to his Afghan counterpart Mohammad Hanif Atmar that India will always stand with the people of Afghanistan. Jaishankar said the role of neighbours in the Afghan peace process figured in his conversation with Atmar. In the telephonic talk, the two foreign ministers discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan following the announcement by the US to withdraw its forces from the conflict-ridden country by September 11. In a tweet, Jaishankar described his conversation with Atmar as "good". "Good conversation with FM @MHaneefAtmar of Afghanistan on recent developments. Discussed the role of neighbours in the Afghan peace process. As always, India will stand with the people of Afghanistan," he said. In an address at the Raisina Dialogue on Friday, Jaishankar described the US decision as a "big step" and said it is going to take Afghanistan in a certain direction and that it would be important for the stakeholders to work together to ensure that the direction is the right one. In a significant announcement, US President Joe Biden on Wednesday said American troops will leave Afghanistan by September 11 that would coincide with the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks on the US in 2001. The US has lost more than 2,000 personnel since 2001 in the war that was triggered by the terror attacks carried out by al-Qaeda. There have been renewed global efforts to bring lasting peace to Afghanistan. Russia recently organised a conference in Moscow where all major stakeholders were invited to brainstorm over ways to move forward in the peace process. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability in Afghanistan. It has already invested $ 2 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. Last month, Afghan Foreign Minister Atmar visited India during which Jaishankar conveyed to him India's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-will-stand-with-people-of-afghanistan-s-jaishankar-tells-afghan-counterpart-975506.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, section of Haryana officials allowed work from home||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the Haryana government has decided to allow officials equal to the rank of under secretary or below to work from home and restrict their physical attendance in offices to 50 per cent. A letter in this regard has been issued by the Chief Secretary's office, according to an official statement. Officers of the level of deputy secretary, equivalent and above are to attend offices on regular basis, it said. According to the order, rosters for employees' attendance are to be prepared by divisional and wing heads and if required, they can call for more than 50 per cent physical attendance on administrative grounds. Officials who do not attend office on a particular day will make themselves available on phone and other electronic means of communication at all times from their residence and work from home, it said. Those residing in containment zones shall continue to be exempted from coming to office till the containment zone is de-notified, the order said. All officials who attend office will have to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Crowding in lifts, staircases, corridors, common areas, including refreshment kiosk and parking areas, is to be strictly avoided, the statement said. Meetings as far as possible will be conducted through video-conferencing, it said. Haryana on Friday had seen the highest single-day jump of 6,277 fresh cases of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-section-of-haryana-officials-allowed-work-from-home-975524.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||50 eligible inmates vaccinated at Rohini jail's Covid-19 vaccination centre||Around 50 eligible inmates were vaccinated at a Covid-19 vaccination centre established at Rohini jail by the Delhi Prisons department on Saturday, officials said. A total of 363 inmates have been vaccinated so far in three jails under the Delhi Prisons department -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini, they said. According to officials, the Covid-19 vaccination centre was started at the Rohini jail on Saturday with the help of District Immunization Officer (DIO), North. "A total of 50 eligible inmates of Rohini jail were vaccinated on Saturday. Earlier the eligible and willing inmates of Rohini Jail were being taken outside to the nearest Covid vaccination centre for inoculation under police guard," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. Resident Medical Officer of Tihar jail, Dr Ajay Dalal and Superintendent of Jail number 10, Rohini, Sunder Bora, supervised the vaccination drive and encouraged the inmates, he said. On March 23, a Covid vaccination centre was started at Tihar Jail. Of the 363 inmates, 262 have been vaccinated at the Tihar jail complex, followed by 68 at Rohini jail and 33 at Mandoli jail, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-eligible-inmates-vaccinated-at-rohini-jails-covid-19-vaccination-centre-975531.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||NIA files chargesheet against seven Khalistani narco smugglers||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Saturday filed a chargesheet against seven alleged Khalistani narco smugglers in a Jammu court. Gurpartap Singh, Sham Lal, Ajeet Kumar alias Kala, Bishan Das alias Raju, Jasraj Singh, Subhash Chander and Gurbaksh Singh, alleged Babbar Khalsa International operatives have been named in the chargesheet filed before a special NIA court in Jammu. A spokesperson of the NIA said charges under section 8 read with sections 21, 23, 25, 27 and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances  Act, 1985, Section 120B of Indian Penal Code and sections 17, 18, 38, 39 and 40 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 were filed against the accused. The case, filed in September 2020, pertains to the seizure of huge quantity of drugs and arms including, 61 kgs of heroin, 1.2 kgs of opium along with two pistols, three magazines and 100 rounds, which was recovered at International Border, near RS Pura, Jammu The NIA had re-registered the case as RC-05/2020/NIA /JMU dated 26.11.2020 and taken up the investigation,” the NIA statement said. It said that the investigation in the case has revealed that the seven chargesheeted accused in this case were part of a narco-terror module of the BKI, a Sikh militant organization. The prime objective of this module, the NIA investigation reveals, was to raise funds for the BKI through proceeds of narcotics. “Each member of this module had a unique role and responsibility in execution of this conspiracy. The modus operandi involved smuggling of narcotics and arms/ammunition across the border in Jammu region and further supply and sale of the same in the state of Punjab. The proceeds of narcotics so generated were to be used for funding terrorist activities of BKI,” the NIA probe reveals. “The arms so smuggled were to be used by members of BKI for violent terrorist acts. After the arrest of the above mentioned accused, further searches were conducted which had led to recovery of drug proceeds of Rs 9,06,300, more arms and ammunition and other incriminating materials,” the NIA statement said, adding that the further investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-chargesheet-against-seven-khalistani-narco-smugglers-975534.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Kiren Rijiju tests positive for Covid-19, says he is feeling 'fit and fine'||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19 but is feeling "fit and fine". The 49-year-old posted the development on his Twitter page. After getting repeated test for Covid-19, today my report has come out positive. I'm taking the advice of the Doctors. I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, exercise self-quarantine and get themselves tested. I'm physically fit and fine. "After getting repeated test for Covid-19, today my report has come out positive," Rijiju wrote in his twitter handle. "I'm taking the advice of the Doctors. I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, exercise self-quarantine and get themselves tested. I'm physically fit and fine." Rijiju was in Uttarakhand on Friday to inaugurate a Water Sports and Adventure Institute in Tehri. State chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who recovered recently from the dreaded infection, was with him at the inauguration ceremony. India is witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases with 2,34,692 fresh infections being reported in the country on Tuesday, the biggest daily spike so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kiren-rijiju-tests-positive-for-covid-19-says-he-is-feeling-fit-and-fine-975538.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||CM seeks Centre's support as Delhi runs short of oxygen beds and life saving drugs||As Delhi cases spiral menacingly fast, recording over 24,000 cases in the last 24 hours, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday red flagged the short supply of oxygen, remdesivir and tocilizumab for patients and sought an immediate increase from the Centres in the number of hospital beds to treat patients. With Delhi observing a week-end curfew which aims at breaking the chain of the deadly virus infections, the CM called the situation "very serious and worrisome" as the positivity rate stood at an alarming 24 per cent.   "I have requested the Union health minister to reserve at least 50 pc beds for Covid patients in Centre-run hospitals in Delhi. I have also spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, an exasperated CM said adding he does not know when will the wave end given the rate at which the numbers are growing. Announcing a slew of measures, the Delhi Chief Minister said he has asked officials to take action if black marketing of drugs for Covid patients is reported from anywhere in Delhi and threatened to act tough against labs, which are delaying results. "I have asked the administration not to send samples to labs, which do not give results within 24 hours. The Chief Minister said that in the next three-four days, the government will add 6,000 more beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-seeks-centres-support-as-delhi-runs-short-of-oxygen-beds-and-life-saving-drugs-975542.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||JNU issues strict Covid-19 guidelines; canteens, eateries to be closed with immediate effect||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Saturday ordered a slew of restrictions amid rising cases of the novel coronavirus infection in the national capital. In a circular, the varsity said, the sports stadium has been closed with immediate effect and yoga activities in the offline mode have also been suspended. It, however, said such activities can be run in online mode. Dining facility at canteens and eateries in the campus will also be closed with immediate effect, it said. "Dining facility at Aravali guest house canteen as well as other canteens/eateries will be closed and only home delivery and takeaway would be allowed," it said. The operation of canteens and ‘dhabas; of the schools, special centre and residential areas shall be only in takeaway and home delivery mode, it said. "The hostel residents are strongly discouraged from visiting other hostels and going out of the campus or to schools/centres, unless it is absolutely essential," the circular stated. The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) added that visitors’ movement will only be allowed through the north gate, and "other gates shall remain closed till further orders". It advised residents to avoid "non-essential movement" inside or outside the campus. "Also, kindly avoid inviting friends and relatives in the campus," the circular said. While advising the residents to install Aarogya Setu mobile application, the university said in the circular that "persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home". It also instructed shopkeepers and canteen staff to wear face masks all the times. "Any violation would attract closure of shops/canteens for two days initially, and further violation will be dealt strictly as per the guidelines of GOI/Delhi Government/JNU," it added. It also mandated the shopkeepers to ensure social distancing between customers and vendors, and also between two customers through "proper marking". "Wearing of face masks is mandatory in the campus. The security personnel are authorised to take photographs, if anyone is not wearing the masks. Appropriate disciplinary action, including fine, shall be imposed in this regard," the university said. Delhi reported 24,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-issues-strict-covid-19-guidelines-canteens-eateries-to-be-closed-with-immediate-effect-975546.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan's Covid tally surpasses 4 lakh with record 9,046 new cases||Rajasthan recorded its biggest single-day spike of 9,046 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the tally to 4,04,355, while the death toll mounted to 3,109 with 37 more fatalities, according to an official report. Meanwhile, the weekend curfew remained effective on Saturday as shops and offices except essential services remained closed. The curfew will continue in the state till 5 am on Monday. The state government had announced the weekend curfew after a high-level review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday night. However, polling and election-related activities in Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand (Rajsamand) constituencies were exempted. Rajasthan now has 59,999 active novel coronavirus cases, the report said. A maximum of 1,484 new cases were reported in Jaipur, followed by 1,265 in Jodhpur, 1,049 in Kota, 783 in Udaipur, 591 in Alwar, 407 in Bhilwara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthans-covid-tally-surpasses-4-lakh-with-record-9046-new-cases-975578.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Won't end protest against farm laws: BKU President Naresh Tikait||Farmers can sacrifice their lives but will not end the protest against the farm laws, said BKU national president Naresh Tikait while accusing the Centre of extending a stepmotherly treatment to them. Addressing a monthly mahapanchayat at the Delhi’s Ghazipur border here, the BKU leader alleged that even after five months of protest by them, the government is not paying any heed to their demands. The government has thrown the matter in abeyance after saying that it is a “phone call away”, said the leader. The BJP-led Centre is working for capitalists, that is why it is extending a stepmotherly treatment to the protesting farmers, he said, adding that the government should fulfil their demand of scraping the three laws and give a written assurance on the MSP for crops. He further said the “rulers” are busy in elections but they must know that farmers had voted for a lotus but the government is giving them thorns. The Union government is planning to crush the farmers' protest but they should not take farmers lightly as it would be a blunder. Farmers can sacrifice their lives but they will not leave protesting against the laws, he said, adding that farmers of the country are united in the fight. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops. The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-end-protest-against-farm-laws-bku-president-naresh-tikait-975596.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Remdesivir injections 'stolen' from govt hospital in Madhya Pradesh||A large quantity of Remdesivir injections, which are in high demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, have been found to be "stolen" from the stock of the state-run Hamidia Hospital here in Madhya Pradesh. “I have received the information about the theft of the injections. This is a very serious matter. Divisional Commissioner Kavindra Kiyawat and Bhopal Deputy Inspector General of Police Irshad Wali have reached the spot and started investigations, “ MP Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang told reporters at the facility on Saturday. Shortage of Remdesivir injections has been reported from various parts of Madhya Pradesh which are battling a surge in Covid-19 cases. On April 16, Madhya Pradesh recorded 11,045 fresh coronavirus cases, its biggest one-day spike so far, taking the state's infection count to 3,84,563, as per the state health department. The overall fatality count rose to 4,425 as 60 more patients succumbed to the infection. Madhya Pradesh has recorded 89,052 new cases and 439 fatalities since the beginning of April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/remdesivir-injections-stolen-from-govt-hospital-in-madhya-pradesh-975600.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: Cong govt misused govt machinery to harass BJP workers, alleges Poonia||Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia on Saturday attacked the state government, alleging that it misused its machinery to harass his party workers during the bypolls to three Assembly seats. The allegations by the BJP came amid the elections to Sahara, Rajsamand and Sujangarh seats on Saturday. Poonia alleged that BJP workers were targeted, threatened and harassed. Ministers and MLAs threatened traders and even common people in all three constituencies, he alleged. "The government machinery was misused in the three Assembly constituencies. BJP workers were booked and arrested in middle of the night. It seemed as if we were fighting against the government machinery, instead of elections." "Police and the administration worked as agents of the state government. Cases against BJP workers show that the Congress is losing the bypolls," Poonia said, adding that his party has complained to the Election Commission regarding it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cong-govt-misused-govt-machinery-to-harass-bjp-workers-alleges-poonia-975602.html
17-04-2021||North and Central||164 people arrested for violations of weekend curfew in Delhi||More than 360 cases have been registered and 164 people arrested for violations of the ongoing weekend curfew imposed by the Delhi government amid a surge in coronavirus cases, police said on Saturday. "On Saturday from 8 am to 8 pm, a total of 363 FIRs have been registered and 164 people were arrested," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said. The weekend curfew in in force from Friday 10 PM to Monday morning. Police said that 2,432 challans were issued to people for violations of the curfew. Over 1,900 people were booked for allegedly violating the night curfew. According to data shared by the police, 72 cases were registered from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am on Saturday. "A total of 1,950 people were booked under sections 65 (persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of a police officer) of the Delhi Police Act, 107 (security for keeping the peace in other cases) and 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the CrPC,” Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. The police issued 283 challans to people for violating Covid-19 norms, he said, adding that 20 cases were registered under Epidemic Act or other laws. The Delhi government had announced a seven-hour night curfew recently. The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the city. The DDMA order for night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be in force till April 30. People engaged in certain professions have been exempted from the curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/164-people-arrested-for-violations-of-weekend-curfew-in-delhi-975606.html
17-04-2021||Opinion||Why do we let corporations profit from rape videos?||By Nicholas Kristof, [This article contains descriptions of sexual assaults] This isn’t about pornography, but about rape and sexual abuse. “I’ve no problem with consensual adults making porn,” says a Canadian student. “Who cares?” The problem is that many people in pornographic videos weren’t consenting adults. Like her. Just after she turned 14, a man enticed her to engage in sexual play over Skype. He secretly recorded her. A clip, along with her full name, ended up on XVideos, the world’s most-visited pornography site. Google searches helped direct people to this illegal footage of child sexual abuse. In a video accompanying this column online, she recounts how she begged XVideos to remove the clip. Instead, she says, the website hosted two more copies, so hundreds of thousands of people could leer at this most mortifying moment of her life, preserved forever as if in amber. That happens all over the world: Women and girls, and men and boys, are sexually assaulted or secretly filmed, and then video is posted on a major website like XVideos that draws traffic through search engines. While the initial video assault may be brief, the attack on dignity becomes interminable. “The shame I felt was overwhelming,” the Canadian student says. I wrote in December about Pornhub, a Montreal-based website that pioneered access to free porn uploaded by anyone — so-called tube sites that are like YouTube for nudity and sex. Since that article, credit card companies have stopped working with Pornhub, the site has removed more than 9 million videos, and the Canadian and United States governments have been cracking down on the company’s practices. But as I noted at the time, the exploitation is rooted not in a single company but in an industry that operates with impunity, and punishing one corporation may simply benefit its rivals. That’s happening here. When Pornhub deleted videos, millions of outraged customers fled to its nemesis, XVideos, which has even fewer scruples. Pierre Woodman, a veteran European pornographer, told me that while I may have damaged Pornhub financially, for XVideos “you are Santa Claus.” That’s not a comfortable feeling, and it’s why we need to work to rein in an entire rogue industry — and for now, the behemoth is XVideos, bolstered by Google and other search engines. “We are the biggest adult tube in the industry, with an average of 2 billion daily impressions worldwide,” boasts XVideos, which SimilarWeb ranks as the seventh-most-visited website in the world. Two slots behind is a sister website with almost exactly the same content, XNXX.com. Each gets more visitors than Yahoo, Amazon or Netflix. XVideos and XNXX appear to be owned by mysterious French twins and based in a nondescript office building in Prague not far from Wenceslas Square. This building is the hub of a porn empire that gets 6 billion impressions a day and inflicts anguish all around the world — which raises a question: Why do we let companies get away with this? Heather Legarde, a young woman in Alberta, felt the world crashing down on her in August. She had discovered that her ex-husband had posted intimate videos of her online, she told me, and people around the world were gazing at her naked body. “I’m all over the internet,” she told me sadly. “Not what I wanted to be famous for.” Worst of all, in one video her former husband sexually assaulted her as she lay unconscious in their bed. Legarde has no recollection of the assault and no idea how the video was made. One clue: It was tagged “sleeping pills.” Some 200,000 people had watched her being assaulted while she was drugged and unconscious. So on that day in August, mortified and dizzied by her discovery of the betrayal, Legarde prepared to tie a noose. “I was standing in my garage under a beam, holding a rope,” she recalled. But finally, she changed her mind: “I said to myself, ‘If this is your solution, he’ll do this to someone else tomorrow.’” So Legarde resolved to own her story and fight back, “so it doesn’t have to happen to other girls.” That’s why she agreed to be quoted by name in this column. But her path through life is now paved with daily humiliations. She regularly searches for naked videos of herself and begs websites, sometimes successfully, to remove them. “How do you get your head around 200,000 guys masturbating as you’re being assaulted?” she mused. A great majority of videos on XVideos and other tube sites are not of children or of unconscious women. Most of the bodies are writhing by choice. But it’s easy to find videos where the posting or the activity wasn’t consensual. A major study published in The British Journal of Criminology this year found that 1 in 8 videos on three major tube sites — XVideos, Pornhub and XHamster — depicted sexual violence or nonconsensual conduct. Some show intoxicated or unconscious women or girls being raped. Others are from spy cams in locker rooms or beach changing rooms and show unsuspecting women or girls (and, less often, men and boys) undressing or showering. Racist epithets and humiliation are on display, as are misogynistic videos of supposed feminists being degraded or tortured. Many videos depict rapists, real or fake, forcing sex on children or adults who are trying to fight back. One on XVideos is captioned with a girl’s protest: “This is not right, Daddy, stop, please.” XVideos guides viewers to videos that purport to show children: Search for “young,” and it helpfully suggests also searching for “tiny,” “girl,” “boy,” “jovencita” and “youth porn.” Many of those on the screen will be young-looking adults, but some will be minors whose lives have been badly damaged. “I think about suicide,” a Thai girl told me somberly. She asked to be identified only by her nickname, Jenny, and she explained that when she was in the eighth grade, a man reached out to her on Facebook and suggested that she could make money modelling. He advised her to send videos of herself, including naked videos to give a sense of her body; these would be kept strictly confidential, she was assured. Jenny sent him the videos. She was never paid as promised, and she forgot about the episode — until a friend alerted her that naked videos of her were on XVideos, Pornhub and at least one other site. “I just wanted to die,” Jenny recalled. “I didn’t want my parents to know.” Jenny is smart and well educated (she spoke to me in English) and is a beautiful singer, and she had hoped to become a music star in Thailand. “I don’t think that’s possible now,” she said. “My dreams are going to end because I have naked pictures on the internet.” The Hug Project, a nonprofit in Thailand that works with trafficking victims, got XVideos to remove Jenny’s videos. But Jenny quit school because she couldn’t bear the humiliation, and every day she gets messages from strange men, sometimes with photos of their genitals. Jenny is furious with herself for sending the videos. “I had the potential to do something great, but now I can’t,” she said. She agreed to be quoted, despite her shame, because she wanted other kids to understand that in the internet age, some mistakes are forever. The abuses aren’t limited to obscure pornographic websites. Twitter, Facebook, Reddit and other sites are all sprinkled with child sexual abuse imagery. One woman I interviewed, Adriane from Illinois, had been trafficked, and her pimp had posted naked video clips of her that had been sitting on Twitter for six years; she said Twitter had ignored her pleas to remove them. I asked Twitter, and they were removed within hours. But relying on newspaper columnists to get nonconsensual nudity removed is not a scalable solution. Meanwhile, I found four videos of Adriane still on XVideos, despite her efforts to have them removed. They collectively have 108,000 views. “The trafficking was one thing,” Adriane told me, “but I feel I’m being exploited all over again.” Google is a pillar of this sleazy ecosystem, for roughly half the traffic reaching XVideos and XNXX appears to come from Google searches. “The porn tube sites are obsessed with their Google rankings because Google is their lifeline,” said Laila Mickelwait, president of the Justice Defense Fund, which fights sexual exploitation online. “Google is the primary means by which they drive traffic to their sites.” A recent search with the words rape unconscious girl using Google’s video tab directed people to scores of videos celebrating just that, including one in which a woman first appears to be strangled to death (presumably she is acting) and then her “corpse” violated. A Google search for schoolgirl sex turned up video results of teenagers having sex of all kinds (on a bus, with a “stepbrother,” etc.) on XVideos and XNXX. Most of the people in the videos are probably 18 or over, but who knows? I reached out to Google to understand its reasons for complicity with companies that monetize child sexual abuse, but I didn’t receive satisfactory answers. Google does have limits. I tried searching “How do I poison my husband,” and the results were literary or humorous, not how-to instructions. The top responses to “How do I commit suicide” were for a suicide hotline. So, Google, why not demonstrate the same responsibility when it comes to searches for rape videos? XVideos did not respond to earlier requests for comment, but after this article was published online, the company provided an unsigned statement. “XVideos does not tolerate or allow illegal content on its sites,” it said. “We take such matters very seriously and have security and privacy protocols in place to address them.” XVideos and XNXX appear to be owned by the twins Stéphane and Malorie Deborah Pacaud (sometimes rendered as Deborah Malorie Pacaud). The Pacauds, 42, avoid the media, but others in the industry said that Stéphane Pacaud began the business in about 2001 by copying images from pornographic magazines and putting them on a simple website that became XNXX. Fabian Thylmann, who helped build what became the Pornhub empire before selling it, described Stéphane Pacaud as a loner who devoted himself to his websites and other solitary pursuits. “Even when in Vegas for conventions, he was often just in his hotel room working,” Thylmann said. In 2012, Thylmann offered to buy XVideos for $120 million, but Pacaud cut off the discussion and said he had to get back to playing a video game. “I’m busy,” Pacaud scoffed, as Thylmann remembers the conversation. “I’ve no time to discuss this now. I’m playing Diablo II.” The Pacauds’ empire became WGCZ Holdings, a company that appears to have been recently renamed WebGroup Czech Republic. It controls at least 60 companies worldwide, including some in the United States. Many of us were inspired by Czechoslovakia’s Velvet Revolution in 1989; is it too much to ask that the heirs of that revolution not inflict rape videos on the world? Czech police and prosecutors say that they are investigating XVideos and its affiliated sites, and the Czech press is publishing exposés about WebGroup’s practices. Under pressure, XVideos has removed some pedophile search terms in the last few months, but the cleanup doesn’t go very far. A search for “twelve” on XVideos suggested “related searches” of “training bra,” “7th grader” and “elementary.” I know this is hard to read. But it’s nothing compared with what children in the videos endure. What can be done? A starting point is to recognize that the issue is not pornography but child abuse and exploitation. We can be sex positive and exploitation negative. It’s a fair objection that cracking down on illegal pornography is sometimes a game of whack-a-mole. But while oversight won’t eliminate problems on the internet, it can reduce them. For example, copyright protection is a priority for the US government, so mainstream porn companies mostly have learned not to steal content; when they do, they get sued and lose. If the United States and other Group of 7 countries cared as much about abused children as about video piracy, we could make XVideos equally vigilant about rape videos. While there are no simple solutions, here are three steps that would help: First, credit card companies should stop working with companies that promote illegal videos. PayPal had propped up XVideos because it was being used to pay for ads, but after this article was published online, the company announced that effective immediately it could no longer be used to purchase advertising on XVideos and related sites. Mastercard took an important step a few days ago by announcing that it can be used by porn websites only if they verify age and consent of each person in sex videos; other card companies should do the same. Second, search engines like Google, Yahoo and Bing should stop leading people to rape videos and stop directing people to websites with a long record of distributing them. Third, we should create accountability in criminal and civil law, for that’s the best way to incentivize companies to clean up their act. In March a girl who was trafficked at 14 and forced to appear in sexual videos filed a lawsuit against XVideos, but such suits face difficulties under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act. Bipartisan legislation before the House and the Senate would make these suits easier to pursue, which could be a game changer by harnessing capitalism to induce better corporate behavior. “There’s always some enterprising lawyer waiting to pounce,” noted Marc Randazza, a lawyer who has represented XVideos and also victims of nonconsensual porn. “If you put civil remedies in, you would have a platoon of lawyers fighting to help you if you were a victim of nonconsensual porn.” Facing this privatized accountability, companies like XVideos would themselves rush to remove nonconsensual imagery. We would have aligned the interests of porn kingpins and their 14-year-old victims. Some worry that a crackdown would financially harm sex workers who sell videos of themselves. But these three steps would not kill the porn industry. People in the adult content industry say that companies like XVideos have a perfectly good business model with just consensual adult content. Without accountability, corporations are tempted to avert their eyes, the most exploitative companies profit the most, and this creates a race to the bottom. The cost is borne by unsuspecting children and adults. A 16-year-old girl in Perth, Australia, a good student and popular in school, took a naked photo of herself while standing in front of a bathroom mirror. She sent it via Snapchat, so that it would automatically disappear in seconds, to her 17-year-old boyfriend, with the words: “I love you. I trust you.” The boyfriend took a screenshot before it disappeared and shared it with five of his friends. They in turn shared it with 47 of their friends. Within a few days, more than 200 people in the school had a copy. Someone uploaded it to a porn site, naming the girl and her school; over three months, with the help of online searches directing people to the site, the photo was downloaded 7,000 times. The family moved to a different city, but students there found the image as well, so the family fled to a different state in Australia. Paul Litherland, a former Australian police officer who worked on the case, told me that the photo was posted on porn websites all over the world, so the girl felt she could never escape. She refused to attend school. She self-medicated with drugs. And then, at the age of 21, she took her life. Those are the stakes. Do we side with her, or with XVideos?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-do-we-let-corporations-profit-from-rape-videos-975288.html
17-04-2021||Opinion||The Tokyo Olympics will go on, but in name only||In 1964, less than two decades removed from World War II, Japan used the Summer Olympics to showcase its astonishing recovery from a horrific defeat. It was an undeniable triumph for the host nation. This time, the Tokyo Games will be a multibillion-dollar test of survival in the midst of a lingering pandemic. Despite the mixed messages coming from top officials, not to mention the steadfast opposition of the vast majority of Japanese citizens, these Olympics will take place this summer. There's too much money at stake for there to be any other outcome. But it's clear this will be an Olympics in name only, stripped of the joy and charm and lofty ideals that make it a tradition unlike any other (sorry, Masters), leaving only the stench of well-deserved cynicism. Forget about tens of thousands of people from every corner of the globe transforming the streets of Tokyo into a potpourri of humanity. Foreign fans are not allowed. Forget about the athletes hanging around to absorb the culture and cuisine of the hosts once their competitions are over. They're being told to arrive late and get out of town as soon as possible. (Of course, Ryan Lochte probably wishes he had followed that advice in Rio.) Forget about the stories that would've been shared in the years to come — the frenzied bartering of the pin traders, the embarrassed remembrances of far too much money dropped in the Olympic superstore, the chance encounter that opened your heart to someone who looked and sounded different. For Katie Ledecky, one of the most enduring memories of her two previous Olympics was having NBA stars from the US men's basketball team turn up in the stands when she was swimming for gold. In 2016, it was Kevin Durant, Kyle Lowry, Draymond Green, Klay Thompson, DeMarcus Cousins, and DeAndre Jordan who transformed into awestruck fans as they cheered on Ledecky and Michael Phelps. Afterward, they all posed for pictures. "They typically come to at least one of our sessions at the Olympics," Ledecky said ruefully. "I know this year it probably won't be able to happen." With coronavirus cases surging in Japan, the prospect of canceling an Olympics that already has been pushed back a year was raised again this week by a leading politician. Toshihiro Nikai, the No. 2 person in the ruling political party, was asked during an interview if cancellation was still an option. "Of course," he replied, adding that if the Tokyo Games piled on to the misery already wreaked by Covid-19 "there would be no meaning to having the Olympics." But the swiftness with which Nikai backtracked and a bunch of other powerful officials jumped in to say his comments were off the mark only solidified the reality that these games are going forward — no matter what happens in the next three months. "There are a variety of concerns but as the Tokyo 2020 organizing committee we are not thinking about cancelling the games," said Seiko Hashimoto, who heads up the Tokyo organizing committee. But Hashimoto acknowledged that Nikai has a right to be concerned, and that sort of thinking is right in line with a Japanese public that has polled as high as 80% against holding the Olympics during the pandemic. "His comment has reminded us of how tedious it was for us to feel confident or be fully prepared for delivering the games," Hashimoto said. Though there will surely be socially distanced fans in the stands — Japan has allowed people to attend sporting events since last summer — these Olympics will essentially be a made-for-TV event. Everyone from the athletes and coaches to officials and the media will be on virtual lockdown during their time in Japan, restricted largely to the stadiums and arenas where the events are held and the rooms where they will lay their heads at night. That is good enough for the International Olympic Committee, which relies on international broadcast fees for nearly three-fourths of its revenue. Besides, TV is the conduit through which nearly everyone except a lucky few gets to experience the games, so a cancellation would leave a giant void in the summer programming schedule. Frankly, it's understandable that Japanese officials want to press forward, considering how much the country has laid out to prepare for the world's grandest boondoggle — at least $15 billion officially, with audits suggesting the actual figure might be twice as much. And, of course, the athletes desperately want to compete, no matter what restrictions are placed on them. This is a moment that usually comes around only once every four years, and they've already had to tack on an extra year of training, preparation and expense just to take part in the Tokyo Games. When a British newspaper suggested in January that the Olympics might be canceled, US gymnastics star Simone Biles undoubtedly expressed the mindset of all her fellow athletes. "I'll basically do anything at this moment," Biles told NBC. "Whatever they say they want us to do, I'm in 100 per cent, because I've been training so hard, and I've just been so ready." Sadly, no matter how the IOC tries to spin it, everyone in the Pandemic Games will be walking on eggshells until the flame is extinguished on Aug, 8. Only then can the celebration really begin. Or, more likely, nothing more than a giant sigh of relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-tokyo-olympics-will-go-on-but-in-name-only-975344.html
17-04-2021||South||Telangana: Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly segment bypoll under way||Voting is underway for the bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency in Telangana on Saturday with voters queuing up to exercise their franchise. Polling began at 7 am and will conclude at 7 pm, poll officials said. Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed at polling booths. As many as 4,000 police personnel including central forces have been deployed for the bypoll. Election officials have set up as many as 346 polling stations. The bypoll for the constituency was necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah who passed away in December last. The ruling TRS nominated Nomula Bhagat, son of Narsimhaiah. The saffron party has fielded P Ravi Kumar while the Congress put up senior leader K Jana Reddy, who had served as Leader of Opposition in the previous Legislative Assembly. Reddy lost from the same constituency in the 2018 Assembly polls. The Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll result would be an acid test for the ruling TRS, resurgent BJP and Congress — with all three keen to prove their might as a win or defeat may script the strategy to be adopted by them for the Assembly polls in 2023. Though candidates from other parties and independents are in the fray for the Assembly segment, the contest would be mainly between the three parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-nagarjuna-sagar-assembly-segment-bypoll-under-way-975327.html
17-04-2021||South||PM Modi condoles Tamil actor Vivekh's demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of popular Tamil actor Vivekh on Saturday and hailed him for his comic timing. Vivekh, who was put on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) support at a hospital in Chennai after he suffered a cardiac arrest, passed away on Saturday. "The untimely demise of noted actor Vivek has left many saddened. His comic timing and intelligent dialogues entertained people," Modi said in a tweet. The untimely demise of noted actor Vivek has left many saddened. His comic timing and intelligent dialogues entertained people. Both in his films and his life, his concern for the environment and society shone through. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers. Om Shanti. "Both in his films and his life, his concern for the environment and society shone through. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers. Om Shanti," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-condoles-tamil-actor-vivekhs-demise-975350.html
17-04-2021||South||Afghan girl gets new lease of life after bone marrow transplant at Kerala hospital||A two-and-a-half-year-old girl from Afghanistan had a miraculous recovery after undergoing a rare bone marrow transplant at a private hospital here. It is for the first time in any hospital in the state that such a bone marrow transplant surgery was successfully performed on a child as young as Kulsum, who was recently diagnosed with congenital acute myeloid leukaemia, authorities at Aster MIMS Hospital told reporters here on Saturday. According to hospital sources, the baby girl had undergone four cycles of chemotherapy in Dubai, where her doctors suggested her to undergo a bone marrow transplant as early as possible. As the medical procedure was not available in Dubai, Kulsum's family travelled to Kerala and sought treatment at Aster MIMS hospital here, they said. However, the girl and her family faced several legal hurdles before ensuring treatment at the hospital, they added. Though Kulsum's family hailed from Afghanistan, her grandparents had migrated to the UAE decades ago for business purposes with a Pakistani passport as they could not travel with their own country's passport then. As Kulsum's father Mohammed, was born in UAE, he too possesses a Pakistani passport. They encountered numerous obstacles while seeking treatment in India with a Pakistani passport. However, the hospital group's chairman Dr Azad Moopen directed Farhan Yasin CEO, Aster MIMS North Kerala to enable the baby girl and her family's travel to India after settling all legal issues and carry out her treatment as early as possible. After undergoing intensive chemotherapy at the Aster MIMS and her symptoms got subsided, she underwent a hemopoietic stem cell transplant (bone marrow transplant), the sources said adding Mohammed donated stem cells to his daughter. Azad Moopen said, "It is common for foreigners to seek medical treatment in Kerala. However, in this case, despite such complex circumstances, it is an outstanding example of the fact that Kerala's healthcare has gained global attention". Kesavan M R, the consultant Haematologist who treated her, informed that Kulsum is on the route to a speedy recovery after her bone marrow transplant. Besides Dr Kesavan, Kulsum's father Mohammad, Mr Farhan Yasin (Cluster CEO, Aster MIMS North Kerala), Dr K V Gangadharan (Head, Department of Oncology), Dr Suresh Kumar E K (Head of Pediatrics) attended the press conference arranged at the press club here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/afghan-girl-gets-new-lease-of-life-after-bone-marrow-transplant-at-kerala-hospital-975378.html
17-04-2021||South||Kerala HC scraps 'male only' job notification that cited night shift||The Kerala High Court has scrapped a job notification of a state government undertaking that barred women on the grounds that the job involved night shifts. Twenty-five-year old Treasa Josefine, an engineering graduate in Safety and Fire Engineering hailing from Kollam district in Kerala, has fought a successful legal battle against gender discrimination, which may benefit many women who have been denied jobs on similar grounds. The Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited, a public sector undertaking of the Kerala government, in Kollam district had invited applications to the post of Safety Officer in 2020 October. The notification stated that only male candidates need apply. Section 66(1)(b) of Factories Act - 1948 was cited as the reason. The said provision states that no woman shall be required or allowed to work in any factory except between 6 am and 7 pm. Citing several earlier judgments in cases of similar nature, Justice Anu Sivaraman maintained that restricting a qualified woman from a job on the basis of gender amounted to a violation of Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Constitution. Provisions in Section 66(1)(b) is that of a protective nature. Such protective provisions cannot stand in the way of a woman being considered for employment for which she is otherwise eligible, the court observed. Josefine, who also holds a PG diploma in industrial safety and heavy vehicle driving licence, told DH that she was delighted to be a part of the change and she hoped the HC order would encourage and motivate other women in future. Advocate P R Milton, who appeared for Josefine said that many women in the country might get the benefit of this court order. Josefine had already submitted her application to this job, he said. Meanwhile, the government in August last year approved a draft ordinance for amending the Factories Act to enable women to work in night shifts and was sent for the President's approval. The court observed that the Factories Act - 1948 was enacted at a time when requiring a woman to work in an establishment of any nature, more so in a factory, during nights could only be seen as exploitative and violative of her rights. The court also observed that the world had moved forward and women who were relegated to the roles of homemakers during those times when the enactment had been framed had taken up much more demanding roles in society as well as in economic spheres. "We have reached a stage where the contributions made by women in the spheres of economic development cannot be ignored by any industry. Women are being engaged to work during all hours in several industries including health care, aviation and IT. Women have been engaged in several professions requiring round the clock labour and have proved themselves quite capable of facing the challenges of such engagement," the court observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-scraps-male-only-job-notification-that-cited-night-shift-975398.html
17-04-2021||South||Madras High Court vacates stay on ex-Tamil Nadu CS appointment in NGT||Vacating the interim stay imposed on former Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan's appointment as an expert member of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Madras High Court on Saturday ruled that he possessed the qualification required to hold the post. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy vacated the interim stay imposed by them on April 9 on a petition filed by Poovulagin Nanbargal seeking to quash her appointment to the Southern Bench of the NGT on the grounds that she was not qualified to hold the post. After hearing arguments from both sides, the first bench ruled that Vaidyanathan possessed the qualification to hold the post of expert member of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The court counted her tenure as Environment Secretary for two-and-a-half years and her stint as Health Secretary for another two-and-a-half-years as required experience for holding the post. Poovulagin Nanbargal, an NGO fighting on issues related to environment headed by G Sundarrajan, approached the High Court in December 2020 seeking to quash the appointment of Vaidyanathan on the grounds that she was not qualified to hold the post. In its writ petition, the NGO alleged that Vaidyanathan's appointment clearly violated the guidelines that say anyone appointed to the post should have five years experience in the field of environment or should have been associated with related organisations. The NGO also said Section 5 of the NGT Act clearly stipulates administrative experience of 15 years, including experience of five years in dealing with environmental matter either in the central or state governments or in a reputed institute. During the hearing on April 9, the bench had remarked that “we are not happy with the qualification” while granting an interim stay. Vaidyanathan, who served as Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu from December 2016 to June 2019, was to assume charge as expert member of the NGT at its Southern Bench in Chennai on April 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-vacates-stay-on-ex-tamil-nadu-cs-appointment-in-ngt-975472.html
17-04-2021||South||Alleging large-scale poll violations, bogus voting, TDP, BJP-Jana Sena demand repolling in Tirupati||The TDP, BJP and Jana Sena parties have demanded the Election Commission of India conduct re-polling in Tirupati. In a letter to the ECI, TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has alleged large scale fake voting, impersonation, and other malpractices by the YSRCP in the Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll on Saturday. In a similar letter to the ECI, AP-BJP unit chief Somu Veerraju accused the ruling party in the state of resorting to “large scale bogus voting, akin to booth capturing, not witnessed before in AP,” and asked the commission to countermand the polls. BJP's ally Jana Sena called the Saturday events in Tirupati “organized rigging of votes” and demanded fresh polls, keeping the present poll officials away from the process. Since Saturday morning, leaders of TDP, BJP and the Congress parties including their contestants have brought several instances of bogus voters caught red-handed at various polling booths to the public and social media notice with video evidence. Naidu alleged that the “malpractices of YSRCP leaders have continued under the watchful eyes of the local election authorities despite the gross violations of election model code brought to the commission's notice.” The former CM alleged that YSRCP leaders have brought thousands of outsiders, party henchmen to cast fake votes impersonating absentees/shifted/dead voters and “with a malafide intention of capturing booths, rigging elections and causing violence.” “Such outsiders voted on behalf of existing voters too with fake EPIC cards. (When confronted), many of these impersonators were unable to tell their names, their father’s or spouse's name or their address,” Naidu said quoting the video clips. Naidu questioned the presence of YSRCP minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, a non-local, in Tirupati and demanded that Peddireddy be dismissed as a minister, and arrested immediately. The Opposition leader further alleged that the local law enforcement authorities have “instead of arresting the impersonators from outside Tirupati, have arrested the local TDP leaders who revealed the fake voters.” “It is essential for the Election Commission to take drastic measures; else it will be a mockery of democracy. TDP demands for cancellation of election process in Tirupati Assembly segment of Tirupati parliamentary constituency and conduct of re-polling in the segment,” Naidu said. The YSRCP which won Tirupati SC reserved seat in 2019 with 2.2 lakh votes majority, has targeted a higher majority this time. Peddireddy has made light of the charges, saying that the “TDP is resorting to such accusations as it could not match YSRCP's public support.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alleging-large-scale-poll-violations-bogus-voting-tdp-bjp-jana-sena-demand-repolling-in-tirupati-975537.html
17-04-2021||South||Kerala High Court relief to nine-year-old girl who wishes to visit Sabarimala amid Covid-19||While restrictions due to Covid-19 have cast a shadow over the wish of a nine-year-old girl in Kerala to visit Sabarimala Ayyappa temple before she attained the restricted age of ten by this June, the Kerala High Court gave relief by issuing an order to allow darshan for the child by relaxing Covid-19 restrictions at the hill shrine. Nanditha Raj, daughter of Abiraj C hailing from Vaikom in Kottayam district, got the High Court order in her favour on Friday and she made the darshan on Saturday itself. Her parents made a vow before her birth that they would take the child to Sabarimala once. She is turning ten by this June. Women in the 10-50 age group are restricted from entering the shrine as a 2018 Supreme Court order scrapping the restriction is now under review by a larger bench. Hence, Nanditha's parents were compelled to take her to the temple before this June. But owing to restrictions imposed due to Covid-19, pilgrims below the age of ten are not being allowed darshan now. The family took up their grievance before the Kerala High Court and the court on Friday ordered that the child may be allowed darshan along with her parents. The family took Nanditha to the hill shrine on Saturday as Abiraj had earlier obtained an online token for darshan on this day. Abiraj told DH over the phone from Sabrimala that the HC order was a great relief for them as their vow over their child could be fulfilled. Advocate P G Jayashankar, who appeared for the family, said that many other families were learnt to have faced similar situation owing to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-relief-to-nine-year-old-girl-who-wishes-to-visit-sabarimala-amid-covid-19-975548.html
17-04-2021||South||People entering Kerala now have to register on this app||In view of the Covid-19 second wave, Kerala Police instructed that all persons entering Kerala from other countries and states should register in the Covid Jagratha portal (https://covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in/). The State Disaster Management Authority instructed that all marriages and functions like housewarming should be also registered in Covid Jagratha portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/people-entering-kerala-now-have-to-register-on-this-app-975592.html
17-04-2021||South||Covid-19 test positivity rate in Kerala skyrocketing||The Covid-19 scenario of Kerala is turning grim with the test positivity rate increasing to 17.04% on Saturday from 13.8% on Friday. As many as 13,835 fresh cases were reported on Saturday taking the number of active patients to 80,019. As part of a mass testing drive targeting the vulnerable sections, samples were collected from 1.35 lakh persons on Friday and 81,211 were already tested. Almost the same number of samples were collected on Saturday and the test results would come by Sunday and Monday. The state is heaving a sigh of relief as the death rate is still maintained at a comparatively lower rate of 0.4%. The total Covid-19 deaths in Kerala so far are 4,904. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the state is facing a vaccine shortage as it just has 5.5 lakh doses. The state urged to Centre to provide 50 lakh doses immediately. The number of tests is also being enhanced. She added that the state is equipped to handle the increasing number of patients and there is no oxygen shortage as of now. But if the situation worsens, the state would also suffer shortages. The Centre has been urged to ensure proper supply, she said. Meanwhile, health experts are saying that the state has a lackadaisical attitude in enforcing the social distancing norms and other restrictions. The Thrissur Pooram festival ceremonies that began on Saturday reportedly witnessed devotees crowding without maintaining social distancing norms. Passengers are not allowed in transport buses beyond seating capacity, but this is not being enforced strictly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-test-positivity-rate-in-kerala-skyrocketing-975624.html
17-04-2021||State||'Vaccine not substitute for Covid precautionary measures'||Vaccination will definitely help move forward and help reducing the intensity of Covid-19 to a great extent, said Dr E V S Maben, Professor and Head of department of General Medicine, A J Institute of Medical Sciences (AJIMS). He was delivering a talk at a webinar and Facebook live session on “Moving Forward is a New Normal,” organised by A J Hospital and Research Centre, Kuntikan and DH Brandspot, on Saturday. “Vaccine generates antibodies to fight against the virus within six weeks after receiving the booster dose. But vaccine is not a substitute for precautionary measures such as wearing face masks, following social distancing and using sanitisers, which have to be observed without fail”, he said. Dr Maben said that there may be mild effects after vaccination, such as giddiness, nausea and mild fever. Dr Maben said people working from home should also follow precautionary measures. Sitting in front of laptops for long hours could lead to cervical spondylitis, muscle stiffness, headache and back pain. Therefore one should ensure correct body posture while at work. Dr Deepthi V H, Assistant Professor in the department of Psychiatry, AJIMS, said people working from home should plan a schedule and wear office attire while working thelp have a clarity between work and leisure in order to avoid an erratic routine. She further said; “Exaggerated figures on Covid-19 positive cases and related death rate will have a negative impact on mental health. One should consult the experts to clear misconceptions and rely upon trustworthy sources of information.” During Covid-19 pandemic, the emotional health of people is also effected. This may be due to the loss of lives of their loved ones, owing to the pandemic. In such cases, people could divert their mind towards hobbies such as reading good literature, Dr Deepthi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vaccine-not-substitute-for-covid-precautionary-measures-975580.html
17-04-2021||State||Illegal religious structures: Karnataka HC tells govt to set up taluk-level machinery||The High Court on Saturday directed the chief secretary to submit an affidavit on preventive steps it intends to take for ensuring that unauthorised constructions are not carried out in the name of temples, mosques, gurudwara etc. on public space, including government land. The bench asked the chief secretary to file the affidavit in six weeks. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a batch of petitions on the issue of removal of religious structures on government land. The High Court had also initiated suo motu proceedings on the directions of the Apex Court. The bench said that it is necessary for the state government to create machinery at taluk and district levels to look into the complaints about illegal structures on public places, including government lands. “Moreover, creation of such machinery will ensure that immediate action is taken when the construction commences or action can be taken after illegal religious construction is brought to the notice of the public authorities,” the bench said. The bench noted that a large number of petitions are filed complaining inaction on the part of the state government to remove illegal religious structures on government lands. The court said that the order of the Supreme Court applies not only to parks and public spaces, but also lands vesting in the state government as well as in the agency of and instrumentality of the state. On September 29, 2009, the Supreme Court had directed all the states and union territories to demolish illegal religious structures.  The Apex Court had stated that in the name of gods and religion, no unauthorized construction can be allowed on public streets or public parks. On January 31, 2018, the Apex Court again issued a direction asking the High Courts to supervise the implementation of the directions issued in 2009, by registering suo motu PILs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/illegal-religious-structures-karnataka-hc-tells-govt-to-set-up-taluk-level-machinery-975609.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Former Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy tests positive for Covid-19||Former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy on Saturday said that he had tested positive for Covid-19 after having spent days campaigning in the Basavakalayan assembly constituency for a bypoll.  “I request everyone who came in close contact with me over the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested,” Kumaraswamy, 61, said in a tweet.  I have tested positive for COVID-19. I request everyone who came in close contact with me over the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested.ನನ್ನ ಕೋವಿಡ್-19 ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆಯ ವರದಿ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಎಂದು ಬಂದಿದೆ. ಕಳೆದ ಕೆಲವು ದಿನಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ನನ್ನ ಸಂಪರ್ಕಕ್ಕೆ ಬಂದವರು ಕೋವಿಡ್ ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆ ಮಾಡಿಸಿಕೊಳ್ಳಿ. According to a statement from his spokesperson, Kumaraswamy did not find a bed for treatment at Manipal Hospital. Even Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s intervention did not help, the statement claimed, adding that Kumaraswamy managed to find a bed at another private hospital. Apparently, the JD(S) leader experienced fatigue on Friday evening while he was campaigning in Basavakalya following which he returned to Bengaluru and retreated to a hotel. “This morning, he contacted doctors and got tested, which came out as Covid-19 positive. He wanted to rest at his farmhouse, but doctors did not agree. They asked him not to risk it and that he should get admitted immediately,” the statement, attributed to JD(S) MLC HM Ramesh Gowda, said.  According to the statement, Kumaraswamy is scheduled to appear before a court in connection with a case on Saturday. “Since he has tested positive for Covid-19, he will not appear in person. He will appear via video conference. After that, he will get admitted,” the statement said.  Kumaraswamy is the latest addition to the list of politicians who have contracted the virus during the bypoll season in Karnataka. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani, former Congress Minister Eshwar Khandre, BJP’s Maski candidate Pratapgouda Patil and Congress legislator Laxmi Hebbalkar are among those who have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-karnataka-cm-h-d-kumaraswamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-975331.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Self-control better than coronavirus lockdown: Jagaish Shettar||Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Saturday opined that lockdown is not a solution, while self-regulation by people itself is the most effective way to check the spread of Covid-19. "This is my individual opinion, and the government will decide about the rules needed to handle the situation, based on the recommendations by experts," he said. Response for Covid vaccination drive was not good initially, but more people are now coming forward to get vaccinated as the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing, he noted. Suitable steps would be taken to ensure that production in industries is not hampered due to the night curfew in selected cities. At present, there is no plan to extend the night curfew to more cities, Shettar said. Opposition parties should give constructive suggestions to handle the pandemic, as this is not the time for criticism or politics, he added. Shettar also asked employees of State road transport corporations to withdraw strike, assuring that the government would hold a discussion about their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/self-control-better-than-coronavirus-lockdown-jagaish-shettar-975393.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Got a function? Get passes, says Karnataka government||Planning a wedding at a convention hall? You will need to get passes for each guest. Tightening Covid-19 norms in the state, the government on Saturday decided to make passes mandatory for all weddings and other functions that are held in convention halls or choultries. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Health Minister K Sudhakar with deputy commissioners of all districts. The district administrations will issue a limited number of passes for each function and only those with passes will be allowed to attend the event. The number of passes is as determined by the recent guidelines. For marriages, it is 100 for closed venues and 200 in open spaces. Ashoka said passes would be issued by the district administration through the Tahsildars. The local police will monitor the implementation of the guidelines. "The rule will be applicable to anyone who books a convention hall henceforth. If anyone is found violating the norms, the convention hall will be sealed," Ashoka said. The government has also decided to crack down on fairs that draw a huge crowd. "First of all, such fairs will not be allowed. If it's a big fair, the deputy commissioner and police superintendent of the district must visit the spot a month earlier and ensure that it is cancelled. For smaller fairs, the deputy police superintendent and the tahsildars will be responsible. District officials will be held responsible if the norms are not implemented," Ashoka said.  District officials have also been asked to ensure that there is adequate land and infrastructure available for conducting last rites of the deceased, he added.  Ashoka spoke about the need to prepare for an imminent third wave of the pandemic. "Many countries across the globe are seeing a third wave. In the second wave that we're in, we have to be adequately prepared by increasing vaccination and tests. We have instructed all officials to take it up on war-footing. The progress in each district will be monitored," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/got-a-function-get-passes-says-karnataka-government-975509.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logged biggest single-day spike of 17,489 Covid-19 cases on Saturday||Karnataka on Saturday logged its biggest single-day spike of 17,489 new cases of Covid-19 and 80 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 11,41,998 and the toll to 13,270. The state had previously reported its biggest single day spike of 14,859 cases on Friday. A total of over 2,34,48,009 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,43,308 were tested today. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 11,404 new cases on Saturday, a health department bulletin said. The day also saw 5,565 patients getting discharged after recovery, taking the total discharges to 10,09,549. According to the bulletin, out of 1,19,160 active cases,1,18,571 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 589 are in ICU. Among the deaths reported today, 43 are from Bengaluru Urban, Hassan and Mysuru (8), Kalaburagi and Tumakuru (3), Ballari, Bidar, Chamarajanagara and Dharwad (2), and one each from Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Kolar, Mandya, Shivamogga and Uttarakannada. Mysuru accounted for 811 fresh cases, Kalaburagi 560, Tumakuru 507, Bidar 359, Ballari 355, Dakshina Kannada 309, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 5,33,842, followed by Mysuru 60,974 and Ballari 41,853. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,41,054, followed by Mysuru 56,782 and Ballari 39,567.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logged-biggest-single-day-spike-of-17489-covid-19-cases-on-saturday-975529.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bypoll records 56.37% voter turnout||The byelection to Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly seats recorded an overall voter turnout of 56.37% on Saturday, according to the Election Commission.  Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar, in a statement, said the voter turnout was “moderate” and thanked citizens who used their franchise. This included more than 5,700 absentee voters either Covid-19 positive or suspected to be infected who used postal ballots. The voter turnout was the highest at Maski, an ST reserved constituency, at 70.48%, followed by Basavakalyan (59.57%) and Belgaum (54.35%).  Kumar also thanked the police for the "systematic and efficient deployment of personnel to conduct a peaceful poll." Polling began with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols in all three constituencies at 7 am. A total of 30 candidates were in the fray from all three constituencies. Belgaum has ten candidates, Basavakalyan and Maski have 12 and eight candidates in the fray respectively. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.  The ruling BJP and opposition Congress are battling it out in all three constituencies, while JD(S) has limited itself to Basavakalyan, as the regional party has not fielded any candidates in Maski and Belgaum. The outcome of the bypolls is politically significant as a clean sweep for the BJP will help Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa shoot back at his detractors. A victory for the D K Shivakumar-led Congress will boost the morale of the party that has already set its sight on the 2023 assembly election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypoll-records-5637-voter-turnout-975579.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks Centre for 7,500 extra oxygen cylinders amid surge in Covid-19||Even as hospitals have been raising concerns about running out of oxygen cylinders, the state government has requested the Centre to provide 7,500 jumbo oxygen cylinders to Karnataka, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Sudhakar said the Centre had responded positively to the state government’s request. “We have also directed oxygen production companies to increase production and we will ensure that there’s no shortage of oxygen in hospitals,” Sudhakar added. As for lack of beds in private hospitals in Bengaluru, Sudhakar said anyone facing a problem could reach out the helpline provided to get their issue addressed.  Meanwhile, in a meeting with all district officials, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Sudhakar pulled them up for not addressing certain repeated concerns such as errors in the data entry process of Covid-19 reports.  “There are many complaints that the reports are stating positive once and negative when tested in another place. This has to be addressed,” Bommai said. Data entry operators and others working on contract basis need to be paid on time and the Health department has to ensure adequate staff, the ministers directed officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-centre-for-7500-extra-oxygen-cylinders-amid-surge-in-covid-19-975583.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Go virtual with meetings, chief secy tells officials||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Saturday directed all heads of departments to alter their work styles, especially the conduct of meetings, in tune with the new norm of the post-Covid world.  In a note to all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries, deputy commissioners and chief executives of zilla panchayats, Kumar asked them to regulate meetings over the next month or two in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. “If conducting meetings is unavoidable, then they should be held with healthy social distancing and they should be conducted virtually on video,” Kumar said while pointing out that it was “inevitable and necessary” to lessen the movement of and contact with people as the second wave of the pandemic was “faster than before”.  In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic that broke out last year, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa decided that his office will receive files and letters in a paperless ecosystem under ‘e-Office’. He asked all his Cabinet colleagues to follow suit.  Under ‘e-Office’, all files are scanned and uploaded onto the system for further transactions. Besides saving reams of paper, the ‘e-Office’ cuts manual movement of files and ensures speedy clearances.  Secretariat closed for public The Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) on Saturday said the Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and the M S Building - the Secretariat, collectively - will be closed for casual public visits. Only those citizens who have a prior appointment will be allowed after 3.30 pm, the DPAR circular stated. Visits by citizens who want to enquire about or follow-up on the movement of a file are prohibited, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/go-virtual-with-meetings-chief-secy-tells-officials-975584.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Consider appointing panel of eminent people to monitor Covid treatment: Karnataka HC to govt||The High Court on Saturday asked the government to consider appointing a committee of eminent persons for supervising the management of Covid-19 patients. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said such a committee will boost the public confidence in the steps being taken by the administration. The bench said that the committee can ensure effective monitoring of treatment to patients and also to deal with grievances. "The government should therefore consider of appointing a committee consisting of retired judge of the Apex court or this court (High Court), retired senior civil servant who has held the post of Chief Secretary, IPS officer who has held the high post such as DGP, retired officer of the rank of Chief Commissioner of Income Tax Department or the Central excise etc. and eminent persons in the city of Bengaluru with repute,” the bench said. The matter has been posted to Thursday for further consideration. Noting that on Thursday daily number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bengaluru crossed 10,000, the bench directed BBMP to start public awareness campaign on a massive scale. The court said the campaign will include steps to be taken, right from approaching a recognised laboratory for sample testing. “Moreover, BBMP will have to ensure that after the test result of a person is received as Covid-19 positive, the concerned authorities of BBMP shall immediately contact the concerned patient. This direction is required to be issued as it is pointed out across the bar that even 24 hours after the test results, no one from the BBMP approached the concerned patient,” the court said. The bench also directed the government to ensure strict adherence to norms on the day of results of byelections to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency and two Assembly constituencies.   The government informed the court that there is no shortage of Remdesivir medicine in the state and the total stock available at different levels is 35,821 vials and order has been placed for an additional 70,000 vials. So far, a total of 55,000 vials have been supplied since January 1, 2021, to various government hospitals in the state.  The court pointed out that the information about the availability shall be published so that the relatives of the patient can contact the nodal officer, appointed at every private hospital, in the event they are unable to procure the medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/consider-appointing-panel-of-eminent-people-to-monitor-covid-treatment-karnataka-hc-to-govt-975607.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IMA scam: Karnataka HC asks govt to reconsider attaching Roshan Baig's assets||The High Court on Saturday directed the state government to reconsider the stand and take necessary decisions on attaching properties connected to former minister R Roshan Baig in connection with the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, also directed the government to consider paying the competent authority Rs 12.82 crore, spent by the IMA Group, to reconstruct a government school in Shivajinagar. The bench noted that the government has completely ignored the powers vesting in it under the Karnataka Protection Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (KPID) Act 2004 on the question of attaching the properties of Baig. It said the government has only considered one aspect as to whether Baig had taken any financial benefits from the IMA group. "If we accept the submission of the state that question of attachment of properties will be considered only after the submission of the final report of CBI, in every such case such a stand can be taken by the state government. It will defeat the very object of enactment in particular section 3 (2) of KPID Act," the bench said. The court was informed that IMA had spent Rs 10.82 crore on construction and maintenance at V K Obaidullah Government School in Shivajinagar. The IMA group had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Block Education Officer. The competent authority, appointed under the KPID Act, had written to the Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, seeking payment of Rs 12.82 crore so that the money can be returned to the depositors. The bench asked the government to consider both attaching the school building and to pay Rs 12.82 crore to the competent authority. “We are sure that the state government will seriously consider this issue, as prima facie, we are of the opinion that investors’ money deposited with IMA group cannot be converted to the construction of a school building of the state government,” the court said. CBI to move SC  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), meanwhile, submitted that it is going to challenge the recent High Court order quashing the supplementary charge sheets filed against IPS officer Hemanth Nimbalkar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ima-scam-karnataka-hc-asks-govt-to-reconsider-attaching-roshan-baigs-assets-975608.html
17-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to hold key meet on Covid-19 in Bengaluru on Monday||Revenue Minister R Ashoka will chair a meeting of all Bengaluru MPs, legislators and ministers to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the city where cases are soaring. The meeting will be held on April 19 at Vidhana Soudha. The meeting is being held at the direction of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who is in hospital for Covid-19 treatment. "The CM will, mostly, attend the meeting virtually," Ashoka said. The outcome of this meeting will be crucial to determine the steps the government will take to contain the spread of the virus in Bengaluru, which accounts for 75% of Karnataka's active Covid-19 cases. Speculation is rife that the government will consider some more curbs, which might include closure of public places where people gather. Originally, Yediyurappa wanted to hold an all-party meeting on Sunday to elicit opinions from the Opposition Congress and JD(S) on containing the pandemic. However, he tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and is undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-hold-key-meet-on-covid-19-in-bengaluru-on-monday-975613.html
17-04-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Belagavi bypoll: Video of person casting vote for Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti-backed candidate goes viral||A video of a person casting his vote for Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) and Shiva Sena-backed independent candidate Shubham Shelke during the ongoing bye-election for the Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency went viral on social media on Saturday.  In the 11-second video, the unidentified voter who shot the video can be seen running his finger across the ballot unit, voting for Shelke and then raising his thumb. The voter managed to hide his face from being captured but a gold ring on one of his fingers and a silver bracelet can be seen in the video.   It is suspected that the video could have been shot at one of the polling booths in the Belgaum North, Belgaum South or Belgaum Rural assembly constituencies where the pro-Maharashtra outfit has a strong base of supporters and sympathisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/belagavi-bypoll-video-of-person-casting-vote-for-maharashtra-ekikaran-samiti-backed-candidate-goes-viral-975454.html
17-04-2021||West||Fashion designer Manish Malhotra, actor Sumeet Vyas test positive for Covid-19||Fashion designer Manish Malhotra and actor Sumeet Vyas have tested positive for Covid-19 and are currently under home quarantine. Malhotra took to Instagram on late Friday evening and wrote he was following all safety protocols listed by his doctors. "I have tested positive for COVID 19. I have immediately isolated myself and will be under home quarantine. I am following all safety protocols under the advice of my doctors. Please stay safe & take care," the 54-year-old designer wrote. Vyas, 37, also shared his diagnosis on Instagram and informed his fans that he had "mild" Covid symptoms. "I am taking all the necessary precautions, taking medication prescribed by my doctors and putting myself under home quarantine. "Although I have very mild to negligible symptoms, but I'd request anyone who's come in contact with me in the last few days to get themselves tested," the actor wrote. On Friday, Mumbai reported 8,839 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,61,998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fashion-designer-manish-malhotra-actor-sumeet-vyas-test-positive-for-covid-19-975336.html
17-04-2021||West||Maharashtra makes UNESCO 'World Heritage Site' bid for Shivaji-era forts and geoglyps||The Maharashtra government has submitted two successful serial nominations – forts associated with legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and geoglyps of Konkan region — for the UNESCO world heritage site tag. Maharashtra hosts five of the 38 UNESCO World Heritage Sites that are located in India. These include Ajanta Caves and Ellora Caves, both in Aurangabad, Elephanta Caves in Raigad, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in Mumbai, and the Victorian and Art Deco Ensemble in Mumbai. The Western Ghats, which start at the border of Gujarat and Maharashtra and runs through the States of Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala, ending at Kanyakumari, also figures in the UNESCO list. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government expects that the United Nations agency will accord the heritage tag to the two unique nominations. State Minister for Cultural Affairs Amit Deshmukh expressed the government’s commitment to support efforts to get these themes successfully inscribed from UNESCO. To be specific, the Department of Cultural Affairs submitted the two serial nominations to UNESCO through Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) – namely, ‘Military Architecture of Maharashtra’ with emphasis on hill and sea forts of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and ‘Geoglyphs of the Konkan (Maharashtra & Goa)’  highlighting need to promote prehistoric art of Maharashtra on a global platform. This was confirmed by Dr Tejas Garge, Director, Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, Government of Maharashtra. The proposal on military architecture involves Raigad, Rajgad, Torna, Shivneri, Prtapgad, Simhagad, Lohagad, Panhala/Rangna, Sindhudurg, Vijaydurg, Padmadurg, and Kulaba forts. The geoglyph sites nominated are Kasheli, Barsu, Rundhetali, Devihasol, Jambharun, Ukshi, and Kudopi in Maharashtra and Fanasimal in Goa. “Maharashtra presents unique ensemble of world heritage sites - from rock-cut architecture, classic masterpieces of painted art, sculptural monuments like Kailash dating back to 2nd century BC to Victorian Architecture and Art Deco buildings in Mumbai. Further it has potential for more world heritage nominations in the form of Maratha Forts, Lonar Lake, petroglyphs of Konkan, among others,” Dr Garge said. In fact, Dr Garge has also authored a paper on the petroglyps (geoglyps) of Konkan region.  Faunal carvings are mostly seen on every site. Among the fauna depicted there are certain animals and birds which are now extinct. All these sites are situated near water bodies like lakes, small ponds, Arabian Sea. As far as forts are concerned, Maharashra is very rich – and each of them has history and folklore attached to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-makes-unesco-world-heritage-site-bid-for-shivaji-era-forts-and-geoglyps-975343.html
17-04-2021||West||Maharashtra govt, Centre spar over Remdesivir supply to Covid-ravaged state||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Saturday accused the Narendra Modi government of asking pharmaceutical companies to stall Remdesivir supply to the Covid-ravaged state, a charge vehemently refuted by the NDA government and the BJP’s Maharashtra unit. NCP Chief spokesperson and Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik and State Congress General Secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant have come out and levelled the charges against the Centre. “It is sad and shocking that when the Government of Maharashtra asked the 16 export companies for Remdesivir, however, we were told that the Central Government has asked them not to supply the medicine to Maharashtra. These companies were warned, if they did, their license will be cancelled,” Malik said. “This is a dangerous precedent and under these circumstances, Maharashtra Government will have no choice but to seize the stock of Remdesivir from these exporters and supply it to the needy,” he said and also tweeted tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. In a separate tweet, Malik tweeted out a document of what he claimed to be "the approval letter to one of the export companies to supply stock of #Remdesivir to the state of Gujarat Only."  "Here is the another proof of step motherly treatment given by central government to #Maharashtra...Can this double standards be explained ?" Malik asked in the tweet.  “Strongly condemn the inhuman, wicked and extremely ridiculous mindset of the Modi government. Abhorrent politics of the BJP destroyed democratic ethos. Moreover it's cruel. Maharashtra needs Remdesivir and if the Modi government is stopping supply then MVA must take coercive steps against companies,” said Sawant. Hitting out at the Maharashtra government and defending the Centre, Union Railway Minister and senior BJP leader Piyush Goyal tweeted, “Maharashtra is suffering from an inept and corrupt government and the Centre is doing its best for the people. People of Maharashtra are following ‘Majha Kutumb, Majhi Javabadari’ dutifully. It is time the CM also follows his duties in the spirit of ‘Majha Rajya, Majhi Javabadari’.”  Maharashtra is suffering from an inept & corrupt government & the Centre is doing its best for the people. People of Maharashtra are following ‘Majha Kutumb, Majhi Javabadari’ dutifully. It is time the CM also follows his duties in the spirit of ‘Majha Rajya, Majhi Javabadari’ “Just yesterday, PM in his review said that Centre and states should work with synergy in this crisis. With this background, I was shocked and saddened to see petty politics being played by Uddhav Thackeray. He needs to stop his daily dose of shameless politics and take responsibility,” Goyal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-centre-spar-over-remdesivir-supply-to-covid-ravaged-state-975461.html
17-04-2021||West||Covid: RT-PCR test must for Kumbh returnees in Gujarat||People returning to Gujarat after attending the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar will have to undergo an RT-PCR test before they are allowed to enter their respective cities and villages, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Saturday. The ongoing Kumbh, which has seen lakhs of people from different parts of the country and seers attending the auspicious event in large numbers, has drawn flak from various quarters as the number of Covid-19 cases has zoomed at a rapid pace in the past few weeks. The event has also reported the coronavirus cases in large numbers. "Collectors of all districts in Gujarat have been directed to keep a watch on the Kumbh Mela returnees and enforce a nakabandi' (security checking) to prevent their entry in their hometowns without undergoing an RT-PCR test," Rupani told reports in Jamnagar. He said every returnee from the Kumbh congregation will have to undergo the RT-PCR test in Gujarat. "Officials have been directed to isolate those people who are found infected during the testing," the CM added. "(To stem the spread of the virus) the people who went to attend the Kumbh Mela will not be given entry into their hometowns or villages without undergoing tests. Collectors of all the districts have been directed to identify the Kumbh returnees," said Rupani. The CM along with his deputy Nitin Patel was in Jamnagar to review the coronavirus situation along with the local MP, MLAs and senior officials. Rupani also said 25,000 to 30,000 hospital beds were added in a very short period across Gujarat to treat coronavirus positive patients. "At present, there are 75,000 beds at various facilities in Gujarat," the chief minister said. Acknowledging the shortage of hospital beds in cities and the difficulties faced by people, Rupani said 10,000 more beds will be added in the next 15 days. 'In Jamnagar too, we will add 370 beds very soon. We will also increase the number of ambulances and the mortuary vans soon," he added. Gujarat on Friday added the highest number of 8,920 new coronavirus positive cases in a day, taking the tally to 3,84,688, while a record 94 patients died due to the infection which raised the toll to 5,170, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-rt-pcr-test-must-for-kumbh-returnees-in-gujarat-975473.html
17-04-2021||West||Piyush Goyal attacks Maharashtra CM over oxygen supply||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday attacked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the issue of availability of oxygen in the state, saying that Maharashtra has so far received the highest quantity of oxygen in India and the Centre is in regular touch with state governments to assess their needs. "Maharashtra is suffering from an inept and corrupt government and the Centre is doing its best for the people. People of Maharashtra are following 'Majha Kutumb, Majhi Javabadari' dutifully. It is time the CM (chief minister) also follows his duties in the spirit of 'Majha Rajya, Majhi Javabadari'," the commerce and industry minister said. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Thackeray had said that medical oxygen requirement in the state is projected to reach 2,000 metric tonnes per day by April-end from the present consumption of 1,200 MT per day. Citing logistical hurdles in the transportation of liquid medical oxygen from neighbouring states, Thackeray had sought permission under the National Disaster Management Act to airlift oxygen from steel plants in eastern and southern parts of the country. Medical-grade oxygen is used for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients and in other cases of respiratory diseases. Goyal, in a series of tweets, said that Maharashtra has so far received the highest quantity of Oxygen in India and the Centre is in daily touch with state governments to assess their needs and help them in best possible manner. On Friday, Goyal had said that the Prime Minister in his review told that the Centre and states should work with synergy in this crisis. "With this background, shocked and saddened to see petty politics being played by @OfficeOfUT (Uddhav Thackeray). He needs to stop his daily dose of shameless politics and take responsibility. Saddened to see @OfficeOfUT's gimmicks on oxygen. GoI (government of India), with all stakeholders, is ensuring maximum oxygen production in India. We are currently producing 110 per cent of Oxygen generating capacity and diverting all available Oxygen from industrial use to medical use," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/piyush-goyal-attacks-maharashtra-cm-over-oxygen-supply-975490.html
17-04-2021||West||Maharashtra restrictions could be extended beyond May 1: Tope||The 'break the chain' restrictions in place in Maharashtra to tackle the surge in coronavirus cases may be extended beyond May 1 depending on the outbreak situation, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters in Jalna, Tope said people have been supportive of the restrictions, though some violations of prohibitory rules under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) have also been reported. "We are taking stock of the situation. There have been some violations of CrPC section 144 invoked to curb the Covid-19 spread. We may extend these restrictions beyond May 1, depending on the situation. A decision will be finalized only after reviewing the outcome of these 15 days (when the restrictions will be in place)." "I must admit people have been supportive of the restrictions," the minister, who has been insisting on strict measures and restriction on the movement of people to contain the outbreak, said. The state government on April 14 announced several restrictions under a 'break the chain' initiative to rein in what is currently the severest spike in Covid-19 cases anywhere in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-restrictions-could-be-extended-beyond-may-1-tope-975491.html
17-04-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray warns of third Covid-19 wave||As India reels under the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday warned of an impending third wave. Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, asked top Indian corporates and industrialists to be prepared at this stage itself and appealed for all possible assistance to the state government in increasing bed facilities, testing centers and speeding up vaccinations in fight against Covid-19. The Chief Minister said this during an online meeting with industrialists and industry leaders like Niranjan Hiranandani, Uday Kotak, Deepak Mukhi, Harsh Goenka, Naushad Forbes, Sulajja Firodia, Samir Somaiya, S N Subrahmanyan, Salil Parekh, Neel Raheja, Sanjeev Bajaj, Anant Goenka, Baba Kalyani, Anant Singhania, B Thiagarajan, Banamali Agarwal, Ashwin Yardi, Sunil Mathur, Sanjeev Singh, Ashish Agarwal and representatives of FICCI, CII and other industry bodies. The meet saw representation from top groups like Tata, Reliance, L&T, Infosys, JSW, Mahindra & Mahindra, Godrej, Blue Star, Kinetic Engineering, among others. Thackeray also urged the business community to think about a Covid-appropriate workspace in the future. “All steps must be taken to prevent its adverse impact on the industry and the economy due to unavoidable pandemic lockdowns or stringent norms. We have to start preparing for the third wave,” he said. “Presently, the state is in dire need of oxygen, and currently, the entire production is being utilized for medical purposes. Given the number of new patients coming up daily, we need a lot more oxygen for which the industries can help out,” Thackeray said during the meeting. Principal Secretary (Health) Dr. Pradeep Vyas said that the state is conducting 3 lakh tests per million population. Even though the death rate is low, the infections are very high, he said. He requested the industries to start setting up small oxygen plants in their premises to absorb natural oxygen based on new technologies and provide the entire production for medical purposes. Industry Minister Subhash Desai, Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and other top officials were also present during the meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-warns-of-third-covid-19-wave-975492.html
17-04-2021||West||Dialled PM Modi to discuss oxygen shortage issue but he was busy with Bengal polls, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that he tried to contact Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the phone to discuss the issue of shortage of liquid medical oxygen and Remdesivir injection vials but the latter was busy with West Bengal elections. “Yesterday evening, I dialled him (Modi) but I could not speak to him as he was busy in West Bengal elections. However, we are receiving all cooperation from the Centre,” Thackeray said. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government had accused the Narendra Modi government of asking pharmaceutical companies to stall Remdesivir supply to the Covid-ravaged state, a charge vehemently refuted by the NDA government and the BJP’s Maharashtra unit. NCP Chief spokesperson and Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik and State Congress General Secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant have come out and levelled the charges against the Centre. “It is sad and shocking that when the Government of Maharashtra asked the 16 export companies for Remdesivir, however, we were told that the Central Government has asked them not to supply the medicine to Maharashtra. These companies were warned, if they did, their license will be cancelled,” Malik said. “This is a dangerous precedent and under these circumstances, Maharashtra Government will have no choice but to seize the stock of Remdesivir from these exporters and supply it to the needy,” he said and also tweeted tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan. In a separate tweet, Malik tweeted out a document of what he claimed to be "the approval letter to one of the export companies to supply stock of #Remdesivir to the state of Gujarat Only."  "Here is the another proof of step motherly treatment given by central government to #Maharashtra...Can this double standards be explained ?" Malik asked in the tweet.  “Strongly condemn the inhuman, wicked and extremely ridiculous mindset of the Modi government. Abhorrent politics of the BJP destroyed democratic ethos. Moreover it's cruel. Maharashtra needs Remdesivir and if the Modi government is stopping supply then MVA must take coercive steps against companies,” said Sawant. Hitting out at the Maharashtra government and defending the Centre, Union Railway Minister and senior BJP leader Piyush Goyal tweeted, “Maharashtra is suffering from an inept and corrupt government and the Centre is doing its best for the people. People of Maharashtra are following ‘Majha Kutumb, Majhi Javabadari’ dutifully. It is time the CM also follows his duties in the spirit of ‘Majha Rajya, Majhi Javabadari’.”  Maharashtra is suffering from an inept & corrupt government & the Centre is doing its best for the people. People of Maharashtra are following ‘Majha Kutumb, Majhi Javabadari’ dutifully. It is time the CM also follows his duties in the spirit of ‘Majha Rajya, Majhi Javabadari’ “Just yesterday, PM in his review said that Centre and states should work with synergy in this crisis. With this background, I was shocked and saddened to see petty politics being played by Uddhav Thackeray. He needs to stop his daily dose of shameless politics and take responsibility,” Goyal added. Defending the BJP-led central government, Leader of the Opposition in Council Pravin Darekar said, "You are not able to handle the situation and adopt diversionary tactics.” Union Minister of State for Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya said that Malik was stating half-truth and lies. “He is unaware of the ground situation. The Centre has been in active contact with officers of Maharashtra  and is assisting with supply of Remdesivir in every manner. As per the Government’s record, there is only one unit of EoU and one in SEZ. We have reached out to all the Manufacturers of Remdesivir. No such consignment is stuck," he said and urged the state to share the list of the 16 companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dialled-pm-modi-to-discuss-oxygen-shortage-issue-but-he-was-busy-with-bengal-polls-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-975512.html
17-04-2021||West||Maharashtra touches new daily high of 67,123 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra has touched a new high of 67,123 Covid-19 cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra reported 67,123 cases and 419 deaths – taking the progressive total to 37,70,707 and 59,970, respectively. The fresh cases in Mumbai were 8,811 while for the larger Mumbai metropolitan region it was 17,975. A total of 56,783 patients were discharged taking the total cured patients to 30,61,174. More than 36 lakh persons are in quarantine in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-touches-new-daily-high-of-67123-covid-19-cases-975532.html
17-04-2021||West||Amid stand-off, Harsh Vardhan speaks to Uddhav Thackeray||Amid a Centre vs Maharashtra stand-off, Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan dialled Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to reassure all help from the Centre but asked him to focus on the 5 pillars of combating Covid-19. Dr Harsha Vardhan said that he discussed further stringent actions to be taken for containment, surveillance and treatment of Covid-19 cases. “Reiterated the need to focus on the 5 pillars “Test, Track, Treat, Covid Appropriate Behaviour and Vaccination” to tide over the emergent health crisis,” he said. Vardhan said he also assured adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen and all possible support with respect to healthcare infra, medicines and therapeutics. “Additional 1,121 ventilators are also being rushed to them given the surge in cases,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-stand-off-harsh-vardhan-speaks-to-uddhav-thackeray-975541.html
17-04-2021||West||Gujarat markets observe weekend lockdown to break chain of Covid-19 transmission||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, markets and shops in many cities of Gujarat remained shut on Saturday, honouring a call of "voluntary lockdown" given by local authorities and industry associations. Following the appeal made by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry, three major diamond trading markets - Mahidharpura, Mini Bazaar and Choksi Bazaar - and over 65,000 retail and wholesale textile shops in Surat city remained shut during the day. In a statement on Friday, the industry body had urged shopkeepers to keep their establishments shut over the weekend. "The situation is getting worse with every passing day due to coronavirus. While the government is doing its bit, we must also play our role to break the chain of infections. Hence, shopkeepers have decided to shut their establishments for two days," said Mihir Patel, a shop owner of Surat. Honouring similar appeals, main markets in Navsari, Rajula, Himmatnagar, Botad, Barvala, Jamjodhpur, Waghodia, Ankleshwar GIDC, Patan and Radhanpur towns remained shut during the day. Joining the call, majority of shops in Rajkot's famous Soni Bazaar also remained shut during the day. In Ahmedabad, bullion traders and jewellers of Manek Chowk area, one of the most crowded markets in the city, also joined the two-day shutdown. Majority of the shops in Kalupur and Madhavpura area of the old city area also remained shut during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-markets-observe-weekend-lockdown-to-break-chain-of-covid-19-transmission-975563.html
17-04-2021||West||Centre's Remdesivir politics brutal, disgrace to humanity: Maharashtra Congress||The Maharashtra Congress on Saturday accused the Centre of stopping the supply of Remdesivir, a key medicine in the treatment of Covid-19, to the state due to a "lust for power". In a release, the party's state unit spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre had asked firms manufacturing Remdesivir to not supply vials to Maharashtra, threatening them with revocation of licenses if they failed to adhere to the diktat. He claimed the state was not being given medical equipment, oxygen and vaccines by the Narendra Modi government, adding that "against this backdrop, the Central government is arm twisting Remdesivir manufacturing companies so that Maharashtra does not get Remdesivir injections now". "Such brutal politics is a disgrace to humanity" he said, and claimed history would note that "modern Nero", an apparent reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was busy with electioneering in West Bengal "while the country was burning". Sawant said it was unfortunate that the Centre was trying to get the Maharashtra government in trouble while the latter was giving its best to tackle a severe surge in cases. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said the Covid-19 situation in the country would not have been this bleak if the Centre had taken the advice of his party leader Rahul Gandhi. Gandhi's suggestions were rejected due to the "arrogance" of the Centre, Patole claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centres-remdesivir-politics-brutal-disgrace-to-humanity-maharashtra-congress-975568.html
17-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Mumbai Police to colour-code vehicles to manage traffic||As private vehicles are being spotted in Maharashtra despite restrictions announced to curb Covid-19, Mumbai Police will colour-code vehicles that ply on roads of India’s financial capital. Stickers of red, green and yellow colour will be used to classify vehicles, according to the Mumbai Police. “We have decided to limit the flow of vehicles in the city as it is leading to traffic bottlenecks along toll-nakas and check-nakas making it difficult for emergency vehicles to pass,” Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said in a video message. The red colour stickers would be used in vehicles of doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, ambulances, vehicles carrying testing kits, medical equipment and supplies and medicines. The green colour stickers are to be used in vehicles carrying consumable items like groceries, vegetables, fruits, milk and so on. The yellow colour stickers would be used in vehicles carrying people in emergency services, people working in civic bodies, post offices, power units, Press and so on. A six-inch diameter stick will be pasted on the front and rear windscreen of the vehicle. It can be made on your own or collected from police stations free of cost, he said. He also warned of severe action if these stickers are misused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-police-to-colour-code-vehicles-to-manage-traffic-975585.html
17-04-2021||West||Maharashtra government seeks permission to transport oxygen by railway||The Maharashtra government has requested the Centre to allow transportation of oxygen cylinders by railway to cut the cost and time, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. He was speaking to reporters after participating in a video conference with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. "The Maharashtra government has requested the Centre to allow transportation of liquid oxygen by railway, which would reduce the cost of transportation. The Centre should issue necessary instructions to the Railways," Tope said as shortage of oxygen is being reported from many places amid an alarming surge in coronavirus cases. He also said that the Centre has announced that it would provide, across the country, 113 plants that can extract oxygen from the air, and the Maharashtra government is trying to get a maximum number of such plants. The oxygen thus extracted can be used for medicinal purposes after purification, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-seeks-permission-to-transport-oxygen-by-railway-975593.html
17-04-2021||West||Gujarat sees record 9,541 Covid-19 cases; 97 deaths also single-day peak||Gujarat reported a record 9,541 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 3,94,229, and 97 deaths, also a single-day fatality peak, while 3,783 people were discharged post recovery, an official said on Saturday. The state's toll stands at 5,267, and the recovery count is 3,33,564, or 84.61 per cent of the caseload, leaving it with 55,398 active cases, including 304 on ventilator support, he said. "Of the deaths, 26 took place in Surat, followed by 25 in Ahmedabad, 10 in Rajkot, eight in Vadodara, six in Surendranagar, four each in Bhavnagar and Jamnagar, three in Morbi, two each in Banaskantha and Mehsana, and one each in Bharuch, Botad, Dang, Gandhinagar, Mahisagar, Panchmahal and Sabarkantha," he said. "Ahmedabad city registered 3,241 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours, followed by 1,720 in Surat city, 435 in Surat district, 412 in Rajkot city, 369 in Vadodara city, 262 in Mehsana, 235 in Bharuch, 210 in Vadodara district, 194 in Jamnagar city and 178 in Banaskantha," the official added. A state government release said 88.08 lakh people have so far been given the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19, while 13,61 lakh have also got the second dose. In neighbouring Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, 67 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, while 26 people recovered, leaving the Union Territory with 915 active cases. An official said the UT has a caseload of 4,714, including four deaths, and 3,795 have recovered. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,94,229, new cases 9,541, deaths 5,267, discharged 3,33,564 active cases 49,737 and people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-sees-record-9541-covid-19-cases-97-deaths-also-single-day-peak-975618.html
