19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four dry waste collection centres to come up in MCC limits||To reduce the pressure on the dry waste unit at Pacchanady, the dumping yard of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC), the local body is setting up four dry waste collection centres in its jurisdiction. The work on two centres is nearing completion, MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar told DH. A sum of Rs 70 lakh will be utilised for the purpose. The centres will have machinery to segregate dry waste, along with baling machine. The centres will come up at Surathkal, Mullakad in Kavoor, near Urwa Market and Jeppu Bajal. The dry waste collected from 15 wards each will be sent to these centres. About 90 per cent of the work on the centres at Surathkal and Kavoor has been completed, the Commissioner said. Antony Waste Handling Cell Private Limited, the private firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection and transportation in Mangaluru, collects dry waste on Fridays in the city. At present, the dry waste is processed at Pacchanady, the dumping yard site. In order to reduce the pressure on Pacchanady, four more collection centres will be set up, Sridhar added. According to sources, the dry waste will be compressed at the collection centres and will be sent for processing. The centres will have plinth area of 200 square meters. Nearly 250 to 300 tonnes of dry waste is collected per week in Pacchanady. In fact, public have been demanding to increase the frequency of dry waste collection for at least two days in a week. Further, with the handling of solid waste emerging as a challenge, both in urban and rural areas, more than 8,000 houses, including apartments and other individual houses, are now converting wet waste into compost daily in Mangaluru city. Apartments There are over 1,500 apartments in the MCC limits. If each household is to turn one kg of wet waste into compost, then total garbage being dumped in Pachhanady would dip by nearly 30 to 40 tonnes, officials said. Pot composting is one of the cheapest and affordable methods for every one, according to Ramakrishna Mission that has been promoting conversion of wet waste into manure in the households.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-dry-waste-collection-centres-to-come-up-in-mcc-limits-976098.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kukke Subrahmanya Temple earns Rs 68.94 crore in six months||Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada district has earned an annual income of Rs 68.94 crore during 2020-21. Compared to previous year, the income has reduced by Rs 29.97 crore. The temple had remained closed from March 17, 2020 to September 8, 2020 following Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the temple did not earn any income for six months. The amount of Rs 68.94 crore was earned from September 15 to March 31, 2021, said Temple Management Committee president Mohanram Sulli. A big chunk of the temple’s revenue comes from various ‘sevas’. In addition, the income is generated from offering box, SB account, rent from ‘chatra’, buildings and agriculture produce. The temple in 2019-20 had earned an income of Rs 98.92 crore. Though the temple was opened for devotees from September 8, a few of the sevas commenced from September 14. However, there was even restrictions on number of sevas to be conducted each day. Stating that there is a rise in number of devotees visiting the temple daily, Sulli said that a master plan of Rs 180 crore had been prepared to carry out development works in the temple. In the interest of the devotees, the work on lodges, toilets, comprehensive drinking water supply, UGD facilities and road widening works have been taken up, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kukke-subrahmanya-temple-earns-rs-6894-crore-in-six-months-976104.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||34 pregnant women cops to work from home in Mangaluru||Thirty-four pregnant and lactating women police personnel, following a request, have been given the option to work from their homes in Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that the decision was taken following surge in Covid-19 cases. All pregnant women, in later stages of their pregnancies, and those who are lactating their children are exempted from coming to office or station and are permitted to work from home till the end of the month. Further decision in this regard will be taken depending on the situation. DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that all the 34 women had been asked to work from their homes. Their presence in the headquarters will be confirmed on daily basis. None are supposed to leave the headquarters. In case of emergency, they will be called back to work, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/34-pregnant-women-cops-to-work-from-home-in-mangaluru-976122.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 14.55 lakh seized at Mangaluru airport||Mangalore Air Customs seized 300 grams gold worth Rs 14.55 lakh from a passenger at Mangalore International Airport (MIA). The officials apprehended Arish, hailing from Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada, who was smuggling gold by concealing in toys, trimmer, water dispenser, and juicer. He had arrived in the airport in Spicejet flight SG 146 from Dubai. The gold has been seized. Further investigation and proceedings in accordance with the law is under progress. It may be recalled that the officials had seized 504 grams gold worth Rs 24.44 lakh on Sunday from a passenger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-1455-lakh-seized-at-mangaluru-airport-976187.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Private hospitals fleecing Covid patients’||MLA H D Revanna alleged that the private hospitals in the city have been exploiting the public under the pretext of providing treatment to Covid patients. The hospitals should immediately display the rate card for the treatments offered, he demanded. Addressing media persons here, on Monday, Revanna said that a private hospital in the city has been overcharging to treat the Covid patients, and is not abiding by the rate fixed by the government. "We have received several complaints in this regard. The deputy commissioner should immediately convene a meeting of the hospital chiefs and instruct them to allocate 70% of the beds to the Covid-affected. They should also be instructed to compulsorily display the rate card for the treatment available at the hospitals," he said. "The number of positive patients are increasing every day. Seventeen people have died in the last three days. The DC, superintendent of police, Health and Family Welfare officers should take all measures to prevent the private hospitals from fleecing the public. The doctors should not deny treatment to the infected," Revanna insisted. The public too should be cautious for the next three months and follow all safety measures like wearing masks, using sanitisers and following social distance, he appealed. Revanna said, "The outsourced employees serving the Health and Social Welfare departments are not being disbursed salaries properly. Many have not been paid for the last six to ten months causing a lot of inconvenience to them. A discussion has been held with the Deputy Commissioner R Girish to remit the salary directly to the bank accounts of the employees." Borewells have been dug for the benefit of Scheduled Caste and Tribes under government schemes, but motors are not installed. The delay is because of floating a state-level tender. The issue should be considered seriously and the DC should take steps to resolve the issue, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-hospitals-fleecing-covid-patients-976261.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC strike: Driver injured as miscreants stone bus||Miscreants pelted stones on a KSRTC bus that was bound for Dharmasthala from Bengaluru on Sunday night. While the glass panes of the bus was damaged, the bus driver suffered injuries on his chest. The incident occurred near the Agriculture College on B M Road in Channarayapatna. The driver was immediately shifted to the hospital and provided treatment. Channarayapatna police have registered a case in this regard. Around 237 buses resumed its service amid the strike by the KSRTC employees, in Hassan district, on Monday. Stone pelting incidents are being reported from the Day One of the strike by KSRTC employees. The police have inquired five employees in connection with the stone pelting incident, so far. The bus service from Hassan to Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Mysuru and rural areas returned to normalcy. The number of private vehicles have come down. More than 480 personnel have reported to duty, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-strike-driver-injured-as-miscreants-stone-bus-976263.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Choultry owners face heat of Covid-19 second wave||With a surge in the second wave of Covid-19, choultry owners in Mysuru district, who had suffered huge loss last year, are under fear of a financial crisis again. As the cases of Covid are increasing rapidly, a majority of marriage parties are cancelling wedding ceremonies, scheduled at choultries, and are performing in a simple manner at houses and temples. Nearly, 15 mini choultries have closed permanently, due to lockdown last year. Satyanarayan, president, Mysuru Kalyana Mantapa Owners’ Association, said, “The district has over 85 choultries and 60 of them are within city limits. The owners suffered a loss as the entire industry came to standstill, last year, between March and June. However, business was returning to normal. Again, business is hit.” He said that the government is imposing restrictions unscientifically. “As on Monday, only 50 persons are allowed to attend a wedding in choultry. It is impossible to perform marriage within this limit. Why will people come to a choultry, if it is limited for 50 persons?” he asked. Satyanarayan said, “At least 40% occupancy must be allowed at choultries. The people are aware about the spread of the infection. Not many people attend functions now. We are ready to follow all norms, otherwise.” He said, “March, April, May is the wedding season. Due to lockdown, business was adversely affected last year. This May, each choultry had eight to 10 marriage bookings. But, due to the outbreak of the second wave, all events are likely to be cancelled. It is difficult for the owners to manage the halls.” Satyanarayan said, “Marriage parties are demanding their advance back. But, choultry owners have invested the amount or have used it for other purpose. Now, it is impossible to repay the advance amount. Besides, it is difficult for the people to perform marriages at the choultries under prevailing conditions.” Satyanarayan said, “Choultry owners are under anxiety as they have to pay property tax of up to Rs 6 lakh every year to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and electricity bill to Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Limited (CESC) even though there will be no business. “The owners have also invested crores of rupees on buildings and have to pay salaries of employees,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/choultry-owners-face-heat-of-covid-19-second-wave-976264.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mandya DC interacts with Covid patients virtually||Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi interacted with Covid patients via Zoom video application and inquired about the facilities available at Covid Care Centres. She made a video call to a Covid Care Centre, during a meeting at her office in Mandya, and inquired about the availability of food, drinking water, hot water and other facilities. She told them to contact the authorities concerned if they face any problem. She gathered information from taluk health officers about Covid Care Centres at Malavalli, KR Pet, Srirangapatna, Maddur, Nagamangala and Pandavapura. She directed them to provide good food and other facilities to the patients so that there are no complaints. Additional DC Shylaja, Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences Director Dr M R Harish and District Surveillance Officer Dr Sanjay were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-dc-interacts-with-covid-patients-virtually-976268.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ram Mandira opens at Siddaramaiah's native village||The Kodandarama temple, constructed at Siddaramanahundi, the native village of the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, was opened for the devotees, on Monday. As Covid cases are on a rise in Mysuru district, the temple opening ceremony was held in a simple manner, shunning elaborate dais programme. The event was limited to necessary religious rituals and pujas. Siddaramaiah, also former chief minister, did not attend the programme, but his wife Parvathi was present. The kalasa on the temple tower (gopura) and the presiding deities in the sanctum sanctorum were installed. Ganapati and Mahachandika homas were held. Idols of Dashavatara of Lord Vishnu in ornate enclosures around the sanctum sanctorum is an attraction. The idols have been sculpted by artists from Tamil Nadu. The temple has come up on the same site, where the older Ram Mandira existed. The construction started a year ago, but were expedited to open it before Sri Ramanavami festival, celebrated on April 21 (Wednesday). The 100-year-old temple was razed by the villagers in the Vokkaliga locality. According to a section of the villagers, Siddaramaiah abstained to check over-crowding as a precautionary measure in the wake of the prevailing Covid-19 crisis. The temple had attracted attention, when Siddaramaiah criticised the collection of funds for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He had said that he would donate money to a Ram Mandira at his native village. According to some villagers, Siddaramaiah assured of donating for the temple. His wife Parvathi is said to have borne the expenses of a couple of temple works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ram-mandira-opens-at-siddaramaiahs-native-village-976270.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Catholic priest of the Diocese of Mysore no more||John Francis Texiera (72), a Catholic priest of the Diocese of Mysore, died at a private hospital in Mysuru on Sunday. John was admitted to a hospital on April 7, with a clot in one of the arteries of his brain. He underwent craniotomy surgery on April 9 and was in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 16 and developed acute pneumonia. He suffered two cardiac arrests and died on April 18. John Texiera was born at Virajpet, Kodagu district, on June 4, 1949, to Paul Texiera and Hilda Vaz couple. He is survived by younger brothers James Vincent Texiera, a retired PWD engineer, and Jerry Texiera, who served in the Army. John did his primary education in Virajpet, and moved to St Marys Minor Seminary in Mysuru, St Philomena’s High School, St Philomena’s College and later, studied Philosophy and Theology at St Peter’s Pontifical Seminary, Bengaluru. He was ordained as priest on June 24, 1975, in Siddapura, Kodagu district, by Mathias Fernandes, then Bishop of Mysore. He served as assistant priest at St Joseph‘s Cathedral, Mysuru; priest of Sacred Heart Church, Yadavgiri, Mysuru; Pandavapura; Kamagere; Siddapura; Shantipura; and Nanjangud. Since last June, he was priest of Sacred Heart Church, Naganahalli. He did a master’s degree in Catechetics at Vishwadeep, Bengaluru. He served as director of Catholic Centre in Mysuru and also dean of Hunsur Deanery. The burial was held at Belawadi Cemetery on Monday, following Covid norms. Bishop K A William and Bishop Emeritus Thomas A Vazhapilly blessed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/catholic-priest-of-the-diocese-of-mysore-no-more-976271.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Individual irrigation benefits for non-SC/ST farmers unlikely soon||Faced with financial constraints, the government is exploring ways to provide irrigation benefits tailor-made to the needs of individual farmers belonging to all caste groups, but it looks unlikely for now. This facility is currently available only for SC/ST agriculturists. Individual benefits include lift irrigation, open wells and pipelines for farmlands. A farmer can apply with the minor irrigation department for any irrigation benefit for his or her land.  At present, funds from the Scheduled Castes Sub Plan and Tribal Sub Plan (SCP-TSP) are used to provide individual irrigation benefits to SC/ST farmers. The minor irrigation department has received 245 proposals from SC/ST farmers, mostly from north Karnataka, seeking individual irrigation facilities. This will cost the government nearly Rs 100 crore.  According to sources, there is pressure on the government to extend this to farmers of all communities.  Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy told DH that some individual irrigation projects were taken up as an experiment to see if it was feasible to extend the benefit to non-SC/ST farmers. However, it did not make sense financially.  “We’re going slow because of financial constraints,” Madhuswamy said. “We took up some projects in north Karnataka, but because of the finances involved, we aren’t scaling up.”  The experimental projects that were taken up need a separate policy to assess their efficiency and management, Madhuswamy added.  In fact, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, in his 2021-22 Budget, has promised a policy “with suitable guidelines” for “the systematic operation and management of all lift irrigation projects”. The government is under a similar pressure to give non-SC/ST farmers a hike in the cash benefit for constructing cattle sheds under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). To build a cattle shed, SC/ST farmers get Rs 43,500 and those from other communities get Rs 19,625. Sources said this caused ‘heartburn’ among non-SC/ST farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/individual-irrigation-benefits-for-non-sc/st-farmers-unlikely-soon-976276.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman in Karnataka dies in lightning strike||A 45-year old woman died after she was struck by lightning while working in a farm field at Anavatti in the taluk. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Shamsad Banu, resident of Azad street, Anavatti, Sorab taluk. She collapsed in the farm field after she was struck by lightning. She was taken to the hospital immediately but the doctor declared that she was brought dead. Anavatti police has registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-in-karnataka-dies-in-lightning-strike-976319.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Stop development works, divert money for Covid-19, says D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Monday demanded that the state government set aside Rs 30,000 crore for the health sector in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave by putting on hold all development works.  “There are enough medical colleges, doctors and health staff. These resources should be used efficiently. Every person should get free healthcare and testing should go up. To this end, Rs 30,000 crore should be earmarked,” Shivakumar said in a statement.  With the Covid-19 situation getting serious every day, patients are not finding beds, oxygen, vaccines and medicines. “The government should immediately stop development works and divert that money for Covid-19 containment,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/stop-development-works-divert-money-for-covid-19-says-d-k-shivakumar-976285.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt likely to postpone Zilla, Taluk panchayat elections||In the wake of an increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the state government is likely to postpone the Zilla Panchayat and Taluk Panchayat elections.  Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said many people had suggested to postpone the elections in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. The polls were expected to be held in May 2021. “A final decision will be arrived at after discussing the issue in the Cabinet meeting. The department will request the State Election Commission to reschedule the elections”, he said.  Last year, even as the term of thousands of gram panchayats came to an end in the peak of Covid, the state government decided to postpone the polls and appoint administrative officers to these panchayats. The elections were held only later toward the end of the year. A similar arrangement is likely to be made with zilla and taluk panchayats, the minister said. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party has written to the State Election Commission seeking postponement of elections to urban local bodies. The elections for 10 local bodies were scheduled for April 27. “Since they will involve large door-to-door campaigning, the SEC should postpone the polls until the situation improves,” AAP Karnataka convener Prithvi Reddy stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-likely-to-postpone-zilla-taluk-panchayat-elections-976286.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka government caught unawares of coronavirus second wave: Opposition||Congress legislators on Monday slammed the BJP-led state government for allegedly being caught unawares of the Covid-19 second wave. The meeting, convened by the government to discuss the pandemic in Bengaluru, served as a platform for the Congress leaders to attack the government on the way it has handled the second wave. “Why didn’t the government take precautions two-three months ago? No answer. How do we help people who aren’t finding beds, ventilators and medicines? No answer. There was no solution,” former minister Krishna Byre Gowda said, accusing the government of calling the meeting “to hide their failures”. The government should shoulder its responsibilities and offer solutions in times of crisis, Gowda said. “But, the meeting was just for show and there were no people specific solutions.” KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy said every household should be given Rs 25,000 if a lockdown was imposed. Congress MLC CM Ibrahim favoured prohibitory orders instead of a lockdown. Chamarajpet MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan said the government should set aside 25 hospital beds for legislators who can allot them to the needy. Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh, the lone Congress MP from Karnataka, said the government was drowning. “And they want to take us down with them.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-government-caught-unawares-of-coronavirus-second-wave-opposition-976287.html
19-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bus strike: Kodihalli, 16 others booked under ESMA||Police have booked Kodihalli Chandrashekhar and 16 others for instigating workers of state road transport corporations to go on strike which has caused losses to the tune of hundreds of crores. Police said based on a complaint by BMTC vigilance wing’s K M Munikrishna, 17 persons have been booked under Karnataka Essential Services Maintenance Act and Disaster Management Act for illegal gathering, threatening, damaging public property, instigating criminal act and obstruction of duty. Wilson Garaden Police have registered a case.  “Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, the farmer leader who is heading the Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, president of the League R Chandrashekhar, former RTC employee Anand, conductor Champakavathi and employees of Bengaluru central division have been named accused,” police added. The complaint by Munikrishna stated that the accused had formed an illegal association and instigated employees to go on an illegal strike which has damaged six vehicles of BMTC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bus-strike-kodihalli-16-others-booked-under-esma-976316.html
19-04-2021||Mysuru||Three held in Mysuru for selling fake Remdesivir injections||The City Crime Branch (CCB) police have busted a gang selling fake Remdesivir injections and seized 34 bottles of the medicine worth Rs 2.82. Three persons including a woman have been arrested in this regard. All the three accused are employees at various private hospitals. The arrested have been identified as Girish, Shivappa, 37 and Mangala. Two others - Manjunath and Prashant - are absconding. The police suspect that the gang would have sold more than 800 bottles of the fake medicine across the state. The city police had formed a team after receiving complaints about sale of fake Remdesivir injections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-held-in-mysuru-for-selling-fake-remdesivir-injections-976279.html
19-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Health Ministry ask other departments to open up their hospitals||With hospital beds in short supply in almost every state, the Union Health Ministry has asked 13 other central departments like Defence, Labour, Coal, Steel, Railways, Power, Heavy Industries, Shipping and Atomic Energy to open up their hospitals to general Covid-19 patients by creating separate blocks as was done during the first wave. In a letter to other central ministries and departments, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said hospitals under other central departments should open up exclusive Covid-19 blocks or hospitals both for in-patient and out-patient cases with a separate entry/exit point. Other departments that Bhushan reached out to are Defence Production, Home, AYUSH, Power and Education. All of them have dedicated hospitals catering to their own workforce. Last year when the epidemic was at its peak, such hospitals opened up their doors to general Covid-19 patients. But with the situation improving since last October, they were back to their original mandate. With a huge second wave of the epidemic overwhelming the health infrastructure in most of the states, Bhushan asked the central departments to once again start dedicated Covid-19 services for the general population and communicate to the public and state governments on the availability of beds. In the last 24 hours (data updated at 8 am), India reported more than 2.61 lakh new Covid-cases as the epidemic continues its unstoppable march. For four consecutive days, more than 200,000 new cases have been reported daily. For the first time, the death toll crossed the 1,500-mark on Sunday. The national weekly positivity rate has increased from 3% to 13.54% in the last month. Chhattisgarh reported the highest weekly positivity rate among states at 30.38% while in Delhi, the positivity rate is just under 30%. The daily positivity rate for the country has doubled from 8% to 16.69% in the last 12 days. “The lack of a resilient health delivery system is apparent as the cases loads are surging, India had over a year to be prepared and it is rather unfortunate that we have not used a data-driven decision-making process,” Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, Delhi told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-health-ministry-ask-other-departments-to-open-up-their-hospitals-975993.html
19-04-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Emirati Foreign Minister in Abu Dhabi; Qureshi confirms UAE mediating between India, Pakistan||Islamabad on Sunday for the first time publicly acknowledged the efforts being made by the United Arab Emirates to bring India and Pakistan back on the table of negotiation, although New Delhi refrained from confirming it officially. The visit of External Affair Minister S Jaishankar and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi to the United Arab Emirates around the same time lent credence to speculation over the behind-the-scenes role Abu Dhabi has been playing to bring the two South Asian nations back on the negotiation table. Jaishankar reached Abu Dhabi on Sunday – just a day after Qureshi flew from Islamabad to Dubai to embark on a three-day visit to the UAE. “(The) UAE has sizable number of Pakistanis and the presence of Indians is even higher,” Qureshi told the Gulf News in an interview on Sunday. “Obviously, looking at the interest of peace and stability in the region, it only makes sense that the UAE feels that two players (Indian and Pakistan) in this region, who are estranged, should sit together and talk out their differences.” New Delhi so far refrained from making any official statement to confirm or deny the reports about the UAE’s behind-the-scenes efforts to make India and Pakistan restart bilateral dialogue, which remained suspended since 2013. Qureshi told Gulf News that Pakistan had always welcomed third party mediation to help settle its disputes with India – be it by the UAE or any other nation. He, however, denied reports about his possible meeting with Jaishankar, reported the newspaper, which is published from Dubai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in 2019 and 2020 repeatedly turned down offers made by the then United States President Donald Trump to mediate between India and Pakistan. New Delhi has since long maintained that the 1972 Simla Agreement between India and Pakistan and the 1999 Lahore Declaration by the two sides had left no scope for the United Nations or any third party to play any role in resolving the “outstanding issues” between the two South Asian neighbours. Jaishankar met the Foreign Minister of the UAE, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. “Another productive interaction with FM @ABZayed on our bilateral cooperation. Took forward our ongoing discussions on this subject, starting in February. The strong focus on post-Covid economic recovery will remain a priority for us,” the External Affairs Minister tweeted after his meeting with the Emirati Foreign Minister. Jaishankar and Sheikh Abdullah discussed the historic relations between India and the UAE and ways to enhance cooperation, particularly in commercial and health fields. They also discussed the latest developments related to the Covid-19 pandemic, the efforts made by the two countries to contain its repercussions, and the global efforts to provide vaccines to all countries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the UAE Government stated. Abdullah noted during his discussion with Jaishankar that the UAE-India strategic partnership contributes to creating more opportunities for growth in commercial, economic, cultural and other fields. Qureshi is expected to discuss “regional and global issues of mutual interest” during his meeting with Abdullah, tweeted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government. Abu Dhabi’s envoy to the United States, Yousef Al Otaiba, recently stated that the UAE had indeed helped de-escalate tension between India and Pakistan over Kashmir and played a role in making the two neighbours agree to stop firing across the LoC. “Absolutely, they might not sort of become best friends but at least we want to get it to a level where it’s functional, it’s operational, where they are speaking to each other, where there’s lines of communication and that’s our goal,” he said at a virtual discussion organized by the Hoover Institution of Stanford University. The UAE purportedly played a behind-the-scenes role in making the Indian Army and the Pakistan Army on February 25 agree to de-escalate tension and stop exchange of fire across the Line of Control (LoC). A day later, Jaishankar hosted Sheikh Abdullah in New Delhi and they purportedly had a discussion on the possibility of working out a roadmap towards restarting the stalled talks between India and Pakistan. The UAE also purportedly hosted an under-the-radar informal meeting between top security and intelligence officials of India and Pakistan a few weeks back. Qureshi confirmed to the Gulf News on Sunday that the two South Asian neighbours had ‘sittings’ in the UAE. New Delhi had suspended its formal bilateral talks with Islamabad in January 2013 after Pakistan Army personnel had brutally killed two Indian Army soldiers along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Though the Modi Government had in December 2015 agreed to restart the engagement between the two neighbours as the Comprehensive Bilateral Dialogue, the process was derailed by attacks on the Indian Air Force (IAF) base at Pathankot in Punjab and on the Indian Army’s brigade headquarters at Uri in J&K by the terrorist outfits based in Pakistan. The Indian Army’s “surgical strike” on terrorist camps in Pakistan in September 2016, the terror attack on Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel at Pulwama in J&K and the retaliatory bombing by the Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on the terror camps in the neighbouring country in February 2019 worsened the relations between the two nations. Islamabad also launched a global campaign against New Delhi to protest against the Modi Government’s August 5, 2019 decision to strip J&K of its special status and reorganize it into two Union Territories. But when the armed forces of the two nations agreed to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire agreement a few weeks back, it fuelled speculation about back-channel talks between New Delhi and Islamabad for exploring the possibility of restarting the stalled bilateral dialogue. Imran Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan, on March 17 said that the Narendra Modi Government in New Delhi would have to first make the move to restart the stalled bilateral dialogue between the two nations. The chief of Pakistan Army, Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, on March 18 said that it was time for his country and India to bury the past and move forward. India, however, put the onus back on Pakistan to create a conducive atmosphere for resumption of the bilateral dialogue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-emirati-foreign-minister-in-abu-dhabi-qureshi-confirms-uae-mediating-between-india-pakistan-975994.html
19-04-2021||National||Former Union minister Bachi Singh Rawat dies at 71||Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Bachi Singh Rawat died at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences here on Sunday. He was 71. Rawat was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after he complained of difficulty in breathing. Medical Superintendent of AIIMS, BS Bastia, confirmed his death. Rawat was brought in an air ambulance from Haldwani and was admitted to the emergency ward of the hospital. Preliminary tests had revealed an infection in his lungs. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat expressed grief at his death and prayed for peace to his soul and strength to the bereaved family. Bachi Singh Rawat was a four-time MP from the Almora-Pithoragarh constituency and had defeated former chief minister and Congress leader Harish Rawat thrice in consecutive elections. Considered close to senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi, Rawat was a Union minister of state for science and technology in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-bachi-singh-rawat-dies-at-71-975999.html
19-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Hong Kong suspends flights connecting India from April 20 to May 3||Hong Kong has suspended all flights connecting it with India from Tuesday to May 3 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, aviation industry sources said on Sunday. They said the Hong Kong government has also suspended flights to and from Pakistan as well as the Philippines for the aforementioned time period. The Hong Kong government's decision has come after 50 passengers of two Vistara flights this month were found positive for Covid-19 when tested on arrival. According to rules, all passengers who want to come to Hong Kong need to have a Covid-negative RTPCR result with them from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey. Earlier on Sunday, the Hong Kong government announced the suspension of all Vistara flights on the Mumbai-Hong Kong route till May 2. This decision was taken as three passengers on Vistara's Mumbai-Hong Kong flight on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival. Till Sunday, total 47 passengers who were on Vistara's Delhi-Hong Kong flight of April 4 have tested positive for Covid-19 in Hong Kong. Vistara's flights on the Delhi-Hong Kong route had earlier been banned from April 6 to April 19. Vistara did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on the matter.  A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's case tally to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,77,150 with a record 1,501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hong-kong-suspends-flights-connecting-india-from-april-20-to-may-3-976004.html
19-04-2021||National||DH Toon | On symbolic participation, Kumbh and PM Modi||After many seers contracted Covid-19 in Kumbh Mela and the event threatened to turn into a superspreader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday stepped in and suggested the need to minimise the gathering and keep the event now as "symbolic", an idea which was endorsed by Swami Avdheshanand Giri of Juna Akhara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-on-symbolic-participation-kumbh-and-pm-modi-976009.html
19-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 19||India surpassed 1.5 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,50,61,919 as of April 19, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,78,769 as of April 19, 2021   
<!-- No. of people discharged:  1,28,09,643 Total Vaccination: 12,38,52,566 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-19-976024.html
19-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Remdesivir is to be administered only in hospital setting, say medicos||Amid a mad rush for Remdesivir in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, a group of professional bodies, task forces and leading medical professionals have asserted that the injection has to be used in hospital setting and studies do not indicate mortality reduction with the use of the drug. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi tweeted a statement which said: “Remdesivir is an experimental investigational drug granted Emergency use authorization for use in Covid-19.” “Remdesivir is not a life-saving drug in Covid-19; studies do not demonstrate mortality reduction with this drug. Evidence shows Remdesivir reduces the duration of hospital stay. Remdesivir is to be administered only, and only, in the hospital setting,” according to the statement. It points out that Remdesivir is advised for hospitalized patients who are moderately sick and receiving oxygen. It is to be given for a total period of 5 days only, during the first 9-10 days of the illness. Remdesivir must never be administered in the home setting. Unnecessary/irrational use of Remdesivir is unethical, it adds. Dr Joshi is an endocrinologist, diabetologist and medical researcher and is currently associated with the Lilavati Hospital & Research Centre in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-remdesivir-is-to-be-administered-only-in-hospital-setting-say-medicos-976027.html
19-04-2021||National||India's woes rise with record 2.73 lakh single-day Covid-19 cases, 1,619 deaths||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with around 25 lakh cases being added in just 15 days, while active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The nationwide tally of Covid-19 cases mounted to 1,50,61,919 with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 coronavirus infections. The death toll increased to 1,78,769 with a record 1,619 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.   The country's total Covid-19 infections had surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 after which it took 107 days to cross the 1.25 crore on April 5. However, it only took 15 days for the cases to cross the 1.50-crore mark.   Registering a steady increase for the 40th day in a row, the active cases increased to 19,29,329, comprising 12.81 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 86 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,29,53,821 and the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.19 per cent, the data stated.   India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR,  26,78,94,549 samples have been tested up to April 18 with 13,56,133  samples being tested on Sunday.  The 1,619 new fatalities include 503 from Maharashtra, 170 from Chhattisgarh, 161 from Delhi, 127 from Uttar Pradesh, 110 from Gujarat, 81 from Karnataka, 68 from Punjab, 66 from  Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Jharkhand, 42 each from Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, 29 from Haryana, 28 from West Bengal and 25 from Kerala. A total of 1,78,769 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 60,473 from Maharashtra, 13,351 from Karnataka, 13,113 from Tamil Nadu, 12,121 from Delhi, 10,568 from West Bengal, 9,830 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,902 from Punjab and 7,410 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-woes-rise-with-record-273-lakh-single-day-covid-19-cases-1619-deaths-976038.html
19-04-2021||National||Former Bihar Minister Mewalal Choudhary dies of Covid-19||Janata Dal (United) MLA and former Bihar education minister Mewalal Choudhary passed away on Monday at a hospital in Patna. He had contracted Covid-19 and died of it, news agency ANI reported. Condoling the minister's loss, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said, "his demise is saddening and an irreplaceable loss in the field of education and politics. His last rites will be performed with full state honours."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-bihar-minister-mewalal-choudhary-dies-of-covid-19-976049.html
19-04-2021||National||PM Modi to chair meet on Covid-19 on April 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to chair an important meeting on India's Covid-19 situation at 11:30 am on Monday. This comes amid India's record surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths and an acute shortage of life-saving drug Remdesivir, hosiptal beds and oxygen cylinders. India logged 2.73 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections and over 1,600 deaths on Monday, making it the second worst-hit country by the coronavirus in the world after the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-meet-on-covid-19-on-april-19-976054.html
19-04-2021||National||National security jeopardised by Centre's wasteful talks: Rahul Gandhi on China||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused the government of jeopardising India's national security, and termed its talks with China as "wasteful". "Chinese occupation of Gogra-Hot Springs and Depsang plains is a direct threat to India's strategic interests including the DBO airstrip," he said on Twitter "National security massively jeopardised by GOI's wasteful talks. Our nation deserves better," he said. Chinese occupation of Gogra-Hot Springs & Depsang plains is a direct threat to India’s strategic interests including the DBO airstrip. National security massively jeopardised by GOI’s wasteful talks. Our nation deserves better. His remarks come after reports that China has refused to pull back its troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh. The Congress on Sunday asked the government to explain why disengagement talks with China have "not yielded results" in other friction points in eastern Ladakh. Citing media reports about China's refusal to withdraw its troops, senior Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken asked the government to come clean on the issue. "Why has the disengagement talks as promised by the Defence Minister on remaining friction points not yielded any results for India," he said. There has been no visible forward movement at the latest round of military talks between the two countries early this month. The Indian Army had said in a statement that both sides held a detailed deliberation on disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points of Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh and agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and resolve outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-security-jeopardised-by-centres-wasteful-talks-rahul-gandhi-on-china-976067.html
19-04-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses bilateral ties, economic recovery post-Covid with UAE counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held another round of "productive interaction" with his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan here where the two leaders discussed the entire gamut of bilateral relations, especially the strong focus on economic recovery post Covid-19. Jaishankar arrived in Abu Dhabi on Sunday with a focus on boosting bilateral economic cooperation. His visit to the United Arab Emirates comes amid evolving geo-political developments in the region, particularly in Afghanistan. "Another productive interaction with FM @ABZayed on our bilateral cooperation. Took forward our ongoing discussions on this subject, starting in February. The strong focus on post-COVID economic recovery will remain a priority for us," he said in a tweet late on Sunday along with a picture of them holding a meeting outdoors. According to UAE's official WAM news agency, the two leaders discussed ways to develop and enhance bilateral cooperation in all domains, in a way that will fulfil the aspirations of the leadership of India and the UAE and benefit their peoples. Emphasising on the historic ties between the two nations, Sheikh Abdullah said that the UAE-India strategic partnership contributes to creating more opportunities for growth in commercial, economic, cultural and other fields. They also deliberated the latest Covid-19 developments, the two countries' efforts to contain its repercussions, and the global efforts to provide vaccines to all countries, WAM reported. Sheikh Abdullah also praised the cooperation between the two countries to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic, it said. The UAE foreign minister visited New Delhi on February 26 and held talks with Jaishankar. Jaishankar earlier paid a two-day visit to the UAE from November 25 to 26 last year in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. Interestingly, Jaishankar's visit to Abu Dhabi coincided with the trip of his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, amid efforts by the Gulf emirate to facilitate back channel talks to restart dialogue between New Delhi and Islamabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-bilateral-ties-economic-recovery-post-covid-with-uae-counterpart-976068.html
19-04-2021||National||History shall be kinder if...: Harsh Vardhan's sharp retort to Manmohan Singh||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday told former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that the five-point suggestions made by him to improve the vaccination drive have already been implemented by the government. In a letter to Singh, the health minister accused Congress leaders of spreading falsehoods about Covid-19 vaccines, leading to vaccine hesitancy among the people and thereby, slowing down the vaccination drive. Vardhan was responding to a letter written by Singh on Sunday to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering suggestions to improve the vaccination drive. “A learned man of your stature could do well to surround himself with better advisors. All suggestions given by you have been implemented a week prior to your letter. P.S. : There's value in staying updated,” the health minister said.   The minister said the Centre also already allowed import of vaccines approved by credible foreign authorities on April 11, a week before Singh made the suggestion in the letter. “The same is the case with your suggestion regarding providing funds and other concessions to augment vaccine manufacturing. This decision had also been taken many days before receipt of your letter and multiple vaccine manufacturing entities have been funded by the government to immediately enhance production,” Vardhan said. The minister said a chief minister of a Congress-ruled state created a “dubious world record of sorts by being the only head of government directly inciting people against an indigenously developed vaccine!” “Some Congress leaders even shamed the vaccines in public but took their doses in private, quietly,” he charged. The minister said a word of advice from the former Prime Minister to Congress leaders could have ensured better cooperation from these people. However, Vardhan said Singh’s advice to not get tempted to go by absolute numbers, but to go by percentage of population covered, was not incorrect. “Quite obviously, it cannot be that the discussion on total cases, active cases or mortality is based on absolute numbers, which the Congress party often tries to do, but the vaccination numbers continue to be touted as a percentage of the population covered,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/history-shall-be-kinder-if-harsh-vardhans-sharp-retort-to-manmohan-singh-976070.html
19-04-2021||National||Complete lockdown in Delhi from 10 pm tonight to April 26 morning||A six-day lockdown has been ordered in the national capital beginning Monday night as the city grapples with an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases that has put the health infrastructure under severe strain. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the lockdown from Monday night 10:00 pm to 5:00 am on April 26 and utilise the time to add hospital beds, organise oxygen supplies and medical staff to tackle the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city. Delhi reported 25,462 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, almost one-third of the number of persons tested for the infectious disease. The national capital has 74,941 active cases of Covid-19. “Delhi’s healthcare system is under tremendous strain. It has not collapsed. But no healthcare system can hand innumerable cases on a daily basis,” Kejriwal said. He urged the migrant labourers not to leave the capital and said that the government will take care of their needs. “If we don't impose a lockdown now, we will be staring at a bigger tragedy,” Kejriwal said, adding that businesses would be shut and movement in the national capital would be limited to essential services. He said wedding ceremonies will be allowed during the lockdown and special passes will be issued for the purpose. However, he said the gathering at such functions should be limited to 50 persons. “The lockdown does not out an end to the pandemic but just slows down the speed at which it is spreading. We will use this six-day lock down to improve our healthcare facilities,” he said. As per the order issued by the Delhi government, shopping centres, malls, manufacturing units educational and coaching institutes, cinema and theatres, restaurants and bars, auditoriums and assembly halls, public parks, gardens, sports complexes will be closed. “All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival related and other gathering and congregations shall be prohibited,” the government order read. However, stadia will be permitted to open for organising national and international sports events without spectators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complete-lockdown-in-delhi-from-10-pm-tonight-to-april-26-morning-976073.html
19-04-2021||National||Oxygen shortage: Cabinet Secretary convenes meeting with 11 state secretaries||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has convened a meeting of chief secretaries and senior officials of 10 states and Delhi on Monday to discuss the issue of medical oxygen, officials said. There have been reports of a shortage of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in different parts of the country in the last few days due to a surge in cases. The meeting is scheduled for 3 pm and it will be held virtually. The cabinet secretary has convened a video conference for Monday on the issue of medical oxygen with chief secretaries and senior officials of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Delhi, a government official said The Centre on Friday had directed states to ensure uninterrupted movement of medical oxygen carrying vehicles borders and said that they must not impose any curb on production and supply of the essential public health commodity anywhere. On Sunday, the government banned the supply of oxygen to industrial units, except in nine specified categories. The action came in the wake of reports of a shortage of medical oxygen, which is crucial in the treatment of coronavirus patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-shortage-cabinet-secretary-convenes-meeting-with-11-state-secretaries-976076.html
19-04-2021||National||India struggles with Covid-19 count, bed shortage but political rallies continue||India's daily Covid-19 cases jumped by a record 2,73,810 on Monday as the health system crumbled under the weight of patients, bringing total infections closer to that of the United States, the world's worst-hit country. India's hospitals are struggling with a shortage of hospital beds and oxygen supplies as infections pass the 15 million mark, second only to the United States. The country's deaths from Covid-19 rose by a record 1,619 to reach a total of 1,78,769. Despite soaring infections, politicians continued to hold mass rallies across the country for state elections. Social media was flooded with people complaining about the lack of beds, oxygen cylinders and drugs, and citizen groups circulating helpline numbers and volunteering support. Criticism has mounted over how Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration has handled India's second wave of the pandemic, with religious festivals and election rallies being attended by thousands. Leaders including Home Minister Amit Shah are set to hold further road shows and public meetings on Monday. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi -- who has also addressed election rallies in recent weeks -- said on Sunday he was suspending all his public rallies in West Bengal, which is in the middle of polls. New Delhi on Sunday urged the federal government to provide more hospital beds to tackle the health crisis. Several major market associations in the city, which is among the country's worst-hit, have announced that they will keep their markets closed till April 25. Hong Kong late on Sunday said the Asian financial hub will suspend flights from India, Pakistan and the Philippines from April 20 for two weeks due to imported infections. As of Monday, India had administered nearly 123.9 million vaccine doses, which is the most in the world after the United States and China, though it ranks much lower in per capita vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-struggles-with-covid-19-count-bed-shortage-but-political-rallies-continue-976090.html
19-04-2021||National||Symptoms in this Covid wave less severe, breathlessness experiences much higher: ICMR DG||Oxygen requirement among Covid-19 patients in hospitals has increased, while the use of mechanical ventilators has been much less during the second wave of the pandemic, the government said on Monday citing a study on hospitalisation due to the infectious disease. There was no difference in deaths in hospital settings during the first and the second wave of the infectious disease, Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava said, quoting findings of the National Clinical Registry for Covid-19. Bhargava said the findings make it clear that oxygen supply needed to be ramped up.  The findings were based on an analysis of 7,600 patients hospitalised during the first wave from September-November 2020 and interim analysis of 1,885 patients in the second wave in March-April 2021. “More than 70% of Covid-19 patients were over 40 years of age in both the waves and the older population continues to be more vulnerable to the infection, Bhargava said. We have also found a double mutant in India but the higher transmissibility of this is not established: ICMR DG Dr. Balram Bhargava According to the study, there has been a slight increase in hospitalisation in the 0-19 age group. Last year, 4.2 % of the patients in hospitals were from the 0-19 age category, while this year 5.8% patients assessed fall in the category. “About 54.5% patients require oxygen in the second wave against 41.5% in the first wave,” he said, adding that 37.3% of patients during the first wave required mechanical ventilation, while the number during the second wave was 27.8%. Prevalence of shortness of breath is slightly higher in the second wave of but sore throat and dry cough and other symptoms were higher in the first wave. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said in the first wave 31% of patients were aged less than 30 years, this time it is up to 32%. Bhargava said after examining the findings, it can be concluded that patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms can be treated at home and do not require hospitalisation. Moderately ill patients, if managed as per the guidelines, can be discharged earlier, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/symptoms-in-this-covid-wave-less-severe-breathlessness-experiences-much-higher-icmr-dg-976109.html
19-04-2021||National||Telangana reports 4,009 fresh Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||Telangana reported 4,009 fresh Covid-19 cases pushing the tally to over 3.55 lakh, while the toll rose to 1,838 with 14 more fatalities, the state government said on Monday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 705, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (363) and Nizamabad (360), it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on April 18. The total number of cumulative cases stood at 3,55,433 while with 1,878 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,14,441. The state has 39,154 active cases and over 83 lakh samples were tested on Sunday. Cumulatively, over 1.18 crore samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was over 3.17 lakh, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.51 per cent, while it was 1.2 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 88.46 per cent, while it was 86 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-reports-4009-fresh-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-976110.html
19-04-2021||National||Covid clinical symptoms, CT scans/X-rays should be used to rule out false negatives: Experts||Amid a staggering surge in Covid-19 cases, India's top experts on Monday said RT-PCR tests detect coronavirus in around 80 per cent of the cases, so clinical features and CT scans/chest X-rays should be used to rule out false negatives in symptomatic patients followed by a repeat test after 24 hours. Amid SARS COV-2 'variants of concern' circulating, they said RT-PCR tests do not miss mutations as the ones being used in India target more than two genes.  According to government data till April 15, a total of 1,189 samples have tested positive for 'variants of concern' of SARS COV-2 in India which include 1,109 samples with the UK variant, 79 samples with South African variant and one sample with the Brazil variant. Based on ICMR data, the current variants are also being picked up by the RT-PCR tests. The RT-PCR test has sensitivity of around 80 per cent and therefore 20 per cent of the cases can still be missed out. "Also, if the sample is not properly taken or if the test is done too early when the viral load is low, it may come out negative. So, if a person is symptomatic, a combination of clinical features, laboratory reports, CT/chest X-ray can be used for presumptive diagnosis of Covid-19 and treatment should be started accordingly. The test should also be repeated after 24 hours," AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria told PTI. Dr Samiran Panda, the Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said the mutants -- variants from the UK, Brazil and South Africa -- are not able to evade the diagnostic RT-PCR testing that is being conducted in India. "In India, we have to be able to detect two or more genes of virus so if mutation happens on one area then the RT-PCR test kits will be able to capture it and it is capturing. However, some of the infections will remain undetected irrespective of the mutations happening," Panda said. Moreover, all the mutants have been identified from these tests only, he said. Clinical symptoms and CT scan reports should be the guiding factor for treatment rather than relying only on the RT-PCR test which has a sensitivity of around 80 per cent, another senior doctor said. Even the rapid antigen test has a sensitivity of only 40 per cent, he said, adding, "So many patients will be missed if we rely only upon these tests."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-clinical-symptoms-ct-scans/x-rays-should-be-used-to-rule-out-false-negatives-experts-976111.html
19-04-2021||National||Delhi govt to monitor procurement, supply of oxygen, remdesivir amid spiralling Covid-19 cases||The Delhi government on Monday deployed two teams of officers to directly monitor procurement and supply of medical oxygen and anti-viral drug remdesivir amid a shortage of both following an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases here. The national capital on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive. On Monday, the Chief Minister's office tweeted, "The Delhi government will now directly oversee the entire procurement and distribution process of both remdesivir injections and medical oxygen to ensure adequate treatment for corona patients in Delhi." According to an order issued by the health department, a team of nine officers will be deputed at oxygen filling plants and to oversee operations of medical oxygen suppliers. "The officers will oversee the entire procurement process of medical oxygen by the filler agency and ensure that the quantity of oxygen procured is properly entered in the dedicated register," it said. "The team will oversee the distribution of medical oxygen to various hospitals and nursing homes in Delhi. Each officer shall submit a report on a daily basis to the Officer on Special Duty," the order stated. Through a separate order, the Delhi government also deputed 28 drug inspectors to monitor the movement of remdesivir injections in the national capital on a daily basis. "The drug inspectors shall oversee the whole procurement process of remdesivir injection starting from placement of an order and its receipt by distributor or dealer from a company. The team will ensure that all supplies received by distributors and dealers are entered in their relevant records and all inventories are properly accounted," it stated. "The team will be responsible for overseeing and ensuring relevant records of sale and distribution of remdesivir formulations are properly maintained and retained as prescribed under relevant provisions of Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, and rules thereunder," it added. While a daily report will be sought from the drug inspectors on the sale and distribution of remdesivir injection, the government has said the team will be liable for the implementation of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-to-monitor-procurement-supply-of-oxygen-remdesivir-amid-spiralling-covid-19-cases-976121.html
19-04-2021||National||Centre to provide fresh insurance cover to 'Covid-19 warriors'||The Union Health Ministry on Monday announced that all claims of "Covid warriors" under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package will be settled till April 24 after which a fresh insurance policy for them will become effective. In a tweet, the ministry said that a new dispensation will be provided to cover the "corona warriors". For this, the ministry is in talks with the New India Assurance, it said. "Two hundred and eight seven claims have been paid by the insurance company so far. The scheme has played a crucial psychological role in boosting the morale of the health workers fighting Covid-19," the ministry said in a statement. "The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) insurance policy claims of Covid warriors will continue to be settled till 24th April, 2021, thereafter a fresh insurance policy for Covid warriors will become effective," it said. The PMGKP was announced in March last year, and was extended thrice till April 24, the ministry said. It was launched to provide a safety net to the health workers to ensure that in case of any adversity due to Covid-19, their families are taken care of. Insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh is provided under the PMKGP scheme. This has provided a safety net to the dependents of the coronavirus warriors who lost their lives to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-provide-fresh-insurance-cover-to-covid-19-warriors-976127.html
19-04-2021||National||PM Modi assures Madhya Pradesh of oxygen, Remdesivir supply||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday assured full support of the Centre to the Madhya Pradesh government in meeting the requirements ofoxygen, Remdesivir and other resources to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the Chief Minister's Office said. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had a telephonic conversation with Modi in the morning in connection with measures to check the spread of the viral infection, an official in the CMO said. The prime minister assured Chouhan of all help regarding oxygen and Remdesivir supply and other health services to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, he said. Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra governments had earlier approached the Railway Ministry to explore whether liquid medical oxygen tankers could be moved by the rail network. On Sunday, the Railways said it will run 'Oxygen Express' trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country. Chouhan later thanked Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for accepting his government's request. Madhya Pradesh recorded 12,248 fresh cases of coronavirus on Sunday, its highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the infection last year, raising the tally to 4,08,080. The virus also claimed the lives of 66 more people in the state, pushing the fatality count to 4,557. This month, the state has so far recorded 1,12,569 new cases of Covid-19 and 571 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-assures-madhya-pradesh-of-oxygen-remdesivir-supply-976129.html
19-04-2021||National||Mulayam Singh didn’t cast vote in UP panchayat polls||Samajwadi Party patriarch and founder Mulayam Singh Yadav did not cast his vote in panchayat elections in his native Saifai village on Monday following a request from family members in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to family sources, the 81-year-old so far has never missed voting in any election. "We requested Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) not to come to Saifai to cast his vote this time for the panchayat elections in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, and luckily, he agreed to our request. Currently, Netaji is in Delhi," Dharmendra Yadav, nephew of Mulayam Singh Yadav, told PTI. Voting for the second phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls is underway on Monday with more than 3.48 lakh candidates in the fray for over 2.23 lakh posts in 20 districts. Polling will be held till 6 pm and over 3.23 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mulayam-singh-didn-t-cast-vote-in-up-panchayat-polls-976130.html
19-04-2021||National||Centre to grant Rs 3,000 crore to SII to boost its capacity amid Covid-19 vaccine shortage||India is set to accept the Serum Institute of India's (SII) request for a Rs 3,000 crore ($400 million) grant to boost its capacity to make the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, a government source with knowledge of the matter told Reuters. SII, the world's biggest vaccine maker, sought the funds to increase its monthly capacity to more than 100 million doses by the end of May, from up to 70 million currently. The country has administered more than 112 million doses of the shot so far, the highest in the world, despite concerns about some people overseas developing blood clots after receiving the vaccine. The Indian government is in fact struggling to meet demand for the drug from many states as infections spread rapidly. "We are clear that we will give whatever support is necessary to develop and boost the availability of vaccines in the country," the source said on Sunday, declining to be identified as he was not authorised to speak publicly on the matter. A finance ministry spokesman declined to comment. SII, which will soon also start making the Novavax Covid-19 vaccine, did not respond to a request for comment. India has so far injected 123 million vaccine doses, including nearly 11 million of a domestically developed shot known as Covaxin. The government is also trying to boost output of Covaxin and has also changed rules to fast-track imports of vaccines developed by Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-grant-rs-3000-crore-to-sii-to-boost-its-capacity-amid-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-976133.html
19-04-2021||National||Delhi lockdown: Complete closure not a solution, says RAI||With the Delhi government announcing a six-day lockdown, Retailers Association of India (RAI) on Monday said a complete closure is not a solution, while calling for a balance between lives and livelihood. The retailers' body asked the state government to allow all sizes and formats of non-food retail to take orders over phone and other electronic means for home deliveries. Further, store premises can be allowed to be opened to the limited extent of fulfilling only home delivery orders, it said. "We appreciate Delhi government's efforts to curb the surge of the pandemic in the Capital city. However, we believe that complete closure is not a solution. There has to be a balance between lives and livelihood to ensure that while lives are saved livelihoods are not lost," RAI CEO Kumar Rajagopalan said in a statement. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a lockdown from 10 pm on Monday night till 5 am next Monday, in view of an exponential rise in coronavirus cases and the city's health system being stretched to its limits. Rajagopalan asked the state government to permit all sizes and formats of non-food retail to take orders over phone and other electronic means for home deliveries. The store premises can be allowed to be opened to the limited extent of fulfilling home delivery orders while being closed for walk-in customers. "This ensures social distancing and convenience to customers. In addition to daily essentials, citizens also need non-food items such as clothing, hardware, electrical, household kitchen items among others on a daily basis and should be able to have access to these needs without hardships," he said. Announcing the lockdown in the Capital, Kejriwal said it was needed to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen. In the last few days, the daily cases of COVID-19 have been around 25,500 and the health system in Delhi is under tremendous pressure, he said while addressing an online press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-lockdown-complete-closure-not-a-solution-says-rai-976137.html
19-04-2021||National||Ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines, medical oxygen: Mayawati to Centre||BSP Chief Mayawati on Monday urged the Centre to ensure adequate supply of coronavirus vaccines and medical oxygen and if needed import these from other countries to combat the crisis created by the pandemic in the country. She also urged the people to follow the Covid-19 protocol to slow the spread of the disease. "There is a tremendous shortage of coronavirus vaccines and oxygen in various hospitals in different states of the country. Seeing this, the Centre is requested to ensure their supply on a priority basis. If needed, these should be imported," the Bahujan Samaj Party supremo said in a tweet in Hindi. 1. देश के विभिन्न राज्यों में कोरोना वैक्सीन व अस्पतालों में इलाज हेतु आक्सीजन की जबर्दस्त कमी को देखते हुए केन्द्र सरकार से अनुरोध है कि इनकी सप्लाई सुनिश्चित करने के लिए प्राथमिकता के आधार पर विशेष ध्यान दे और यदि इसके लिए आयात करने की जरूरत पड़ती है तो आयात भी किया जाए। 1/3 She also urged the Centre to relax the age limit for Covid-19 vaccine. "Coronavirus has gripped the youth, which is a matter of concern. Hence, the Centre should reconsider the age limit for taking the vaccine at the earliest. This is the demand of the BSP," she said in another tweet. Currently, those above 45 years of age are being vaccinated for coronavirus in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-adequate-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-medical-oxygen-mayawati-to-centre-976139.html
19-04-2021||National||Mumbai: 'Green corridor' for vehicles with red stickers||Mumbai police have created "green corridor" at all check points and toll plazas for the speedy movement of vehicles of medical services staff which sport red stickers, an official said on Monday. The city police on Saturday said vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services will have to put up colour- coded stickers to limit the vehicular movement and avert traffic jams amid the Covid-19 curbs. Vehicles belonging to doctors, medical staff, ambulances and those engaged in supplying medical equipment and testing kits will have to sport red stickers, while those transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries and dairy products will need to have green stickers. Going a step ahead, the Mumbai police have now created "green corridor" for vehicles having red stickers, the official said. All such vehicles were now being allowed to move through these dedicated lanes, he said. Police personnel at various check points and toll plazas were on Monday seen helping vehicles having red stickers move through such lanes for smooth traffic movement. "Green Corridor for Vehicles With Red. We understand the urgency of all emergency professions and service seekers. Therefore, there is a dedicated lane for vehicles with red #emergencystickers at every check point on the roads of Mumbai," the police tweeted. After the police directed that vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services will have to sport colour- coded stickers, a message on social media claimed fuel will only be provided to such vehicles at petrol pumps. However, the Mumbai police clarified they had not issued any such instruction and the message was fake. "Fake Message Alert. A message about police instructing petrol pumps to give fuel only to cars with #EssentialStickers is false. However, our appeal to Mumbaikars to not move out unless it's for essentials or an emergency is genuine & heartfelt," the police tweeted. On Sunday, the city police registered cases against 286 vehicles under IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for coming out on roads without any emergency or essential work, a police spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-green-corridor-for-vehicles-with-red-stickers-976142.html
19-04-2021||National||How is India's second Covid-19 wave different?||India on Monday recorded over two lakh single-day Covid-19 cases for the fifth day in a row. The second wave of the pandemic has left states struggling to cope with the everyday cases amid severe shortages in the number of hospital beds as well as the unavailability of medical oxygen. After the first peak in September subsided, the number of cases started rising again in the middle of February this year. However, the silver lining was the significantly lower mortality rate. Even today when fresh fatalities are at a record high, the death rate is still much lower as compared to last year. Covid-19 CSR, which was hovering around 1.5 per cent in November, currently stands at 1.19 per cent. The comparison indicates that despite the alarming increase in single-day cases, the number of deaths, in ratio to the number of cases, has been lower as compared to last year.  CFR is calculated by comparing the total number of Covid-19-related deaths in the past week with the number of cases detected in the same week. Positivity rate higher than ever Meanwhile, the positivity rate has been increasing for 40 days in a row. India's active Covid-19 caseload, which was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and at its highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020, is nearing a worrisome 20 lakh cases. A total of 19,29,329 patients across India having been infected and are being treated for the virus. With this, the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 86 per cent. The daily coronavirus positivity rate in India in the last 12 days has doubled to 16.69 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate has increased to 13.54 per cent in the past month. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810, according to the latest Union Health Ministry data.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-is-indias-second-covid-19-wave-different-976143.html
19-04-2021||National||PM Modi to interact with leading doctors, pharma companies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with leading doctors from across the country at 4.30 pm and with top pharma companies at 6 pm on the prevailing Covid-19 situation on Monday via video conferencing, officials said. Earlier in the day, Modi had chaired an important meeting on the situation at 11:30 am. The meetings come amid a massive surge in coronavirus cases across the country, with several chief ministers complaining of a shortage of essentials like oxygen supply and medicines like Remdesivir, and seeking the Centre's intervention. Modi has been holding regular meetings to deal with the emerging pandemic situation. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810, while the active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the latest Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-interact-with-leading-doctors-pharma-companies-976145.html
19-04-2021||National||Couple in Delhi HC for Rs 5 lakh compensation over lack of food, medicine in Air India long haul flight||A petition by an elderly couple on Monday in the Delhi High Court has sought compensation of Rs five lakh from Air India alleging that in their 16-hour long flight the national carrier was without sufficient food and medical supplies. Taking serious note of the plea of the couple, both senior citizens, who have also sought a direction that the airline return the ticket fare as there was a lack of proper service by it, Justice Prathiba M Singh said "it is scary if this has happened". The high court issued notice to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Directorate General of Civil Aviation, Air India, Airport Authority of India (AAI) and GMR Aerocity, which runs IGI airport, seeking their stand on the petition which narrated the ordeal of the couple during the 16 hour long flight from New Delhi to San Francisco on November 11, 2020. They claimed they were provided one hot meal, which was also stale, during the entire course of the journey despite informing the cabin crew that one of them was diabetic and required proper meals. The couple -- Nivedita and Anil Sharma -- in their petition filed through advocate Suruchi Mittal have claimed that they had to sustain themselves fruit drinks whenever they felt their sugar levels plummet and it was only thanks to food offered by a co-passenger that they were able to sustain themselves during the flight. They have contended that the airline "has no business to carry 400 plus people on a long haul flight without having sufficient food, water and basic amenities including basic and emergency medicine". They have also contended that the airline cannot unilaterally decide that they will serve only one meal without informing the passengers who normally do not carry food on flights and therefore, "endangering their health and life" in such "casual and lackadaisical manner". They have sought refund of the ticket cost of Rs 2.25 lakh each and a compensation of Rs five lakh for securing their booking allegedly by making false representations and for not complying with airworthiness requirement, as mandated by DGCA CIvil Aviation Requirements, with regard to medical supplies in the aircraft to help counter and tackle emergencies onboard. The petition has claimed that not even necessary medications like anti-diarrheal or oral rehydration solution medicines were available in the aircraft for the 16 hour long flight. The other issues raised in the plea are lack of a proper responsive or functional grievance redressal mechanism, for complaints which risks the health and safety of passengers and non-availability of club carts or wheelchairs at IGI airport to ferry aged or ailing passengers like the petitioners. The petition has sought a direction to the ministry, DGCA, the airline and the airport authorities to constitute an independent committee to review quality and quantity of food served to passengers depending on flight duration. They have also sought a direction to the authorities to ensure medical supplies to tackle emergencies are available onboard, providing wheelchairs and carts to ferry aged or ailing passengers and creation of a responsive and functional grievance redressal mechanism to deal with deficiencies in safety requirements by airlines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/couple-in-delhi-hc-for-rs-5-lakh-compensation-over-lack-of-food-medicine-in-air-india-long-haul-flight-976146.html
19-04-2021||National||Covid-19 leaves India breathless as Centre, states scramble to meet growing demand for medical oxygen||India, the world's second most-affected nation by Covid-19, has been grappling with an acute shortage of medical oxygen, crucial in the treatment of coronavirus patients, for a while now. Maharashtra and Delhi, the two worst-hit spots, have already alerted the Centre on the shortage of beds, oxygen, medicines like Remdesivir and Covid-19 vaccines. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba convened a meeting of chief secretaries and senior officials of 10 states -- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka -- and Delhi on Monday to discuss the issue of medical oxygen shortage.  In a letter to the Prime Minister, Kejriwal requested immediate supply of oxygen along with reserving at least 7,000 central government hospital beds out of the 10,000 beds in Delhi for Covid patients. “The Covid situation has become very serious in Delhi. There is huge shortage of beds and oxygen,” he said in the letter. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had also appealed to the centre for more oxygen and coronavirus medicines like remdesivir. To meet the demand, the Centre on Sunday banned the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes except in nine specified areas and expedited installation of 162 PSA plants in health facilities across the country which will augment medical oxygen capacity by 154.19 MT, said Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. The pressure swing adsorption plants (PSA) manufacture oxygen and help hospitals become self-sufficient in their requirement for medical oxygen, while also reducing the burden on the national grid for its supply of medical oxygen. The ministry had also decided to float a tender for the import of 50,000 MT of medical oxygen. Railways, industries swinging into action The Railways on Sunday said that it will run 'Oxygen Express' trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country. Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra governments had approached the Railways Ministry to explore whether liquid medical oxygen tankers could be moved by the rail network. "Since the first empty tankers will move on April 19, we hope to begin operations of Oxygen Express over the next few days. We would be able to send oxygen wherever there is such demand. A green corridor is being created for fast movement of Oxygen Express trains," an official said. The country's largest steel-maker SAIL, Tata Steel and ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India (AMNS India) said they were supplying oxygen to hospitals. SAIL said it has supplied over 33,300 tonne of LMO (liguid medical oxygen) for the treatment of coronavirus-affected patients. Tata Steel on Sunday announced it is supplying up to 300 tonnes of medical oxygen on a daily basis to various state governments and hospitals. Jindal Steel and Power Limited also said it is supplying 50-100 tonne oxygen daily from its facilities at Angul (Odisha) and Raigarh (Chhattisgarh). ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India (AMNS India) said it is supplying 200 tonnes of medical oxygen per day to health facilities in Gujarat. According to the steel ministry, 28 oxygen plants located in the steel facility of both public and private sectors are supplying about 1,500 tonnes of medical oxygen every day. Also, an additional stock of 30,000 MT, including the safety stock, is being made available for medical use. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-leaves-india-breathless-as-centre-states-scramble-to-meet-growing-demand-for-medical-oxygen-976176.html
19-04-2021||National||Italy yet to transfer 10 crore compensation, SC told||The Union government on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it was still awaiting the receipt of Rs 10 crore compensation for the kin of two Indian fishermen killed by Italian Marines off the Kerala coast in February 2012. At the outset of hearing on a plea for closing the criminal case against the marines, a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Centre’s advocate whether the amount has been deposited. He responded, “We are awaiting the receipt of money." To this, the bench told him, “You were in a hurry last time, but we also know how ministries work.” He, however, submitted that as soon as the money is received, it will deposit the compensation with the apex court as per the April 9 direction.   The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it will hear the matter next week. The Centre has filed an application for closure of the case against the two Italian marines, Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre, after the  United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had on May 21, 2020, ruled that the criminal investigation into the matter would take place in Italy due to sovereign immunity enjoyed by the accused, and India would be entitled for grant of compensation. On April 9, a counsel, appearing for the Italian government, submitted before the court the amount of compensation payable in terms of the international tribunal's award of May 21, 2020, would be deposited on Friday itself by his client with the account specified by the Ministry of External Affairs. The Centre, for its part, had said the after the Indian government receives money from the Italian government, it will be transferred in the top court account within three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/italy-yet-to-transfer-10-crore-compensation-sc-told-976183.html
19-04-2021||National||Explained | Superspreader events and how they work with the coronavirus||State after state is going under lockdown with a fresh wave of Covid-19 is devastating India, with new cases hitting record highs each day. Amid wedding season and festival celebrations, governments are struggling to keep people from crowding and creating 'super-spreader events'.  What is a super-spreader event? A super spreader event is a phenomenon that is conducive for a communicable disease to spread fast. These events, where a large number of people are in close contact, provide the perfect ground for viral diseases to propagate easily. This is further exacerbated by group activities like singing, shouting and breathing close to one another. These people then return to their normal lives, infecting more people during travel and upon arrival at their destination. The example closest to home is the Maha Kumbh Mela which is occurring in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, which has become a hotbed of Covid-19 in the past two weeks, with thousands participating in the congregation testing positive. Wedding functions and parties have been curtailed in all states to prevent big groups of people from coming in close contact. Super spreader events are known to be transmission engines of the virus, and experts suggest that they also help genetic drifts in the virus, which ultimately leads to new mutations. Furthermore, as the size of these groups increases, so does the risk. Some studies have found that 10-20 per cent of people are responsible for 80 per cent of the spread of Covid-19.  An infected person does not show any symptoms for the first few days, and if they come in contact with other people for more than 15 minutes, which is likely to be the case in most super-spreader events, then the transmission is enormous. What is the way to control these? Many states have clamped down on gatherings like wedding functions, parties or funerals, with some even mandating issuance of passes to attend such events. Restricting such gatherings is likely to deny the virus a favourable situation, which may help slow down infections. People returning from these gatherings must be mandated to quarantine for 14 days to slow the infection rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-superspreader-events-and-how-they-work-with-the-coronavirus-976196.html
19-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Delhi imposes 6-day Covid-19 lockdown||In your evening news brief, Six-day lockdown in New Delhi; Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar indicates tough control measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 and EU hold Russia "responsible" for Navalny’s health.  A six-day lockdown has been ordered in the national capital beginning Monday night as the city grapples with an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases that has put the health infrastructure under severe strain. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the lockdown from Monday night 10:00 pm to 5:00 am on April 26 and utilise the time to add hospital beds, organise oxygen supplies and medical staff to tackle the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city. He urged the migrant labourers not to leave the capital and said that the government will take care of their needs. As the government holds crucial meetings, amid a spike in Covid cases in the state, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Monday, indicating tough control measures said, lockdown is not the only solution, as he also conceded that Bengaluru city is witnessing a shortage of ICU beds The Minister said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who will on Monday be attending the meeting with MLAs and Ministers from Bengaluru, virtually from the hospital where he is undergoing treatment for Covid, will also be holding a meeting with leaders of opposition parties Tuesday to gather their opinion on the measures to be taken in the state. The state had on Sunday reported the biggest ever spike of 19,067 new Covid cases and 81 deaths taking the total number of infections to 11,61,065 and the toll to 13,351. Out of the 19,067 new cases on Sunday, 12,793 were from Bengaluru alone. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Monday the bloc holds Russia "responsible" for the health of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, as EU foreign ministers held virtual talks on soaring tensions with Moscow. The United States has warned the Kremlin of "consequences" if President Vladimir Putin's major domestic opponent -- who is currently on hunger strike -- dies in prison after doctors warned at the weekend he could pass away at "any minute". Fears over the health of Navalny come amid major anxieties in the 27-nation European Union over a buildup of Russian troops along the border with Ukraine and a spiralling diplomatic row between Moscow and EU member state the Czech Republic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-imposes-6-day-covid-19-lockdown-976198.html
19-04-2021||National||Former PM Manmohan Singh tests Covid-19 positive||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Monday tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to AIIMS. The 88-year-old Congress leader, who had penned a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for beefing up Covid-19 response, reported mild fever on Monday morning and later tested positive for the infectious disease. Singh had taken both the doses of Covid vaccine recently. Leaders cutting across party lines voiced concern over Singh’s health and wished him a speedy recovery. “Wishing our former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh ji good health and a speedy recovery,” Modi said on Twitter. “I am deeply concerned to learn that Dr. Manmohan Singh is unwell and has been hospitalised. On behalf of all of us in the Congress Party I send my good wishes to him for a speedy & complete recovery,” Congress President Sonia Gandhi said. “Dear Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji, wishing you a speedy recovery. India needs your guidance and advice in this difficult time,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, former union minister P Chidambaram, chief ministers Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh and Mamata Banerjee, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu and several other leaders expressed concern over Singh's health and wished him a speedy recovery. “My prayers are with Manmohan Singh ji and his family today, and my deepest respect. May he fight this scourge with all his might and get well soon,” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Twitter. Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Priyanka Chaturvedi have wished him a speedy recovery too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-pm-manmohan-singh-tests-covid-19-positive-976199.html
19-04-2021||National||SC to decide Amazon-Future case, stays High Court proceedings||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the proceedings before the single judge and division bench of the Delhi High court on the Amazon-Future deal.   A bench of Justices R F Nariman, B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy said the matter will be finally decided by the top court.   On April 8, Amazon approached the top court against the Delhi High Court's division bench order, which vacated a stay on Kishore Biyani-led Future Group proceeding with its Rs 24,713 crore asset sale to Reliance Industries.  After a brief hearing on Monday, the top court stayed the High Court proceedings in connection with the amalgamation of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) with Reliance Retail. It scheduled the matter for further hearing in the first week of May, after parties in the matter complete pleadings.   Amazon, in its appeal, had challenged the March 22 order passed by a division bench of the Delhi High Court staying the single judge order.   Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre in October last, contending that it violated their contract by getting into the deal with rival Reliance. In August 2019, Amazon had invested in Future Coupons with an option of buying into the flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Earlier, FRL had moved before the Delhi High Court division bench challenging its a single judge's order upholding Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator’s (EA) order. This order had restrained FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business. The High Court division bench granted reprieve to Future group from a single judge order on March 18, which restrained it from taking any steps to sell assets to Reliance. Amazon had sought a stay on the March 22 order of the division bench, and terming it "illegal", "random", "inequitable and unfair".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-decide-amazon-future-case-stays-high-court-proceedings-976200.html
19-04-2021||National||Over 70% of Covid-19 patients above 40 years in both waves; older population still more vulnerable||More than 70 per cent of Covid-19 patients over 40 years of age in both the waves and older population continues to be more vulnerable to the infection, the Centre said on Monday. Addressing media, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said there is no difference in deaths between first and second wave among hospitalised patients, while the oxygen requirement is higher in second wave and ventilator requirement is not higher in the second wave. Prevalence of shortness of breath is slightly higher in the second wave of Covid-19 but sore throat and dry cough and other symptoms were higher in the first wave, the Centre said on Monday. "No difference in deaths between first and second wave among hospitalised patients. About 54.5 per cent patients require oxygen in second wave against 41.5 per cent in the first wave," he said. "More than 70 per cent patients in both waves are more than 40 years old, only marginally higher proportion of younger patients. Higher proportion of asymptomatic patients in the second wave," he said, based on the study of 1,885 patients in second wave and 7,600 patients in the first wave. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said in the first wave 31 per cent patients were aged less than 30 years, this time it is up to 32 per cent. "Essentially there is no difference," Paul said. Bhargava appealed that wastage of oxygen must not happen and it should be rationalised. Paul added that remdesivir must be used on hospitalised patients in moderate stages of illness on oxygen and it is not to be used in home settings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-70-of-covid-19-patients-above-40-years-in-both-waves-older-population-still-more-vulnerable-976205.html
19-04-2021||National||All above 18 years will be eligible to get Covid-19 vaccine from May 1||Centre on Monday announced a liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination making eligible everyone above the age of 18 years to get the jab from May 1 and allowed vaccine manufacturers to release up to 50 per cent of their supply to the state governments and in the open market at a pre-declared price. The announcement came after several important decisions were taken in back-to-back meetings chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi including on pricing, procurement, eligibility and administration of vaccines. The meetings were held to fine-tune the counter Covid strategy as several states pressed the panic button citing lack of oxygen and medicines and suggested going for full scale lockdown after India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with around 25 lakh cases being added in just 15 days, while active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark. After a crucial over-all review meeting in the morning, Modi held separate meeting with the doctors and top pharma companies across the country in the evening. The Centre made a slew of announcements making the world’s largest vaccination drive, a much more flexible exercise with directly involving the stakeholders and states in the phase 3 drive. Modi said the government has been working hard for over a year to ensure that maximum numbers of Indians are able to get the vaccine in the shortest possible time. In the latest phase, all stakeholders have been given flexibility to customise to local needs and states have been empowered to procure additional vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers, as well as open up vaccination to any category of people above the age of 18 for the same. A government statement said that GoI vaccination drive will continue as before, providing free vaccination for essential and priority populations as defined earlier-- for the Health Care Workers (HCWs), (Front Line Workers) and population above 45 years. In the phase I vaccination drive, the HCW, FLW and people aged 60 years and above and those 45 years and above with comorbidity were included for vaccination, while in the phase II, the age for vaccination for the general population was lowered to 45.  A number of states and stakeholders were demanding to bring down the age further and vaccinate all even if it is a paid option. Recent studies have also shown the second wave witnessed many young people contracting the disease, especially, those aged between 18 and 45, who go out for work. By opening up the jab for people above 18 years, the Centre has met their demands. The government said that vaccine manufacturers have been incentivised to further scale up their production, as well as attract new national and international players. In the earlier meeting with the nation’s leading doctors, Modi said that vaccination is the biggest weapon in the fight against coronavirus. He urged the doctors to encourage more and more patients to get vaccinated. He also urged doctors from cities with experience in Covid management to reach out to those in the underserved areas by handholding, training, online consultations to ensure that protocols are followed. The Prime Minister noted that this time the pandemic is spreading rapidly in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities as well. PM Modi called for accelerating efforts to upgrade resources in such places. He urged doctors to connect with their colleagues working in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities and give them online consultations to ensure that all protocols are followed correctly. Interacting with them via video conferencing on the COVID-19 issue and vaccination progress, hailed the doctors and the frontline workers for confronting the pandemic with full force and saving the lives of millions of people. He also urged the doctors to educate people against several rumours on Covid treatment & prevention. "In these difficult times, PM Modi said, it is very important that people do not become a victim of panic. For this, PM Modi said, along with proper treatment, emphasis must also be on counselling of patients admitted in hospitals. He also encouraged doctors to use tele-medicine for treatment of other diseases, in case there is no emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-above-18-years-will-be-eligible-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-from-may-1-976214.html
19-04-2021||National||Insurance companies must give effect to Mental Healthcare Act, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Monday held that all insurance companies are liable to give effect to the Mental Healthcare Act 2017 in their policies from the time it came into force in 2018 and any delay in doing so would be "contrary to the letter and spirit of the law". Justice Prathiba M Singh said insurance regulator IRDAI is duty bound to supervise the insurance companies and ensure that they comply with the Act and it "cannot turn a blind eye" to non-implementation of the same. IRDAI has to ensure that all the insurance products issued by insurance companies are in accordance with the law, the high court said. The court's directions came on a woman's plea whose claim for reimbursement of costs for treatment of schizophrenia were rejected by the National Insurance Company Ltd on the ground that psychiatric disorders were excluded from medical cover.  The court held that her claim for Rs 6.67 lakh was reimbursable and that she was entitled to the same. The court also imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the insurance company to be paid to the woman for forcing her to opt for litigation to claim reimbursement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insurance-companies-must-give-effect-to-mental-healthcare-act-says-delhi-high-court-976223.html
19-04-2021||National||Remdesivir not magic bullet, does not reduce mortality, say health experts||Amid a clamour for remdesivir across the country, Centre on Monday admitted that production of the drug was reduced after a dip in Covid-19 cases in the past few months. At the same time, top government health experts made it clear that remdesivir was not a “magic bullet” that reduced the chances of death among Covid-19 patients and should be given to patients hospitalised with moderate illness. NITI Ayog Member (Health) V K Paul said that the production of remdesivir had been reduced to 27 lakh vials per month and will be scaled up to 40 vials per month soon. The production of remdesivir will soon be further scaled up to 76 lakh vials per month and seven pharma companies were ramping up capacities, Paul said noting that India also exported the drug to 100 countries. Government had already ordered a ban on export of remdesivir. Addressing a press conference, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said remdesivir should only be given to patients hospitalised with moderate illness, who have a fall in oxygen saturation and have infiltrates on chest X-rays or CT-scan. “Remdesivir is not a magic bullet and this is not a drug that reduces mortality. We may use it as we don't have a very good antiviral drug. It has a limited role and we should be very careful in its usage,” he said. “It was of no use if given early in mild and asymptomatic patients and also if administered too late,” Guleria said. Paul said that remdesivir was not to be used in home settings and not to be procured from chemist shops. Guleria also said studies have shown that plasma therapy has a limited role in Covid-19 treatment and is of not much use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-not-magic-bullet-does-not-reduce-mortality-say-health-experts-976227.html
19-04-2021||National||Make probe agencies go after medicine hoarders instead of political opponents, Congress tells Centre||The Congress on Monday said the BJP-led Centre should make probe agencies NIA, CBI and the ED go after black-marketeers and hoarders of medicines used for coronavirus treatment in place of "using them to target political opponents". This will instil fear in their minds, said Congress leader and ex-Maharashtra chief minister Ashok Chavan. "Strict action should be taken against people hoarding and black marketing vaccines, injections and medicines. The government should bring in the NIA, CBI and the Enforcement Directorate against black-marketeers and hoarders of injections and vaccines. "When you can use them to target your political opponents, why not utilise them sensibly against black-marketeers and hoarders who are today creating all these problems in the country?" he posed. Chavan was also critical of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis "picketing" a police station along with other BJP leaders when the local police had summoned a pharma company's top executive over alleged stocking of remdesivir, an anti-viral drug used for coronavirus treatment. The Mumbai police on Saturday night questioned Rajesh Dokania, director of Bruck Pharma, a Daman-based pharmaceutical manufacturing company that manufactures Remdesivir vials, following information that thousands of vials of the Remdesivir drug critical in coronavirus treatment were to be flown out of the country. On learning about it, Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar had rushed to the police station. Their appearance at the police station has triggered a political slugfest between the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and the opposition party over the paucity of healthcare supplies. "When a person caught by Gujarat police for black marketing of remdesivir is questioned by Mumbai police, Fadnavis gheraos the police station along with some BJP leaders. Do you want to help the public or the black-marketeers," Chavan asked. "Let us not play politics and let us help the country and people." Chavan also demanded that the Centre spells out a plan on vaccine supplies and be transparent about it. "A clear plan about the vaccine supply should be rolled out. Export of vaccines should have been banned earlier. The government should ramp up production and roll out a programme for vaccines and remdesivir. It should make its policy transparent," the Congress leader said. He said Maharashtra is the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. "Our state government is fighting it on a war footing and are not playing any politics over it. We sincerely want to fight it on a war footing and expect cooperation from the Central government." "But, the Centre is acting irresponsibly and have taken the issue politically," Chavan alleged. About former prime minister Manmohan Singh writing to his successor Narendra Modi suggesting five measures to battle the Covid-19 crisis, Chavan said the suggestions from the opposition should be taken in a positive way. "It was expected that it would be taken in a positive way. But the way (Health Minister) Harsh Vardhan has responded, I think he should apologise. The prime minister should attend to the handling of the Covid situation instead of campaigning in elections," he said. Hitting back at Manmohan Singh for his critique of the government's Covid-19 management, Vardhan on Monday alleged the second wave of the pandemic was fuelled by Congress-ruled states as they were busy raising doubts about vaccines rather than vaccinating people. "History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of 'constructive cooperation' and valuable advice was followed by your Congress leaders as well in such extraordinary times!" the health minister tweeted. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said Vardhan's reply to the former prime minister was "probably the first case of pettiness where he took to name-calling and accusations".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-probe-agencies-go-after-medicine-hoarders-instead-of-political-opponents-congress-tells-centre-976229.html
19-04-2021||National||UPSC defers interviews for civil services exam due to surge in Covid-19 cases||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has deferred interviews for civil services examination 2020 due to a surge in coronavirus cases, according to an official statement issued on Monday. The civil services examination is conducted annually by the UPSC in three stages — preliminary, main and interview — to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) among others. The dates for interviews and recruitment test, when candidates and advisers are required to travel from all parts of the country, will be reviewed from time to time, it said. “Revised schedules of the same will be notified on the website of the UPSC,” the statement issued by the Commission said. In its special meeting, the UPSC considered rapidly changing circumstances, health considerations, lockdown restrictions including social distancing norms and aggravating situation enforced due to the pandemic on Monday. “The Commission has decided that it will not be possible to conduct examinations and interviews for the present,” it said. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EO/AO) Recruitment Test 2020 scheduled to be held on May 9, therefore, stands deferred, the statement said. “The personality tests (interviews) of the Indian Economic Service/Indian Statistical Service Examination, 2020 (scheduled from 20th-23rd April, 2021); the civil services examination, 2020 (scheduled from 26th April-18th June, 2021) and the recruitment tests are also deferred till further notice,” it said. Any other decision of the Commission in respect of the examinations, recruitments and interviews will be promptly made available on the Commission's website, the statement said. "As and when dates are decided for the deferred tests/interviews, it will be ensured that candidates are given a notice of at least 15 days,” the UPSC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-defers-interviews-for-civil-services-exam-due-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases-976231.html
19-04-2021||National||National lockdown can dent GDP growth by 2%, states should do with local curbs: Report||A month's national lockdown can hurt GDP growth by 2 percentage points, an American brokerage warned on Monday while expecting governments to continue with localised restrictions to arrest the Covid spread. Stating that there has been a 7-times jump in the new cases to 2.61 lakh a day from a month ago's 35,000 cases, analysts at Bofa Securities said they have grown "even more concerned that rising Covid-19 cases pose a risk to our still shallow recovery". In its base case, the brokerage said it sees a 9 per cent growth in the gross value added growth in FY22 after a 6.4 per cent contraction on a GVA basis. "It remains to be seen if this second wave of Covid-19 cases subsides without a serious national-level lockdown. A month of nationwide lockdown costs 1-2 per cent of GDP. Given the high economic cost, we expect the Centre and state governments to try to contain the spread with the tightening of Covid-19 regulations, night curfews and localised lockdowns," it said. It can be noted that already, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has assured that a national lockdown will not be implemented. The brokerage said more than three-fourths of the cases are coming from 10 of the 29 states, and also noted that many states have followed Maharashtra's lead in announcing stringent restrictions. It said only 1.2 per cent of the population has been vaccinated with both the doses as of now, while 7.8 per cent has received the first dose. It noted that in the week to April 16, there was a 12 per cent decline in the jabs given due to vaccine shortages. By the end of 2021, it expects 34 per cent of the population to get vaccinated, which it called as the bear scenario. Strong uptake of the newly cleared Sputnik vaccine of Russia can take up the vaccinations to 40 per cent or the middle scenario. The current production is about 75 million doses per month of two vaccines combined, it said, adding that Serum Institute of India expects to ramp up production from June to over 100 million doses a month, while Bharat Biotech will take it to 12 million doses a month from July. It has accounted for an import of 100 million doses of Sputnik by Dr Reddy in its bear scenario. Even though the government has opened up the doors for more vaccines, it said there will be a minimal contribution from Johnson & Johnson's jab in the bear scenario because of it facing clot issues in many countries, and none from Pfizer which needs very low temperatures storage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-lockdown-can-dent-gdp-growth-by-2-states-should-do-with-local-curbs-report-976236.html
19-04-2021||National||UK adds India to travel 'red list' after surge in Covid-19 cases||With the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic raging across India, the British government has decided to deny entry to any citizen of the South Asian nation unless she or he has residency rights in the United Kingdom. The UK has put India on its “travel ban red list” with effect from Friday. The British government took the decision shortly after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson dropped his plan to fly to New Delhi for a summit with his counterpart Narendra Modi. “If you are a British or Irish national in India, or an Indian national with residency rights in the UK, you will now be required to undergo 10 full days managed hotel quarantine on arrival in England at your expense,” the British High Commission in New Delhi posted on Twitter. “If you are an Indian national without residency rights in the UK then we regret that you will not be permitted to enter England if you have departed from or transited through India in the previous 10 days,” the British High Commission added. It noted that no ban on flights between India and the UK was currently in force. But all travellers from India and the UK should contact the airlines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-adds-india-to-travel-red-list-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases-976241.html
19-04-2021||National||SC for converting overhead power cables to save Great Indian Bustard||The Supreme Court on Monday directed Gujarat and Rajasthan governments and others to consider converting the overhead cables into underground powerlines to save the Great Indian Bustard. One of the heaviest flying birds was on the verge of extinction due to death caused primarily by collision with overhead powerlines. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian directed that in all cases where the overhead powerlines existed in the potential area of the bird, steps should be taken forthwith to install diverters. "Keeping in view the sustainable development concept and on striking a balance, the protection of the rare species of birds is essentially to be made. The effort is being to save every bird while at the same time allowing transmission of power in an appropriate manner," the bench said. Acting on a PIL by noted wildlife expert M K Ranjitsinh and others, the court said in addition to the death of the birds due to collision and electrocution, the conservation strategy also required protecting the eggs of the species of birds. "For conservation, the habitat restoration and for making it predator proof, appropriate fencing is to be provided to the breeding grounds," the bench said. Noting that the laying of high-voltage underground power line would require expertise to assess its feasibility, the top court formed a committee of experts namely Dr Rahul Rawat, and Dr Sutirtha Dutta, both scientists and Dr Devesh Gadhavi, Deputy Director, the Corbett Foundation. The petitioners claimed the overhead power lines are the biggest threat to the survival of the bird.     The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in its Report “Power Line Mitigation, 2018” has stated that every year one lakh birds die due to collision with power lines.  The report concluded that unless power line mortality is mitigated urgently, extinction of GIBs is certain.  Surveys conducted by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in Thar covering 80 km of power lines repeated seven times over a year found 289 carcasses of around 30 species, including the Great Indian Bustard, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-converting-overhead-power-cables-to-save-great-indian-bustard-976258.html
19-04-2021||National||IOC to supply oxygen to hospitals in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab||After Reliance Industries Ltd, state-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) have begun diverting oxygen produced at their refineries to supplement the availability of medical oxygen in states worst hit by Covid-19. In a statement, IOC said it has "begun the supply of 150 tonnes of oxygen at no cost to various hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab." "The first batch of the lifesaver medical grade oxygen was dispatched today to Maha Durga Charitable Trust Hospital, New Delhi," it said. "Delhi is already facing an oxygen emergency situation." In the face of a massive surge in demand for medical oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic, IOC has diverted the high-purity oxygen used in its Mono Ethylene Glycol (MEG) unit to produce medical-grade liquid oxygen at its Panipat refinery and petrochemical complex in Haryana. The throughput of the unit has also been scaled down for a more critical cause. In a separate statement, BPCL said it has started supply of 100 tonnes of oxygen at no cost. "The company will be supplying around 100 tonnes per month," it said. With average daily cases of Covid-19 rising again since last one month, the demand for oxygen has significantly risen. In fact, in most parts of the country, the cases are hitting new peak, thereby disrupting the demand-supply scenario for medical oxygen. Last week, Reliance's twin oil refineries in Jamnagar in Gujarat through minor process modification converted industrial oxygen into medical-use oxygen that can be administered to Covid-19 patients low on oxygen. In all, 100 tonnes of oxygen is being supplied from the Jamnagar refineries free of cost. BPCL is also supplying 1.5 tonnes per day of medical oxygen to Kerala from its Kochi Refinery. Last year, BPCL had supplied around 25 tonnes of medical oxygen when the average daily cases had risen in October-November. The Kochi Refinery has a provision to produce and store liquid oxygen of 99.7 per cent purity. Oil refineries can produce limited volumes of industrial oxygen in air-separation plants meant for nitrogen production. Scrubbing out other gases such as carbon dioxide can convert it into medical-use oxygen with 99.9 per cent purity. Reliance operates the world's largest oil refining complex at Jamnagar in Gujarat. IOC Chairman S M Vaidya reiterated the firm's unstinted support to the country at this critical hour in every possible way. "All through the pandemic, our prime focus has been to ensure the supply of essential fuels 24X7. We have also stepped up the production of raw material for PPEs, and we are now providing lifesaving medical oxygen to hospitals. "Our expertise and assets, including refineries, pipelines, petrochemical units, bottling plants, terminals and aviation fuel stations, will continue to serve the people despite the stiff challenges”, he added. As the Covid-19 cases in the country continue to rise, the demand for medical-grade oxygen too is growing rapidly. "The current initiative by IOC aims at supporting the states in fighting the battle against Covid-19," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ioc-to-supply-oxygen-to-hospitals-in-delhi-haryana-punjab-976259.html
19-04-2021||National||Non-stop cremations cast doubt on India's counting of Covid dead||Gas and firewood furnaces at a crematorium in the western Indian state of Gujurat have been running so long without a break during the Covid-19 pandemic that metal parts have begun to melt. "We are working around the clock at 100% capacity to cremate bodies on time," Kamlesh Sailor, the president of the trust that runs the crematorium in the diamond-polishing city of Surat, told Reuters. And with hospitals full and oxygen and medicines in short supply in an already creaky health system, several major cities are reporting far larger numbers of cremations and burials under coronavirus protocols than official Covid-19 death tolls, according to crematorium and cemetery workers, media and a review of government data. India on Monday registered a record 273,810 new daily infections and 1,619 deaths. Its total number of cases now stands at more than 15 million, second only to the United States. Reliable data is at the heart of any government response to the pandemic, without which planning for hospital vacancies, oxygen and medicine becomes difficult, experts say. Government officials say the mismatch in death tallies may be caused by several factors, including over-caution. A senior state health official said the increase in numbers of cremations had been due to bodies being cremated using Covid protocols "even if there is 0.1% probability of the person being positive". "In many cases, patients come to hospital in an extremely critical condition and die before they are tested, and there are instances where patients are brought dead to hospital, and we do not know if they are positive or not," the official said. 'Very irksome' But Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of biostatistics and epidemiology at the University of Michigan, said many parts of India were in "data denial". "Everything is so muddy," she said. "It feels like nobody understands the situation very clearly, and that's very irksome." In Surat, Gujarat's second largest city, Sailor's Kurukshetra crematorium and a second crematorium known as Umra have cremated more than 100 bodies a day under Covid protocols over the last week, far in excess of the city's official daily Covid death toll of around 25, according to interviews with workers. Prashant Kabrawala, trustee of Narayan Trust, which manages a third city crematorium called Ashwinikumar, declined to provide the number of bodies received under Covid protocols, but said cremations there had tripled in recent weeks. "I have been regularly going to the crematorium since 1987, and been involved in its day-to-day functioning since 2005, but I haven't seen so many dead bodies coming for cremation in all these years," even during an outbreak of the bubonic plague in 1994 and floods in 2006. Government spokesmen in Gujurat did not respond to requests for comment. India is not the only country to have its coronavirus statistics questioned. But the testimony of workers and a growing body of academic literature suggest deaths in India are being underreported compared to other countries. Mukherjee's research of India's first wave concludes that there were 11 times more infections than were reported, in line with estimates from studies in other countries. There were also between two and five times as many deaths than were reported, far in excess of global averages. Working day and night In Lucknow, capital of the populous northern state of Uttar Pradesh, data from the largest Covid-only crematorium, Baikunthdham, shows double the number of bodies arriving on six different days in April than government data on Covid deaths for the entire city. The figures do not take into account a second Covid-only crematorium in the city, or burials in the Muslim community that makes up a quarter of the city's population. Crematorium head Azad, who goes by only one name, said the number of cremations under Covid protocols had risen five-fold in recent weeks. "We are working day and night," he said. "The incinerators are running full time but still many people have to wait with the bodies for the last rites." A spokesman for the Uttar Pradesh government did not respond to a request for comment. Elsewhere, India Today reported two crematoriums in Bhopal, the capital of the central state of Madhya Pradesh, 187 bodies were cremated following Covid protocols in four days this month, while the official Covid death toll stood at five. Last week Sandesh, a Gujarati newspaper, counted 63 bodies leaving a single Covid-only hospital for burial in the state's largest city, Ahmedabad, on a day where government data showed 20 coronavirus deaths. The Lancet medical journal noted last year that four Indian states making up 65% of Covid fatalities nationally each registered 100% of their coronavirus deaths. But fewer than a quarter of deaths in India are medically certified, particularly in rural areas, meaning the true Covid death rate in many of India's 24 other states may never be known. "Most of the deaths are not registered so it's impossible to do a validation calculation," Mukherjee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-stop-cremations-cast-doubt-on-indias-counting-of-covid-dead-976267.html
19-04-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea alleging adulteration of honey with Chinese sugar||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre on a plea alleging adulteration of honey being sold in Indian markets with Chinese sugar. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Centre on a petition by Anti Corruption Council of India Trust. The petitioner represented by senior advocate V K Shukla also sought directions to the companies to file investigation or test reports of different honey brands or products before the court in order to ensure their authenticity. The petitioner relied upon the report of the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), which claimed major Indian brands of honey were mixing honey with a modified sugar from China which bypassed some basic tests used to detect the adulteration. Most Indian brands like Dabur, Patanjali, Vaidyanathan and Zandu, among others failed to meet the purity parameter, it alleged. It said the CSE investigation found that Chinese companies were exporting sugar syrup as fructose syrup with claims that it could bypass the basic test specified for selling honey in the Indian market. "This is immensely worrying as it will compromise health in the troubled times of Covid-19,” the plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-alleging-adulteration-of-honey-with-chinese-sugar-976272.html
19-04-2021||National||Staggered working hours, curtailed attendance of central govt officers amid Covid-19 surge||The Centre on Monday announced guidelines for its employees, including staggered office hours and 50 per cent attendance of officers of the level of Under Secretary and below, in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases. All officers of the level of Deputy Secretary, equivalent and above are to attend office on a regular basis, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Physical attendance of the officers of the level of Under Secretary or equivalent and below to be restricted to 50 per cent of the actual strength, it said. “Secretary/head of Department (HoD) may regulate the attendance of officials and may, on administrative grounds, direct more officials to attend office,” the statement said. The persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees may be exempted from attending office, but they shall continue to work from home, until further orders, it said. The guidelines, which were issued in view of the unprecedented rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and to take measures to prevent its spread, “shall come into effect immediately and will remain in force until 30.04.2021 or further orders”, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said. He hoped that all these instructions will be followed in letter and spirit in the interest of the well-being of all the citizens and government employees and their families. Singh expressed hope that the state/Union Territory governments will also contemplate on similar guidelines, according to the statement. The officers/staff shall follow staggered timings -- 9 AM to 5.30 PM, 9.30 AM to 6 PM and 10 AM to 6.30 PM -- to avoid overcrowding in offices, the Personnel Ministry said. “All officials who do not attend office on a particular day are to make themselves available on telephone and other electronic means of communication at all times from their residence and work from home,” it said. All officials residing in containment zones shall continue to be exempted from coming to office till the containment zone is denotified, the statement said. All officials who attend office shall strictly follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour including wearing of mask, physical distancing, use of sanitiser and frequent hand washing with soap and water, it said. Crowding in lifts, staircases, corridors, common areas including refreshment kiosk and parking areas is to be strictly avoided, the Personnel Ministry said. The meetings, as far as possible, to be conducted through video-conferencing and entry of outside visitors to be curtailed appropriately, it said. “Proper cleaning and frequent sanitization of the workplace, particularly of the frequently touched surfaces may be ensured,” the statement said. Biometric attendance shall continue to be suspended and physical attendance registers to be maintained until further orders, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/staggered-working-hours-curtailed-attendance-of-central-govt-officers-amid-covid-19-surge-976290.html
19-04-2021||National||Only irresponsible people make argument against export of vaccines: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday said that only the “non-serious” and “irresponsible” people could make an argument against India’s export of the Covid-19 vaccines to other nations. Jaishankar defended the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to supply the “Made-in-India” Covid-19 vaccines to other nations, even as it drew flak from the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and the other Opposition parties. The External Affairs Minister indicated that he could cite New Delhi’s decision to export the jabs to build his argument to ask the other nations to continue supplying raw materials required to produce the Covid-19 vaccines in India. “As a foreign minister, I'm pushing other countries, particularly some big countries, saying – look, please keep the raw materials flowing for vaccines to be made in India,” he said at an online event hosted by the All India Management Association (AIMA). “If you ask why are you exporting (vaccines) at all, somebody will ask – “Why am I exporting to India?”. That is so short-sighted. Only non-serious, irresponsible people can make that argument,” said the diplomat-turned-politician. He apparently wanted to drive home the point if New Delhi had not exported vaccines, the other nations would have also stopped supplying raw materials required to produce the jabs as well as other essentials to India. India has delivered 64 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to more than 80 countries. But with the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic raging across the country and several states complaining about a shortage of vaccines, the Modi government’s decision to export jabs to other nations drew flak from not only from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi Chief Minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal as well as from TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. It was also criticized by the Shiv Sena, which shares power with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party in worst-hit Maharashtra. “It's not that we aren't prioritising our people,” said Jaishankar. “As things got tough, we spoke to the world and said we tried our best to live up to commitments but please understand that we have a very serious situation at home and most countries understand that.” Jaishankar hinted that he was leading New Delhi’s diplomatic effort to make the US lift the ban on the export of raw materials required for production of vaccines, a move which slowed down manufacturing of the jabs in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-irresponsible-people-make-argument-against-export-of-vaccines-jaishankar-976296.html
19-04-2021||National||Oxygen Express starts ops to help bring Covid-19 treatment back on track||Indian Railways first "Oxygen Express" train has left Kalamboli in Mumbai for Visakhapatnam to bring liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra. The first rake carrying 7 empty tankers departed from Kalamboli in Mumbai for Visakhapatnam Monday evening. During its return journey, the train will bring tankers filled with medical oxygen to Maharashtra, the railways said in a statement. In the next few days, Railways will operate more Oxygen Express trains transporting medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders. Indian Army also made available its critical rolling stocks for transportation of Oxygen laden trucks. As per arrangements, liquid medical oxygen tankers loaded on flat wagons. The railway has created a green corridor to ensure the quick movement of Oxygen Express trains. The state governments of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had earlier approached the Railways Ministry to explore whether liquid medical-oxygen tankers could be moved by the rail network, officials said. On the receipt of the request from the two states, the Railways immediately explored the technical feasibility of transportation of liquid medical oxygen. It has to be transported through roll-on-roll-off service with road tankers placed on flat wagons. "Instructions have been issued to zonal railways to ensure readiness to receive the trailers and load them. Ramps at other locations would also be ready in a couple of days by the time the tankers reach those locations," said a Railways official. The Railway Board also asked zonal railways to keep in touch with state governments about their needs of running Oxygen Express trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-express-starts-ops-to-help-bring-covid-19-treatment-back-on-track-976308.html
19-04-2021||National||Sensitise people on Covid-protocol: LS Speaker to lawmakers||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Monday asked presiding officers of state assemblies to set up Covid-19 control rooms in their respective legislatures to address peoples’ grievances related to the pandemic. Addressing a meeting of All India Presiding Officers' Conference (AIPOC), Birla said the legislature has to fulfill its duty more promptly as the new strain of coronavirus was spreading more rapidly than last year. Birla urged the Presiding Officers to sensitize the public, through the people’s representatives of their respective states to follow the Covid-19 Protocol. He suggested that people’s representatives engage with social organisations to check the spread of the pandemic. “All representative institutions including the Gram Panchayats and local bodies in urban areas may be motivated to make extensive efforts to reduce the corona infection,” Birla said. He suggested to the Presiding Officers to set up control rooms in their legislatures which may be used by the people's representatives. “This will help in channelizing the relevant information and difficulties of the public to the government,” Birla said, adding any that issues related to the central government could be referred to the Lok Sabha Control Room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sensitise-people-on-covid-protocol-ls-speaker-to-lawmakers-976314.html
19-04-2021||National||PM Modi to meet Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers on April 20||With the government opening the Covid-19 vaccination drive to everyone above 18 years of age, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called a meeting with vaccine manufacturers on Tuesday, sources said. During the meeting, scheduled to be held through video conference at 6 pm on Tuesday, the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) will make a presentation and also coordinate with all the participants, sources added. Those expected to be present include representatives of top drugmakers from India and abroad, including the companies whose vaccines have already been approved by the Government of India. So far, two vaccines -- Oxford/Astrazeneca vaccine COVISHIELD manufactured by Serum Institute in India and indigenously developed COVAXIN by Bharat Biotech -- are being administered in India, while a third vaccine Sputnik V -- developed in Russia and to be imported and sold in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories -- has also been approved by the Indian drug regulator. While the total number of Covid-19 cases is rising at a record pace in India with the total caseload crossing 1.5 crore, the government has allowed everyone above the age of 18 years to be eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also decided to liberalise the vaccination drive by allowing states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure a portion of doses directly from the manufacturers. The scheduled meeting with vaccine manufacturers will follow discussions held by the prime minister with the country's top doctors and representatives of the pharmaceutical industry on Monday. The prime minister has also held a series of meetings with government officials and other stakeholders over the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-meet-covid-19-vaccine-manufacturers-on-april-20-976328.html
19-04-2021||National||Vindicated, says Opposition as Modi approves Covid-19 vaccine for all above 18 years||Opposition leaders on Monday claimed vindication after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Covid-19 vaccination for everyone above 18 years as India grappled with the second wave of the coronavirus infections. “It is a welcome move that government has woken up to Congress and Sri Rahul Gandhi’s call of ‘Vaccination For All’. Hope Prime Minister considers the other suggestions given by Dr. Manmohan Singh & other experts as well,” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said. “A visionary leader humbly requested few days back to the campaigner Prime Minister. I think Modi sahib accepted six suggestions. But won’t give credit. Will the 7th request be accepted? Let’s pray with folded hands,” Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore said referring to the suggestions made by Rahul Gandhi in a letter to Modi. “I’m glad and grateful that the Government of India has accepted what Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ji and many other CMs, MPs and States had requested the government to consider – lowering the age and covering the younger population in the vaccination drive,” Shiv Sena leader Aditya Thackeray said. Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi had written a letter to Health Minister Harsh Vardhan making vaccine available to all above 18 years. NCP said party Lok Sabha member Supriya Sule had made the demand for making vaccines available to all above 18 years of age in the Lok Sabha. The NCP thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan for accepting the demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vindicated-says-opposition-as-modi-approves-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-above-18-years-976329.html
19-04-2021||National||Pakistan bans travel from India for two weeks amid Covid-19 surge||Pakistan on Monday decided to ban for two weeks travellers coming from India due to a record surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 1.50-crore mark with around 25 lakh cases being added in just 15 days, while active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The nationwide tally of Covid-19 cases mounted to 1,50,61,919 with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 coronavirus infections. The death toll increased to 1,78,769 with a record 1,619 daily new fatalities, the data updated this morning showed. Pakistan’s National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) took the decision to impose a two-week ban on travel from India in a meeting chaired by its chief Asad Umar who is also the Minister for Planning and Development, according to a statement. "The forum decided to place India in the list of Category C countries for two weeks. There will be a ban on inbound passengers coming from India via air and land routes," the statement read. Other countries already listed in the Category C include South Africa, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Comoros, Mozambique, Zambia, Tanzania, Rwanda, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Chile, Eswatini, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Malawi, Seychelles, Somalia, Suriname, Uruguay and Venezuela. Last week, some 815 Sikhs pilgrims reached Lahore from India to attend the Baisakhi festival. They are permitted to stay for 10 days. Earlier, the NCOC meeting was briefed about the new Indian variant of the coronavirus, known as a double-mutant variant, which has reportedly resulted in a spike in the number of infections in India. The NCOC also announced to further review the Category C on April 21 to add any new country or remove any existing from the list, the statement said. Already, another 20 countries are in Category A and travellers from there do not require a Covid-19 test before entry into Pakistan. These are Australia, Bhutan, China, Fiji, Japan, Kazakhstan, Laos, Mongolia, Mauritania, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Trinidad & Tobago and Vietnam. Those not listed in A and C are deemed in Category B and people coming from these countries require a Covid-19 PCR test (maximum 72 hours old) before starting their travel to Pakistan. Pakistan’s coronavirus tally reached 761,437 after 5,152 news cases were detected on Monday. The death toll reached 16,316 as 73 more people died in this period, according to the Ministry of National Health Services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-bans-travel-from-india-for-two-weeks-amid-covid-19-surge-976330.html
19-04-2021||National Politics||Mamata 'reaches out to PM Modi' for additional Covid-19 vaccines, medicines||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she has sought help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for additional vaccines and medicines in the wake of spiralling Covid-19 cases in the state. She also said the state government will spell out measures to deal with the second wave of the pandemic later in the day. "With the massive surge in #Covid19 cases across India, GoWB is taking all necessary steps to protect its people. I've reached out (to) the PM to help us with additional medicines and vaccines required," Banerjee tweeted. "I have also directed all the top officials to make elaborate arrangements & step up their efforts at every level to deal with #Covid19 situation in WB," she added. Banerjee had on Sunday said TMC would organise small meetings in Kolkata and she would give short speeches in rallies in districts where polling would be held in the remaining three phases, keeping in mind the coronavirus situation. Trinamool Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien tweeted, "Mamata Banerjee will NOT campaign in Kolkata anymore. Only one 'symbolic' meeting on the last day of campaigning in the city on April 26. Slashes time for all her election rallies in all districts. Restricted to just 30 minutes." West Bengal on Sunday registered its highest single-day spike of 8,419 fresh cases and at least 28 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-reaches-out-to-pm-modi-for-additional-covid-19-vaccines-medicines-976094.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 second wave: J&K orders closure of colleges, universities till May 15||Amid a steep rise in Covid-29 positive cases, Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday ordered the closure of colleges and universities across the Union Territory till May 15. Besides, authorities also ordered an extension for the closure of schools from May 15. An order was issued by the State Executive Committee, reads: "On the basis of the Covid-19 assessment, it is hereby ordered that all universities and colleges in J&K shall remain closed for imparting on-campus and in-person education to the students till 15.05.2021." However, the order says that colleges and universities shall remain open for the courses or programs that require the physical presence of students on account of laboratory, research, thesis work and internship. “Colleges will move to online mode and the schools across J&K shall continue to remain closed for imparting on-campus and in-person education to the students till 15.05.2021,” the order reads. The ceiling on the number of people permitted to attend gatherings and functions shall be 20 in case of funerals and 50 for all kinds of gatherings at indoor venues and 100 for all kinds of gatherings at outdoor venues, the government order said. In case of public transport, the order said, “Matadors, buses, minibuses and other modes of public transport shall ply strictly as per their registered and authorized seating capacity, no standing will be allowed.” Authorities also ordered the district superintendents of police to ensure that this is strictly complied with and punitive measures are taken under relevant provisions of the law. The order further states that all district magistrates shall put in place an effective mechanism to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour in all crowded markets, shopping complexes and malls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-second-wave-jk-orders-closure-of-colleges-universities-till-may-15-975973.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Voting underway for 2nd phase of UP panchayat polls||Voting for the second phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls is underway with more than 3.48 lakh candidates in the fray for over 2.23 lakh posts in 20 districts. Polling will be held till 6 pm on Monday and over 3.23 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise. In the second of the four phase election, polling is being held in Lucknow, Varanasi, Amroha, Azamgarh, Etawah, Etah, Kannauj, Gonda, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Budaun, Baghpat, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Mainpuri, Maharajganj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Lalitpur and Sultanpur districts. For the 787 posts of member of zila panchayat, there are 11,483 candidates and for the 19,653 seats of kshetra panchayat, as many as 85,232 candidates are in the fray. As far as the gram panchayats are concerned, there are 1,21,906 candidates for 14,897 posts and for the gram panchayat wards, there are as many as 1,30,305 candidates for 1,87,781 posts. The candidates are contesting on 'free symbols' given by the Election Commission. More than 2.31 lakh poll officials have been deployed by the State Election Commission (SEC) for a smooth conduct of the panchayat polls. In the first phase of the polls, which was held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The 2015 panchayat polls had registered a polling percentage of 72.11, according to the SEC. In view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had said last month that not more than five people would be allowed to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning for the panchayat elections. Additional Election Commissioner Ved Prakash Verma said three-member teams were formed under the additional district magistrates to ensure that the directives issued by the SEC were being followed. At the district level, the chief medical officers have been made the nodal officers and stress has been laid on Covid-19 prevention. Voters will mandatorily have to wear masks and maintain social distancing at the polling booths. Instructions have also been issued to make circles maintaining a distance of six feet between the voters standing in the queue. Verma said the Covid-19 norms would also be followed during the counting of votes and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits would be arranged according to the requirements. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to conclude the panchayat election process by May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-underway-for-2nd-phase-of-up-panchayat-polls-976052.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||No need for lockdown in Himachal Pradesh: CM||There is no need of imposing a lockdown in Himachal Pradesh as the state government is doing its best to deal with the Covid-19 situation, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday.  He said the government was working on a mechanism under which the dreaded virus would be contained, and the economy of the state strengthened. People's cooperation is the need of the hour to combat coronavirus, he said, noting that people's cooperation was seen missing this time and they should come forward to tackle this situation by observing all Covid related norms. He said vaccination along with wearing face masks, social distancing and washing hands repeatedly are the main weapons to deal with the virus. Replying to a question, he said the BJP was united and would win the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Assembly bypoll with ease as the people were happy with the performance of the BJP-led governments both at the Centre and in the state. On the issue of helping families who have lost family members to Covid-19, he said since their number was high, a final decision to this effect would be taken after thorough discussions. Thakur said the government was keeping a watch on the drought situation and would be ensured that there is no water crisis in any part of the state and adequate supply of water would be made available to the people. Replying to a question about his visit to Samirpur to meet former chief minister P K Dhumal, he said it was a courtesy call. Dhumal is a senior leader and his suggestions are vital for running the government, he added.  To a question, he said media personnel would also be vaccinated on a priority basis. The Covid-19 death toll in Himachal Pradesh rose to 1,177 on Sunday with 10 more fatalities, while 788 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 76,375.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-need-for-lockdown-in-himachal-pradesh-cm-976087.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt sets up control rooms to manage Covid-related drugs||The Delhi government has set up two control rooms to monitor and manage the supply of "Covid-19 management drugs" amid a massive rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital. Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive. In an order, the government's Drugs Control Department said that the step has been taken to address reports of "acute shortage of Covid-19 management drugs due to a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi". "In view to counter this situation and to facilitate the general public at large, the Drugs Control Department. Govt of NCT of Delhi has set up two control rooms," the order dated April 13 said. For East, North East, South, Central, New Delhi and North districts, the Karkardooma Head Office will serve as the control room and operate the helpline number -- 011-22393705, according to the order. The Lawrence Road Zonal Office is the second control room and it will serve the North West, South West, and West districts. It can be reached at helpline number-- 011-27100164, it said. The department said that manufacturing companies can also be reached through their individual helpline numbers. "Every attempt is being made to make available Covid management drugs in all major hospitals and company distribution outlets for which companies have also provided their helpline numbers, who can be approached along with documentary details of the hospitalization of patient, hospital prescription, Covid positive report and Aadhar card," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-sets-up-control-rooms-to-manage-covid-related-drugs-976089.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi under 6-day lockdown: What's allowed and what's not||A six-day lockdown has been ordered in the national capital beginning Monday night as the city grapples with an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases that has put the health infrastructure under severe strain. Delhi reported 25,462 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, almost one-third of the number of persons tested for the infectious disease. The national capital has 74,941 active cases of Covid-19. Here's what's allowed and not allowed in Delhi during this lockdown: 1. Essential services are exempted from the lockdown. Print and electronic media, government officials working in departments such as health, police, Delhi Metro, electricity board, water, etc. Healthcare staff are also exempt. Patients and pregnant women are exempt from the lockdown restrictions. 2. Those going to get tested for Covid-19 and vaccination are exempt on providing a valid ID card. Those caring for medical patients are also exempt. 3. Travel to catch a flight, train, bus will be allowed on production of a valid ticket. 4. Shops selling essential goods and providing essential services will be allowed to function, such as grocery shops, vegetables, fruits, milk, bank employees, private security companies. 5. All modes of transport will be allowed to carry passengers, however, only those exempt from the lockdown will be allowed to travel on these modes of transport. 6. Only home delivery of food and takeaways will be allowed. Dine-in facilities at restaurants will be suspended. 7. Public places such as parks, gyms, swimming pools will be shut and only training of those participating in national and international games will be allowed. 8. If workers are present within a construction site or factory, they will allowed to work. If workers need to be transported to the work site, such an activity will not be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-under-6-day-lockdown-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-976108.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, police said. The security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in the Zeipora area of Shopian district after getting information about presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated befittingly. There were no reports of any casualties so far on either side, the official said, adding that two to three militants were believed to be trapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-militants-and-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-976119.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Srinagar to not impose lockdown yet||Despite an alarming rise in Covid-19 positive cases, the Srinagar administration said it does not plan to impose a lockdown as of now.  Refuting reports of lockdown, the district administration on Monday said that there was no such plan at present and that adequate beds and oxygen supply were available in city hospitals.  Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Muhammad Aijaz Asad told reporters that whenever a decision in this regard would be taken, "we as an implementing agency will take necessary steps accordingly. " Asad along with other top police officers launched a drive against the transporters who are violating the Covid-19 norms. “We have launched a drive to ensure that the directions issued by the State Executive Committee (SEC) are followed in spirit,” he said. Asked about the availability of oxygen supply, he said that there was no shortage of the oxygen and on the directions of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, the administration is setting up more oxygen plants, which would be made functional shortly. On bed capacity in hospitals, the DC said that sufficient beds were available at present. “The beds are also sufficiently available at the Covid designated centres established last year by the administration,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-to-not-impose-lockdown-yet-976124.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Mulayam Singh couldn’t cast vote in UP panchayat polls||Samajwadi Party patriarch and founder Mulayam Singh Yadav could not cast his vote for panchayat elections in his native Saifai village on Monday following request from family members in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to family sources, the 81-year-old so far has never missed voting in any election. "We requested Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) not to come to Saifai to cast his vote this time for the panchayat elections in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, and luckily, he agreed to our request. Currently, Netaji is in Delhi," Dharmendra Yadav, nephew of Mulayam Singh Yadav, told PTI. Voting for the second phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls is underway on Monday with more than 3.48 lakh candidates in the fray for over 2.23 lakh posts in 20 districts. Polling will be held till 6 pm and over 3.23 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mulayam-singh-couldn-t-cast-vote-in-up-panchayat-polls-976134.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||4 injured in attack on Covid-19 medical team in Uttar Pradesh||Three government medical personnel, including two doctors, and their driver were injured after their car was attacked by a group of people when they had gone to a village here to give medicines to a Covid-19 patient, police said on Monday. The incident took place at Paswan Chowk village on Sunday and according to a complaint lodged at the Bairia police station, the medical team's vehicle was surrounded by about 60 people and it was attacked, they said. "The team had gone to the village to give Ghanshyam, a Covid-19 patient, his medicines and check on his home isolation," Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. In his complaint, medical officer Neeraj Kumar Singh, who was injured in the incident, said "around 60 persons, including women and children, surrounded our government vehicle, and attacked the team", according to Yadav. “Members of the team somehow managed to escape from there. Dr Neeraj Kumar Singh, Dr Amit Kumar Gautam, lab assistant Upendra Prasad and driver Lal Bahadur Yadav were injured,” he said, adding that a man, Jitendra, has been arrested in this case. Ballia District Magstrate Aditi Singh said the administration is mulling to initiate action under the stringent National Security Act (NSA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-injured-in-attack-on-covid-19-medical-team-in-uttar-pradesh-976151.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC orders week-long lockdown in five Uttar Pradesh cities||The Allahabad High Court on Monday virtually indicted the Uttar Pradesh government for its alleged failure to provide medical facilities to the Covid-infected patients and going ahead with the panchayat polls and ordered a lockdown in cities, including Lucknow and Varanasi from Monday night to April 26. A division bench comprising Justice Siddharth Verma and Justice Ajit Kumar passed the order on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL). The three other towns are Kanpur, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur. Stating that it was necessary to take some ''harsh steps'' before the pandemic further spiralled to engulf the entire population of these badly-hit districts, the court said that public interest expected judiciary to remain vigilant to all the issues which, if not addressed in time, would result in the failure of the system which was meant to safeguard public interest. ''Those in the helm of affairs of governance are to be blamed for the present chaotic health problems...if people die of pandemic in a large number due to paucity of sufficient medical aid it would be the governments to blame which failed to counter the pandemic even after one long year of experience and learning,'' it said. The court said that one would only ''laugh at us that we have enough to spend on elections and very little to spend on public health''. The court also sought to trash the state government's declaration that a lockdown would have an adverse impact on the economy. ''Economy, economy and economy is the only tune that the government is all the time harping upon, but bread and butter if you take to a person who needs oxygen and medication, it will be of no use to him,'' it said. ''It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave it never planned things in advance,'' the court added. The court also expressed its displeasure over the ongoing panchayat polls in the state. ''We must record our displeasure at the way the government and the state Election Commission proceeded to hold election forcing teachers and other government staff to perform duties exposing themselves to the threat of pandemic,'' it said. The court said that Covid-19 protocols were not followed during the rallies. ''Action is liable to be taken against the organisers...the action taken shall be placed before us on the next date fixed,'' it directed. The court also said that admission of patients to ICUs were largely being done on the recommendation of VIPs. ''Even supply of life saving antiviral drugs namely Remdesivire is being provided only on the recommendation of VIPs,'' it added. ''If a popular government has its own political compulsions in not checking public movements during this pandemic, we can not remain mere passive spectators,'' the bench observed. The court said that all establishments be it government or private, except financial institutions and financial departments, medical and health services, industrial and scientific establishments, essential services including municipal functions, and public transport, would remain closed till 26th April. It also banned all religious activities in public.   UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier ruled out lockdown in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-orders-week-long-lockdown-in-five-uttar-pradesh-cities-976194.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: HC directs Centre, AAP govt to disclose number of beds available in hospitals||The Delhi High Court Monday directed the Centre and AAP government to file affidavits by Tuesday disclosing hospital-wise availability of beds for Covid-19 patients. Taking stock of the current pandemic situation, the high court asked the Central government to look into the aspect of shortage of oxygen supply in Delhi hospitals on an urgent basis. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the Centre and the Delhi government in their affidavits shall also give details as to how many hospital beds are with or without ventilators and oxygen support. It also directed the firm, which used to supply oxygen to Delhi hospitals and has suddenly stopped, to restore the oxygen supply immediately. The high court was told that the firm was supplying oxygen to other states. The bench also said that the Delhi government's direction on action against labs for not delivering Covid-19 test reports within 24 hours, shall not be implemented. On migrant workers crisis, it observed that both the Central and Delhi governments have failed in the last year's lockdown and lessons are required to be learnt from it. The high court will take up the matter again on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hc-directs-centre-aap-govt-to-disclose-number-of-beds-available-in-hospitals-976222.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||No crowds now: With akhadas pulling out, Kumbh virtually over||Crowds at the ghats of Ganga in Haridwar have thinned down drastically after the key ‘akhadas’ of seers began pulling out of the Maha Kumbh, citing the surge in coronavirus numbers. Many spots on Monday wore a deserted look, an unimaginable sight during the Haridwar Kumbh Mela which will formally close only on April 30. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had appealed to the sadhus to observe the remaining duration of the kumbh only in a “symbolic” manner. There is hardly any crowd now at the bathing ghats where droves of sadhus and common devotees had gathered for a dip in the river on the ‘shahi snan’ of April 14, defying Covid-19 norms like social distancing. Most of the devotees have already left and the akhadas have been winding up their camps one after another. Panch Dashnam Joona Akhada, the largest among them, announced its exit from the kumbh mela soon after PM Modi’s appeal to sadhus, referring to the rise in coronavirus cases. Niranjani, Anand, Avahan, Agni and Kinnar sects too ended their participation in what is perhaps the largest religious congregation in the world. “Most of the sanyasi akhadas have vacated their camps. Only 1,000-2,000 seers of the six Bairagi akhadas are still in the mela kshetra waiting for the last shahi snan slated for April 27," Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said. "After the shahi snans of April 12 and 14 several akhadas left and not much is left in the Kumbh area. Practically, the kumbh kshetra is empty now and no one is expected to come from outside," he said. Traditionally, the last shahi snan held on Ram Navami is a main event for the Bairagi sect and not for the others. Altogether, Uttarakhand reported over 2,000 fresh Covid cases during the past four days with Dehradun and Haridwar districts being the largest contributors to the tally. DGP Kumar, however, refused to accept the argument that the kumbh mela is a ‘super-spreader’ of the virus because of the huge gathering, calling the theory "entirely fake". "We have data to prove that it is a complete lie,” he claimed. “The Covid positivity rate in Haridwar is less than two per cent. If 50 out of a total of 10,000 sadhus test positive for Covid, it is 0.5 per cent whereas three lakh people tested positive for Covid in Maharashtra in a span of five days,” he added. But Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer S K Jha said over 150 seers had tested positive for Covid from April 1 to 18. Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Sunday said the shahi snan at the kumbh has been conducted successfully with everyone’s cooperation. The prime minister’s appeal to seers has also evoked a positive response from the sadhus, he added. Agni Akhada secretary Sampoornanand Brahmachari said the decision on a final kumbh immersion of deities was taken after Modi’s appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-crowds-now-with-akhadas-pulling-out-kumbh-virtually-over-976224.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 surge: AIIMS-Delhi OPD to be shut from April 22, routine inpatient admissions postponed||Amid a surge in coronavirus infections, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi has decided to shut its physical OPD services from April 22 and postpone routine inpatient admissions to contain the spread of the virus and augment resources for treatment of Covid-19 patients. In a statement on Monday, the AIIMS administration said, "...it has been decided to temporarily switch over from physical consultations of OPD's patients in morning OPD's as well as Speciality Clinics in AIIMS Hospital and all Centres to Teleconsultations with effect from Thursday, 22.04.2021." The decision has been taken "in view of increased need to minimize possibility of community spread of ongoing Covid-19 epidemic and also to optimize diversion of available manpower and materials resources for the treatment of suspected/confirmed patients of Covid-19 and also considering the situation of total curfew announced by the Delhi government," it said. Further, in view of need to optimise usage of available inpatient beds for hospitalisation of seriously ill emergency/ semi-emergency patients, it has been decided to temporarily postpone routine inpatient admissions in general wards as well as private wards in AIIMS Hospital and all Centres with immediate effect for a period of two weeks which will be reviewed after that, the administration said. Emergency patients who require inpatient hospitalization in general wards or such patients who are advised private wards hospitalisation owing to emergency/ semi-emergency conditions, will continue to be admitted, the circular stated. "Notwithstanding above, EHS patients will continue to be hospitalised as clinically warranted," it said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am next Monday in view of an exponential rise in coronavirus cases. Delhi has been reporting around 25,000 Covid-19 cases daily in the past few days, putting tremendous pressure on its healthcare infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-surge-aiims-delhi-opd-to-be-shut-from-april-22-routine-inpatient-admissions-postponed-976225.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||SC appoints overseeing committee to manage Gokarna Mahabaleshwara temple||The Supreme Court on Monday appointed a committee headed by former top court judge Justice B N Srikrishna to take over the management of ancient Gokarna Mahabaleshwara Temple in "all respect", as an interim arrangement. The temple, situated in Uttara Kannada district, is known as 'Dakshina Kashi'. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian directed Ramchandrapura Mutt, which was so far managing the temple by virtue of the top court's previous order, to hand over the charge of the affairs of the shrine to the Assistant Commissioner who would also act as Secretary to the ‘overseeing committee’. The matter arose before the top court out of Mutt's challenge to the Karnataka high court's judgement of August 10, 2018, which had quashed the B S Yeddyurappa government's decision of August 12, 2008 to hand over control of the temple to it. The petitioner, along with its pontiff Sri Sri Raghaveshwara Bharathi claimed its history dated back to the 8th Century AD as it was established by Adi Shankaracharya, who formed ‘mutt’ at Gokarna and ordered his disciples to look after the affairs of the Gokarna Temple.  The top court, however, said no documents to establish the fact of the temple belonged to the ‘mutt’ was brought to its notice. "Since a final decision is to be taken in these appeals, the appropriate course in the interest of the temple, the devotees and the ‘mutt’ would be to allow the administration of the temple by an independent committee," the bench said in its order. The court said the overseeing committee under chairmanship of Justice Srikrishna will take over management of the temple from Ramachandrapura Matt within 15 days. The committee would also include Deputy Commissioner and SP of Uttara Kannada, Assistant Commissioner of Kumta division, two eminent scholars and two upadhibaktas, nominated by the state government. "It would oversee the functioning of the temple by adhering to all traditions," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-appoints-overseeing-committee-to-manage-gokarna-mahabaleshwara-temple-976244.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Two unidentified militants killed in J&K's Shopian||Two unidentified militants were killed in an ongoing encounter with security forces in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Monday. The gun battle erupted in Zeipora Mantribugh area of Shopian, 56 km from Srinagar, after a joint team of army and Jammu and Kashmir police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in the area following specific information about the presence of militants there, reports said. A police official said the militants turned down repeated surrender offers given to them by the security forces. "As the joint team approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter," he said, adding that two ultras were killed in the gun fight.  The identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras were not known immediately.  As a precautionary measure, the internet services were snapped in Shopian district, reports said.  Pertinently, 38 militants have been killed so far in Jammu and Kashmir this year and most of them belonged to the volatile Shopian district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-jks-shopian-976245.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Liquor makers seek home delivery of booze after long queues outside alcohol shops in Delhi||Liquor manufacturers on Monday asked the Delhi government to allow home delivery of alcoholic beverages as tipplers thronged liquor shops forming serpentine queues ahead of the six-day lockdown beginning this evening in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday as soon as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 PM on Monday till 5 AM the next Monday to curb growing cases of Covid-19, a sudden rush of punters was seen outside liquor shops in the national capital with long queues. Citing Maharashtra, which has also gone through tough restrictions and shops are closed in cities like Mumbai to curb the spread of the pandemic, the state government has allowed home delivery, said Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC). According to CIABC, there was rush outside liquor vends in Delhi after the announcement of a weeklong lockdown. "What we saw today was the panic reaction from the public, driven by their memory of lockdown extensions last year. For lakhs of people all over India alcohol is part of regular consumption basket that they do not wish to be deprived of," said CIABC Director-General Vinod Giri. The association has hoped that the public and shopkeepers in Delhi adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Decision of Maharashtra to allow home delivery of liquor, for example, has helped contain panic reaction to lockdown there,” Giri said adding “we urge Delhi Government to think of such steps." The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) represents domestic liquor makers. Announcing the lockdown in the city earlier in the day, Kejriwal said it was necessary to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen. It further said essential services will be allowed during the lockdown, but private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly halls, auditoriums, public parks, sport complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons and beauty parlours will remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-makers-seek-home-delivery-of-booze-after-long-queues-outside-alcohol-shops-in-delhi-976249.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Stricter Covid-19 curbs in Punjab from April 20||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered stricter restrictions across the state beginning Tuesday as Covid-19 cases continued to rise sharply. As per the new guidelines, night curfew timings have been extended from 8:00 pm to 5:00 am, besides closure of all bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres, sports complexes. Restaurants and hotels will be open only for takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday. Rates for RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) by private labs have been reduced to Rs 450 and Rs 300 respectively, with additional charges for home collection of the samples, in a bid to promote increased testing. Gatherings of more than 20 persons, including weddings/cremations, have also been banned across the state. Prior approval of the district administration would be needed for all gatherings of more than 10 persons, except for cremation. The chief minister also ordered that all people flying into Punjab should have a negative RT-PCR not more than 72 hours old, else they would have to undergo RAT testing at the airport. He also ordered that people who have attended large gatherings anywhere — religious, political or social — to be mandatorily home quarantined for five days and tested as per protocol. The Chief Minister renewed his appeal to all religious, social and political leaders to desist from organising large gatherings, encourage vaccination and motivate people for Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially wearing of masks and avoiding gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stricter-covid-19-curbs-in-punjab-from-april-20-976284.html
19-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh government announces free 3-month ration for poor||In the wake of a surge in Covid- 19 cases in Madhya Pradesh and the subsequent curbs, the state government on Monday announced to provide free ration to all eligible beneficiaries for the next three months. The government also asked officials to invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against those involved in the black marketing of life-saving drugs. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made the announcement at a video conferencing meeting with district collectors. The meeting was held to take stock of the coronavirus situation in the state, which has seen a spurt in cases in the last few weeks, leading the authorities to impose a slew of curbs on movement of people and non-essential activities. In view of the pandemic, the entire three months' stock of foodgrains can be collected at one go to avoid frequent visits to ration shops set up under the public distribution system (PDS), he said. All eligible poor residents of the state will get three months ration for free from fair price shops (PDS outlets). "Three months' ration will be given together so that people need not visit such shops frequently, he told the district collectors. Chouhan told them to invoke the NSA, under which one can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months, against those involved in the black marketing of important drugs. Those selling life-saving injections at higher prices should not be spared, he said. During the past one week, the police have caught some people in Bhopal, Indore and other cities on charges of black marketing Remdesivir, a key antiviral drug for treating Covid-19 whose demand has shot up. Chouhan said there would be no shortage of money in tackling the pandemic. Efforts have been made on a war footing to provide adequate medical oxygen for treating critical coronavirus patients in the state, he said. Remdesivir injections are also being supplied to hospitals continuously, Chouhan said. The chief minister told the district collectors to set up containment zones in affected areas under their jurisdiction to control the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-government-announces-free-3-month-ration-for-poor-976289.html
19-04-2021||South||Five brick kiln workers from Odisha die in mishap, 25 injured||Three labourers from Odisha were killed on the spot and two others died in hospital while 25 got injured in a road accident near here on Sunday, police said. A lorry carrying 30 workers, all employees of brick kilns in Telangana, turned turtle after hitting a car, the police said. Of the 25 injured, the condition of four is critical. All have been taken to different hospitals, the police said adding that a case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-brick-kiln-workers-from-odisha-die-in-mishap-25-injured-976003.html
19-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami hospitalised with hernia||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami was hospitalised here on Monday for treatment for hernia, official sources said. The 66-year old Palaniswami was admitted to a private hospital, the sources said without elaborating. Palaniswami, the Joint Coordinator of the ruling AIADMK, is seeking another term for his party after the April 6 Assembly elections in the state and was earlier involved in hectic electioneering. The counting of polled votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-hospitalised-with-hernia-976062.html
19-04-2021||South||Kerala imposes night curfew from Tuesday||Night curfew has been imposed in Kerala for two weeks from Tuesday in view of the Covid-19 second wave. All non-essential services and movements from 9 pm to 5 am will be restricted. No gathering of any kind will be permitted. Goods transportation, public transportation and other essential services are exempted. This year's Thrissur Pooram festival scheduled to be held on April 24 will be also restricted only to minimum rituals and ceremony without public participation. While earlier it was decided to allow those with Covid negative report and vaccination certificate, the fresh restrictions were put in place following stiff opposition and concerns raised by health experts. Meanwhile, the number of active Covid patients in Kerala again crossed one lakh mark to reach 1,03,004 as 13,644 more persons were tested positive. The positivity rate slightly came down to 15.63 per cent. However, test results of many samples collected were still awaited. As per the fresh restrictions, home delivery and takeaway service of hotels will be permitted only till 9 pm and malls and theatres will have to shut down by 7.30 pm. Shops and establishments flouting the norms will be shut for minimum two days depending upon the severity of the violation. As part of the fresh restrictions, places of worship were also advised to broadcast all regular worships and festivals online. All government organisations and other establishments were also directed to operate online as far as possible. Tuition centres were directed not to conduct any physical classes. All government department tests and recruitment tests are also postponed for two weeks. A Covid protocol enforcement drive will be held in the state on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imposes-night-curfew-from-tuesday-976204.html
19-04-2021||South||Telangana CM K Chandrasekar Rao tests positive for Covid-19||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has tested positive for Covid-19. The announcement was made on Monday evening by chief secretary Somesh Kumar who himself had tested positive a few days ago. “Chief Minister Rao has been tested Covid-19 positive. He has mild symptoms. He has been advised isolation and is staying at his farmhouse. A team of doctors is monitoring his health,” said Kumar in a press statement. Rao's farm house is located at Erravalli, near his assembly constituency's centre Gajwel, about 65 Kms from Hyderabad. Rao's son and Telangana's IT, industries, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao confirmed the news on twitter. “Been receiving a lot of messages with concern for his well-being. He is a gritty man and a fighter. Am sure he will recover soon with all of your prayers,” Rama Rao said. Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu wished KCR, as the Telangana CM is popularly known, a speedy recovery from Covid-19. “My prayers are with him. Get well soon,” the TDP chief tweeted. Telangana has been reporting a steep spike in Covid-19 cases lately. On Sunday, the state health department recorded 4009 new cases, out of 83,089 samples tested. The state has 39,154 active cases and a cumulative positive case figure of over 3.55 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrasekar-rao-tests-positive-for-covid-19-976211.html
19-04-2021||South||Father confesses to killing 13-year-old daughter in Kerala||The nearly one-month-long mystery over the suspicious death of a 13-year old girl at Kochi in Kerala was partially solved after the girl's father, who was nabbed after a long chase, confessed to police that he killed her. Mounting financial obligations was the primary reason behind the murder. The police said that mysteries like alcohol presence in the girl's body still need to be unraveled. Vaiga, daughter of Kochi residents Sanu Mohan and Ramya, was found dead in Muttar river in Kochi on March 22. Mohan had dropped his wife Ramya at her house on March 21 and left for his flat with Vaiga. The two were later reported missing. After recovering Vaiga's body, the police intensified its search for Mohan. On Sunday, police nabbed him from Karwar in Karnataka. Kochi city police commissioner H Nagaraju said that Mohan confessed that he killed his daughter by strangulating her. There were many conflicts between his statements and the evidence gathered. Mohan's version was that he decided to end his life owing to financial obligations and he wanted to kill his daughter as he feared that she will struggle after his death. He initially strangulated her at their flat and later took her to the river and threw her. Though his plan was to jump into the river afterward, he lost the courage to end life and hence, he fled. The police is yet to take his statement into account and also probing into the involvement of any others. Mohan was an interior designer and he raised funds from many persons saying that his bank accounts were frozen. Vaiga had even acted in a under-production Malayalam movie 'Billy'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/father-confesses-to-killing-13-year-old-daughter-in-kerala-976212.html
19-04-2021||South||CCMB testing Covid-19 vaccines' efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 double mutation variant||Researchers at the Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology are in the process of testing the efficacy of the present Covid-19 vaccines against the double mutation variant B.1.167. The new variant of SARS-CoV-2 is believed to be driving the Covid-19 second wave case surge now in some states like Maharashtra. The variant has two mutations E484Q and L452R, found together in India first. The mutations in the virus spike protein are said to have made Covid-19 infection of human cells easier. Dr Rakesh Mishra, Director, CCMB told DH that the Hyderabad-based CSIR institute is culturing the B.1.167 Covid-19 variant in its labs to test if the present vaccines like Covishield, Covaxin are effective against the mutation. “We are testing if the double mutant strain is responsive to the vaccines. The process could take another week or ten days,” Dr Mishra said. While some reports claimed that over 60 per cent of the cases lately in Maharashtra are caused by B.1.167, Mishra says the extent of spread and damage caused by the particular variant could only be verified by a large-scale field survey, sample collection from the affected areas. “Human negligence dangerous than virus mutations” The CCMB director expressed concern over the carelessness of some people moving without masks in public spaces like theaters, pubs. “The key factor in the spread of any virus strain is human behavior. No matter what we do, what we find out, it is the Covid-19 appropriate actions that can only control the spread of any mutation,” Dr Mishra asserted. “Viruses have a tendency to mutate constantly and we too need to constantly monitor their transformations with genome sequencing of samples on a large scale, from various places. It gives us an updated idea of how potent the virus has become,” Dr Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ccmb-testing-covid-19-vaccines-efficacy-against-sars-cov-2-double-mutation-variant-976291.html
19-04-2021||South||Four deaths in three days: Panicky AP secretariat employees seek WFH option||With four secretariat employees succumbing to Covid-19 in the last three days, government employees working in the Andhra Pradesh secretariat complex at Velagapudi in Amaravati are panic-stricken. Worried over the serious situation, the secretariat employees association has on Monday requested the Jaganmohan Reddy government to allow them to work from home. “In the last four days, around 40 employees of secretariat and their family members have tested positive for Covid-19. Further, we lost four of our fellow employees to the disease in the last three days. All the employees are in a panic situation as they live with their children, elders at home and are facing a lot of mental agony attending the office amidst the worsening situation day by day,” said Napa Prasad, general secretary of AP Secretariat Association. The association representatives submitted a representation to the chief secretary Adityanath Das office on Monday, seeking work from home option. “We request necessary orders permitting all employees of the secretariat to work from home as we have an effective e-office system for processing files or allow at-least 50 percent of the employees to work from home on rotation basis so as to get relief from the Covid-19 infections and also to break the chain (of virus spread),” the association said in its letter. The state government had set up a Covid-19 testing facility and a vaccination centre later in the secretariat for the sake of employees. On Monday, AP reported 5963 new positive cases from across the state and 27 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-deaths-in-three-days-panicky-ap-secretariat-employees-seek-wfh-option-976295.html
19-04-2021||State||Karnataka: Bereaved families still await insurance for Covid-19 warriors||The families of a majority of doctors and other healthcare personnel who lost their lives during the first wave of the pandemic are still awaiting the Rs 50 lakh insurance cover announced by the central government last year. According to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Karnataka unit, the families of less than 10 of the 55 doctors who perished during the first wave received the relief, while only one of the 11 Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) received the benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) last year. The situation was no different for contract and outsourced healthcare employees. To make matters worse for those in the front line of the second wave, the Centre has cancelled the insurance cover. According to a circular by the Ministry of Health, the scheme ended on March 24, 2021, with a one-month extension for final submission of all eligible claims. Dr Srinivas S from IMA, Karnataka, shared a list of 55 doctors who had succumbed during the first wave of Covid-19 in various parts of the state. “Only a handful of them received the insurance benefits,” he said, noting that it was practitioners who diagnosed patients at private clinics who had borne the brunt of the disease. “Many doctors haven’t received justice under the scheme,” he said. Health Ministry told Rajya Sabha this year that only 160 doctors had died, while the figure compiled by the IMA was 650, said Srinivas, who serves as the chairman of the IMA National Standing Committee on Child Health. Nagalakshmi, president of State Asha Workers Association, said families of 11 workers had submitted claims under PMGKP. “Only one has received it till date,” she said. Manjunath, son of 48-year old Asha worker Sakamma from Ballari district, who died in May last year, said that despite submitting multiple copies of relevant documents, the insurance claim was yet to be honoured. "I spent around Rs 15,000-20,000 in the process of arranging all documents and attestations,” he said. Around 22-25 contract health workers succumbed during the first wave, Vishwaradhya H Yamoji, president of the Karnataka State Health Contractual and Outsourcing Employees Association (KSHCOEA), said. “We know of one case in Yadgir, where the worker’s family received Rs 50 lakh. However, majority of the victims are yet to benefit,” he said. Commenting on the withdrawal of the scheme, Dr Srinivas said that it would adversely affect the morale of healthcare personnel. Nagalakshmi said the decision came as a blow to front line warriors, already stretched due to the crisis caused by the second wave. State government sources, meanwhile, blamed the delay on the central government and the insurance companies roped in for the scheme. What’s the scheme? Known as PMGKP, the Rs 50 lakh health insurance scheme was launched on March 30, 2020 — days after the nationwide lockdown — initially for a period of three months. Subsequently, it was extended to March 24, 2021. So far, 287 claims have either been settled or approved. “The scheme acted as an effective safety net. It also played a very important psychological role in sending the right signals to healthcare workers,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter to all states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bereaved-families-still-await-insurance-for-covid-19-warriors-975976.html
19-04-2021||State||Tree catches fire due to lightning||A coconut tree near Mahavir circle in the city caught fire due to lightning on Sunday evening. Some branches of the tree were burnt. The rains that lashed the city for one hour doused the flame. Sagar, Thirthahalli, Shikaripur, Bhadravathi, Hosanagara taluks received moderate to heavy rains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tree-catches-fire-due-to-lightning-975992.html
19-04-2021||State||Centenarian lexicographer Prof G Venkatasubbaiah passes away||Centenarian Kannada writer and lexicographer Prof Ganjam Venkatasubbaiah passed away due to old age complications here in the early hours of Monday. He was 107. He was being treated for urinary tract infection at a private hospital at Jayanagar. Doctors had planned his discharge on Monday as he had recovered from the infection. However, he developed breathlessness and other complications late on Sunday night and breathed his last at around 1.15 am. He is survived by a son and a daughter. Of his four children, a son and a daughter had died a few years ago. His wife passed away three years ago.  Last rites were conducted at the Wilson Garden crematorium with full state honours on Monday afternoon. Condoling the death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted,”He has left a huge void in Kannada literature. He was a prolific writer and thinker who made many efforts to popularise Kannada. He was passionate about his work and inspired many youngsters.” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his cabinet colleagues, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, KPCC president D K Shivakumar and many others condoled the death.  Primarily known for his contribution to the world of Kannada lexicography, Venkatasubbaiah was known as a walking encyclopedia of Kannada language and culture. He published 70 books, 14 dictionaries and authored four seminal works on dictionary science in Kannada. He also translated into Kannada eight important works from other languages. He is a recipient of the Kannada Sahitya Akademi, Pampa and Rajyotsava awards. He was honoured with the Nadoja award of Kannada University, Hampi and the Kendra Sahitya Akademi’s Bhasha Samman Puraskar. Venkatasubbaiah presided over the 77th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana in Bengaluru in 2011.   He was born on August 23, 1913, into a family of linguists at Kaigonahalli, KR Pet, Mandya district. He secured a postgraduate degree in Kannada from Maharaja’s College, Mysuru in 1937.  He served as a teacher at the municipal school in Mandya, at a high school in Davangere, at Maharaja’s College and Vijaya College in Bengaluru. After his retirement in 1973, he began the work to publish a Kannada-to-Kannada dictionary as its chief editor. He was vice president of the Lexicographical Association of India for 17 years, adviser to the multilingual dictionary project of the Institute of Asian Studies, Chennai and a consultative committee member in the Telugu lexicon project initiated by the Telugu Academy of the government of Andhra Pradesh. His ‘Klishta Pada,’ a dictionary of complex words, was released when Karnataka celebrated 50 years of its formation in 2006. ‘Igo Kannada,’ Venkatasubbaiah’s column in ‘Prajavani,’ was hugely popular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centenarian-lexicographer-prof-g-venkatasubbaiah-passes-away-976269.html
19-04-2021||State||Night curfew order on social media fake: CMO||Soon after the conclusion of a meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation here, a 'fake' government order was circulated on messaging platforms. It said the night curfew had been extended across the state, among other curbs. The new set of guidelines was attributed to chief secretary P Ravi Kumar and was aired on news channels. This forced the government to clarify that it was fake. "The guidelines being circulated in social media (are) fake and the government has not issued any such guidelines," a statement from the chief minister's office (CMO) said. The CM will take a call on new guidelines after the all-party meeting scheduled on Tuesday, the CMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/night-curfew-order-on-social-media-fake-cmo-976282.html
19-04-2021||State||97% students appear for VTU exams||Despite the expressing displeasure over conducting examinations for first-semester engineering courses by Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), 97% of students appeared for the exams commenced on Monday. As per the details available from VTU, five students, who have tested positive for Covid-19, also appeared for the exams at various centres in the state. The examination centres have made separate arrangements for the students who tested positive to write the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/97-students-appear-for-vtu-exams-976305.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Key meet on April 19 to decide on stricter curbs in Karnataka||The state government is set to decide on stricter measures to rein in the Covid-19 second wave during a meeting on Monday. The talks come at a time when experts have warned that the government is fast losing control over the second surge. When asked if the government was now leaning towards a lockdown, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said what was being considered was "not necessarily" a lockdown but involved stringent measures "to curtail movement". The minister's statement comes in the wake of record-breaking numbers of Covid-19 cases being reported in the state over the last two weeks. On Sunday, Karnataka reported 19,067 cases, of which 12,793 were from Bengaluru alone.  "The virus is being spread through the activities and movements of people. The decision before the government is how many activities it will curtail,” the minister said, adding that he hoped the decisions would support sweeping restrictions. Sources said the government stares at the hard choice of introducing a lockdown for neglecting measures which could have curbed the outbreak earlier. “The one step, night curfew, has not helped because not many people socialise after 10 pm,” a source said.  “As of Sunday, the city has run out of ICU beds completely. There is not one bed available for critical cases,” the source added. Officially, the BBMP website showed that 5% of ICU beds and ICU-ventilator beds (52 ICU beds and 24 ICU-ventilator beds) were available. “The picture presented on paper does not match the reality on the ground,” the source said, adding that a surprise visit to several private hospitals on Sunday showed no free beds even though they were reported as being available to the government.  The result prompted the BBMP to issue notices to five private hospitals for not complying with the mandated 50% of beds for the government: Columbia Asia, Fortis, Baptist, Vikram and Aster CMI. 10 new Covid Care Centres BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said plans are under way to scale up ICU bed numbers. He added that 10 new Covid Care Centres (CCCs) would also be opened in the weeks to come, including at the Agricultural College and at a centre donated by Bosch in Koramangala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-key-meet-on-april-19-to-decide-on-stricter-curbs-in-karnataka-975974.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada writer Prof G Venkatasubbiah passes away at 107||Centenarian, Kannada writer, grammarian, editor, lexicographer and critic Ganjam Venkatasubbiah passed away during the early hours of Monday due to old age complications. He was 107. He breathed his last at 1:15 am. Dignitaries from various fields have condoled his death. He is primarily known for his contribution to the world of Kannada lexicography and is renowned as a walking encyclopaedia of the Kannada language and culture. He compiled 12 dictionaries, authored four seminal works on dictionary science in Kannada, edited over sixty books and published several papers.  He also translated into Kannada eight important works from other languages. Recipient of the Kannada Sahitya Akademi Award and the Pampa Award, Venkatasubbiah was born on August 23, 1913. His ancestors hailed from Mudagandur village in the Mandya district. Some of his ancestors were linguistic scholars. His grandfather Narasimha Jois was a Sanskrit scholar, while his father Ganjam Thimmannaiah was a scholar of both Kannada and Sanskrit. He secured his postgraduate degree in Kannada from Maharaja’s College, Mysore in 1937.  He started his career as a teacher at a municipal school in Mandya. He taught at the high school in Davanagere and at Maharaja’s College and at Vijaya College in Bengaluru. After his retirement in 1973, he began the work to publish a Kannada-to-Kannada dictionary as its chief editor. He was vice president of the Lexicographical Association of India for 17 years. He served as an adviser to the multilingual dictionary project of the Institute of Asian Studies, Chennai. He was also a consultative committee member in the Telugu lexicon project initiated by the Telugu Academy of the Government of Andhra Pradesh. His Klishta Pada, a dictionary of complex words, was released when Karnataka celebrated 50 years of State formation. He presided over the 77th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana held in Bengaluru in 2001.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-writer-prof-g-venkatasubbiah-passes-away-at-107-976031.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC appoints committee to manage Gokarna Mahabaleshwara Temple||The Supreme Court on Monday appointed a committee headed by former top court judge Justice B N Srikrishna to take over the management of ancient Gokarna Mahabaleshwara Temple, as an interim arrangement. The temple, situated in Uttara Kannada district, is known as 'Dakshina Kashi'. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the Srikrishna committee will take over management of the temple from Ramachandrapura Math within 15 days. The committee would also include Deputy Commissioner and SP of Uttara Kannada, Assistant Commissioner of Kumta division, two eminent scholars and two upadhibaktas of the concerned Trust. The arrangement will continue till the top court finally decided the matter. The Ramchandrapura Math challenged the Karnataka high court's judgement of August 10, 2018, which had quashed the B S Yeddyurappa government's decision of August 12, 2008, to hand over control of the temple to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-appoints-committee-to-manage-gokarna-mahabaleshwara-temple-976066.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Governor to chair all-party meeting on April 20||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai R Vala will chair an all-party meeting on April 20 to review the Covid-19 situation, with cases surging in an unprecedented manner.  The meeting will be a virtual one that will be held on video. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who is in hospital for Covid-19 treatment, will also attend the meeting, his office said.  Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, Leader of the Opposition in the Council SR Patil, JD(S) Legislature Party Leader H D Kumaraswamy (also down with Covid-19), Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar, state JD(S) president H D Kumaraswamy, former deputy chief minister G Parameshwara and former minister H D Revanna are among the invitees.  The outcome of this meeting will determine the next steps of the Yediyurappa administration as the current Covid-19 regulations, including the night curfew, will end in the wee hours of April 21.  Speculation is rife that the government might consider the closure of public places and a weekend lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. However, it is said that government is not keen on a full-fledged lockdown like last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governor-to-chair-all-party-meeting-on-april-20-976079.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister K Sudhakar indicates strict Covid-19 control measures||As the government holds crucial meetings, amid a spike in Covid cases in the state, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Monday, indicating tough control measures said, lockdown is not the only solution, as he also conceded that Bengaluru city is witnessing a shortage of ICU beds. The Minister said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who will on Monday be attending the meeting with MLAs and Ministers from Bengaluru, virtually from the hospital where he is undergoing treatment for Covid, will also be holding a meeting with leaders of opposition parties Tuesday to gather their opinion on the measures to be taken in the state. "In Bengaluru, there is an increase in infections, when infections increase there will be a shortage of beds at hospitals. More than hospital beds, we are seeing a shortage of ICU beds," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters here ahead of the crucial meeting with legislators and Ministers from the city, he said, we will discuss how to bring it under control and measures to be taken in this regard. "Giving treatment is one part of it, we will also have to control the spike in infections and bring it down, for that we will have to certainly impose restrictions on some activities. We will have to think in that direction and take advice from everyone," he added. Chief Minister Yediyurappa who is currently undergoing treatment for Covid at a private hospital, will be attending the meeting virtually, his office said in a statement. Noting that the suggestions given by the state's Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid with scientific inputs will be crucial, Sudhakar said, keeping all these aspects in mind the government will take a decision. Responding to a question on lockdown, he said, "The term lockdown is getting publicity, the question before us is what kind of strict measures should be taken to bring things under control...we should have clarity on it. Lockdown is not the only solution." People are thinking about normal life being affected, but many lives are getting lost and saving lives is the priority of the government, he said, adding, "So we will discuss about the measure to be taken at the meeting today, and tomorrow Chief Minister will be talking to leaders of opposition parties via video conference, following which we will come to a final decision." Not giving clarity on whether tough measures will be announced Monday, the Minister said, "It can't be said now itself, may be measures for Bengaluru will be announced today or as there is meeting with leaders of opposition parties tomorrow, after getting inputs from there and discussing with Ministers, officials and TAC, a decision may be announced." The meeting with leaders of opposition parties that was scheduled for Sunday was cancelled after Yediyurappa tested positive for Covid. The state had on Sunday reported the biggest ever spike of 19,067 new Covid cases and 81 deaths taking the total number of infections to 11,61,065 and the toll to 13,351. The total number of active cases stood at 1,33,543. Out of the 19,067 new cases on Sunday, 12,793 were from Bengaluru alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-indicates-strict-covid-19-control-measures-976082.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||15,785 new Covid-19 cases and 146 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 15,785 new cases of Covid-19, and a record 146 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 11,76,850 and the death toll to 13,497, the Health department said on Monday. The state had witnessed 81 Covid-19 related deaths yesterday, its previous highest. Bengaluru Urban alone recorded 9,618 new infections today. A total of over 2,37,16,866 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,23,212 were tested on Monday. The day also saw 7,098 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of April 19 evening, cumulatively 11,76,850 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 13,497 deaths and 10,21,250 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. According to the bulletin, of 1,42,084 active cases,1,41,363 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 721 are in ICU. Bengaluru Urban reported 97 deaths, Hassan (11), Mysuru (8), Bengaluru Rural (6), Dharwad (3), followed by others. Tumakuru accounted for 652 fresh cases, Mysuru 568, Kalaburagi 513, Hassan 320, Bidar 318, Vijayapura 302, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 5,56,253, followed by Mysuru 62,319 and Ballari 42,339. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,47,854, followed by Mysuru 57,409 and Ballari 39,752.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15785-new-covid-19-cases-and-146-deaths-in-karnataka-976250.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tough Covid-19 measures likely after Karnataka all-party meet||Imposing daytime restrictions on the movement of people and tweaking the night curfew timings are options before the state government ahead of an all-party meeting Tuesday where the next steps on containing the Covid-19 spurt will be finalised. On Monday, the government took suggestions from Bengaluru MPs, ministers and legislators from all parties on the pandemic situation in the city. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is expected to decide on new measures after Tuesday's all-party meeting chaired by Governor Vajubhai R Vala. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that all MLAs and MPs were against imposing a lockdown, but they recommended strict measures. Yediyurappa attended the meeting via video conference from hospital where he is undergoing Covid-19 treatment. Some MLAs suggested imposing Section 144 across the city to curb the movement of people. While some suggested starting the night curfew from 8 pm instead of 10 pm, others opposed the idea of a night curfew itself, Ashoka said. But Congress MLAs were unamused over the government's handling of the situation. "Why didn’t the government take precautions 2-3 months ago? No answer. How do we help people who aren't finding beds, ventilators and medicines? No answer. There was no solution," former minister Krishna Byre Gowda said. Another former minister Ramalinga Reddy said every household should be given Rs 25,000 if a lockdown was imposed. Congress MLC CM Ibrahim favoured prohibitory orders instead of a lockdown, whereas Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan said the government should set aside 25 hospital beds for legislators who can then allot them to the needy. Bangalore Rural MP DK Suresh, the lone Congress MP from Karnataka, said the government was drowning. "And they want to take us down with them." Defending the government, Ashoka said the government had arranged 14% more ICU beds this year. "Many private hospitals are yet to allot beds," he said, adding that only a tenth of the 50% beds in private hospitals was with the government. "This will increase to 60% in a week and soon all private hospitals will reserve half the beds." A nodal officer will be appointed for every Assembly constituency to respond to Covid-19 issues, Ashoka said. "The main reason for bed shortage is that people are getting hospitalized unnecessarily," he said. Crematoriums have been directed to remain open 24 hours, Ashoka said. He also said the government will hire more people to ensure BU codes are generated faster for patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tough-covid-19-measures-likely-after-karnataka-all-party-meet-976255.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Examinations Authority collects Rs 1.18 crore penalty from surrendered engineering seats||Imposing six times the course fees as a penalty to prevent students from surrendering professional seats has fetched significant revenue for the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). This year, the KEA has collected Rs 1,18,95,294 from 168 candidates as a penalty. The move is aimed at preventing seat blocking and students surrendering seats after the last round. Initially, the government faced stiff opposition from several parents and seat aspirants for the penalty. But the government was firm and went ahead. However, despite the heavy penalty, some candidates surrendered the seats. The data available with the KEA shows that the course fee charged for 168 candidates was Rs 19,82,549 and the penalty collected was Rs 1,18,95,294 - six times the course fee.Among the 15 engineering branches, those who opted for seats in Computer Science and Civil Engineering surrendered more seats by paying the penalty - 36 students In Computer Science and 51 in Civil Engineering. “The penalty was imposed to avoid students from surrendering government seats allotted in private colleges. This applies to those who surrender seats after a casual vacancy round,” a senior official of KEA said. “After casual round the surrendered seats will be converted into management seats. There were chances of candidates blocking the seats purposefully and dropping them in the last minute,” said the official. The fee charged for government quota engineering seats at private colleges varies from Rs 58,808 and Rs 65,360 depending upon the college. If a college fails to inform the KEA about vacant seats, then the college concerned is liable to pay a penalty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-examinations-authority-collects-rs-118-crore-penalty-from-surrendered-engineering-seats-976266.html
19-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru reports 568 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mysuru district reported 568 Covid-19 positive cases on Monday and 8 people succumbed to the infection.  The total number of positive cases has increased to 6,319 and the total deaths are 1,122. There are 3,788 active cases in Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 411 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 148 are suffering from Influenza-like illness (ILA) and nine are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-reports-568-fresh-covid-19-cases-976317.html
19-04-2021||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi government plans total lockdown amid Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra||Exactly 13 months after the Covid-19 pandemic claimed its first victim in Maharashtra, the state's death toll crossed the 60,000-mark with the addition of 500-plus casualties on Sunday and the daily new cases in the state galloped north to a new high and jumped the 68,000 barrier. Meanwhile, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is contemplating a total lockdown in the state or further strengthening the restrictions – as there were several cases of violations reported during last week. “Restrictions have to be strictly followed else strict action would be taken,” state Home Minister Dilip Wasle-Patil said. While Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has not commented on total lockdown, senior ministers and MLAs of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress are favouring total lockdown. Even some BJP MLAs are of the same opinion.  In the last 24 hours, 68,631 fresh cases and 503 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 38,39,338 and 60,473, respectively. “Deaths and total cases both are on rising,” pointed out Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra. The first cases in Maharashtra were reported on 9 March 2020 in Pune when a couple tested positive while the first death of a senior citizen was reported in Mumbai on 17 March. As of now, there are a total of 6,70,388 active cases – with the MVA government facing a shortage of beds, oxygen and Remdesivir injections. More than 37 lakh people are in home quarantine, according to the Public Health Department. On Sunday, 45,654 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 31,06,828. Meanwhile, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that 95% of Mumbaikars are adhering to Covid-19 guidelines while the remaining 5% who are not following the curbs are causing problems to others. In a related development, Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale was on the streets throughout the day visiting toll nakas and check nakas and pasting stickers – red, green and yellow - on the vehicles based on the scheme decided earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-government-plans-total-lockdown-amid-covid-19-surge-in-maharashtra-975991.html
19-04-2021||West||Man mows down two daughters under truck, later kills self by jumping before it||A 40-year-old man allegedly killed his two daughters by mowing them under the wheels of his truck and later killed himself by jumping before the same vehicle at a village in Pune district of Maharashtra early on Sunday, police said. The deceased, Bharate Barate, was angry over his 18- year-old elder daughter chatting with a boy on phone and her younger sister supporting her, they said. The deceased girls were identified as Nandini Barate (18) and Vaishnavi (14), police said, adding that Barate had even written a suicide pact note that he along with his wife and two daughters are ending their lives. The incident took place around 1.30 am on Sunday in Induri village of Maval tehsil in the district. "Barate was a driver and owned a truck. On Saturday, he caught his elder daughter chatting with some boy on her phone. Losing his temper over it, Barate beat her up. He was upset over her behaviour," senior police inspector Pradip Londhe of Talegaon MIDC police station said. As per the statement given by his wife, after beating the daughter, he was also seen writing on a piece of paper on which he also took a signature of his wife, which she did without reading its contents. "At 1 am on Sunday, Barate got up and went outside. After some time, he came back and took both the girls out of the house. After hearing the sound of the truck, his wife also woke up and came out. He had made his two daughters lie on the road and was driving the truck towards them. According to the woman, Barate even signalled her to join them," the officer added. But by the time she ran to seek help from her relatives who live nearby, Barate had mowed them under the truck. Later, he also jumped before that moving vehicle and died, he said. "They found both the girls and Barate dead on the road," he said. Police said they are trying to find out why the girls did not try to run away from the spot after seeing the truck approaching as they were not tied. "While Barate and his younger daughter Vaishnavi died on the spot, Nandini died in a hospital," the officer said. Londhe said that in the suicide note, he had written that his daughter's behaviour was inappropriate and no one should be held responsible for the deaths. "We have registered a case against Barate under section 302 (murder) of IPC and investigation is on," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-mows-down-two-daughters-under-truck-later-kills-self-by-jumping-before-it-976002.html
19-04-2021||West||Covid-19 lockdown in Rajasthan from April 19 to May 3||Rajasthan government has ordered a fortnight-long lockdown beginning Monday after an alarming and dangerous increase in Covid-19 cases in the state. The “lockdown-like restrictions” – named as ‘Jan Anushasan Pakhwada’ or fortnight of public discipline – came into force from Monday and would continue till May 3. The Rajasthan government issued orders late Sunday night after the state reported a record single-day increase of 10,262 new cases of Covid-19 and 42 deaths. Rajasthan was already under weekend curfew from Friday night. “We are in a dangerous situation and everyone must follow the guidelines and adopt Covid appropriate behaviour,” Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said. As per the guidelines, all private offices, select government offices, non-essential business establishments and markets will remain closed.   Industrial units and construction sites where labourers are employed will be allowed to function so that migration could be stopped, it said. MGNREGA workers, cold storage and warehousing services, home delivery by restaurants, sweet shops, people associated with stock exchange, wedding activities, people going for vaccination, ration shops, procurement of Rabi crops on MSP, food and grocery shops, fruits, vegetable and milk vendors, people going to bus stands, railway stations and airports and all other essential services and departments related to essential and emergency services will be exempted from restrictions, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-in-rajasthan-from-april-19-to-may-3-976007.html
19-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra declares 6 states as places of sensitive origin||Struggling to contain the huge Covid-19 surge, Maharashtra has declared six states, including Delhi and the NCR region, as places of "sensitive origin" in a bid to stop the influx of other variants of coronavirus into the state. Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte in an order issued on Sunday declared Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), Rajasthan and Uttarakhand as places of "sensitive origin". As per the order, passengers travelling to Maharashtra from these places will need a negative RT-PCR report of test conducted within 48 hours of their train travel. The decision has been taken to curb the transmission of coronavirus in Maharashtra and to "stop the influx of other Covid-19 virus variants into the state from other locations," said the order. "These places will be considered as the places of sensitive origin from the date of this order till the time it is retracted or till Covid-19 stays notified as a disaster," it said. On Sunday, Delhi recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 new cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent. Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state in terms of the number of cases and deaths, on Sunday reported the highest number of 68,631 fresh infections while 503 patients died, as per the state health department. With this, the cumulative caseload in Maharashtra mounted to 38,39,338 while the death toll reached 60,473. The Maharashtra government also issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for passengers from the six states of sensitive origin. For passengers travelling in long-distance trains from these places, the Railways shall share data of the trains that are scheduled to be running between these places and stations in Maharashtra with the local disaster management authorities, as per the SOPs. The data of passengers will be shared with local disaster management authority each day, four hours before the departure from the origin of trains, the government said. No unreserved tickets will be issued from these places to Maharashtra. The Railways should ensure trains from the places of sensitive origin come to outer platforms where it is easier to conduct thermal screening (of passengers), the order said. If the passengers are not carrying the RT-PCR negative report, they will have to undergo a rapid antigen test at the station, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-declares-6-states-as-places-of-sensitive-origin-976040.html
19-04-2021||West||Shiv Sena demands special Parliament session for discussing Covid-19||With the northward zoom of Covid-19, the Shiv Sena on Monday urged the Narendra Modi-government at the Centre to convene a special Parliament session to discuss the ongoing second wave of the pandemic sweeping the globe and to chart the road ahead. “We can have a Parliament session with all the social distancing norms and other protocols and SOPs…the last (winter) session was held with social distancing,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member said.   Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, said that he has been speaking to people across parties and states. “The situation is serious…may of them feel like I feel and we should have a special session where the state can present their problems and seek remedial measures and necessary help,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai. Taking to Twitter, he said: “It's an unprecedented and almost a war like situation. Utmost confusion and tension  everywhere! No beds, no oxygen and no vaccination as well ! It's nothing but total chaos ! It's an unprecedented & almost a war like situation. Utmost confusion & tension everywhere! No beds,no oxygen & no vaccination as well ! It's nothing but TOTAL CHAOS ! A special  session of the Parliament for at least two days should be called to discuss the situation! Jai Hind,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-demands-special-parliament-session-for-discussing-covid-19-976044.html
19-04-2021||West||BJP leaders object to Muslims volunteering at Vadodara crematorium: Report||As the country battles the second  wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP leaders in Gujarat's Vadodara have different concerns.  Leaders of the saffron party's Vadodara segment have objected to the presence of Muslim volunteers at the city's Khaswadi crematorium.  “We learnt that he is a contractor supplying wood and dung cakes but he has sublet a contract or appointed more Muslim youth to work in the crematorium, which is wrong. Volunteering for good work is one thing but getting into religious rituals when you have no knowledge of it is not welcome. For Hindus, the antim sanskaar is the last of the 27 sanskaars we have. It cannot be done by someone who does not know. We have told the VMC that the person, who is given the contract for the supply of wood and cow dung could deliver it outside the crematorium. He does not need to be inside,” BJP's Vadodara City President Dr Vijay Shah, who was also part of the group, told the publication. The report stated that Muslim volunteers have been lending a helping hand during cremations since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak in the city but it was only recently that the BJP leaders had decided to raise an objection. To this, Shah said, "We did not know about it… There are volunteers, who are aware of the religion and they can help with the cremations… We believe that the volunteers performing the last rites of Hindus should be Hindus. We have no other objection.” One of the staffers at the crematorium said that the volunteer was wearing a skullcap as it was a Friday and he was observing the month of Ramzan. "This man has been working here tirelessly with us since the last year of the pandemic and for two decades before that… There have been at least 1,000 bodies that have been cremated in this crematorium by Muslim brothers in the last year and no one questioned them because no one was here to see them.” the undertaker at the crematorium told the publication. A medical officer associated with the VMC Health Department told the Indian Express that the Muslim contractor in question is the only supplier of cowdung cakes to the crematoriums and said that he does it voluntarily with no formal contract in place.  Meanwhile, the objections raised by the BJP leaders were condemned by their own party leaders in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation with Mayor Keyur Rokadia saying, "This is the time of a pandemic at its peak. In the best interest of society, communities must work together and understand each other’s sentiments. The controversy has been brought to our notice and we will address it amicably.”  “This stand taken by the party leaders is very embarrassing. It is not right to mix religious ideologies at this time when the entire city is suffering. We cannot deny that the Muslim groups in Vadodara have worked very closely with the VMC during the last year,” another BJP leader told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-leaders-object-to-muslims-volunteering-at-vadodara-crematorium-report-976045.html
19-04-2021||West||Fire at sanitiser factory in Maharashtra's Thane, no casualty||A major fire broke out in a sanitiser factory in Maharashtra's Thane district on Monday, a civic official said. No casualty has been reported so far, Thane Municipal Corporation's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. The blaze erupted around 12.15 am in the factory located behind a hotel on the Mumbai-Nashik highway in Asangaon township here, he said. "So far, no one has been injured. The cause of the fire is still not known," the official said. Six fire engines, including from the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Navi Mumbai, Thane city and Ulhasnagar, were rushed to the spot, an official at the Thane, district police control room said. Efforts were still on to douse the blaze, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-sanitiser-factory-in-maharashtras-thane-no-casualty-976047.html
19-04-2021||West||Will put coronavirus in Fadnavis' mouth if I find it: Shiv Sena MLA||Amid the row over Remdesivir supply, Shiv Sena MLA Sanjay Gaikwad said that had he found the coronavirus, he would have put it in the mouth of the BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, sparking protests by the opposition party here in Maharashtra. Former chief minister Fadnavis is being targeted by the ruling parties in Maharashtra for objecting to Mumbai police's grilling of a pharma company's top executive over alleged stocking of vials of Remdesivir, which is in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, Gaikwad, who is an MLA from Buldhana, asked what would Fadnavis have done if he was the chief minister at this time of the pandemic. Rather than supporting the state ministers, BJP leaders are mocking them and looking at how this government (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) fails, he said. "Hence, if I would have found the coronavirus, I would have put it into the mouth of Devendra Fadnavis," he said. Gaikwad alleged that Fadnavis and BJP leaders Pravin Darekar and Chandrakant Patil were doing petty politics over the pandemic and distribution of Remdesivir injections. The Centre asked Remdesivir manufacturing companies in Maharashtra not to supply the drug to the state. They are also not providing the required medical oxygen to Maharashtra, Gaikwad claimed. They are providing Remdesivir injections to Gujarat and supplying 50,000 vials of the drug to that state free of cost from a BJP office in Maharashtra, while people are dying in Maharashtra, he charged. "Such low and petty politics is being done by the central government and Fadnavis," he claimed. Is this the time to do politics? The Centre and Fadnavis should be shameful of their acts, he said. Following Gaikwad's remarks, BJP workers staged protests at various places in Buldhana on Sunday and burnt the MLA's effigies. Fadnavis on Sunday said he has not done anything wrong and was not afraid of any inquiry against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-put-coronavirus-in-fadnavis-mouth-if-i-find-it-shiv-sena-mla-976064.html
19-04-2021||West||'Crime against humanity': Priyanka Gandhi accuses Fadnavis of hoarding Remdesivir||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday accused former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis of hoarding Remdesivir, saying a BJP leader holding on to the drug at a time when people are scrambling to arrange it is a "crime against humanity". Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary tagged a video of top Maharashtra BJP leaders, including Fadnavis, arguing with police officials after the Mumbai Police questioned a pharma company director following information that thousands of vials of the Remdesivir drug, critical in Covid-19 treatment, were to be flown out of the country. "At a time when people from every corner of the country are requesting for being provided with Remdesivir, and many are struggling to procure a bottle of Remdesivir to save their lives, a BJP leader, who was in responsible position, hoarding Remdesivir is a crime against humanity," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Mumbai Police on Sunday said they had information that the Remdesivir stock was going to be flown abroad as air cargo, despite a ban on the export of the drug. While Leader of Opposition Fadnavis claimed the director was picked up because the BJP managed to get permissions in place for the supply of the drug to Maharashtra, activist Saket Gokhale wondered how did a "private individual like Fadnavis" procure Remdesivir stock from Gujarat when the sale is allowed only to the government. The BJP objected to the pharma executive's grilling by the police, saying the state government was playing politics amid the pandemic. On learning that the pharma company director was being quizzed, Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Pravin Darekar rushed to the police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/crime-against-humanity-priyanka-gandhi-accuses-fadnavis-of-hoarding-remdesivir-976069.html
19-04-2021||West||BJP's agenda that Maharashtra govt should fail in handling Covid, alleges Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday slammed BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar for objecting to Mumbai police's grilling of a pharma firm's top executive over alleged stocking of Remdesivir vials and wondered if there was a conspiracy to disturb the law and health order. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' accused the BJP of having a clear agenda that the Maharashtra government should fail in handling the Covid-19 situation, and charged it with making persistent efforts in that direction with the help of the Centre. It said the Maharashtra government and the opposition should be unanimous at least on the issue of saving lives of people and no one should seek political mileage out of pyres of people dying for want of the drug, which is in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients. Mumbai police questioned a pharma company director on Saturday following information that thousands of vials of Remdesivir were to be flown out of the country, despite a ban on its export. On learning that the company director was being questioned, former chief minister Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Darekar had rushed to the police station. They said the BJP was reaching out to pharma companies due to the shortage of Remdesivir in the state. Fadnavis said it was their sincere attempt to get Remdesivar for Maharashtra. However, the editorial in 'Saamana' on Monday alleged that politics is being played on the issue of supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injections for treating Covid-19 patients. It said the Maharashtra government was not getting the Remdesivir injections, but BJP leaders were purchasing them unilaterally from pharma companies. It never happened in Maharashtra earlier that the Leader of Opposition advocated for a pharma company official instead of the state, the Sena said. "Isn't there a conspiracy to trouble the law and health order?" it asked. The Sena claimed it is a "crime" on part of the companies to make available stock of the injections to the BJP unilaterally. It also questioned the BJP's criticism of the government after the police exposed hoarding and black marketing by the companies. "What can the opposition leaders in the Assembly and Council rushing to a police station mid-night to seek release of a pharma company official be called?" the Shiv Sena asked. The Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and the country are feeling suffocated due to lack of oxygen and funeral pyres have been lit for the want of Remdesivir, it said. "Nobody should heat up (their) political pans on these pyres. The government and the opposition should behave unanimously at least on this issue," the Marathi daily said. Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said Maharashtra has so far received the highest quantity of oxygen in India and the Centre is in regular touch with state governments to assess their needs. Referring to it, the Shiv Sena asked whether the Centre was doing any favour to Maharashtra by giving the highest quantity of oxygen. Maharashtra is making the highest contribution to the Centre's coffers, the editorial said, adding that Delhi (the central government) will need oxygen support if this supply (of tax payment) is stopped (from the state). "...when Maharashtra is facing a crisis, the Union minister is troubling Maharashtra by giving an account of how much has been given and taken (to the state). This is sort of staining the humanity," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjps-agenda-that-maharashtra-govt-should-fail-in-handling-covid-alleges-shiv-sena-976074.html
19-04-2021||West||5 Maharashtra cities to join 'Race To Zero' global campaign||Five Maharashtra cities - Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik - are set ot participate in the ‘Race To Zero’ global campaign under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 'Race To Zero' is a global campaign to rally leadership and support from businesses, cities, regions, investors for a healthy, resilient, zero carbon recovery that aids sustainable growth. “It is unavoidable and urgent. We need to make the language simple, take it to the common man, and make it a part of mainstream politics. It also needs to be part of every level of governance, legislation, judiciary, and corporate structure,” said Maharashtra Environment, Tourism and Protocol and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray. In the last 50 years, Maharashtra has recorded a seven-fold increase in drought events and a six-fold increase in the frequency of extreme flood events, impacting livelihoods across the state. The state also has a high climate risk due to heatwaves and droughts, affecting every sector - from agriculture to industries.   In 2020 itself, Maharashtra has had to pay almost ₹13,000 crore as compensation for weather events related to climate change. “The livelihood of communities, from coastal areas to hills to farmlands, is dependent on each of these ecosystems, which will be altered by effects of climate change. This might lead to distress and social instability,” Thackeray said at Climate Voices, a collaborative initiative aimed at engaging people in Maharashtra on climate change and amplifying solutions. Thackeray pointed out that Maharashtra had already emerged as a state leader committed to energy transition and green recovery. “The state is also actively working on energy transition. Our effort must be towards making green energy the new conventional form of energy. We are finding more stable and firm sources of energy and energy storage when it comes to renewables,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-maharashtra-cities-to-join-race-to-zero-global-campaign-976080.html
19-04-2021||West||Daring railway man saves boy from getting crushed under a train in Mumbai||A daring railway pointsman raced like a cheetah opposite a speeding train and saved a boy from getting run over at the Vangani station of the Central Railway. The pointsman, Mayur Shelke, attached to CR’s Mumbai division was hailed as a hero and was praised by one and all. The incident took place on Saturday evening when the Udayan Express was speeding towards the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus. His act of exemplary courage and bravery was captured by CCTV camera and the footage went viral on social media. The video footage shows the boy, who was walking with his mother, on the platform and slipped down on the tracks. The footage also shows a local train speeding in the same direction when Shelke is seen running on that track from the opposite direction. The mother, who was visually challenged, tried to help out her son, but could not. Endangering his life, the man sprinted and got hold of the boy and pushed him to the platform. Then he somehow climbed and secured himself over the platform, missing the train by a fraction of a second. The mother-son duo belongs to Vangani in Thane district. “I feel proud that I could save the boy,” he said. “I saw the boy falling down and the speeding train….I ran for 50 to 60 metres before I could secure him and save myself,” he said. Asked whether he has seen the CCTV footage, he said: “Yes…I just wanted to save him…and I did.” Railway Minister Piyush Goyal praised Shelke for the act of bravery. “Very proud of Mayur Shelke, Railwayman from the Vangani Railway Station in Mumbai who has done an exceptionally courageous act, risked his own life and saved a child's life,” tweeted Goyal. “A Good Samaritan: At Vangani station of Central Railway, Pointsman Mayur Shelkhe saved the life of a child just in the nick of time. He risked his life to save the life of the child. We salute his exemplary courage and utmost devotion to the duty,” the Railway Ministry tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daring-railway-man-saves-boy-from-getting-crushed-under-a-train-in-mumbai-976149.html
19-04-2021||West||Restrictions imposed to combat dangerous Covid-19 threat in Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the lockdown-like restrictions imposed in the state are meant to control the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths and not create panic among people, including labourers. He said the situation was “very alarming and dangerous” and the decision to impose the restrictions was taken after a cabinet and a review meeting. "The new guidelines and provisions issued last night are aimed at containing the steep surge in positive cases and deaths. At the same time, we have ensured that there is no panic among the labourers,” Gehlot told PTI. After the state registered a record single-day spike of 10,262 coronavirus positive cases and 42 deaths on Sunday, the government late night issued an order extending the weekend curfew, which was earlier scheduled to be implemented from Friday evening to Monday morning. Called the 'Public Discipline Fortnight', the curfew came into force on Monday morning and will continue till May 3. Gehlot said according to reports, the virus has become airborne, thus worsening the situation. “We are in a dangerous situation and everyone must follow the guidelines and adopt Covid appropriate behavior," Gehlot said. The chief minister said the complete lockdown last year created panic among the labourers. Today, the state government has announced balanced guidelines with restrictions as well as exemptions, he added. As per the guidelines issued by principal secretary home Abhay Kumar, all private offices, select government offices, non-essential business establishments and markets will remain closed. Industrial units and construction sites where labourers are employed will be allowed to function so that migration could be stopped, it said. MGNREGA workers, cold storage and warehousing services, home delivery by restaurants, sweet shops, people associated with stock exchange, wedding activities, people going for vaccination, ration shops, procurement of Rabi crops on MSP, food and grocery shops, fruits, vegetable and milk vendors, people going to bus stands, railway stations and airports and all other essential services and departments related to essential and emergency services will be exempted from restrictions, the order said. “We have called it 'Public Discipline Fortnight' because self-discipline is very important in the fight against coronavirus. Everyone should strictly adhere to the guidelines and mandatorily wear a face mask in proper manner and maintain social distancing,” Gehlot said. Currently, the state has 67,135 active coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/restrictions-imposed-to-combat-dangerous-covid-19-threat-in-rajasthan-ashok-gehlot-976169.html
19-04-2021||West||Covid-appropriate administration necessary: IMA-Maharashtra||As the country reels under the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the apex body of doctors on Monday called for the need of “Covid-appropriate administration” along with “Covid-appropriate behaviour” to tide over the crisis. "We want to state that this disease is here to stay for quite some time. We have to accept it. So life has to move on, with Covid-appropriate behaviour and Covid-appropriate administration as well. For that the HCWs are ready, but they need some autonomy and least administrative harassment,” the Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State said. “We are with the government. Our members are already working in the private sector and we have given services in the public sector as well. We can still offer help in the form of telemedicine, e-ICU and vaccination. And in this struggle 17,975 doctors have contracted the infection and unfortunately, 168 have succumbed to Covid-19 in our state. But the government has not given the insurance cover to all. So the government must come clear on the insurance cover to all those working in Covid hospitals,” the IMA-Maharashtra President Dr Ramkrishna Londe, President-elect Dr Suhas Pingle, Honorary State Secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar, Joint Secretary Mangesh Pate and Chairman of Action Committee Dr Rajendra Kulkarni said in a joint statement. About the pandemic and combat strategies, the statement said, “Testing of many, treatment of all and increasing awareness about the Covid-appropriate behaviour in all, are the pillars for the containment of the pandemic. We agree to that. But vaccination of all is the key to strengthen these pillars. The government must make vaccination against Covid-19 a mission to be run by all the stakeholders. We, the medical fraternity, have eradicated polio from this country. We have been successfully running immunization against many vaccine preventable diseases. So we urge the government to make the vaccination drive to all those who wish to receive it and by all those who wish to give it.” They said the administration, government and media need to strive hard to maintain the faith of society in the medical fraternity, otherwise, the health care workers will get demoralised and it will be detrimental to the already overburdened health care system. “The administration officials and leaders in the government should avoid generalized statements in relation to the treatment part of the disease in question. Such sweeping remarks by the government authorities can create distrust in the patient and their relatives' minds and at the same time disturb the already stressed medical fraternity,” it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-appropriate-administration-necessary-ima-maharashtra-976209.html
19-04-2021||West||Gasping for oxygen, Maharashtra is in 'mission mode'||Gasping for liquid medical oxygen, the Maharashtra government is now on mission mode to secure oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Among other things, the government plans to harness the oxygen in the air by using two technologies — Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) and Air Separation Unit (ASU). “We are making all possible efforts to secure oxygen,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters in Mumbai. According to him, Maharashtra’s production capacity is around 1,250 metric tonnes daily. The state is getting 300 metric tones from Bhilai and Bellari and will get more as the Ro-Ro services have been operationalised by the Railways. “We want to upgrade to the level of 1,800 metric tonnes. However, the demand is increasing drastically as more patients are getting admitted and are in need of oxygen facilities,” Tope said after reviewing the situation. Last week, the government decided to use 100 per cent of its LMO for medical purposes. “There are oxygen-making facilities in steel plants, thermal power plants, refineries and paper manufacturing plants…we are asking them to produce oxygen and send supplies to us,” he said. The Centre has also asked states to ensure that vehicles carrying oxygen from other states to Maharashtra are not obstructed in view of the shortage and the need.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gasping-for-oxygen-maharashtra-is-in-mission-mode-976216.html
19-04-2021||West||Navy seizes narcotics worth Rs 3,000 cr||In one of the biggest seizures in recent times, the Indian Navy seized 300 kgs of narcotics valued at Rs 3,000 crore in the international market. Indian Naval Ship Suvarna, whilst on surveillance patrol in the Arabian Sea, encountered a fishing vessel with suspicious movements. To investigate the vessel, the ship’s team conducted a boarding and search operation, which led to the seizure of more than 300 kgs of narcotics substances.  The boat with its crew has been escorted to the nearest Indian Port of Kochi, Kerala for further investigation. The approximate cost of the catch in the international market is estimated to be Rs. 3000 crore, according to a press statement circulated by Mumbai-headquartered Western Naval Command. This is a major catch not only in terms of the quantity and cost but also from the perspective of disruption of the illegal narcotics smuggling routes, which emanate from the Makran coast and flow towards the Indian, Maldivian and Sri Lankan destinations.  "Apart from the human costs from drug addiction, the spoils of narcotics trade feed syndicates involved in terrorism, radicalisation and criminal activities," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navy-seizes-narcotics-worth-rs-3000-cr-976248.html
19-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Goa to tap oxygen from steel units in Bellary||After tapping 20,000 litres of liquid oxygen from Kerala, steel units in Karnataka’s Ballari district may help Goa tide over possible oxygen shortage in the state, which has witnessed a severe spike in Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks. According to Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, going by the current rate of infections in the state, the requirement of oxygen would double. Oxygen is a critical part of the treatment of severe Covid-19 patients, who suffer from shortness of breath. “The government is trying its best to increase its oxygen capacity. We have roped in all the companies, which were providing oxygen to us, to help us a bit to take care of GMC (Goa Medical College),” Rane said. The GMC is the top state government medical facility in the state. “As far as the requirement of oxygen goes, our forecast for the future is double of what we are using today... I was told there are companies, like JSW in Ballari district which has industrial oxygen supply... They can give us oxygen which can be put to use here,” Ranesaid. On Sunday, the state government had managed to procure 20,000 litres of liquid oxygen from Kerala. According to Rane, the state’s two top medical facilities -- the GMC and the South Goa district hospital -- consume around 63 trolleys of oxygen per day. Each trolley accounts for 150 cylinders and the requirement for the future would be even more. “There is a short supply (of oxygen) across India. The situation is expected to worsen,” Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-to-tap-oxygen-from-steel-units-in-bellary-976302.html
