20-04-2021||First Edit||Improper for Devendra Fadnavis to confront police||There are very contentious and unacceptable issues involved in the controversy over the questioning of the top official of a drug company in Daman by the Mumbai police and the intervention of senior BJP leaders of Maharashtra on his behalf. Rajesh Dokania, a director of the company, Bruck Pharma, had been called to the station by the police on suspicion that the company planned to export stocks of Remdesivir, which is used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. BJP leader and Leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in the Council Praveen Daneker and another leader Prasad Lad went to the station and interceded with the police for him. The police allowed the company official to go home after questioning him for over an hour. But it was highly improper for the leaders to confront the police over the matter and press for his release, as small-time politicians do to get offenders released from mofussil police stations.  There is a ban on the export Remdesivir from the country. The police acted on information about the storage of the medicine by the company and the questioning of the company official was part of the investigation. There have been serious complaints about shortage of medicines and vaccines. Maharashtra, which is worst hit by the pandemic, has acutely experienced the shortages, and has charged the Central government of discriminatory treatment. Fadnavis’ explanations about the incident are not convincing. He has said that the BJP was procuring the medicine from the company for the state. He said he had spoken to Union Minister of State for Chemicals Mansukh Mandavia for necessary permissions and got them arranged. But why should a political party arrange production and storage of an important medicine in bulk quantity? Parties and individuals are not authorised under the law to buy medicines in large quantities. Fadnavis also said permission was taken from the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) to donate the drugs to the state government, but the police have said they had no information about this. There was reportedly a stock of at least 60,000 vials of Remdesivir with the company, and the questions about their production and storage and the BJP leaders’ involvement in the matter need better answers.  It is unfortunate that parties and their leaders are engaged in political games and one-upmanship when the country is in the midst of a pandemic and there is a shortage of medicines. State governments have the most important role in fighting the pandemic. The Central government and the Opposition parties in states should support them in their efforts.  Maharashtra’s BJP leaders acted wrongly in the matter, and their conduct was especially bad in these difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/improper-for-devendra-fadnavis-to-confront-police-976333.html
20-04-2021||First Edit||Affront to federal system||The all-party meeting convened and chaired by Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala on Tuesday to deliberate the Covid-19 situation, even as an elected chief minister continues to hold office, is an affront to the federal system and violates the basic tenets of the Constitution. However, Vala cannot be solely blamed for this transgression as the instruction to hold such meetings were issued by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a recent conference of governors. Though according to Article 153, the executive power of the state vests with governor, he is bound to act under the aid and advice of the council of ministers headed by the chief minister and not the other way round, as per Article 163. The Supreme Court has ruled umpteen times that governors cannot act independent of the advice of the council of ministers except in specified areas where the Constitution has entrusted them with discretionary powers. Interference in routine administrative affairs like the management of the pandemic, however well-intentioned, amounts to an encroachment of the powers of the state. The governor’s intrusion into the chief minister’s domain is totally unwarranted. In case the governor was of the view that there was a complete breakdown of government machinery in the state and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was incapable of effectively combating the pandemic and discharging his other constitutional obligations for whatever reason, he should have recommended imposition of president’s rule under Article 356. The argument that the governor had to intervene due to Yediyurappa’s indisposition holds no water, as convention dictates that under such circumstances, the prime minister or chief minister temporarily transfers power to the senior-most minister. The governor can step into the chief minister’s shoes only when president’s rule is in force and under no other circumstances. The governor can also discard the aid and advice of the council of ministers, if specifically permitted by the president, when a state of emergency is declared under Article 353. Unless political parties strongly protest such needless incursions, a time will come when governors at the behest of the Centre would interfere in the day-to-day administration of the state, reducing elected chief ministers to non-entities. In a federal structure, the states cannot function as vassals of the Centre. Governors are a relic of the British past and many of them have downgraded themselves to mere agents of the Centre with utter disregard to constitutional provisions, conventions, precedents and even court verdicts. It is perhaps time to take a re-look at the post of governor itself or at least codify their powers to ensure that tyranny of the unelected does not triumph over popular governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/affront-to-federal-system-976621.html
20-04-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Karnataka government offices highest property tax defaulters in Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike||Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike, which is grappling for funds to take up development work, is yet to get property tax dues of Rs 22 crore from the defaulters for the year 2020-21. And unfortunately, the majority of the defaulters are government offices, including the deputy commissioner’s office, top educational institutes, Hubballi Airport among others. According to documents available with DH, M G Mehata & Co has to pay property dues to the tune of Rs 1.04 crore (to be precise Rs 1,04,34,204/-) including a penalty of Rs 70.69 lakh. Sources in HDMP said they are fighting a legal case against the company to collect the dues. Hubballi Airport Authority is the second-highest property tax defaulter in twin cities. It has to pay HDMP a total of Rs 67.77 lakh of which Rs 22.05 lakh is a penalty and the tax balance is Rs 43.96 lakh. North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Control Room has to clear dues to the tune of Rs 60.86 lakh (penalty Rs 26.95 lakh), while its other office in Gokul road hasn’t cleared property tax of Rs 2.79 lakh. NWKRTC is the third-highest property tax defaulters. The South Western Railway has not paid property tax of Rs 1.08 lakh, including a penalty of Rs 68,402. In the list of top 23 property tax defaulters, prepared by the HDMP, the fourth spot is occupied by Associated pricizen Spendal Ltd (sic), which hasn’t paid property tax of 53.77 lakh for the year 2020-21. Karnataka Lingayat Education Society, which runs several reputed education institutes in North Karnataka, has not paid property tax of Rs 42.77 lakh. This apart, its B V Bhoomreddi Engineering college has also not paid a property tax to the tune of Rs 4.59 lakh. HDMP has slapped a penalty of Rs 4.21 lakh on the premier technical institute. The sixth-largest defaulter of the property tax is Basavareddi Education trust with Rs 40.92 lakh dues. This is followed by Karnataka State Warehouse Corporation (KSWC), Bengaluru whose office is near Hosur Junction. The warehouse has to pay HDMP Rs 40.87 lakh. Another unit of KSWC near Amargol have to clear dues worth Rs 37.67 lakh and ranks ninth in the shameful list of defaulters. The commercial Tax office at Navanagar has not cleared taxes to the tune of Rs 37.80 lakh (ranks 8th in the list). They are also supposed to clear a penalty of Rs 29.12 lakh. Two properties of Deshpande Foundation has not cleared property taxes to the tune of Rs 53 lakhs. While their building near Airport has not paid Rs 23.23 lakh, their second building has to pay Rs 30.43 lakh. Infosys Limited, which has not started its unit even after four years of completion, has not paid a property tax of Rs 5.27 lakh. Another notable defaulter is the APMC office at Amargol, which has to pay Rs 6.45 lakh property taxes. Dharwad Division post office has also not paid a tax of Rs 3.95 lakh. The Deputy Commissioner’s office, which has to pay a property tax of Rs 39,533 is the least among all the government offices. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said the office was ready to pay its taxes. However, due to confusion over which are properties for which they are supposed to pay taxes made the delay. “DC Compound is spread over 100 acres. More than 50 shops and other government buildings have taken over their space. We have asked HDMP to give us a list of property on which they are levying tax on us. HDMP has not given us the list yet,” he said. HDMP Revenue Deputy Commissioner Shankaranand Banashankari said efforts are being made to collect the taxes. “We are also fighting legal cases against some of the defaulters,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/karnataka-government-offices-highest-property-tax-defaulters-in-hubballi-dharwad-mahanagara-palike-976383.html
20-04-2021||In Perspective||Covid-19 second wave and a sense of déjà vu||The second Covid-19 wave is worrisome for rural India. Unlike the first wave a year ago, this time the infections are in their midst rather than some distant city. However, many seem resigned to their fate. They are often required to choose between two stark choices: sickness or even death from infection in the near future or penury today. Little wonder that precautions like wearing masks and social distancing are rarely followed. The fear about possible side effects means that the vaccination drive is only gradually picking up. Resultantly, in many rural areas, as cases increase rapidly, the lack of healthcare infrastructure means only those above 45 years of age are referred to hospitals — if there are beds available. In most cases, home quarantine is the norm. Unlike a year ago, the impact of the second wave has been less of a bolt from the blue. Large-scale reverse migration is not discernible on the same scale, at least for the present. Such migration may also be unlikely because labourers were only gradually returning to the cities, with many having readjusted to the reality of working in the immediate vicinity — even if it meant lower wages for the unskilled and women. The urge to migrate to big cities for work remains high but it has been tempered. Anecdotal evidence seems to indicate that about one-third of those who migrated in the past have not returned to work in cities because they could not find work for fear of Covid or their previous workplaces have not reopened. Those who decided to go back to cities did so only because of compulsive reasons such as their inability to find work in the close vicinity or because they needed the extra money. The biggest disappointment in the aftermath of the second wave is the slow start to the rural job scheme  works and the problem of pending arrears for work already completed — sometimes up to or more than two months. The economic conditions of those who preferred not to go back to cities have deteriorated and maybe akin to asphyxiation rather than quick death: gradual deterioration in economic conditions rather than an abrupt, quick collapse. Reduced opportunities and lower wages were accompanied by increased expenses on healthcare and food.  In most cases, borrowing from informal lenders at weekly interest rates of 10% or monthly interest rates of 5% is widely prevalent. In fact, the common refrain is that informal moneylenders and pawnbrokers are the only people flourishing in the aftermath of the pandemic. Odd as it may seem, while elections at the state or local body level are suspected to have aggravated the second wave, they provided welcome succour in the form of money spent for campaigning, campaign goodies and buying votes. That these took place at the start of lean season for the rural economy and as cases increased means that they provided incomes to themore vulnerable at a crucial time and served to postpone the day of reckoning by a month or two. Farm price collapse A problem that has come back to haunt agricultural producers is the collapse in the price of vegetables at the farm gate. This means the surplus eked out by producers in the past year has more or less vanished. An immediate worry of this collapse in prices is that it makes raising money from informal lenders more difficult since it increases uncertainties about the ability of the borrower to withstand another harvest of unremunerative prices for produce, and thereby repay borrowings. Last year, the rural economy and society was saved from a greater hardship only because of copious rains and good harvest. Failure or deficient rains would be an unmitigated disaster while raising capital for the next crop season will remain a challenge. Thus, rural India faces similar troubles as exactly a year ago, albeit with differing intensity. Unfortunately, so far, the helping hand of the government seems to be less visible as it was last year. Resultantly, as in the past many decades, rural economy and society are left praying for copious rains this year too to mitigate an already difficult situation. Unless the situation improves quickly with the government expanding its support, the next few months will remain a gamble on the prospects of agriculture, which may well turn out to be, as one colonial official remarked, “a gamble in rain”. (The writer is an independent researcher and advocate based in Andhra Pradesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-second-wave-and-a-sense-of-d-j-vu-976334.html
20-04-2021||In Perspective||Gender equality still a distant dream||We all saw a number of programmes in different forms on March 8 - the International Women’s Day. It is indeed an important day as it reminds us of the struggles of women for peace, reasonable working hours, equal wages and right to vote. The adoption of our Constitution was also a declaration of a dream for an equal society where everyone would have equal opportunities to schooling, good health, speak and dissent, work, elect and get elected. Although we have achieved gender parity, that is, equal representation of girls and boys, or men and women in certain respects, we are far from achieving substantive gender equality in most cases. Let us examine this for education. Some of our recent experiences from various research shows that inequalities exist in terms of treatment, expectations and attendance even though data points towards near or full gender parity. If there is a shortage of desks and benches, who gets it? In Bihar, we saw girls sitting on the floors while boys always got desks and benches, and no one questioned the practice. What happens even when there is no shortage? In Andhra, we saw that girls were made to sit behind boys. And who cleans the floor and who fills the water pot? In UP, we heard from Dalit girls that teachers always ask them only to sweep the floor, while they ask upper caste boys to fill the water. In the absence of adequate seats in government colleges in Bihar, we saw a good number of girls enrolled in private colleges that they never attend. It suits both the family and the institution – the institution does not hire faculties and only arranges for examinations, while the family doesn’t have to pay for the transport and, more importantly, does not have the fear of their girls either being sexually harassed or falling in love. Safety concerns often hide parental control over girls’ mobility and free will. In one place in Andhra, we saw that all girls from a village and some even from neighbouring villages withdraw from a secondary school after one of the adult girls from the village ran away with a boy and got married. The pressure of upholding family honour by maintaining chastity cuts across classes, and it seriously conflicts with education. Our analysis of district-level data in high-incidence districts showed that the incidence of child marriage was more common among the rich in certain states like Gujarat. Domestic violence Violence, too, is unrelentingly present in all sections of society. Of the total of more than four lakh reported crimes against women by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in 2019, more than 30% were domestic violence followed by about 28% cases of sexual assault and rape. Recently, we were in the field for the evaluation of a women’s literacy programme in Uttar Pradesh, where we could hardly meet a woman who had not struggled against domestic violence. Mobility is highly controlled and even access to technology, including phone, is controlled. One of our recent multi-state studies on the impact of Covid-19 on education and livelihoods clearly showed a gendered pattern: a much higher percentage of boys had access to telephone; girls were far more engaged in domestic and care work, leaving them with much less time for studies. Why are these not changing? Why do even educated women succumb to or even sanction such control? Women are part of the same society – unwritten social norms and shared understandings regarding the undesirable are the same; they, too, unquestioningly internalise it. ‘Obedience’ is a celebrated value in every sphere, but especially so in education. The New Education Policy mentions ‘obedience’ and ‘righteous conduct’ as desirable values to be perpetuated by education without even defining these words. Righteous conduct can easily be linked with maintenance of chastity, and schools can continue to reinforce unequal social norms. Our policies are verbose on desired objectives but inadequate on defining concepts clearly. Let me look at the cash transfer schemes in different states – Bhagyalakshmi, Dhanalakshmi, Vidya Lakshmi, Apni beti-apna dhan etc. The names of these schemes that objectify girls is not the only issue. Most of these are designed as conditional cash transfers to influence practices such as son preference and early marriage. But if cash-starvation is not the reason for these practices, how can the lure of cash solve it? Evidence clearly shows that cash transfer works in certain but not in all respects, especially when it comes to address issues that are structural in nature. While it is important to celebrate the achievements related to the changes in the status of women in our society, it is even more pertinent to reflect on how far behind we are from our own goal of an equal society. If not, we would be marching past on March 8, making some movements but not really moving ahead. (The writer is Director, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/gender-equality-still-a-distant-dream-976624.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police bust gang selling fake Remdesivir||Mysuru Crime Branch (CCB) police have busted a gang selling fake Remdesivir injections. Police seized 34 bottles of the fake medicine worth Rs 2.82 lakh and have arrested three persons, including a woman. The Police have arrested Girish, 34, prime accused, Shivappa, 37, and Mangala, 32. Two others - Manjunath and Prashant - are absconding. Police suspect that the gang would have sold more than 800 bottles of the fake medicine across the state, including in Bengaluru. Following complaints that the sales of fake Remdesivir medicine are rampant, the City Police had formed a team to look into the issue. During investigation, the crime came to light, said City Police Commissioner Chandragupta. Girish, who served as staff nurse at JSS Hospital for 11 years, used to fill fake medicines to empty bottles of Remdesivir. He used to collect empty bottles from Shivappa, a security guard at Apollo Hospital, and Mangala, a sweeper at KVC Covid Care Centre. After filling the bottles with fake medicine, Manjunath and Prashanth, medical representatives, used to sell them. Girish used to produce fake medicine using remdesivir powder, Ceftriaxone, an antibiotic and saline. According to the police, Girish used to invest Rs 100 to produce the fake medicine and used to sell it for Rs 4,000 per bottle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-bust-gang-selling-fake-remdesivir-976343.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmer electrocuted in Chamarajanagar||A farmer was electrocuted after coming in contact with a hanging live electric cable at his field in Kattepura village, Chamarajanagar taluk, on Sunday night. Veluswamy (60) is the deceased. It is said that Veluswamy had gone to the farm to switch on the water pump. He might have come in contact with the cable as he could not see the loose hanging wire in the dark, it is said. The victim's head got severed as it came in contact with the electric wire and was found hanging on to it, while his body was found at a distance. The incident came to light when his son came in search of Veluswamy, who had not returned home even after 11 pm. Veluswamy hails from Tamil Nadu and had purchased land and settled in Kattepura. Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Executive Engineer Poornachandra Tejaswi told reporters that the mishap occurred on Sunday night. The kin of the family will be provided a compensation of Rs 5 lakh, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmer-electrocuted-in-chamarajanagar-976344.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshin Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel sets up district-level Covid-19 war room||Karnataka state BJP President and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has set up a district-level war room to fight the spread of Covid-19 and to help people who are in distress. The war room will function from the MP's office and is headed by Nithin Kumar, Chairman of Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation, and Sudheer Shetty, a corporator of Mangaluru City Corporation. Mangalore City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath and Dakshina Kannada BJP unit President Sudarshana M are the coordinators of the war room. It has various sections to handle hospital bed accommodation, ventilators, arrangement for ambulance, vaccination, medicines, for coordinating on Ayushman Bharat - Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) scheme, and cremation. Sudarshana said that people can contact the helpline numbers 0824-2448888/ 2950445/ 9483496726/ 8762632174 to get help from the war room. Coordinators have been deputed to help patients get admission into hospitals, arrange ambulances, and other services. Coordinators have also been appointed to make arrangements for the cremation of the deceased and help in availing the benefits under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, he said. The MP called upon the party workers to help those in distress through ‘Seva Hi Sanghathan’ campaign. "People should help, especially senior citizens in availing vaccines. People should be cautious following the spike in Covid-19. Everyone should engage themselves in helping the people," Kateel added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshin-kannada-mp-nalin-kumar-kateel-sets-up-district-level-covid-19-war-room-976419.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada concerned over rising Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kasargod||The rise in Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring Kasaragod district of Kerala has become a matter of concern for the Dakshina Kannada district. As they share a border with each other, thousands of workers/labourers, businessmen, and students commute from Kasaragod to various parts of the D-K district daily. Covid-19 cases have been ballooning in Kasaragod district. The new Covid-19 cases reported on a daily basis has been increasing. From 187 fresh cases that were reported on April 1, the positive cases have increased to 622 cases on April 18. The Kasaragod district saw 430 cases on April 13, 424 cases on 14th, 158 on 15th, 643 on 16th, 333 on 17th, and 622 on April 18. Dakshina Kannada reported 1,285 cases from April 13 to 18, while Kasaragod reported 2,610 cases during the same period. The positivity rate in Kasaragod from April 13 to 18 is 14.9 per cent. In fact, the positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada was high among students from Kerala, pursuing their studies in the district, between January and March. The positivity rate of the Kerala students in D-K was 6 per cent to 8 per cent till March, while the total positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada was 1.18 per cent in March. When the Covid-19 cases increased in Kasaragod, the D-K district administration had imposed restrictions on the movement of people. However, as per a recent Karnataka High Court order, Dakshina Kannada district administration cannot impose restrictions on the movement of people on the interstate border.   According to District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Kishore Kumar, the department has increased the testing in the district. The target is to conduct 5,000 tests per day in Dakshina Kannada. Random tests are also conducted by the mobile teams at various interstate entry points. Efforts are being made to trace primary and secondary contacts of the infected, and they are being made to undergo tests mandatorily. Kasargod District Collector Sajith Babu in a Facebook post had stated, “The district is going through the most critical period of the Covid-19 phase. Strict maintenance of Covid-19 protocol is expected from each and everyone in the district. Enforcement of strict protocol is becoming an inevitable proposition and kindly co-operate with the district administration for the betterment of all in the society.” On the other hand, Kasaragod district administration had conducted a mega testing drive in the district following a surge in cases. A total of 8,321 people were tested for Covid-19 on April 16 and 17.   According to expert doctors in Dakshina Kannada, awareness is the need of the hour among people to check Covid-19. Wearing mask, maintaining distance, and frequently washing hands should be given priority. The DHO said that Asha workers were in contact with those who are in home isolation and are verifying their health conditions over phone. Everyone should adhere to precautionary measures. Those eligible should also get vaccinated, he added. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-concerned-over-rising-covid-19-cases-in-neighbouring-kasargod-976434.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bhadravathi municipal polls: Congress candidate dies||Congress candidate from ward number 29 for the election to Bhadravathi City Municipal Council, Shruthi Manjunath, died of illness on Monday. She fell sick while she was campaigning in Bhadravathi town. She was taken to district McGann General hospital in Shivamogga, where she breathed her last. It is said that she was pregnant. She is survived by her husband, son and daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhadravathi-municipal-polls-congress-candidate-dies-976539.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mandya DC imposes fine for violating Covid-19 norms||Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi, along with the officials of City Municipal Council, conducted a surprise inspection and imposed on-the-spot fine on those who failed to follow the Covid norms by not wearing masks in Mandya on Tuesday. With the Covid cases on the surge, the DC took out a sudden inspection and visited a petrol bunk near Raitha Sabhangana and created awareness on wearing masks on those who were covering their face with a kerchief. Later, she inspected several shops and hotels on V V Road and took to task those who were found not wearing masks. The owners of the shops were fined on the spot for not providing masks to the workers and not following social distancing. The DC said, "Collecting fine will continue till the Covid cases comes to nil in the district. The people should be cautious as the cases are on the rise every day in the district." She also directed the officials to impose fine on those who fail to wear masks. "Twelve people were fined Rs 100 each for not wearing masks and the shop owners Rs 500 for not insisting on following social distancing. The awareness campaign will continue in the district and fine collected," said CMC commissioner Lokesh. Environment Engineer Meenakshi and other officials accompanied the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-dc-imposes-fine-for-violating-covid-19-norms-976586.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Somashekar's surprise visit to hospitals, other facilities||Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar was on a surprise whirlwind visit to hospitals and other healthcare facilities in the city on Tuesday, to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, in the wake of the surge in the number of infections. Besides, he will visit Kerala border at Bhavali checkpost, HD Kote taluk, on Wednesday morning. However, a section of the people opine that his visits can be justified from publicity point of view only. “To get the work actually done, to make arrangements, to tackle the crisis, he should have met the officials and given instructions. He should allow the officials concerned to discharge their responsibilities, instead of keeping them around, for a whole day, with him,” said J K Somashekar, a retired employee. D Rajeev, a shopkeeper, said, “Agreed that Covid is a never seen before crisis. But, nowadays ‘playing to the gallery’ or ‘acting for the media’ exercises are becoming the norm. The representatives of the government, be it people’s representatives or bureaucrats, issue statements that create news, but on the implementation side, nothing progresses.” A government official said, “The meeting chaired by the minister at the government guesthouse on Tuesday evening, to seek information on the measures taken to tackle the crisis, was appropriate. But, taking an entourage of the officials to KR Hospital, Trauma Care Centre on KRS Road and other facilities was a burden on the already over-burdened officials. Even his visit to Bhavali checkpost on Wednesday morning will only mount pressure on the officials.” Jagadish Hebbar, a software professional, said, “In times of crisis, the ministers should function like CEOs of corporates, to get the work done efficiently. He could hold a video-conference with the officials and get information. He should give instructions to only top officials of the district on the measures to be taken. He should give deadlines for each task. Then, he should review the progress and give further instructions. The top officials will get the work done efficiently, through their junior colleagues.” Sujeev Sharma, an engineering student, said that most of the visits by the ministers and other people’s representatives, during emergencies and crisis are photo opportunities. “Not only during the present Covid times, even during a flood or an earthquake, the VIPs and VVIPs should avoid visits to allow proper functioning of the government machinery for care, rescue or rehabilitation exercises. Inspection visits, by politicians, to sites of development works is another story. Politicians should change, as they can gain publicity by many other means,” he said. Meanwhile, the Mysuru City Police have warned of stringent action against those who violate Covid guidelines and norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-somashekars-surprise-visit-to-hospitals-other-facilities-976587.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Library fire mishap: Crowd fund to be returned to donors||The fundraiser, who had mobilised over Rs 29 lakh, via crowd-funding, for the library that was gutted in a fire mishap, last week, at Rajeev Nagar Second Stage, has plans to return the amount to the respective donors. Fathaheen Misbah, who initiated the online crowd-funding, has tweeted, “Fundraiser Latest development - As Govt has come forward & taken it upon themselves to execute this project, based on donor requests, we will be returning the valuable contributions to all donors. We have sent update to @ketto yesterday, who are checking legalities” (sic), on Tuesday. It has to be recalled that the private library of Syed Ishaq, housed in a thatched hut, was gutted in a fire mishap on April 9. It has to be noted that many people on the social media had objected to the crowd-funding, as the government itself has come forward to build a library in place of the gutted library. Over 1,800 people had contributed to the amount of Rs 29 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/library-fire-mishap-crowd-fund-to-be-returned-to-donors-976589.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan DC warns action against hike in price of sand, gravel||Deputy Commissioner R Girish warned of stern action against those hiking the price of gravel and sand in Hassan district. Chairing a meeting of crusher owners here, the DC said that he is receiving a lot of complaints that the traders are increasing the prices of gravel and sand. The crusher owners should understand the problems of the public, while doing business, he said. The DC warned that in case anyone is found of selling the materials at higher rates, stern action would be taken against them and licenses will be cancelled. "There are complaints that the price of gravel and M Sand have been doubled after the district administration banned blasting of stones. Surprise inspections will be held. If anyone is found misusing the situation, they will be arrested," the DC warned. The public may complain to the Mines and Geology office on 08172-29735, in case they come across unscientific hike in price of the materials, he said. Addtional DC Kavitha Rajaram, Additional SP B N Nandini, Deputy Director for Mines and Geology Nagaraj and crusher owners participated in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-dc-warns-action-against-hike-in-price-of-sand-gravel-976590.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Business activities hit as number of tourists dip in Chamarajanagar||The rise in Covid-19 cases has affected tourism-related activities in Chamarajanagar district. The number of people visiting Himavad Gopalaswamy Betta and wildlife safari at Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Gundlupet taluk, has dwindled. Most of the tourists are from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, especially for wildlife safari at Bandipur. There was a gradual increase in the number of tourists to these places and had returned to normalcy, after the government lifted lockdown last year. But, the same situation prevails now, as tourists inflow has reduced. As the tourists inflow has come down drastically, over the last two weeks, hotels and resorts are affected. Hundreds of people are dependent on tourism in Gundlupet taluk. Besides, it has affected the sales in liquor shops and small vendors. Lingaraja, a tender coconut seller, said that he used to do good business during summer, when there is great demand. But, the sales has totally dipped over the last one week, he said. Manager of a private resort said, "Rooms and guesthouses are vacant like last year, during summer season. We had hoped that tourism will return to normalcy after January. But all our hopes have gone. It has become difficult even to pay salaries to the employees." On Monday, only 12 people came for safari at Bandipur. The numbers were less even on Saturday and Sunday, according to the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/business-activities-hit-as-number-of-tourists-dip-in-chamarajanagar-976591.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rare banded snake rescued||A banded kukri snake was rescued from the house of an retired bank employee in Udayagiri Layout, Hassan, on Tuesday. The snake, which was around 1.5 ft long, had black bands all over its body from head to tail. It is said to be one of the rare snakes. The reptile was found at the house of Nagesh, a retired Corporation Bank employee. It is said to be non-venomous snake found in India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Bhutan. It was rescued by environmentalist Yogita's brother Chetan and released into the forest, later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rare-banded-snake-rescued-976592.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chemical poured into drinking water tank||Miscreants allegedly mixed chemicals in a drinking water tank at Kurahatti village, Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru district, on Monday. The residents, who collected the water for use, observed chemical smell and immediately alerted others, against using the water. This resulted in a tense situation in the village. It is alleged that miscreants might have climbed the ladder and mixed chemicals in the tank, during night time. The waterman released water on Monday, as usual. When the people observed the stench in water, they alerted the officials. Panchayat Development Officer Vishwanath lodged a complaint with the rural police station. DySP Govindaraju visited the spot. The residents were advised not to use the tank water till the tank was cleaned. Alternative arrangement was made to supply water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chemical-poured-into-drinking-water-tank-976593.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tipu's summer lodge at Nandi Hills to get a facelift soon||The 18th-century Mysuru ruler Tipu Sultan’s summer lodge at Nandi Hills in Chikkaballapur district is all set to get a facelift. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has begun conservation work to restore the dilapidated structure. A centrally-protected monument, the summer lodge is believed to have been a camping place for Tipu during his hunting expeditions. ASI, Bengaluru Circle Superintending Archaeologist Shivakant Bajpai told DH that conservation work began recently and the ASI is expected to finish the first phase of the works by monsoon this year.  “Conservation work is difficult and always takes time. We are hoping to complete at least the roof work by the rainy season,” he said.  The conservation will take into account the material used for construction when the structure was built. Most of the Sultanate period monuments were built using lime mortar and the same material would be used for conservation work too as far as possible. “You will see the same thing even in the Tipu Summer Palace in Bengaluru,” the official explained. Further, the teak pillars in the lodge damaged by termites would be replaced with the same material.  The ASI plans to develop the surroundings of the structure with a lawn, in an effort to attract tourists. Officials in the ASI said the Tipu Summer Lodge was believed to have served as a temporary camp for the ruler whenever he went on a hunting expedition there.  The ASI officials did not elaborate on the funds required for the project. “We will use whatever funds have been granted for the Bengaluru Circle. We expect to complete phase one this year and take up the rest of the work next year,” another official added.  Explaining the significance of the monument, Meera Iyer, researcher and convener, INTACH, said the Tipu lodge was built before his era, probably in the 16th century. “It’s a typical lintel-and-beam construction of stone. It is on top of this that Tipu added some rooms, which display some typical Islamic features such as stucco work decorations. It is likely that Tipu himself spent quite a bit of time in Nandi Hills, especially during the summers. In the early 1930s, the building housed a supervisor’s office and a post office on the first floor and a small clinic and a police outpost on the ground floor,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tipus-summer-lodge-at-nandi-hills-to-get-a-facelift-soon-976609.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||144 test Covid-19 positive in village near Khanapur||Abnali village in the taluk has been declared a containment zone, with 144 cases of Covid-19 being reported on a single day here on Tuesday.  The village deity's fair was conducted on April 5 and 6 at Abnali. All those who participated in the fair have tested Covid-19 positive. They work in different towns in Maharashtra and had come to their native place for the fair. They complained of vomiting and diarrhoea and underwent treatment at the primary health centre at Ashok Nagar, 5 km away from the village. They hid from the doctors the fact that they had come from Maharashtra. As per the guidelines, swab samples of all the patients were collected during treatment and all of them tested positive. They are asymptomatic. Deputy Commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar has directed officials to sanitise the village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/144-test-covid-19-positive-in-village-near-khanapur-976613.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai defends governor chairing all-party meet||Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that governors of all states are holding meetings pertaining to Covid-19, on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s direction. This follows criticism over Governor Vajubhai R Vala chairing an all-party roundtable on the issue on Tuesday. Bommai’s defence came even as there was criticism from within the ruling BJP itself. “The PM has spoken with all governors and has asked them to hold talks with state governments and Opposition parties to ensure coordination for a united fight against Covid-19 during such an extraordinary circumstance. Governors of all states are holding meetings,” Bommai, who is also the parliamentary affairs minister, said.  Vala’s move to chair an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation has sparked off some fundamental questions. Although the governor is the executive head of the state, he or she acts based on the advice of the Cabinet. State Congress president D K Shivakumar wondered if the state had slipped into governor’s rule. “This is the first time the governor has convened an all-party meeting. Signs that the state will officially come under governor’s rule are everywhere,” he said. “Under what provision of the law or Constitution did the governor chair this meeting?,” he asked.  The Congress even speculated if the governor’s all-party meeting was a sign of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s exit. “Isn’t there an elected government in the state? Is it the government’s inefficiency or a BSYmuktaBJP campaign? Does the government have no face to show to the Opposition? Or, has the situation gone out of control?” the party said in a tweet.  Bommai said it was wrong to politicize everything every time. “There’s a Congress government in Rajasthan. If the governor holds a meeting, does it mean there’s governor’s rule in Rajasthan? Maharashtra has a coalition where the Congress is a partner. If the governor there holds a meeting, does Maharashtra come under governor’s rule,” Bommai asked. The minister further defended the government over criticism on its handling of the second Covid-19 wave. “Everybody knows that this mutation of the coronavirus is faster in terms of the manner it has spread in just three weeks. Still, we’ve ensured beds for thousands of people and the situation is under control in the districts,” Bommai said. “But I admit there’s a problem in Bengaluru. We’re taking all steps. We’ve spoken to oxygen manufacturers and I spoke to Jindal myself. We’re taking all steps and we need to work together,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-defends-governor-chairing-all-party-meet-976601.html
20-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress demands audit of Covid-19 deaths||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday demanded an audit into the deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “I demand an audit into deaths that have occurred due to Covid-19 or not, for want of beds and so on,” Shivakumar told reporters. “Some 164 people have died. Officials should at least go to the homes of each one,” he said.  Shivakumar attacked the BJP government for “utter failure” in handling the pandemic. “How many ICU beds are there? Which hospital has what? It’s not enough if just the health minister and revenue minister issue press statements every day. All ministers and officials should work on a war footing,” he said, adding that the government should bring out a whitepaper on the work it has done, including the contribution received under PM-CARES.  ‘Mismatch of numbers’ Former minister Priyank Kharge accused the government of ‘tampering’ with the data on Covid-19 patients to hide the true extent of the pandemic in the state. Taking to Twitter, Kharge said that there were huge differences in the number of patients testing positive and the number declared by the government in its daily bulletin. According to him, while the Parihara portal at the Kalaburagi district level reported 1,023 positive cases on April 19, the number was only 513 in the Covid-19 bulletin. “The number of +ve patients that are entered in Parihara portal by officials is more than twice reported in the media bulletin. Why the difference?” Kharge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-demands-audit-of-covid-19-deaths-976602.html
20-04-2021||Main Article||The local approach||The Covid crisis is the story of two global solutions to a medical problem: one was lockdowns; the other, vaccines. Lockdowns with social distancing were implemented in all countries on the advice of medical experts. They prevented the virus from spreading. Lockdowns also had many side effects from which people suffered greatly. Businesses closed down and people lost incomes. In crowded Indian cities, where poor people had no place to stay locked in, they had to venture out even to fetch water, and were harassed by police enforcing the lockdown. The single-minded focus on the treatment of Covid shut out patients of other ailments from hospitals. Doctors estimated that more people died from lack of treatments they were getting, but could not any longer, than the numbers who were treated for Covid. Closure of schools caused concerns about the long-term impacts on the development of children. In many countries—the US, the UK, the Netherlands, and others—citizens ailed by lockdowns refused to follow the rules. The rollout of new vaccines is a remarkable story of innovations produced by scientists and organisations in many countries. Citizens waited anxiously for the vaccines to become available. However, governments followed protocols established by medical scientists for testing new vaccines very strictly to ensure there would be no side-effects. The contrast between how the two solutions were implemented raises important questions: about scale, centralisation and the scientific approach. These must be addressed urgently because humanity has large challenges and needs effective ways to meet them. Problems such as persistent poverty and inequality, poor health and environmental degradation that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim to solve are systemic issues. They have multiple inter-acting causes and cannot be solved by any one actor. Centralisation is the wrong approach for solving complex problems which manifest in different shapes in different places. For example, environmental problems combine with livelihood problems in different ways in the Himalayan mountains in North India, in the dry lands of Rajasthan, and in the lush coastal regions of Kerala in the South. Therefore, local systems solutions are necessary for such global systemic problems. The solution: responsibility for the governance of complex systems must be devolved to communities in their localities. However, not only politicians, experts at the top also are reluctant to let go of their power. They claim that the locals will not have the capability to manage, and so the Centre must take on the burden of managing the locals. Clearly, we cannot carry on the way we are. Therefore, we must examine some prevalent beliefs driving models of growth. For one, the paradigm of progress has swung too far towards the global and has forgotten the local. And another: in their drive for ‘economies of scale’, economists and managers are overlooking the need for ‘economies of scope’. Economies of scope emerge when diverse capabilities, even on small scales, are easily accessible to each other, can produce innovations together, and improve the overall performance of the system. Large global supply chains create economic efficiencies. Food is grown in large farms across the world. However, these large global chains consume more energy, cause more damage to environment, and create more risk than local networks. The average morsel of food eaten by an American travels about 1,500 miles from these large farms to reach his fork. On the way, large quantities of oil are burnt for refrigeration and transportation and lots of carbon is spewed into the atmosphere. Such global chains increase other risks too. When bad tomatoes were suspected to be the cause of a salmonella problem in the USA, it was impossible for retailers to pinpoint their source. So, supplier farms had to be shut down in many places across the world. The ‘sub-prime’ financial crisis was another example of risks in large inter-connected supply chains. The theory was that the financial system would be safer by spreading risky loans across a wider system. Fashions in ideas When Thomas Friedman launched his paean to a global world, The Earth is Flat: A Brief History of the 21st Century, in Delhi in 2005, I was invited, along with Mani Shankar Aiyar, then Union minister for panchyat raj, to discuss Friedman’s book with him at the launch. Aiyar pointed out the flaw in Friedman’s thesis. Friedman said the world was flat because he observed that people in Bengaluru could now talk to anyone, anywhere in the world. Aiyar retorted that people in Bengaluru, while becoming integrated with the world, did not know what was happening in villages just 50 miles away. They were flying around the world connecting with people in New York and London but losing touch with those nearby. Big is not always better. Ecologists explain how small systems, with diversity within them, have the ability to adapt and evolve. They are more sustainable than large systems. They may not have ‘economies of scale’ but they have powerful ‘economies of scope’. Diversity makes life more interesting also. Thus, life within city neighbourhoods that have their own groceries, cafes, bookshops and doctors is more pleasant than in cities which are segregated into large zones dedicated for different uses. Several foresighted people in the last century have suggested that we should look for more local solutions to what have become global problems. In their book, Winning the Oil Endgame, published in 2004, Amory Lovins and his colleagues in the Rocky Mountain Institute explained how ‘a legion of small, fast and simple microgeneration and efficiency projects’ could be the answer to the world’s energy problems. In Deep Economy (2007), Bill McKibben made a compelling case for local food networks. There are many examples from India and elsewhere that show that local community solutions for water are more effective and sustainable than gigantic storage and long-distance transportation schemes. (The writer is a management consultant and former member, Planning Commission of India) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-local-approach-976335.html
20-04-2021||Main Article||The Covid-19 challenge in India||A recent conversation with an acquaintance made me realise the degree of prevailing misinformation. He had tested positive despite two doses of vaccination, and hence concluded that the vaccine does not work. It is imperative to know that as per current data, vaccine prevents severe disease and death, though it may not prevent infection. If educated people are not able to comprehend the need for vaccination and its benefits, how do we expect the less educated to do so? This misinformation combined with pandemic fatigue and lack of civic responsibility is a lethal combination. Oxygen supplies need to be seamless; reports of stock-outs of a basic medical gas like oxygen are heartbreaking. Industry may be roped in to see if medical grade oxygen production can be enhanced. This would include increasing the existing production as well as repurposing other industries to produce medical grade oxygen. Government tendering processes need to be simplified and expedited. Issues around storage, transport and distribution need detailed attention. We need to ensure a continuous supply of drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. Steps must be taken to increase manufacture, stop exports and come down heavily on black marketeering. Most important are national protocols around usage. Guidelines posted on the website are out of date (AIIMS Covid website, dated March 17, 2020 and at the Union health ministry website dated July 3, 2020). We are seeing irrational use of these drugs even in the hospital set up. National guidelines will help streamline use by medical professionals. The PPE supplies need to be monitored closely. Intensive care beds are at full use now, though ward beds can be buffered by repurposing areas like hotels, but intensive care beds will be critical. If it comes to the crunch, hospitals may need to suspend elective work till the situation settles. Use of telemedicine and digital healthcare for eligible patients will ease the burden on stretched resources. Further, in the unfortunate event of shortage of doctors and nurses, we will need medical and para-medical students for supporting the medical teams. The use of rapid antigen as a quick screening mechanism must be increased. It can be used to quickly identify and isolate positive patients while RT-PCR may take longer. Due to the lower sensitivity of the antigen tests, an RT-PCR may still be necessary for those testing negative with the antigen test. This will reduce RT-PCR need, and the time lag in instituting treatment and isolation measures can be reduced. Given the rapid transmission of the variant, transmission within the same household is not only inevitable, but also guaranteed. It is worth remembering that transmission usually happens before onset of symptoms, and on the first day. By the time the patient comes for testing on day 3 or 4, transmission has already happened. Therefore, data on domestic contacts should be captured at the time of testing; in the event of a positive result, all members of the family should be placed in isolation/quarantine, but they can continue to live together. This is what South Korea did: supplies were given to these families to prevent them from coming out. Contact tracing is not going to be practical in this surge. The government’s sudden announcement closing vaccination for healthcare workers was knee-jerk and missed those who did not have the opportunity to get vaccinated as they were pregnant, lactating, unwell, or had not yet joined the healthcare force (new entrants). Knee-jerk responses combined with vaccine hesitancy is complicating the vaccine rollout. The correct messaging through vernacular dailies, community leaders, social media etc, will help. We also need to ensure minimal wastage of the vaccine; so far, we have seen 6.5% vaccines going waste which accounts for about two million doses. Vaccine options The decision to increase the basket of vaccine options is key to increasing vaccine supplies and availability, but we also need to utilise our existing manufacturing capabilities for increasing production. The recent announcement to expand vaccine coverage to all above 18 is welcome, as this mirrors the demographic group being affected more in this wave. However, given that about 40% of India’s population is below this age group and ineligible for the vaccine, this intervention, though an important one, alone will be inadequate to fully control the transmission of the virus. It will be useful to have health insurance companies work round the clock instead of the current practice of working with minimal manpower over the weekends and at night. This will help ensure faster discharge insurance patients from hospital so that the beds are freed up faster for patients who desperately need them. Discouraging mass gatherings, encouraging, and even enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour and coming together as a country is the need of the hour. The most extreme form of containment is a lockdown, and this should be used with extreme caution. The use of a calibrated response like containment zones can bend the curve without need for a lockdown and can postpone the need for the same. In our fight against this virus, let us refrain from taking out our anger on the hapless frontline workers who are exhausted, at high risk and face mental health issues seeing death and disease around them at such scale. We need a national Covid action plan; health maybe a state subject, but the virus does not understand state boundaries. And to my acquaintance, I would like to say that making armchair assessments by crude simplification of a complex problem is often wrong, and the reason why the study and practise of medicine needs years of hard work, perseverance, and an ability to change based on ever-evolving data. (Dr Arora is Vice President-Asia, DayToDay Health; Dr Swaminathan is Director, Infectious Diseases and Infection Control, Gleneagles Global group)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-covid-19-challenge-in-india-976627.html
20-04-2021||National||Tata Steel supplying 300 tonnes oxygen per day for Covid treatment, says CEO||Tata Steel is supplying up to 300 tonnes medical oxygen from its plants to hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the company's CEO and Managing Director T V Narendran said on Monday. He was speaking at a virtual session of 6th National Leadership Conclave organised by the All India Management Association (AIMA).  "We are supplying 200-300 tonnes of oxygen per day to hospitals in and across Jharkhand, as well as we have started supply to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha from our plant...some is going to West Bengal through Centre's coordination," he said. On steel prices, Narendran said it will remain higher and may be higher than what prices were in the last decade. While hot-rolled coil (HRC) in India is trading at around Rs 58,000 per tonne in April, the international steel prices are hovering around $735-740 per tonne since April 1, 2021. Both domestic as wTataell as international prices are 50 per cent higher compared to a year-ago period. "We should not get over excited with steel prices of today...we expect steel prices over the next decade to be higher than the steel prices in last decade and I do believe the steel prices in the next decade will be higher than what was in the last decade," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-steel-supplying-300-tonnes-oxygen-per-day-for-covid-treatment-says-ceo-976336.html
20-04-2021||National||Centre undertaking reforms for new drugs and regulatory processes: PM||Amid a menacingly rising second wave of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged the pharma industry to conduct more and more research on threats which can occur in the future along with Covid, which he said would help the nation take a lead in combating the virus. Interacting with leaders of the pharmaceutical industry via video conferencing, Modi assured them that the government is undertaking reforms for new drugs and regulatory processes and sought cooperation from them. Soon after the meeting, the government announced Phase III of the National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, which was launched first on January 16,  Phase-II was initiated from March 1, focusing on protecting the most vulnerable people above 45 years of age, accounting for more than 80 per cent Covid mortality in the country. The private sector was also roped in to augment capacity. From  April 1, the government had dropped the need for a certificate of comorbidity making all 45 plus people eligible for the vaccine. With this mapping model based on availability of vaccines and coverage of vulnerable priority groups, the government hoped to maximise the coverage of vulnerable groups by  April 30 after which phase III will begin. In its Phase-III, the National Vaccine Strategy aims at liberalised vaccine pricing and scaling up of vaccine coverage. The government is hopeful that this would augment vaccine production as well as availability, incentivising vaccine manufacturers to rapidly ramp up their production as well as attract new domestic and international vaccine manufacturers. Besides, it also hopes to make pricing, procurement, eligibility and administration of vaccines open and flexible, allowing all stakeholders the flexibility to customise to local needs and dynamics. In the phase 3, Government of India, from its share, will allocate vaccines to states/UTs based on the criteria of extent of infection (number of active Covid cases) and performance (speed of administration). Wastage of vaccine will also be considered in this criteria and will affect the criteria negatively. Based on the above criteria, state-wise quota would be decided and communicated to the States adequately in advance. The second dose of all existing priority groups i.e. HCWs, FLWs and population above 45 years, wherever it has become due, would be given priority, for which a specific and focused strategy would be communicated to all stakeholders. Appreciating the crucial role of the pharma sector in the fight against the pandemic, Modi commended the pharma industry for its efforts to increase production of several necessary drugs. He appreciated them for reducing the price of injections like Remdesivir. To keep the supply of medicines and essential medical equipment going smoothly, PM Modi urged the pharma industry to ensure seamless supply chains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-undertaking-reforms-for-new-drugs-and-regulatory-processes-pm-976342.html
20-04-2021||National||J&J seeks permission for phase-3 trial of its single-shot Covid-19 vaccine in India, import licence||Multinational pharma giant Johnson & Johnson has applied to India's drug regulator seeking permission to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as import licence, sources said. They said the company has sought an early meeting of the subject expert committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to take a decision on its application. This comes close to the heels of the central government last week deciding to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign-produced coronavirus jabs that have been given a similar nod by the World Health Organization or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan. Such vaccines will be given emergency use approval mandating the requirement of post-approval parallel bridging clinical trial in place of conduct of local clinical trial under the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules 2019, the health ministry had said. According to sources, Johnson & Johnson had applied on April 12 in the Global Clinical Trial Division through the Sugam online portal, instead of applying to the biological division which deals with vaccines and other biologicals. "Due to the technicalities involved, Johnson & Johnson has resubmitted its application on Monday," a source said. The J&J vaccine can be stored for up to three months in a temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. Johnson & Johnson's vaccine is a single-dose jab, whereas the three vaccines cleared by India so far are of doubles doses. So far, two vaccines -- Oxford/Astrazeneca vaccine COVISHIELD manufactured by Serum Institute in India and indigenously developed COVAXIN by Bharat Biotech -- are being administered in India, while a third vaccine Sputnik V -- developed in Russia and to be imported and sold in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories -- has also been approved by the Indian drug regulator. The government, meanwhile, on Monday decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years of age eligible to be vaccinated from May 1 and permitted state governments, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jj-seeks-permission-for-phase-3-trial-of-its-single-shot-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-import-licence-976376.html
20-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Will Delhi lockdown prevent PM from campaigning?||A six-day lockdown has been ordered in the national capital beginning Monday night as the city grapples with an exponential surge in Covid-19 cases that has put the health infrastructure under severe strain. India's daily Covid-19 cases jumped by a record 2,73,810 on Monday as the health system crumbled under the weight of patients, bringing total infections closer to that of the United States, the world's worst-hit country. Despite soaring infections, politicians continued to hold mass rallies across the country for state elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-will-delhi-lockdown-prevent-pm-from-campaigning-976378.html
20-04-2021||National||DRDO redirects Spo2 regulator intended for high-altitude soldiers to Covid-19||Amid the ongoing oxygen and ICU bed crisis, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Bengaluru has come up with a supplemental oxygen delivery system. DRDO said that this Blood Oxygen Saturation system which had been developed with soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas in mind, can now be redirected to help with oxygen therapy during the ongoing second Covid-19 surge. Developed by DRDO’s Defence Bioengineering and Electro-Medical Laboratory (DEBEL), the system delivers supplemental oxygen based on the SpO2 levels and prevents the person from sinking into a state of hypoxia. Hypoxia is a state in which the amount of oxygen reaching the tissues is inadequate to fulfill all the energy requirements of the body. It is one of the primary causes of death in the ongoing pandemic. DRDO said that their system reads SpO2 levels of the subject from a wrist-worn pulse oximeter module through a wireless interface and controls a proportional solenoid valve to regulate the oxygen supply to the subject. The oxygen is delivered from a lightweight portable oxygen cylinder. DRDO said that the system can be used in households for moderately affected Covid patients for Oxygen flow therapy with flow controlled at 2, 5, 7 or 10 litres per minute. “The automatic usage has a huge advantage in the household, as the oximeter would give an alarm for lower SpO2 value. It will automatically increase or decrease the oxygen flow based on SpO2 setting,” DRDO said, adding that the system will reduce the workload and exposure time of doctors and paramedics involved in monitoring the SpO2 levels of patients. The system is available in various sizes from one litre and one kg weight with 150 litres of oxygen supply to 10 litres and 10 kg weight with 1,500 litres of oxygen supply which can sustain a patient for 750 minutes with a continuous flow of two liters per min (lpm).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-redirects-spo2-regulator-intended-for-high-altitude-soldiers-to-covid-19-976382.html
20-04-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Blinken discuss security issues in Afghanistan, Myanmar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his American counterpart Tony Blinken on Monday discussed on phone bilateral and regional issues including Afghanistan, Myanmar, and climate change. “Had a warm and productive conversation with Indian External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar to reaffirm the importance of the US-India relationship. We discussed regional security issues of mutual concern in Afghanistan and Burma and global challenges such as climate change,” Blinken said in a tweet. “Conversation covered recent developments in India’s immediate and extended neighbourhood. Exchanged views on the UNSC agenda. Also discussed issues pertaining to our health cooperation,” Jaishankar said in a separate tweet. Blinken spoke with Jaishankar to reaffirm the importance of the US-India relationship and cooperation on regional security issues, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said in a readout of the call. The two leaders agreed to close and frequent coordination in support of a lasting peace and development for the people of Afghanistan, Price said. They also reaffirmed their shared commitment to democratic values and mutual support for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar, he added. “Blinken and Jaishankar discussed US-India cooperation on climate change, COVID-19, and other global challenges and pledged to remain in close contact on these and other issues of mutual concern,” Price said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-us-secretary-of-state-blinken-discuss-security-issues-in-afghanistan-myanmar-976386.html
20-04-2021||National||ICSE Class 10 exams cancelled amid spiralling Covid-19 cases||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has announced that it has decided to cancel the ICSE Class 10 examinations due to the rising Covid-19 cases. “Given the present worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the CISCE has decided to cancel the ICSE (Class 10) 2021 examination…The safety and well-being of our students and teaching faculty is our top-most priority and of paramount interest,” Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of CISCE said in a letter to all heads of schools. On April 16, the CISCE had postponed the Class 10 and Class 12 examinations. It had given the Class 10 students an option to opt out of the examination or appear for written tests alongside Class 12 students at a later date. Arathoon said the April 16 circular has now been withdrawn. He said the CISCE was committed to a “fair and an unbiased criterion” on the basis of which the Class 10 results would be declared. The criterion and the date of result declaration would be announced later. Arathoon advised all CISCE-affiliated schools to begin the admission process for Class 11, if they had not already done so. Schools should prepare a schedule for starting online classes for Class 11 students, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icse-class-10-exams-cancelled-amid-spiralling-covid-19-cases-976395.html
20-04-2021||National||2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case disposed of without trial as case against last two IB officers dropped||The 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case on Monday was closed for good, with a metropolitan court allowing applications of two accused Intelligence Bureau (IB) officers including former special director Rajinder Kumar challenging issuance of summons against them. The court had issued summons against them for taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed against them.  The duo challenged the summons on the ground that since the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), their cadre-controlling authority, denied sanction to prosecute them, the summons were illegal. The metropolitan court while allowing their pleas ordered that case was being disposed of. "The court allowed the applications of the two remaining accused and ordered that the case was being disposed of," special public prosecutor, CBI, R C Kodekar told DH when contacted. With the relief to two officers, the case of Ishrat Jahan encounter stands closed as all accused including seven Gujarat policemen, one of the them died last year, and two other IB officers, getting dropped from the case. The seven policemen included former Director General of Polce P P Pandey, who was discharged, while cases against ex IPS officer D G Vanzara, ex Superintendent of Police N K Amin, Inspector General of Police G L Singhal, ex Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot and SRP commando Anaju Chaudhary were dropped for want of government sanction. The seventh accused J G Parmar passed away last year. The CBI has told the court in writing that it accepted all orders and won't challenge them. The Gujarat high court monitored CBI investigation had found that 19 years old Ishrat Jahan, her friend Pranesh Pillai alias Javed Sheikh and two alleged Pakistani nationals- Amjadali Rani and Zeeshan Johar in the killed in fake encounter in a joint operation of Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch and officials of Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau which was then headed by Rajinder Kumar. However, the sessions court while deciding applications seeking dropping of the case for want of sanction that "there was not enough evidence that they were not terrorists and "there is no question of any fake encounter on the part of any such police officers." Apart from Kumar, his three juniors- Rajiv Wankhede, T Mittal and Mukul Sinha were also involved in the operation. Kumar along with Gujarat policemen were accused of conspiracy, murder, abduction, illegal confinement and sections of arms acts while the three IB officials, who were then Assistant Central Intelligence Officers (ACIO), were chargesheeted for conspiracy, abduction and illegal confinement. The case was dropped against all the accused persons from state police and IB on the ground that government refused to grant sanction under section 197 of code of criminal procedure (CrPC) to prosecute them. The section mandates prior approval of government before prosecuting government servants. Only former DGP PP Pandey was discharged on merit of the case and want of sanction.   The CBI had filed the chargesheet against the four IB officers in February 2014 before the metropolitan court and since then it remained pending for cognizance. In 2015, MHA denied sanction to CBI for prosecuting them. The chargesheet was never committed to trial (sessions) court, as the law prescribes, and remained with the metropolitan court. The court had summoned two other accused IB officers who challenged them and was quashed by a sessions court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2004-ishrat-jahan-encounter-case-disposed-of-without-trial-as-case-against-last-two-ib-officers-dropped-976396.html
20-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 20||India surpassed 1.5 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,53,21,089 as of April 20, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,80,530 as of April 20, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->     
<!-- No. of people discharged: 1,31,08,582  Total Vaccination: 12,71,29,113 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-20-976399.html
20-04-2021||National||PM Modi to hold meeting with vaccine manufacturers at 6 pm on April 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with vaccine manufacturers via video conferencing at 6 pm on April 20. This would be his third interaction with focus groups, after doctors and pharma companies yesterday. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-hold-meeting-with-vaccine-manufacturers-at-6-pm-on-april-20-976402.html
20-04-2021||National||India sees worst spike in death toll, logs over 2 lakh Covid-19 cases for 6th straight day||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 1,53,21,089 with 2,59,170 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while active cases surpassed the 20-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,80,530 with a record 1,761 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 41st day in a row, the active cases increased to 20,31,977, comprising 13.26 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 85.56 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,31,08,582, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.18 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 26,94,14,035 samples have been tested up to April 19 with 15,19,486 samples being tested on Monday. The 1,716 new fatalities include 351 from Maharashtra,  240 from Delhi, 175 from Chhattisgarh, 167 from Uttar Pradesh, 146 from Karnataka, 117 from Gujarat, 83 from Punjab, 79 from  Madhya Pradesh,  53 from Rajasthan, 46 from Jharkhand, 44 from Tamil Nadu, 41 from Bihar and 38 from West Bengal and 33 from Haryana. A total of 1,80,530 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 60,824 from Maharashtra, 13,497 from Karnataka,13,157 from Tamil Nadu, 12,361 from Delhi, 10,606 from West Bengal, 9,997 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,985 from Punjab and 7,437 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-worst-spike-in-death-toll-logs-over-2-lakh-covid-19-cases-for-6th-straight-day-976405.html
20-04-2021||National||Manmohan Singh's health stable, best possible care being given: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that former PM Manmohan Singh's health condition is stable. Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening. The Health Minister said in a tweet that he followed up on the Congress leader's health condition with the medical team attending to him at AIIMS, New Delhi, where Singh was admitted. Followed up on Dr Manmohan Singh Ji’s health with the medical team attending to him at AIIMS, Delhi. His condition is stable. Best possible care is being provided to him. We all pray for his quick recovery. This comes a day after his sharp retort on Manmohan over a letter he sent to the Prime Minister on suggestions to improve the country's vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singhs-health-stable-best-possible-care-being-given-harsh-vardhan-976413.html
20-04-2021||National||No saving the planet without booming India||Global efforts to arrest climate change and keep Earth liveable will fail without a jumbo-sized effort from India to halt emissions growth that could wipe out ambitious carbon reduction targets elsewhere. But one thing India doesn't need, its leaders have made clear, is lectures from the West on what path to take. The world's third-biggest carbon emitter, already home to 1.3 billion people, is projected by the UN to become the planet's most populous nation by the middle of the decade. Crucially for its carbon footprint, its urban population is set to rise the size of Los Angeles each year, totalling 270 million people by 2040, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). They will all need homes, built with energy-intensive concrete and steel, vehicles to drive, goods to consume and air-conditioning to survive India's ever-harsher summers. To meet the associated electricity demand over the next 20 years, India could need to add a power system the size of the European Union's, the IEA believes. "All roads to successful global clean energy transitions go via India," it said in a recent report. "The stakes could not be higher, for India and the world." These are sobering statistics ahead of US President Joe Biden's virtual climate summit this week and UN talks in Glasgow set for November. But India bristles at being told what to do, particularly by Western countries that bear far more historical responsibility for climate change and still have much higher per capita carbon footprints today. "They emitted and therefore the world is suffering. India is suffering because of actions of others," Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar thundered last week. "We will not allow anybody to forget it." India is also acutely aware that climate change is happening: melting Himalayan glaciers, a water crisis, rising temperatures and more frequent cyclones are already wreaking havoc. Air pollution from vehicles, industry, power generation and farming was meanwhile blamed for over a million premature deaths nationwide in 2019. And unlike many other countries, India is on track to exceed its voluntary goals under the 2015 Paris climate agreement. These include improving the economy's emissions intensity 40 per cent by 2030, and growing the share of non-fossil fuels in power generation to 60 per cent -- well above its 40 per cent pledge. India has also set the ambitious target of reaching 450 gigawatts of renewable capacity by then, including 280 gigawatts from solar power, which is already highly competitive on price compared to coal. Solar currently accounts for less than four per cent of electricity generation, and coal 70 per cent. By 2040 solar and coal are on track to each account for around 30 per cent, the IEA says. A recent report by UK energy group Ember even suggested that India's use of coal for power generation may have already peaked three years ago. But carbon emissions are still on track to grow 50 per cent by 2040, enough to offset entirely the projected fall in emissions in Europe over the same period. Emission reductions are possible with major upgrades to India's power infrastructure, including battery storage for solar energy. But the main reason for the CO2 increase is industry -- making all that steel and concrete for India's booming cities -- and transport, with 25 million more trucks expected on the roads by 2040. The government is still building more coal power plants and awarding contracts to mine more coal. Already India's output is 700 million tonnes per year, second only to China. There has been speculation that India -- following the US, EU and China -- might announce a target date for net-zero emissions, but this may require changes too far-reaching for the government to stomach. A study by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) think-tank said that to achieve net-zero by 2050, the share of coal, oil and gas would have to tumble from 73 per cent in 2015 to just 5 per cent. It would also cost half a million mining jobs, higher electricity prices and, since Indian Railways relies heavily on coal freight for income, higher fares for millions of train passengers, said Vaibhav Chaturvedi from the CEEW. A more realistic path would be greater use of existing technologies to cut emissions, like electrifying more trains and vehicles, greener construction materials, rooftop solar panels, using more hydrogen fuel, and capturing emissions for storage. But this will require $1.4 trillion more than currently in the pipeline, the IEA says -- much of which needs to be provided by richer nations. "India should do more but it should also get support from the international community," Harjeet Singh from Action Aid Climate told AFP. "The international community is listening to only half of the story... My worry is that if there is no real money, we will not see real action."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-saving-the-planet-without-booming-india-976414.html
20-04-2021||National||UP govt moves SC, refuses to follow HC order to impose lockdown||The Uttar Pradesh government moved the Supreme Court challenging the Allahabad High Court order on imposing lockdown in its five cities, on the ground that the High Court did not have the domain to issue such kind of directions, according to news agency ANI. The Chief Justice of India (CJI) led bench of the Supreme Court decides to hear the matter today. The Chief Justice of India (CJI)-led bench of the Supreme Court has decided to hear the matter today. As coronavirus deaths continue to ravage Uttar Pradesh's health infrastructure, the Uttar Pradesh government had on Monday evening refused to follow Allahabad High Court directions to impose a lockdown in five cities till April 26. UP Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal had said that there will be no "complete lockdown" in the cities for now arguing that people are automatically closing many places. Alongside saving lives, protecting livelihoods is also important, he said, according to news agency PTI. The Allahabad High Court had on April 19 directed the Uttar Pradesh government to impose strict restrictions including the closing of malls, shopping complexes and restaurants till April 26 in five cities, but stopped short of calling it a "complete lockdown". The court also slammed the state government for "not planning" for a second wave of the pandemic and criticised the State Election Commission for holding the panchayat elections at this time and "exposing" poll officials to the threat of the virus. Passing restrictions for Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur cities, the two-judge bench comprising justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar, said these curbs are "nowhere close to a complete lockdown". The court said in its order, "If we have not imposed a lockdown it does not mean that we do not believe in it. We are still of the view that if we want to break the chain a lockdown for a duration of at least two weeks is a must." Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the Chief Minister and took stock of the measures being taken to control the coronavirus pandemic. "The CM told the PM that the state was working with full devotion to check the spread (of the virus). In addition to ensuring availability of ICU beds and oxygen, the state is working on maximum testing," according to an official statement issued. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-moves-sc-refuses-to-follow-hc-order-to-impose-lockdown-976422.html
20-04-2021||National||SC stays Allahabad HC order for lockdown in five UP cities to contain spread of Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Allahabad High Court's order, imposing "complete lockdown" in five cities of the state due to grim Covid-19 situation. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde ordered interim stay on the High Court's order, passed on Monday, April 19, as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, contended the blanket lockdown in five cities would create immense administrative difficulty. Mehta also maintained that the state government was taking adequate steps to contain spread of Covid-19. The court appointed senior advocate P S Narasimha as amicus curiae in the matter. It also directed the state government to delete High Court as respondent in its petition. Earlier in the day, the court decided to take up the state government's plea urgently at the end of the board (hearing of all listed cases). "We will hear this at the end of the board," the bench told Mehta who sought urgent hearing in the matter, saying the High Court did not have the expertise to issue such kind of directions. The High Court on Monday directed closure of all markets, establishments, public movements till April 26, 2021 in the cities of Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, and Gorakhpur. It said the order was passed, so that "the current chain of spread of Covid infection can be broken and this will also give some respite tothe frontline medical and health workers who would pay more attention to those patients who are already admitted". The division bench, however, said, "In this order if we have not imposed a lockdown it does not mean that we do not believe in it. We are still of the view that if we want to break the chain a lockdown for a duration of at least two weeks is a must."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-allahabad-hc-order-for-lockdown-in-five-up-cities-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-976433.html
20-04-2021||National||India hopes US will soon ease ban on vaccine material exports ||India is hopeful the United States will soon lift a ban on the export of vaccine raw materials that threatens to slow India's inoculation drive, two Indian government sources told Reuters on Monday, after the foreign ministers of the two nations spoke. One official said the Biden administration had told India that its request for a lifting of the ban was being considered and would be acted upon "at the earliest". Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar tweeted that he and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken had discussed, among other things, "issues pertaining to our health cooperation". The Indian foreign ministry declined to elaborate. The US State Department confirmed the two diplomats discussed Covid-19, but did not give details. India is currently facing the world's worst surge in coronavirus infections, which has led to a clamour for vaccines. The country with the world's biggest vaccine-making capacity has also stopped major exports to meet domestic demand. Jaishankar confirmed on Monday that the government was trying to address the raw materials matter but that it was important for India to meet its export commitments too. "I am pushing other countries, particularly some big countries, saying 'Look, please keep the raw materials flowing for the vaccines to be made in India'," he said, without naming any country. "Can I ... go around the world and tell people 'Guys keep your supply chain flowing towards me ... but I am not going to give you the vaccine?'" Washington has invoked the Defense Production Act to preserve vaccine raw materials for its own companies, but the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, has said this went against the global goal of sharing vaccines equitably. Asked about the restrictions on exports, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said inequities in access to vaccines were "completely unacceptable", but declined to detail additional US action to address that. SII is licensed to make the AstraZeneca shot as well another developed by US company Novavax.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hopes-us-will-soon-ease-ban-on-vaccine-material-exports-976435.html
20-04-2021||National||India's crematoriums struggle as Covid-19 victims pile up||A summer storm is buffeting New Delhi as Mohammed Shamim wearily pauses to glance at yet another ambulance arriving with a coronavirus victim to bury, just minutes after the last. The gravedigger's grim workload, like those of others around India, has grown dramatically in the past few weeks in a brutal second wave that has caught authorities badly off guard. When AFP visited the Jadid Qabristan Ahle cemetery in the Indian capital — which is now in a week-long lockdown — on Friday, 11 bodies arrived within three hours. By sunset, 20 bodies were in the ground. This compares to some days in December and January, when his earthmoving machine stayed idle and when many thought the pandemic was over. "Now, it looks like the virus has legs," Shamim, 38, a gravedigger like his father and grandfather, told AFP. "At this rate, I will run out of space in three or four days." Around the graveyard, white body bags or coffins made out of cheap wood are carried around by people in blue or yellow protective suits and lowered into graves. Small groups of men, some in Islamic skullcaps, look solemnly at the ground as the imam, struggling to be heard as dust laced with rain swirls around, recites final prayers. Sobbing women watch from their closed car windows next to the flashing lights of an ambulance as a yellow digger fills up the graves with the dry brown and grey soil. "Two days ago someone came to me and said he needs to start preparing for his mother because doctors had given up on her," Shamim said. "It's unreal. I never thought I'd see the day where I'd have a request for starting the funeral formalities of a living person." Officially, almost 180,000 Indians have died from coronavirus, 15,000 of them this month, although some believe the real number may be higher. Social media and newspaper reports have been flooded with horrifying images of row upon row of burning pyres and crematoriums unable to cope. In Ghaziabad outside Delhi, television pictures showed bodies wrapped in shrouds lined up on biers on the pavement with weeping relatives waiting for their slot. In the western state of Gujarat, many crematoriums in Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Ahmedabad are operating around the clock with three to four times more bodies than normal. The chimney of one electric furnace in Ahmedabad cracked and collapsed after being in constant use for up to 20 hours every day for the past two weeks. The iron frames inside another in the industrial diamond hub of Surat melted because there was no time to let the furnaces cool. "Until last month we were cremating 20-odd bodies per day... But since the beginning of April we have been handling over 80 bodies every day," said a local official at the Ramnath Ghela Crematorium in the city. With waiting times of up to eight hours, Rajkot has set up a dedicated 24/7 control room to manage the flow in the city's four crematoriums. At two crematoriums in Lucknow in the north, relatives are being given numbered tokens and made to wait for up to 12 hours. One has started burning bodies in an adjacent park, an official told AFP. Rohit Singh, whose father died from Covid-19, said crematorium officials were charging around Rs 7,000 — almost 20 times the normal rate. Some crematoriums in Lucknow ran out of wood and asked people to bring it themselves. Viral photos on social media showed electric rickshaws laden down with logs. The ultimate place for Hindus to be cremated is Varanasi, the ancient city where since time immemorial bodies have been burned on the banks of the river Ganges. Belbhadra, who works at one of the famous ghats there, told AFP that they were cremating at least 200 suspected coronavirus victims per day. The usual time to get to the ghat — a riverside embankment for cremations — from the main road via narrow lanes was usually three or four minutes, a resident said. "Now it takes around 20 minutes. that's how crowded the lanes are with people waiting to cremate the dead," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-crematoriums-struggle-as-covid-19-victims-pile-up-976436.html
20-04-2021||National||Uttar Pradesh govt imposes nearly 60-hr-long weekend curfew in state||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to impose a weekend curfew from Friday evening to Monday morning in the entire state till further orders amid the rising cases of coronavirus infections. In a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the government, besides ordering a nearly 60-hour-long weekend curfew, also decided to keep all non-essential activities suspended in all districts of the state having 500 or more active cases. It also decided to continue with the night-long curfew on weekdays throughout the state, a senior official said. "Throughout the state, there will be night curfew. Throughout the state, the corona curfew will be enforced from Friday evening to Monday morning," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told PTI. The move by the UP Government comes hours after the Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed an Allahabad High Court order asking the state government to impose strict restrictions till April 26 in five cities amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde passed the order after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, told it that the state government has taken several steps to contain the spread of coronavirus but to “lockdown five cities by a judicial order may not be the right approach”. Mehta, while arguing that the high court order would create “immense administrative difficulties”, said the state government has issued several directions and taken adequate precaution on the issue. “In these circumstances, there shall be an interim stay on the order of the high court,” the top court said. The apex court appointed senior advocate P S Narasimha as amicus curiae to assist it in the matter and said the plea would come up for hearing after two weeks. The high court had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to impose strict restrictions including the closing of malls, shopping complexes and restaurants till April 26 in five cities -- Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Nagar and Gorakhpur -- but stopped short of calling it a "complete lockdown". On the issue of migrants coming back to the state from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Delhi, Adityanath said the bordering districts of UP must exercise special caution, and provisions should be made for smooth movement of the migrant workers. The Home Department and the transport department should co-ordinate and act, he said, adding adequate facilities should be made for testing and treatment of the migrant labourers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-govt-imposes-nearly-60-hr-long-weekend-curfew-in-state-976439.html
20-04-2021||National||Centre to provide Rs 4,500 crore booster to SII, Bharat Biotech for ramping up Covid-19 vaccine capacity||Looking to ramp up supplies ahead of the opening of Covid-19 vaccination to all citizens over 18 years of age, the government has approved a payment of about Rs 4,500 crore as advance to vaccine makers like Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech against future supplies, sources said. SII will supply 200 million doses and Bharat Biotech is to supply another 90 million doses to the government by July at a pre-agreed rate of Rs 150 per dose. Sources said the finance ministry has relaxed rules to allow advance payment without bank guarantee to help the vaccine makers ramp up production. SII will get Rs 3,000 crore in advance and Bharat Biotech about Rs 1,500 crore. Earlier this month, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla had said that the company would require around Rs 3,000 crore to ramp up production capacity for making vaccines for Covid-19. Meanwhile, the government on Monday allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccination from May 1 as it seeks to control the rapid spread of the virus. Under the third phase of its vaccination strategy, manufacturers will be required to supply 50 per cent of their monthly doses to the government and the rest to state governments or the open market. Vaccination will continue as before in the government of India vaccination centres free of cost for the eligible population -- healthcare and frontline workers and all people above 45 years of age. Latest data showed that over 2.59 lakh coronavirus infections pushed overall cases in India to more than 1.53 crore, making the country the second-worst affected nation after the US, which has reported more than 3.1 crore infections. India's deaths from Covid-19 rose by a record 1,761 to over 1.8 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-provide-rs-4500-crore-booster-to-sii-bharat-biotech-for-ramping-up-covid-19-vaccine-capacity-976440.html
20-04-2021||National||Rajnath Singh asks armed forces to extend help to civil administrations in Covid-19 handling||As India reels under a massive spike in coronavirus cases, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has asked the Army to extend assistance to state administrations to deal with the pandemic, including by offering help in creation of additional capacities to treat Covid-19 patients. Sources in the security establishment said following Singh's communication to Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, it was decided that the Army would consider offering treatment to civilians in its medical facilities, wherever possible, besides extending other assistance to civil administrations. Singh has conveyed to Gen MM Naravane that the Army units in various states can get in touch with state administrations to understand their requirement like creation of additional capacities to deal with increasing volume of patients. Subsequently, it was decided that the senior-most Army officer in a state would get in touch with the chief minister to understand the requirement and take forward the process, including offering to treat civilians wherever possible, they said. The sources said the defence minister has been in touch with the top brass of his ministry and the three forces on how the civilian administration across the country could be assisted in battling the coronavirus situation. The sources said it was also communicated to the leadership of the Indian Air Force and the Navy to gear up their preparedness in dealing with the situation. Separately, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar reviewed the possible areas where the armed forces can extend assistance to the civilian authorities. Following his review, the Defence Ministry instructed 67 hospitals run by Cantonment Boards across the country to ensure medical services to cantonment residents as well as those from outside. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has already been told to extend all possible assistance it can extend to civil administrations across the country. The DRDO has already reopened a medical facility near the Delhi airport for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The facility has been made operational with 250 beds and their number is being increased to 1,000. The premier organisation is coming up with a similar facility in Lucknow. India has witnessed a massive spike in coronavirus infections as the country recorded over two lakh cases daily in the last five days. In view of the rapid surge in infections, India is facing an acute shortage of hospital beds, oxygen, essential drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-asks-armed-forces-to-extend-help-to-civil-administrations-in-covid-19-handling-976447.html
20-04-2021||National||Delhi CM Kejriwal in quarantine after wife tests Covid-19 positive||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has put himself under quarantine after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The CM's wife is in home-isolation, news agency ANI reported. Delhi is under a six-day lockdown, which began on Monday night, after coronavirus cases spiralled rapidly in the capital. It is currently the worst-affected city in the country. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cm-kejriwal-in-quarantine-after-wife-tests-covid-19-positive-976460.html
20-04-2021||National||Cyber agency asks Indian Facebook users to enhance account privacy after global data leak||The country's cyber security agency CERT-In has advised Facebook users to strengthen their account privacy settings after a recent global 'data scraping' incident in the social media platform affected about 61 lakh Indians. "As the Facebook platform evolves and grows, parts of your account could be public. Data could also be collected and shared in ways you don't know about," the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team or CERT-In said in a public advisory issued on Monday. It is the federal technology arm to combat cyber attacks and guard the Indian cyber space against phishing and hacking assaults and similar online attacks. "It has been reported that globally there has been a large scale leakage of Facebook profile information. The exposed information includes email addresses, profile ID, full name, job occupation, phone numbers and birth date.  "According to Facebook, the scraped information does not include financial information, health information or passwords, however information from more than 450 million unique Facebook profiles globally, including approximately 61 lakh Indian individuals, has been made publicly available in multiple cyber criminal forums for free," the advisory said while explaining the breach. A cyber security expert had spoken about this online leak earlier this month, which was acknowledged by the company, stating that "this is old data that was previously reported on in 2019. We found and fixed this issue in August 2019".  The CERT-In said that Facebook has claimed that this 'data scraping' happened by using the "contact importer" feature of the platform, which allows users to find other users by using their phone numbers. "Facebook stated that this feature was changed in September 2019, following the discovery that threat actors were abusing the feature. "However, while Facebook modified the feature in 2019 to thwart this kind of abuse, the phone numbers of 450 million global users had already been harvested by malicious actors, along with other identifying information on users," it said. Dejargonising the term 'data scraping', the advisory said it refers to the process of using automated software or scripts to harvest public information from sites, such as any information users make publicly available in their profiles like names, city, occupation, among others. "Cyber criminals may scrape data from sites for a variety of purposes, including spamming, information gathering and social engineering attacks. "They can also sell scrapped data for a profit to other cyber criminals, marketing companies or call centres," it said. The advisory, while asking users of this popular social media platform to follow good cyber hygiene practices, also said that Facebook has advised individuals to "make sure that their privacy settings reflect what information they want to share publicly and who they want to be able to look them by phone number". Facebook, it added, has also recommended account holders to enable two-factor authentication also know as 2FA. It also recommended that users can consider changing their profile settings to "private" or "friends" only as data scrapers can use "public" information of an individual to "match and combine with data from other breaches to access even more of their personal information and accounts". It also asked users to adjust their settings to who can find and contact them on Facebook and consider whether to set them all to "friends" or stricter for stronger security. In a similar incident reported in March 2018, Facebook data of over 5.62 lakh Indians was allegedly compromised as UK-based Cambridge Analytica had accessed information of about 87 million users globally.  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is now probing this data breach on charges of profiteering and manipulating elections by illegal harvesting of Indian user data. India is among the biggest markets for Facebook and its group companies, WhatsApp and Instagram and according to government data, the country has 41 crore Facebook users, 53 crore WhatsApp users and 21 crore users of Instagram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyber-agency-asks-indian-facebook-users-to-enhance-account-privacy-after-global-data-leak-976470.html
20-04-2021||National||Maharashtra woman becomes first Indian female climber to scale Mt Annapurna, world's 10th highest peak||Priyanka Mohite from Satara in western Maharashtra has scaled Mt Annapurna, the 10th highest mountain peak in the world, becoming the first Indian woman climber to achieve the feat. The news of the 28-year-old climbing the peak was shared by her employer Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, the Executive Chairperson of Biocon Limited. "Our colleague Priyanka Mohite scaled the peak of Mt. Annapurna, (8091 metres) 10th highest mountain in the world, on 16th April 2021 at 1.30 pm. - first Indian woman to do so! We at @SyngeneIntl are so very proud of her," she tweeted. The Biocon boss also shared a photo of Priyanka Mohite holding the national flag atop the peak. Mount Annapurna is a massif in the Himalayas located in Nepal that includes one peak over 8,000 metres and is considered to be one of the toughest mountains to climb. Priyanka has also climbed the world's highest peak Mount Everest (8,849 metres) in 2013, Mount Lhotse (8,516 metres) in 2018, Mount Makalu (8,485 metres) and also Mount Kilimanjaro (5,895 metres) in 2016. Passionate about mountaineering since childhood, Priyanka started to scale mountains in the Sahyadri range of Maharashtra as a teenager and in 2012 scaled Bandarpunch, a mountain massif of the Garhwal division of the Himalayas, in Uttarakhand, her brother Akash Mohite told PTI. In 2015 Priyanka scaled Mt Menthosa which at 6443 metres is the second-highest peak in the Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh. The Bengaluru-based climber is also the recipient of the Maharashtra Government's Shiv Chhatrapati state award for adventure sports for 2017-2018. She works with Syngene International Limited, Biocon's research organisation offering pharma and biotechnology majors customised solutions in synthetic chemistry and molecular biology for early-stage drug discovery and development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-woman-becomes-first-indian-female-climber-to-scale-mt-annapurna-worlds-10th-highest-peak-976482.html
20-04-2021||National||Ten states account for over 77% of new Covid-19 cases||Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, account for 77.67 per cent of the new Covid-19 infections reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.  The daily Covid-19 positivity rate (7 day moving average) continues to show an upward trend and currently stands at 15.99 per cent, it said. Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are among the other states in the list of 10. India's daily new cases are showing a rising trend and a total 2,59,170 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 58,924. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 28,211 while Delhi reported 23,686 new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 20,31,977 and now comprises 13.26 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 1,02,648 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a day. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala cumulatively account for 62.07 per cent of India's total active cases. "The daily positivity rate (7 day moving average) continues to show an upward trend, currently stands at 15.99 per cent. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,31,08,582 with 1,54,761 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.18 per cent, the ministry said.  It said that 1,761 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 82.74 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (351). Delhi follows with 240 daily deaths. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 13 crore as part of the world's largest vaccination drive, the ministry said in the afternoon. A total of 12,71,29,113 vaccine doses (10,96,59,181 first  doses and 1,74,69,932 second doses) have been administered through 18,83,241 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 91,70,717 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 57,67,657 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,14,32,732 FLWs who have received the first dose and 56,86,608 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,66,82,963 and 47,04,601 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively and 4,23,72,769 and 13,11,066 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively. Eight states account for 59.33 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. Over 32 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of  24 hours. As on day-94 of the vaccination drive (April 19), 32,76,555 vaccine doses were given. A total of 22,87,419 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 45,856 sessions for the first dose and 9,89,136 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-77-of-new-covid-19-cases-976483.html
20-04-2021||National||India does not see logic in US putting it on currency watchlist||India does not see any logic in the United States putting it on a monitoring list of currency manipulators, a trade ministry official said on Tuesday. "I don't understand any economic logic," Anup Wadhawan, India's commerce secretary told reporters. The Reserve Bank of India is following a policy that allows currency movements based on market forces, he said. Last week, the US Treasury Department put India along with 10 other economies including Singapore, Thailand and Mexico on the "Monitoring List" that it said required close attention to their currency practices. The official said India's trade surplus with the United States had gone up by nearly $5 billion in the financial year 2020/21 that ended on March 31. India's bilateral trade surplus in goods with the United States totalled $24 billion in 2020, along with a services trade surplus of $8 billion, the US report said. Indian authorities should limit foreign exchange intervention to "circumstances of disorderly market conditions, and refrain from excessive reserve accumulation," the report said, while citing higher purchases of dollars by the central bank on account of capital flows. Some economists said the latest move by the United States to put India on the watchlist may discourage the central bank from aggressive intervention in the foreign exchange market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-does-not-see-logic-in-us-putting-it-on-currency-watchlist-976486.html
20-04-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi tests positive for Covid-19||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he had tested positive for Covid-19. “After experiencing mild symptoms, I’ve just tested positive for Covid,” Rahul said on Twitter. He asked those who had come in contact with him recently to follow safety protocols and stay safe. Wishes for a speedy recovery poured in from party leaders. “Please take care. With someone with your level of physical fitness should be a breeze,” Lok Sabha member and former Union Minister Manish Tewari said. “Learned that Mr Rahul Gandhi has tested positive and has isolated himself. Deeply concerned. I wish him a speedy recovery,” senior leader P Chidambaram said. “I am concerned about the health of Rahul Gandhi who has tested positive for Covid-19. I pray for his speedy recovery. May he get well soon,” Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said. After experiencing mild symptoms, I’ve just tested positive for COVID. All those who’ve been in contact with me recently, please follow all safety protocols and stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-976489.html
20-04-2021||National||Many Indians struggle to get coronavirus tests as cases skyrocket||Diagnostics firms testing for coronavirus are nearing breaking point in cities like New Delhi and Mumbai as India battles its biggest surge in COVID-19, which may worsen the crisis as many sick people can't get tested fast enough to isolate themselves. "We can't cater to the demand," said Dr. Vidur Mahajan of Mahajan Imaging in the Indian capital, who has temporarily shut two of his three sample collection points due to a backlog of pre-booked tests, and to prioritise testing for government hospitals. India has recorded more than 200,000 new Covid-19 cases daily for the last six days, marking the world's worst jump this month. But many people have failed to get tested at all or early, which means the reported caseload of 15.3 million may be much lower than the real extent of the infection. Officials from four diagnostics companies, including Mahajan, said samples currently being tested daily were between 300 per cent-650 per cent higher than February, putting infrastructure and personnel under severe pressure. Doctors and patients in New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai said it was taking between three and eight days to find slots for the highly accurate RT-PCR tests and get their results. If sample arrivals rise further, by 25 per cent to 30 per cent, "probably the testing facilities will crash, in terms of turn-around time at least," said A. Ganesan, group vice chairman of Neuberg Diagnostics, which runs 14 testing labs across India. "We will have to turn back some of the patients without collecting their samples." India's health ministry did not immediately respond to questions from Reuters. The government said 1.5 million samples were tested on Monday, a jump from about 1 million at the start of the month. With hospitals full and oxygen and medicines in short supply, several cities are reporting far larger numbers of cremations and burials under coronavirus protocols than official COVID-19 death tolls, according to crematorium and cemetery workers, media and a review of government data. New Delhi resident Puneet Vig said it took several calls to four labs this week before he was able to book a test for his 62-year-old mother who has been running a fever. Her sample is due to be collected on April 24, with at least a couple of more days of delay expected till her results become available, he said. "If you can't get a basic thing like testing done even in Delhi, it is very frustrating," Vig said. With test results often delayed, doctors said they were relying on CT scans and symptoms to treat patients. "What is happening because of the delayed testing is that the circle of transmission is getting wider and wider," said Dr. Ravindra Khade Patil of Sushrut Hospitals on the outskirts of Mumbai. "Without a test, the patient may not isolate and thus infect others."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-indians-struggle-to-get-coronavirus-tests-as-cases-skyrocket-976500.html
20-04-2021||National||UGC-NET exam postponed in view of Covid-19 situation||The UGC-National Eligibility Test (NET) scheduled to be held from May 2 to 17 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Tuesday. According to an order by the National Testing Agency (NTA), the revised dates for the exam will be announced later, at least 15 days before the examination. "Keeping in mind the safety and wellbeing of candidates and exam functionaries during Covid-19 outbreak, I have advised @DG_NTA to postpone the UGC-NET Dec 2020 cycle (May 2021) exams," Nishank tweeted. "Looking at the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and also taking into account the safety and well being of the candidates and examination functionaries, it has been decided to postpone the UGC-NET exam," the order by the NTA stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-net-exam-postponed-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-976503.html
20-04-2021||National||Cyclone Amphan cost India $14 billion economic losses: UN report||Cyclone Amphan, which made landfall in May last year near the India-Bangladesh border, was the costliest tropical cyclone on record for the North Indian Ocean, with reported economic losses in India of approximately $14 billion, a flagship UN report has said. The ‘State of the Global Climate 2020’ report, released on Monday, said that extreme weather combined with Covid-19 dealt a double blow for millions of people in 2020. However, the pandemic-related economic slowdown failed to put a brake on climate change drivers and accelerating impacts. The year 2020 was one of the three warmest years on record, despite a cooling La Niña event. The global average temperature was about 1.2 degree Celsius above the pre-industrial (1850-1900) level. The six years since 2015 have been the warmest on record. 2011-2020 was the warmest decade on record. “This is a frightening report. It needs to be read by all leaders and decision-makers in the world. 2020 was an unprecedented year for people and the planet. It was dominated by the Covid-19 pandemic. But this report shows that 2020 was also another unprecedented year of extreme weather and climate disasters,” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at the launch of the report compiled by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). The report added that with 30 named storms, the 2020 North Atlantic hurricane season had its largest number of named storms on record. “Cyclone Amphan, which made landfall on May 20 near the India–Bangladesh border in the eastern Bay of Bengal, was the costliest tropical cyclone on record for the North Indian Ocean, with reported economic losses in India of approximately $14 billion,” it said. “Large-scale evacuations of coastal areas in India and Bangladesh meant that casualties from Amphan were far lower than the number of casualties from previous comparable cyclones in the region. Nevertheless, 129 lives were lost across the two countries,” it said. About 2.4 million people were displaced in India, mostly in West Bengal and Odisha, and 2.5 million were displaced in Bangladesh due to the cyclone, it added. The report also noted that India had one of its two wettest monsoon seasons since 1994, with nationally-averaged rainfall for June to September 9 per cent above the long-term average. Heavy rain, flooding and landslides also affected the surrounding countries. More than 2 000 deaths were reported during the monsoon season in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Myanmar, including 145 deaths associated with flash flooding in Afghanistan in late August and 166 deaths associated with a landslide at a mine in Myanmar in early July following heavy rain. During a press conference at the launch of the report, Guterres was asked if he sees a possibility of agreement between the world's major emitters on issues such as fossil fuels and the global carbon market. “It is my belief that an agreement is possible. That agreement needs to take into account the legitimate concerns of developing countries, but I feel it is perfectly possible to combine, taking into account those concerns and the principle of common and differentiated responsibilities according to national capabilities; but, at the same time, very ambitious targets in order to make sure that we have a carbon market that is not, I would say, climate washing - I mean, that is, indeed, demanding with the objective of reducing emissions. "So, I think it is possible, but it requires a commitment from all sides, on one hand, United States, European Union, Japan; on the other hand, Brazil, China, India... I think the agreement is possible, but it requires a serious spirit of compromise,” the UN chief said. He said that all fossil fuels contribute to climate change, but coal is the worst, and “so our absolute priority now is in relation to coal to make sure that there are no more coal power plants, that no more international finance for coal,” he said, adding that countries that are largely dependant on coal need to have support in order to be able to shift from coal to renewable energy. In response to another question on how the concept of net zero emissions targets by 2050 reconcile with the principle of Common But Differentiated Responsibilities, Guterres said there is need for an agreement on very ambitious targets on mitigation, a very strong support to adaptation in the developing countries and a large effort of solidarity of developed countries with developing countries in finance and technology. “Today, it is cheaper to produce electricity with renewables than in fossil fuels, and it’s a risk to have developing countries still investing in coal power plants that will be soon stranded assets. We have more and more situations in the world. I believe it's already the case in countries like India and China in which it is cheaper to create a new solar power plant than just to keep running several of the coal power plants that exist,” he said. Guterres noted that the economy “is on our side; the technology is on our side, but we need the solidarity of developed countries with the developing world to allow, through the principle of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and taking profit of the national capabilities, to allow exactly for this compromise to be possible.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-amphan-cost-india-14-billion-economic-losses-un-report-976515.html
20-04-2021||National||Siddaramaiah unfit to be leader of opposition: KSE||Slamming former chief minister Siddaramaiah for his remark that the state government is in intensive care unit and ministers are in the hospital, district in-charge minister K S Eshwarappa said Congress leader is unfit to be the Leader of Opposition. Speaking to media persons on Tuesday, he said that Siddaramaiah was not eligible to become chief minister also. People defeated him in Chamundeshwari assembly constituency during the polls and he is speaking like a drunkard. Defending the government, Eshwarappa said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is managing Covid-19 situation from the hospital and people need not panic. But they must follow guidelines of the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/siddaramaiah-unfit-to-be-leader-of-opposition-kse-976516.html
20-04-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee says Centre's Covid-19 vaccine policy appears hollow, without substance||A day after the Centre announced that everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get Covid-19 vaccine and allowed state governments and private hospital to procure vaccines, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the decision as a “regrettable show of evasion of responsibility” by the Centre. She also dubbed it as “hollow and without substance.” She alleged that the Centre’s decision was a ploy to dodge responsibility of making vaccines available in the market when Covid-19 cases were skyrocketing in the country. Reminding the Prime Minister that she had written to him on February 24, requesting to allow the state government to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, Mamata said that she was yet to receive any response from him. “Now when the number of cases in the second wave of Covid is spiraling like anything, the Centre has chosen to tactically indulge in empty rhetoric and shy away from it’s responsibility of making vaccines available to the people of the country,” said Mamata. She further alleged that the Centre’s announcement does not address major issues such as quality, efficacy and “stable flow of supply” of vaccines from the manufacturers and the price of the vaccines to be procured by the state governments. Expressing concern that the Centre’s decision may lead to “unscrupulous mechanisms” in the market such as pricing of vaccines which will be based on market prices, the Chief Minister said that it may end up putting a financial burden on the people. “More importantly, the supply would also become very erratic because the vaccine manufacturers are hardly prepared to scale up their production capacities to the desired levels to meet the nationwide demand,” said Mamata. She reiterated her claim that vaccines were not available in the market and urged the Prime Minister to take necessary steps to resolve the issue at the earliest. Mamata requested the Prime Minister to ensure a “fair, transparent and credible” vaccination policy. Earlier in the day at a rally in Murshidabad district, Mamata slammed the Prime Minister for exporting vaccines to other countries while states like Maharashtra, West Bengal and Rajasthan suffered from its acute shortage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-says-centres-covid-19-vaccine-policy-appears-hollow-without-substance-976518.html
20-04-2021||National||For India's poor, lockdown policing adds to pandemic hardships||Poor Indians are bearing the brunt of "pandemic policing" as the country struggles to contain a deadly second wave of Covid-19 cases by imposing stricter curfew rules and curbs on movement, rights advocates said. Hawkers, slum dwellers, food couriers and migrant workers are most likely to fall foul of lockdown rules - from fines for failing to wear a face mask or being out in the street to having roadside stalls closed down, according to unions and activists. "Our ground experience shows police target the poor, marginalised and those who cannot speak up," said Dharmendra Kumar, secretary of Janpahal, a charity that works with street vendors. "As micro-containment zones are being set-up and markets shut, the police are in charge on the streets. On the pretext of pandemic policing they victimise hawkers, pedestrians and the poor," he said. India's daily Covid-19 death toll hit a new record on Tuesday as the health system crumbles under the weight of patients and confirmed infections rise closer to that of the United States - the world's worst-hit country. Police enforcing lockdown rules have faced accusations of arbitrary and heavy-handed treatment, especially since the deaths in custody of a father and son locked up for violating a nationwide coronavirus lockdown last June. A policeman was caught on camera beating customers and staff at a restaurant in southern Tamil Nadu state last week after ordering them to close even though they were not in breach of lockdown rules. Many states have appealed to police authorities to avoid such excesses during the health crisis. Earlier this month in the capital, New Delhi - where a six-day lockdown was ordered on Monday, civic authorities took the side of disgruntled stallholders at a weekly market who had been forced by police to pack up earlier than health rules required. Police, however, have highlighted officers' work to support local communities during the lockdown, saying they have often gone beyond the call of duty to help people in need. A recent report by the Bureau of Police Research and Development highlights the "humane approach" of officers during the lockdowns, citing examples of personnel helping migrants and distributing food. Officials from the interior ministry, which oversees the police, were not immediately available for comment. Law and order It is the uneven enforcement of lockdown rules that has led to the targeting of marginalised communities, tribes and other vulnerable groups, according to a study by the Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project (CPAProject). The independent research body analysed 500 police complaints and 34,000 arrests in Madhya Pradesh state, and found officers were using "enormous" discretion in enforcing restrictions. "The police decided who had a valid reason to be out and who didn't ... even in cases where a person was out to refill their gas or buy essentials. All police complaints said was 'reason not satisfactory'," said Nikita Sonavane, co-founder of the CPAProject. The proportion of cases against pedestrians increased from 50% in the first lockdown to 89% during the third lockdown, with shopkeepers and street vendors among the largest category of "offenders", the research found. Dayashankar Singh, president of Azad Hawkers Union, which represents about 31,000 vendors in Mumbai, said roadside fruit and vegetable sellers had been asked to shut shop. "I submitted a letter to the police that they should follow government instructions and fine those flouting guidelines, not act against the entire community of hawkers," he said. "Food vendors are threatened that their food will be thrown away. We also got complaints that their pans and cooking oil were being seized by the police," Singh said. Facts and figures Such stories were an "eye-opener" for illustrator Anurag Ekka, who worked with the CPAProject to create a comic called "Policed during the lockdown". Based on a fictional vegetable seller who struggles to understand her rights and make a living under lockdown, the comic has been translated into 10 Indian languages and is being used as an advocacy tool by human rights organisations. "Facts and figures are always very abstract and the idea was to put a face to the numbers," Ekka told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. While the comic's protagonist Phullobai has her vegetables thrown to the ground by a police constable and a man out to buy medicines for his parents is fined, a driver found breaking the lockdown is let off. For street traders struggling to scrape by as restrictions keep many customers home, such incidents have aggravated their pandemic woes. Joginder Verma, 23, a fruit vendor in Mumbai who comes from northern Uttar Pradesh state, said last year police refused to let him set up his stall - forcing him to join an exodus of migrant workers out of the country's big cities. "My fruits were rotting and I had to dump them in the garbage before leaving for my village," he said. "Now I have a loan of 20,000 Indian rupees ($266). I never had a loan before."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-indias-poor-lockdown-policing-adds-to-pandemic-hardships-976530.html
20-04-2021||National||Need complete trust between industry, govt to sustain growth amid Covid situation: Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said there should be complete trust between the industry and the government to sustain growth amid the Covid-19 situation. Sitharaman, addressing a seminar organised by the Merchants' Chamber of Commerce & Industry here, said the Centre has taken several steps to ensure that revival of the economy continues despite a raging second wave of the pandemic. "There should be complete trust both between the government and the industry and vice versa to sustain growth. There should not be disturbances in the continuity, which lead to mistrust or distrust," she said. Speaking about West Bengal, the minister said industries in the state require "oxygen" along with a globalised approach to prosper. "Industries in the state need a lot more oxygen to flourish. The history of India was written from Bengal... but even a signature product like the Darjeeling tea is now languishing. "Kolkata used to shine with industries in the past, it should do so again. Bengal and its tradition have to be preserved and protected," the senior BJP leader said. Later, talking to reporters, Sitharaman said there is no doubt that the BJP is coming to power in West Bengal, "where every sector is in need of help". "Once the saffron power forms government in the state, funds will be provided to the farmers. Our manifesto had elaborated in detail about the revival of Bengal's economy," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-complete-trust-between-industry-govt-to-sustain-growth-amid-covid-situation-sitharaman-976532.html
20-04-2021||National||People will have blood on hands if medicines are diverted without application of mind: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to divert resources and supply medicines, like Remdesivir, based on the needs and situation of each state, otherwise "people will have blood on their hands". "We will be doomed," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said with regard to any non-application of mind in allocation and diversion of resources and medicines. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Moniika Arora told the court that medical opinion was divided on the use of Remdesivir. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that doctors were prescribing Remdesivir and people are unable to get it from the market despite having prescriptions. "Long and short of it is that it (Remdesivir) is in short supply," the bench said, adding that giving clearance for setting up units to manufacture would not yield quick results as establishing the facilities for manufacture takes time. The court made the observations while hearing a disposed off petition related to Covid-19 tests. The High Court revived the matter on April 19 by noting that the virus has raised its "ugly head" once again and the pandemic is raging with much greater intensity and "it is evident that the healthcare infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-will-have-blood-on-hands-if-medicines-are-diverted-without-application-of-mind-delhi-hc-to-centre-976538.html
20-04-2021||National||Flipkart expands 'Quick' hyperlocal service to six additional cities||Walmart-owned Flipkart on Tuesday said it has expanded its hyperlocal service 'Flipkart Quick' to six new cities to provide consumers safe and seamless access to daily essentials. These additional cities include Delhi, Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Noida, Hyderabad and Pune. The development assumes significance as various state governments, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have announced weekend curfews and lockdowns to rein in the second wave of the pandemic, which is seeing a record number of cases being reported daily. Most states have allowed the delivery of essentials via e-commerce. In a statement, Flipkart said it plans to introduce this hyperlocal service to other metros and cities in a phased manner this year. The e-commerce major had launched Flipkart Quick in Bengaluru last year to widen the accessibility of products and enable quick delivery for consumers who order products from Flipkart hubs in their location. The hyperlocal delivery service offers an assortment of more than 3,000 products in categories such as fresh fruits and vegetables, dairy, meat, grocery, mobiles, electronics and baby care. It enables consumers to order online and get delivery within the next 90 minutes as well as book a two-hour slot, based on their convenience. Flipkart Quick leverages the company's investment in Ninjacart and strategic partnerships with other local vendors to build an end-to-end ecosystem. Shadowfax, Flipkart's strategic logistics partner, will play an important role in enabling last-mile deliveries for Flipkart Quick, the statement said. “Hyperlocal capabilities are invaluable in enhancing the online shopping experience for consumers and boosting supply chain operations for e-commerce companies. It is important to explore ecosystem partnerships to strengthen such capabilities and accelerate faster, reliable deliveries to customers," Flipkart Vice-President Sandeep Karwa said. He added that Flipkart remains committed to creating solutions that will not only deliver greater value to customers but also boost local farmers and suppliers apart from providing a fillip to entrepreneurship. With the rising number of cases lately, Flipkart continues to follow the highest safety and SOPs (standard operating procedure) developed and institutionalised over the last several months, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flipkart-expands-quick-hyperlocal-service-to-six-additional-cities-976541.html
20-04-2021||National||Power of provisional attachment under GST law draconian, to be exercised in compliant of procedure: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the power to order a provisional attachment of the property, including a bank account,  of a taxable person, under the GST law is "draconian in nature", which can't be used as an "unguided discretion" by the authorities. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said a provisional attachment is contemplated during the pendency of certain proceedings, meaning thereby that a final demand or liability is yet to be crystallised. So, an anticipatory attachment of this nature must strictly conform to the requirements, both substantive and procedural, embodied in the statute and the rules.  "The commissioner must be alive to the fact that such provisions are not intended to make preemptive strikes on the property of the assessee, merely because property is available. There must be a valid formation of the opinion that a provisional attachment is necessary for the purpose of protecting the interest of the government revenue," the bench said. The top court allowed an appeal by M/s Radha Krishna Industries against the Himachal Pradesh High Court's order of January 1, 2021 dismissing its writ petition against the order for provisional attachment of properties under the Himachal Pradesh Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017 for tax liability of Rs 5.03 crore. While reserving the verdict, the court had earlier said Parliament had aimed to give the GST as a citizen-friendly tax structure, so the taxman cannot see all “businesses as being fraudulent”.  In the 61-page judgement, Justice Chandrachud wrote on behalf of the bench the conditions which are prescribed by the statute for a valid exercise of the power, based on tangible material, must be strictly fulfilled. "The exercise of unguided discretion cannot be permissible because it will leave citizens and their legitimate business activities to the peril of arbitrary power. Each of these ingredients must be strictly applied before a provisional attachment on the property of an assesses can be levied," the bench said. The court found that there was a clear non-application of the mind by the Commissioner and he misconceived it to be his discretion whether he allowed the appellant opportunity of hearing or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-of-provisional-attachment-under-gst-law-draconian-to-be-exercised-in-compliant-of-procedure-sc-976546.html
20-04-2021||National||Economic interests cannot override human lives, cut down industrial use of oxygen immediately: Delhi HC||Observing that economic interests can not override human lives, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday favoured reducing steel and petroleum production to divert oxygen to Covid-19 patients. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli pointed out if the lockdown continued then everything would come to a halt and therefore, what would be the need for steel, petrol and diesel during such a situation. The bench asked the Centre why it was waiting till April 22 to ban industrial use of oxygen, while human lives were at stake. "Shortage is now. You have to do it (ban) now. Look into taking some oxygen from steel and petroleum industries. They have big pockets and big lobbies, but tell them if they have to cut production, then they can cut production. Lives have to be saved," the bench said. The court cited the example of a central government counsel whose father was admitted in the hospital and was on oxygen support, but due to its scarcity, oxygen was being provided at a reduced pressure to him to conserve it. "Can you ask him to hold on till April 22," the court asked. It said if nothing was done, then "we are heading for a bigger disaster".  "We might end up losing nearly a crore of people. Are we willing to accept that," the bench asked. It also suggested increasing the Covid beds in hospitals which have their own oxygen generating capacity. The Centre maintained that there was presently no gap in oxygen supply to Delhi and that industrial use of oxygen was banned with effect from April 22. However, there was inordinate increase of 133 per cent in the projected medical oxygen required, as on April 20, between the initial estimate of 300 metric tonnes and revised estimate of 700 metric tonnes submitted by Delhi, it said. The government said all the States, including Delhi, have to rationalise the use of oxygen and prohibit abnormal usage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-interests-cannot-override-human-lives-cut-down-industrial-use-of-oxygen-immediately-delhi-hc-976551.html
20-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Rahul Gandhi tests Covid-19 positive; SC stays order imposing lockdown in five UP cities||Summary: In your evening news brief, Supreme Court stays order imposing "complete lockdown" in five UP cities; Rahul Gandhi tests positive for Covid-19; J&J seeks permission for phase-3 trial of its single-shot Covid-19 vaccine in India, import licence and Union Cabinet approves Bangalore Metro Rail Project phase 2A, 2B.  Here is the top news of April 20, 2021: The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Allahabad High Court's order, imposing "complete lockdown" in five cities of the UP due to grim Covid-19 situation. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde ordered interim stay on the High Court's order, passed on Monday, April 19, as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, contended the blanket lockdown in five cities would create immense administrative difficulty. Mehta also maintained that the state government was taking adequate steps to contain spread of Covid-19.   As The pandemic wrecks havoc, among the recent ones to test positive include Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has put himself under quarantine after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.    Multinational pharma giant Johnson & Johnson has applied to India's drug regulator seeking permission to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as import licence, sources said. They said the company has sought an early meeting of the subject expert committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to take a decision on its application. This comes close to the heels of the central government last week deciding to fast-track emergency approvals for all foreign-produced coronavirus jabs that have been given a similar nod by the World Health Organization or regulators in the United States, Europe, Britain or Japan. Yesterday, the GOI had announced that those above 18 years of age will be eligible for a vaccine from May 1.   The Union Cabinet on Tuesday approved the Bangalore Metro Rail Project phase 2A and phase 2B, Union minister Piyush Goyal said. While the rail project phase 2A is between Central Silk Board Junction to K R Puram, phase 2B is between K R Puram to the airport via Hebbal Junction. The total length of the project is 58.19 km. The total completion cost of the project is Rs 14,788.101 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rahul-gandhi-tests-covid-19-positive-sc-stays-order-imposing-lockdown-in-five-up-cities-976552.html
20-04-2021||National||Leaders’ consensus to maintain peace at borders cannot be 'swept under carpet', India tells China||India has told China that the significance of the consensus reached between their leaders to maintain peace along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) cannot be "swept under the carpet" and called for the complete disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh to rebuild bilateral ties strained by the "serious incidents" which has strongly impacted the public opinion. In a candid address to the ICWA (Indian Council of World Affairs)-CPIFA (Chinese People’s Institute of Foreign Affairs) virtual dialogue on April 15, Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri also questioned the Chinese officials ignoring the "significant consensus" reached by the leaders of the two sides about the importance of maintaining peace along the LAC. In his lengthy speech, Misri said no country can set the agenda for itself without agreements from other countries, in an apparent reference to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and its flagship project the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor over which India has raised concerns as it is being laid through the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The BRI is a multi-billion-dollar initiative launched by President Xi Jinping when he came into power in 2013. It aims to link Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Gulf region, Africa and Europe with a network of land and sea routes. China also claims sovereignty over all of South China Sea. Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims. "In a multi-polar world, no country can set the agenda by itself without prior agreement and consultation, and then expect everyone else to come on board. No single country can expect a discussion to focus only on issues of its own interest while ignoring those raised or reflected by others,” Misri said. About the consensus between the leaders of the two countries for good relations, he said, "it has often been pointed out by friends in China that we should stick to the consensus between our leaders. I have absolutely no quarrel with that". "Indeed, I agree wholeheartedly. At the same time, I should point out that equally significant consensus has been reached between our leaders in the past as well, for instance the consensus that I just referred to on the importance of maintaining peace and tranquility, and it is important to stick to that consensus as well," he said. "We have also seen a tendency in some quarters to sweep this situation under the carpet and characterize it as just a minor issue and a matter of perspective. This too is inadvisable as it can only take us further away from a sustained solution to present difficulties and deeper into an unfulfilling stalemate,” he said. "In fact, it would be tantamount to running away from the problem and in a direction opposite to that where the promise of our closer development partnership lies,” he said. While the leaders "recognised the inevitable presence of competition in the relationship, they also simultaneously prioritised cooperation and shunned containment, because they believed that containment was neither feasible nor advisable in respect of either country", he said. Though the border mechanisms were tested on multiple occasions, they "helped maintain the all-important peace and tranquility on the borders, thereby helping create the environment in which the India-China relationship grew spectacularly between 1988 and 2019,” he said. "But we must acknowledge that these enabling structures and the fundamental premise of the closer developmental partnership have been placed under considerable strain by the serious incidents and the resultant violation of peace and tranquility at the LAC in Eastern Ladakh in April 2020 and thereafter. The impact on public opinion has been particularly strong," Misri said. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a prolonged standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Soldiers from both sides completed withdrawal of troops from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February. But the disengagement has not taken place yet from various other areas in eastern Ladakh. Top Commanders of the two militaries held the 11th round of talks on April 9 to disengage the troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang areas in Eastern Ladakh. Misri said the "sustainable solution" to the "present difficulties" in India-China relations is "it must be one, as External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar has suggested, that is based on mutual sensitivity and respect and paves the way for maximizing our mutual interests". "The first is to note the importance of the two sides having maintained a sustained diplomatic and military dialogue in attempting to resolve issues. These discussions thus far have helped in achieving substantial disengagement of our forces,” he said. "The second is to point out that senior leaders on both sides have committed and agreed that we must achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas. That would be an important first step towards considering de-escalation; it would also help in restoring peace and tranquility and, together, these would provide conditions for gradual and step-by-step progress in the bilateral relationship,” he said. "This is also what would begin to restore trust and confidence in the relationship and help us rebuild the foundation of the relationship that was damaged through last year’s actions in Eastern Ladakh," he said. He said it was also important to recognize that in a post-pandemic world of altered equations, multipolarity is probably more important than ever, both in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaders-consensus-to-maintain-peace-at-borders-cannot-be-swept-under-carpet-india-tells-china-976556.html
20-04-2021||National||From Tejas technology to DRDO's expertise, Defence ministry steps in war against Covid||With Covid-19 cases spiralling across the country and states raising concerns of existing health infrastructure unable to cope with the pressures, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh roped the Army in extending support to the civilian administration to tackle the pressing pandemic. Singh, who held a virtual meeting to review the preparedness of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces to deal with the recent spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, called upon the Armed Forces to be in close contact with the state governments and be ready to provide any required assistance. He also delegated the emergency powers of procurement so that critical needs are procured Singh earlier speaking to Army Chief General M M Naravane, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and DRDO chief G. Satheesh Reddy, asked them to offer available facilities and expertise to civilians during the Covid-19 crisis Singh also told the Army Chief that local commanders must reach out to CMs and offer all possible help. After the defence minister's direction, Defence Secretary Kumar issued instructions that 67 Cantt Board Hospitals across India advised to ensure medical service to all patients -both Cantt residents and non-residents. On Monday, the defence minister had assured the Madhya Pradesh government that services at Army hospitals in the state will be made available to civilians during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to him over phone about opening the Army hospitals in the state for the general public. In the video conferencing meeting, Singh urged Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs),Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and DRDO to work on war footing to provide oxygen cylinders and extra beds to civil administration/state governments at the earliest. Singh was informed that based on the On-Board Oxygen Generation Technology developed for LCA Tejas, a 1000 litre/minute capacity oxygen generation plants technology has been given to the industry and the Uttar Pradesh government has placed order of five such plants with the industry. Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) Surg Vice Admiral Rajat Datta, Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar, Secretary Department of Defence R&D and Chairman Defence Research and Development Organisation Dr G Satheesh Reddy and other senior civil & military officers briefed Singh about the measures taken by AFMS, DRDO, DPSUs, OFB and and other organisations of Ministry of Defence such as National Cadet Corps (NCC) in providing aid to the civil administration in this hour of crisis. DRDO Chairman Dr Reddy informed the minister that more plants can be supplied by the industry to cater to the hospital requirements. He further said SpO2 (Blood Oxygen Saturation) based supplemental oxygen delivery system developed for soldiers posted at extreme high-altitude areas can be used for Covid patients as their conditions become similar. The product will be available soon in the market from the industry as per technology provided by DRDO. Singh was informed by the DRDO Chairman that a Covid-19 facility, developed by DRDO,has again been made functional in New Delhi and efforts are being made to soon increase the number of beds from 250 to 500. Dr Reddy informed the meeting that the ESIC Hospital, which was converted to Covid hospital in Patna, has started functioning with 500 beds. He informed that work is on war footing to set up a 450-bed hospital in Lucknow, 750-bed hospital in Varanasi and 900-bed hospital in Ahmedabad. The Union Minister also made a suggestion to utilise the services of vaccinated retired Armed Forces personnel to assist the civil administration/state governments to deal with the current situation.It has been decided that the Army would consider offering treatment to civilians in its medical facilities, wherever possible, besides extending other assistance to civil administrations. Army units in various states can get in touch with state administrations to understand their requirement like creation of additional capacities to deal with increasing volume of patients. The senior-most Army officer in a state would get in touch with the chief minister to understand the requirement and take forward the process, including offering to treat civilians wherever possible, they said. The DRDO has already reopened a medical facility near the Delhi airport for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The facility has been made operational with 250 beds and their number is being increased to 1,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-tejas-technology-to-drdos-expertise-defence-ministry-steps-in-war-against-covid-976557.html
20-04-2021||National||'Double mutant' variant may have first been discovered in October; triple mutant variety has now evolved: Report||B.1.617 - the double mutant strain of coronavirus that was first found in Maharashtra may have been first detected in October 5. A third mutation in this B.1.617 strain has now been identified and this may only compound India's problems further. The Health Ministry was reportedly briefed about the new mutation and warned of it turning into a "triple mutant". The triple mutant varities have seen new mutations both inside and outside the spike protein (two different kinds of mutations) and are being seen samples from Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. Surprisingly, among states where the B.1.617 strain was seen, West bengal showed more samples with this lineage than Maharashtra. Sources from ndian SARS CoC-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) — a group of 10 laboratories carrying out the genome sequencing of the virus — had also told DH earlier that scientists had spotted a new lineage of the SARS-CoV-2 known as B1.618 among the samples from West Bengal. But Pune-based National Institute of Virology's persistent refusal to share the sequencing data with other laboratories in the consortium is slowing down the entire process of identifying new lineages and subsequent studies. "West Bengal seems to be becoming the hotspot for such mutations. The new triple mutant could make the virus even more capable of evading human immune response,” one of the people in the know told Indian Express. Experts have not been able to ascertain yet just how far the variant has contributed to the second wave of the virus and how transmissible and fatal it is. More importantly, we are yet to determine the vaccine's efficacy in the face of these new variants. Fire-fighting? Laboratories that carry on this gene sequencing have been facing several issues. Funding has bene the biggest concern. Apart from that no clear path and goals have also made the process haywire. “It (the double mutant) was detected way back. It was found again in November and December. By February, this variant is exploding, almost coinciding with the surge in Maharashtra. The discovery should have been acted upon immediately. But nothing happened. Now we are fire-fighting,” a scientist told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/double-mutant-variant-may-have-first-been-discovered-in-october-triple-mutant-variety-has-now-evolved-report-976558.html
20-04-2021||National||Cabinet approves MoU between India, Bangladesh to increase cooperation in trade remedies||The Union Cabinet on Tuesday gave its ex post facto approval to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India's Director General of Trade Remedies and the Bangladesh Trade and Tariff Commission to increase cooperation in the area of trade remedies, an official statement said. The MoU was signed on March 27 in Dhaka. The primary objective of the MoU is to promote cooperation between the two countries in the area of trade remedies, exchange of information, undertaking capacity building activities and activities in accordance with various provisions of World Trade Organization (WTO) in the area of anti-dumping, countervailing and safeguard measures in bilateral trade between the countries. The MoU seeks to foster better cooperation between the relevant authorities of both the countries so as to discourage unfair trade practices and promote rule based bilateral trading, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-mou-between-india-bangladesh-to-increase-cooperation-in-trade-remedies-976562.html
20-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Reliance to provide oxygen to gasping states||Amid a pan-India shortage of oxygen in the wake of the northward zoom of Covid-19, Reliance Industries Limited’s (RIL) Jamnagar refinery has tweaked its manufacturing process to produce medical-grade oxygen. Medical-grade oxygen is a product that was produced at the Jamnagar refinery earlier. With demand for oxygen rising due to the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, RIL has installed equipment and setup processes to produce and supply medical-grade oxygen by diverting industrial oxygen to produce medical-grade oxygen. Every day nearly 700 MT of oxygen is being supplied to states across India. This will provide relief to over 70,000 critically ill patients daily. The entire supply of oxygen, including transportation in special tankers at (-) 183oC will be made at no cost to the state governments as a part of RIL’s CSR initiative. This is one more initiative of the Reliance Industries and Reliance Foundation to provide relief in the ongoing pandemic. Last Saturday, in a meeting with captains of the Indian industry, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had appealed to them to make arrangements for priority production and supply of oxygen for Covid patients in the state and the industrialists had unanimously agreed to do the needful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-reliance-to-provide-oxygen-to-gasping-states-976565.html
20-04-2021||National||Why one nation, many prices for vaccines, asks Congress||A day after welcoming the Centre’s expansion of the vaccine policy, Congress on Tuesday accused the government of running away from its responsibility of ensuring vaccination of those in the age group of 18-45 years. Congress leaders dubbed the new vaccination strategy as discriminatory and one that could lead to an unhealthy bidding war among state governments and vaccine makers. “No free vaccines for 18-45-year-olds. Middlemen brought in without price controls. No vaccine guarantee for weaker sections. Government of India’s Vaccine Discrimination – Not Distribution – Strategy,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. “This is a government that believes in one nation, one tax; one nation one election. Then have many prices for vaccines,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh told an online press conference here. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram claimed that the new vaccination policy will increase inequality between states as well as the rich and the poor. “While we welcome the positive changes made to the vaccine policy, we are constrained to point out that the devil is in the details,” Chidambaram said adding that the Centre has left it to the states to vaccinate persons below the age of 45 years. “In a country where the median age is 28 years, to leave those below the age of 45 years out of a public-funded programme is, to say the least, callous,” the former Finance Minister said. He said by not fixing a price for state governments to buy vaccines at the same rate as the Centre, the Modi government was paving the way for “unhealthy price bidding and profiteering”. “States with limited resources will be at a considerable disadvantage. States that are already weighed down by shrinking GST revenues, lower tax devolution, reduced grants-in-aid and increased borrowing would have to bear this additional burden,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-one-nation-many-prices-for-vaccines-asks-congress-976567.html
20-04-2021||National||PM Modi to address nation on Covid-19 situation at 8.45 pm tonight||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases across India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation tonight at 8.45 pm. Many States, including the capital, have been urging the Centre to supply more oxygen. An order issued by the Health Department said the 'Oxygen Audit Committee' will identify areas of wasteful consumption. The consumption of oxygen has undergone a quantum increase with the admission of a large number of serious patients who require oxygen support, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-nation-on-covid-19-situation-at-845-pm-tonight-976573.html
20-04-2021||National||PM Modi urges state govts to use lockdown as last resort to contain Covid-19||Ruling out lockdown as a solution to the resurgent second wave of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that while all efforts to save life are being taken, the attempt is also to ensure a minimum adverse impact on livelihood and economy. Addressing the Nation, Modi also told the states to clamp lockdown only as a "last resort", a suggestion which came in the background of some states like Delhi, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh having clamped this emergency measure in the face of a massive spike in Covid-19 cases and their crumbling health infrastructure unable to withstand the pressure. "In today's scenario, we have to save the nation from lockdown. We have to take maximum efforts to avoid a lockdown and focus more on micro containment zones," Modi said even as he acknowledged the "challenge is big" as the second wave of Corona is coming as a "storm". "The country is waging a big war against Corona once again. But we will be able to come over this storm with public participation," Modi said. Making it clear that saving the economy is a key priority of the government, the Prime Minister indicated that unlike during the first wave, the country is much more equipped with medical infrastructure and expertise to tackle the crisis and appealed to the migrants not to leave their cities of livelihood where they will get the vaccine soon. Arguing that the situation this time is different from last year when there was no Covid vaccine in the country or infrastructure to produce PPE kits and other much-needed medical goods, Modi expressed confidence "if we all follow Covid-19 protocols, there'll be no need to impose lockdowns." Urging the people to reduce their movement and take vaccination, he said, "while all of us are taking efforts to save lives, the effort is to ensure that economic activities and livelihood are affected to the minimum." The Prime Minister said, "we have to get over it with our commitment,  courage and preparation". Referring to the Centres' decision on Monday allowing vaccination for all above 18 years age, he said that the measure will ensure that the workforce of the country living in the cities get the jab fast. He appealed to the youths to help main Covid discipline by setting up small committees in societies, mohallas and apartments and expressed confidence "if we will do this, there will be no need for the governments to make containment zones, impose curfew or clamp lockdown." However, the Opposition parties were quick to castigate the Prime Minister after his speech. "Words words words. Your lust for power and then fool people with just words," Trinamool Congress leader Derek O' Brien said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said caustically," The sum total of the knowledge at 8.45 PM today was " I can do nothing. Passengers should take care of their belongings, i.e life themselves." National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said, "PM Modi's address reads as an admission that Covid wave 1 centralised response, including national lockdown, didn't work. Wave 2 response is now a state problem, further decentralised to mohala committees. What a difference a year makes. RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary said, "PM's speech today was about defending his Government's non-performance, passing the buck to States on migrant issues, social organisations for helping citizens & denying the problem rather than talking about any solutions! In his speech, Modi, however, asserted that it is the team effort due to which India could begin the biggest vaccination drive in the world with two Made in India vaccines and 12 crore people have already been vaccinated. He urged the states to create the trust among the migrant workers that they should keep staying where they are as the trust given to them by the states that their jobs will continue and they will also be vaccinated in the cities they are living, will help them a lot. Modi's thrust on migrants came in wake of several videos on social media of migrant movement again kicking in from various parts of the country after states imposed lockdowns in some parts. Reeling out the steps taken by the government to fight the second wave of pandemic, the Prime Minister assured that the government is working with full sensitivity and speed to address the rising demand of oxygen in various parts of the nation in the wake of rising number of Corona cases and all efforts are being taken by the central government, the state government and private sector to ensure that all need persons get oxygen. He said efforts are being taken at multiple levels to increase the production and supply of oxygen, which include setting up new oxygen plants in states or ensuring medical use of industrial oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-state-govts-to-use-lockdown-as-last-resort-to-contain-covid-19-976580.html
20-04-2021||National||Supreme Court frames draft rules for investigation and trials||The Supreme Court on Tuesday framed detailed draft rules to streamline investigation and expedite trial in criminal cases, with a direction to High Courts and the state governments to amend the existing procedures and to adopt these practices.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde clarified that the draft rules, related to the investigation, like preparing medico-legal certificate, post mortem, inquest report, photography, and videography of post mortem during the investigation, are compliant and not in any way repugnant to the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. The rules also dealt with trial proceedings, including framing of charge, supply of documents to accused, and recording of evidence, the top court said. Passing orders in a Suo Motu matter, the bench directed the courts in all criminal trials should, at the beginning, hold a preliminary case management hearing to curtail prolonging of the proceedings. The rules also directed the state governments to appoint advocates, other than public prosecutors, to advise the investigating officer during the probe. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, framed the draft Criminal Rules on Practice, 2021 with a direction to all High Courts to take expeditious steps to incorporate those practices as part of the rules governing criminal trials.  The top court also directed the state governments, as well as the Union government, in relation to investigating agencies in its control, to carry out consequential amendments to their police and other manuals, within six months. After taking views of the High Court's and three amici curiae senior advocates Sidharth Luthra and R Basant and advocate K Parameshwar, the top court approved the draft rules, which, among others, mandated recording of evidence on a day-to-day basis, noting down special reasons for allowing adjournment. The rules stated the application for bail in non-bailable cases must ordinarily be disposed of within a period of three to seven days from the date of first hearing. If not done with the period, the presiding officer should furnish reasons for it. During the trial, the presiding officers should not record evidence in more than one case at the same time, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-frames-draft-rules-for-investigation-and-trials-976596.html
20-04-2021||National||SC approves appointment of ad hoc judges to clear backlog||The Supreme Court on Tuesday approved ad hoc appointment of retired judges, up to a maximum of five, in each of the 25 High Courts to clear the massive backlog of cases. The top court said that Chief Justices of the High Courts could initiate the process for the appointment of ad hoc judges only after they have already made recommendations of permanent judge for more than 20 per cent of the regular vacancies.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde allowed the High Courts to seek recourse to the extraordinary provision under Article 224A of the Constitution after noting that the backlog of cases have crossed the figure of 57 lakh while the consistent ratio of vacancies across the High Courts stood at almost 40 per cent.  "We have taken the first step with the hope and aspiration that all concerned would cooperate and retiring/retired judges would come forth and offer their services in the larger interest of the Judiciary," the bench said. The court stressed that if problems arose, it will endeavour to iron them out. "We must set aside apprehensions, if any, to chart this course and we are confident that there will be a way forward," the bench said. The court said that the ad hoc judges should be appointed for a period between two to three years where the vacancies were more than 20 per cent and the substantial pendency pertained to old cases. The appointment of ad hoc judges, said the apex court, should be processed by the central government within three months and they should be given the salary and perks on par with the permanent judges of the High Courts.  The ad hoc judges should be usually assigned cases pending for more than five years and they will not be permitted to perform any other legal work, including arbitration. The court has asked the Union Law Ministry’s department of justice to submit a report regarding the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-approves-appointment-of-ad-hoc-judges-to-clear-backlog-976604.html
20-04-2021||National||India waives import duty on Covid-19 drug Remdesivir||In a bid to boost supplies of Remdesivir, the Centre on Tuesday scrapped the import duties on active pharmaceutical ingredients of the anti-viral drug, injections and specific inputs used in its production. “Remdesivir API, injection and specific inputs have now been made import duty free,” Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said as the country experienced shortages of the anti-viral drug prescribed to patients of Covid-19. Ironically, India was exporting the drug to 100 countries till recently and had to stop its sale to overseas clients due to shortage of the drug. The Centre has also decided to make allocation of Remdesivir injections to states based on objective criteria. “Since the clinical guidance provides that Remdesivir should be used in cases where oxygen is also required, the allocation is based on the oxygen allocation carried out by the Empowered Group-2 to various states,” a health ministry statement said. The issue came up for discussion during a meeting Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Pharmaceuticals Secretary S Aparna had with representatives of states and union territories on issues related to medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 in hospital setting. The ministry said the schedule for allocation of Remdesivir for the period of 10 days starting from April 21 has been worked out and the position will be reviewed after a few days. “For the states, for which oxygen allocation was not made, Remdesivir allocation will also be made shortly,” the health ministry statement said. The Centre also requested state governments to ensure judicious use of Remdesivir as per clinical management protocol for Covid-19 and take steps to prevent black marketing and hoarding of the drug. Production of Remdesivir had been reduced to 27 lakh vials per month recently as Covid-19 cases were on the decline earlier this year, V K Paul, Member Niti Ayog, had said on Monday. He said the production of the drug will be stepped up to 40 lakh vials per month soon and subsequently enhanced to 76 lakh vials per month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-waives-import-duty-on-covid-19-drug-remdesivir-976612.html
20-04-2021||National||Centre sets up 20 control rooms for migrant workers||The Centre on Tuesday said it had set up 20 control rooms to address grievances of migrant workers in the wake of restrictions imposed by several state governments to curb the spread of Covid-19. “In view of the resurgence of Covid-19 and subsequent imposition of certain restrictions by state governments, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has rejuvenated the 20 control rooms set up in April 2020, to mitigate the problems of migrant workers through coordination with various state governments under the Office of Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) across the country,” an official statement said. Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said in a statement that these control rooms would help migrant workers. Aggrieved workers can access these control rooms, managed by Labour Enforcement Officers, Assistant Labour Commissioners, Regional Labour Commissioners, and Deputy Chief Labour Commissioners of the respective regions, through email, mobile and Whatsapp. The functioning of all 20 call centres is being monitored and supervised by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) at headquarters on a daily basis. All the concerned officers/officials have been advised to adopt a humane approach to “assist the aggrieved workmen to the maximum possible extent and ensure delivery of timely relief to the needy ones.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sets-up-20-control-rooms-for-migrant-workers-976628.html
20-04-2021||National||Top EC officials test positive for Covid-19||The Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar were infected with the coronavirus as the raging second wave of the pandemic did not spare the Nirvachan Sadan in New Delhi amid the assembly polls in the five states. Chandra already completed his isolation period of 14 days. He and Kumar are now holding virtual meetings with the Election Commission’s officials and representatives of the political parties through video-conferences, a spokesperson of the EC stated, adding that the poll-panel was working without any interruption. The Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner were infected by the Covid-19 virus amid the assembly polls in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Assam and West Bengal. While polling for the Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Assam was completed by April 6, it is yet to be completed in West Bengal, where remaining 112 of the 292 constituencies would go to polls in the last three phases. The voting in two constituencies were adjourned after one candidate in each died of Covid-19. Chandra, who has been an Election Commissioner since February 2019, took over as the Chief Election Commissioner on April 13 last – a day after his predecessor Sunil Arora completed his term at the helm of the poll-panel. The three-member EC now has a vacancy, which would be filled up when the government would appoint another Election Commissioner. While announcing the schedule of assembly elections in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry on February 26, the EC stated that it would arrange for vaccination of all the poll officials. The EC arranged a special vaccination camp at its headquarters in New Delhi on March 9, when Arora, Chandra and Kumar had taken the jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-ec-officials-hit-by-coronavirus-976651.html
20-04-2021||National Politics||Centre's responsibility to put money into migrant workers' bank accounts: Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Tuesday demanded financial assistance for migrant workers with former party chief Rahul Gandhi asserting that it is the responsibility of the central government to put money into their bank accounts. As Delhi went into a six-day lockdown from Monday night amid the deteriorating Covid-19 situation, hundreds of migrant workers thronged the Anand Vihar Bus Terminal here to board the buses for their native places. "Migrants are migrating once again. In such a situation, it is the responsibility of the central government to put money into their bank accounts," Gandhi said in a tweet. "But will the government, blaming the people for spreading coronavirus, take such a public assistance measure?" the former Congress chief said.  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that looking at the horrifying Covid-19 situation, it was evident that the government would have to take tough decisions like imposing a lockdown, but migrant workers have once again been left to fend for themselves. "Is this your plan? Policies should be such that they take care of everyone. Financial assistance to the poor, labourers and street hawkers is the need of the hour. Please do this," she said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-responsibility-to-put-money-into-migrant-workers-bank-accounts-rahul-gandhi-976424.html
20-04-2021||National Politics||Why is passion to win war against Covid-19 not same as passion to win Assembly polls: Sibal to PM Modi||Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Tuesday asked why he was not showing the same passion to win the war against coronavirus as shown to win elections. With the country reeling under a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress has questioned Prime Minister Modi for addressing poll rallies in West Bengal while "ignoring his responsibilities" at the Centre. "Modiji, you use all your : might, muscle power, lung power, resources to win elections. Why not the same passion to win the war against Coronavirus for: our people?" Sibal said in a tweet. Modiji you use all your :mightmuscle powerlung powerresources to win elections Why not the same passion to win the war against Coronavirus for : our people ? In another tweet, the former Union minister said, "As people die of the pandemic, A citizen to Modiji: Rallies are fine, victories divine, but the battles you are fighting are really not mine!" As people die of the pandemic A citizen to :Modiji Rallies are finevictories divinebut the battlesyou are fightingare reallynot mine ! Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the BJP on Monday said it has decided against holding any big rally or public meeting, including by Prime Minister Modi and other party leaders, in the ongoing West Bengal assembly poll campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-passion-to-win-war-against-covid-19-not-same-as-passion-to-win-assembly-polls-sibal-to-pm-modi-976446.html
20-04-2021||National Politics||'Admission of his failure': Opposition slams PM Modi's address||Opposition on Tuesday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation as an “admission of his failure” to tackle the Covid-19 situation. “The sum and substance of the pearls of wisdom at 8:45 pm — ‘it is beyond my control, passengers should protect their own lives,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. “The subtext of Prime Minister’s speech. Guys, you are kind of on your own. If you are able to finally make it to the other side we will definitely meet again in some Utsav or Mahatsov. Until then all the best. May God be with you,” former union minister Manish Tewari said. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said the prime minister’s address read as an admission that the Covid Wave-1 centralised response, including national lockdown, did not work. Wave-2 response is now a state problem further decentralised to mohalla committees. “What a difference a year makes,” Abdullah said. RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary said the Prime Minister’s speech was about defending his government’s non-performance, passing the buck to states on migrant issues, social organisations for helping citizens and denying the problem rather than talking about any solutions. “I was hoping that PM in his address would announce free vaccine for every citizen. PM didn't mention anything on how much the vaccine production capacity will be boosted and on the number of vaccine doses to be given to states after that,” Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/admission-of-his-failure-opposition-slams-pm-modis-address-976606.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases surge, Jammu and Kashmir extends night curfew to all 20 districts||As Covid-19 infections continue to rise, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday extended night curfew in effect in the municipal areas of eight districts presently, to all the 20 districts of the union territory. The night curfew was in force since April 9 in the municipal areas of most affected districts of Jammu, Udhampur, Kathua, Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam, Anantnag and Kupwara from 10 pm to 6 am. “New COVID control measures: The Corona Curfew at night shall be extended to all Municipal/ urban local body limits of all 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir. It was already in force in eight districts earlier, from 10 pm to 6 am,” J&K Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha announced. The government also decided that public transport will be permitted to ply only at 50% of its authorised seating capacity. The district superintendents of police have been asked to ensure compliance to this effect. Besides, only 50% shops in market complexes/ bazaars/ malls within the municipal limits/urban local body limits shall be open on an alternate basis through a rotation system. The authorities have also intensified Covid-19 testing of Kashmir bound travelers on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. Officials said the test was being made mandatory for the train bound passengers and a prerequisite for travelling into the valley at the Banihal railway station in Ramban district. J&K continues to experience a spike in daily Covid cases with 1516 fresh cases along with six Covid-related reported on Monday. The UT currently has 12164 active positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-surge-jammu-and-kashmir-extends-night-curfew-to-all-20-districts-976471.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Union minister Jitendra Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and asked all those who came in contact with him to get themselves screened. "I have today tested #Covid positive with symptoms. Please get yourself screened if you were in my contact recently and take care," he tweeted. Singh, who holds multiple portfolios, including Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office, is also the Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-minister-jitendra-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-976475.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Younger people contracting Covid-19 in second wave in J&K is worrying: Experts||The second wave of coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir, which has been adding caseloads every passing day, is witnessing a growing number of younger age group patients, a stark difference from the last year when the virus had more elderly victims. “The young are getting sick and there is rapid progress of disease in some. The situation is serious as at present a number of patients in the age group of 30 to 45 years are admitted with pneumonia. And the condition of some deteriorates fast,” said Dr Naveed Shah, head department of Chest Medicine at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar. His views were echoed by Dr Mohammad Sultan Khuroo, chairperson of J&K Apex Level Advisory Committee on Covid-19 response. “Earlier the focus was on protecting elderly people having comorbidities, but it is severe now and is involving younger people. Earlier it was behaving mildly but now infection is severe among young people too," he said. “Although in very few but severe Covid-19 infection can affect lungs of younger people and in a few cases, there can be inflammatory syndrome,” Dr Khuroo said and advised young people to remain more vigilant as the vaccination process hasn’t been started for them. However, Dr Parvaiz A Koul, renowned influenza expert, said not just in Kashmir, this phenomenon is global. “Yes, now it is affecting younger ones as well,” he said. “The comparison was not between younger and older but between the numbers of infected people in their 30s and 40s in 2020 and 2021. It is not just that more people in young age groups are testing positive, but also that many of them have severe illness. Even in children, there are infections and severe symptoms now,” Dr Koul said. However, going by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data from hospitalized Covid-19 patients during the first and the second spell of the pandemic, the claims of younger people getting affected more in the second wave is proving to be false. The ICMR on Monday said, “There was no evidence of the younger population being at greater risk in the ongoing wave and that the proportion of death in the hospitalised patients also hasn’t changed between the two waves. Rather the studies reflect that there is no change in the age profile, older people are still more prone to this virus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/younger-people-contracting-covid-19-in-second-wave-in-jk-is-worrying-experts-976478.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi lockdown: Kejriwal urges people to stay home, says decision taken for their safety||Appealing to people to stay at home during the six-day lockdown in Delhi amid the spiralling Covid-19 crisis, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the decision was taken in view of their health and safety. The lockdown kicked in from 10 pm on Monday and will continue till 5 am on April 26. "The lockdown in Delhi has started today. This decision has been taken in view of your health and safety. Kindly cooperate with the government and stay home to keep safe from the infection," Kejriwal tweeted. The chief minister had announced the lockdown on Monday, saying the health system in Delhi was under extreme pressure due to a large number of COVID-19 patients and it might collapse if strict action was not taken.  The lockdown follows a weekend curfew imposed on Friday night. Earlier, the government had also enforced night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am, but the surging number of coronavirus cases remained unabated. The government has allowed essential services and activities and also permitted movement for wedding ceremonies with a cap of 50 people. Funeral gatherings of upto 20 people are also allowed. During the day, city roads and residential areas seemed secluded as few people were seen moving around. The national capital's health system is stretched although it has not collapsed yet, Kejriwal had said, adding that despite up to 25,500 cases coming up in the last few days. The lockdown is needed to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen, he had said. People were packed inside their homes as private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly public parks, gyms, barber shops were closed down. According to a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order, people going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination have been exempted from lockdown on production of a valid I-card. People going to airports, railways, ISBTs have been allowed movement, but they will have show a valid ticket.  Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent — meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lockdown-kejriwal-urges-people-to-stay-home-says-decision-taken-for-their-safety-976479.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to make 2,700 beds available for Covid-19 patients||Around 2,700 beds will be added at different hospitals and facilities in the national capital in the next few days for Covid-19 patients, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Tuesday. "In 2.5 weeks, bed count has gone up by 3 times here. 2,700 more beds will be arranged in next few days. Most Covid-19 patients are recovering in home isolation. I urge those who need hospitals to check app beforehand for bed availability and then proceed further," Sisodia said at an online press conference. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a six-day lockdown in the national capital from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26, and said it was necessary to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases as the city's health system was stretched to its limit. The city on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-make-2700-beds-available-for-covid-19-patients-976485.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Ensure adequate availability of vaccines: Rajasthan CM Gehlot tells Centre||With the Centre deciding to open vaccination for all above 18 years from May, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the government should ensure adequate availability of vaccines.  "Finally the Central govt has relented & taken decision to allow everyone above 18 to be vaccinated. The Central govt should now ensure adequate availability of vaccines so that people above the age of 18 years can be vaccinated asap, " he tweeted.  "We look forward to a rational & transparent strategy for vaccine distribution among states in the coming days," he added. The Centre announced on Monday that everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1 and allowed states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers. Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-adequate-availability-of-vaccines-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-tells-centre-976497.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||DMRC revises operational plan for six-day lockdown period, increases frequency of metro trains||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday revised its operational plan for the six-day lockdown period and increased the frequency of metro trains from 30 minutes to 15 minutes during the peak hours. For the rest of the hours of the day, the frequency was increased from 60 minutes to 30 minutes. It also increased the city metro's operation timing during the peak hours, it said. On Monday, the DMRC said that services during the lockdown period for peak hours -- morning (8 am to 10 am) and evening (5 pm to 7 pm) -- across the network will be available with a frequency of 30 minutes. "To offer more capacity in compliance to 50 per cent seating provision with no standing to eligible people travelling by the metro during the curfew period, which is imposed in NCT of Delhi till 5 am of 26th April 2021, the DMRC has now decided to revise its operational plan with immediate effect," said the DMRC in its statement. While services during the morning (7 am to 11 am) and evening (4 pm to 8 pm) peak hours across the network will be available with a headway (frequency) of 15 minutes, for the rest of the hours of the day, services across the network will be available with a frequency of 30 minutes, it informed. The decision comes after the DMRC earlier in the day temporarily closed entry points of several metro stations to ensure social distancing of passengers. Metro services can be availed only by the exempted category of people on production of valid identity proof.  Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a six-day lockdown in Delhi to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases as the city''s health system was stretched to its limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dmrc-revises-operational-plan-for-six-day-lockdown-period-increases-frequency-of-metro-trains-976498.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||UP Panchayat elections Phase II sees nearly 68% polling||Nearly 68 per cent polling was recorded on Monday during the second phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls in 20 districts, according to the state election commission. Of the 20 districts, polling details of 14 have been compiled. While Lalitpur recorded the highest polling percentage of 80.95, Pratapgarh recorded the lowest at 60.06, the commission said. Bijnore recorded 73.30, Gonda 66.42, Budaun 73.57, Azamgarh 63.59, Lakhimpur Kheri 77.98, Varanasi 68, Amroha 78.74, Sultanpur 64.50, Mainpuri 74.29, Kannauj 73.81, Gautam Buddh Nagar 75.32, Muzaffarnagar 72.58, Etah 73.24, Etawah 74.22, Chitrakoot 64.03, Baghpat 74.84 and Lucknow 72. Over 3.48 lakh candidates were in the fray for over 2.23 lakh posts. For the 787 seats of zila panchayat member, there were 11,483 candidates and for the 19,653 seats of kshetra panchayat, there were 85,232 candidates. For gram panchayats, there were 1,21,906 candidates for 14,897 posts and for the gram panchayat wards, there were 1,30,305 candidates for 1,87,781 posts. More than 2.31 lakh poll officials were deployed by the SEC for a smooth conduct of the panchayat polls. In the first phase, which was held on April 15, polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The 2015 panchayat polls had registered a polling percentage of 72.11, according to the commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-elections-phase-ii-sees-nearly-68-polling-976522.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Migrant workers flock to Uttar Pradesh after Delhi lockdown||Thousands of migrant workers thronged the state capital on Tuesday after the lockdown announcement in Delhi, triggering chaotic scenes at bus stations. According to reports, these migrant workers had left Delhi on Monday night after the lockdown was announced and were looking for buses to go to their home towns and villages mainly in the eastern Uttar Pradesh districts of Gorakhpur, Deoria, Azamgarh and others. Sources said that there were fewer buses at the main bus station at Alambagh, as many UP Roadways buses are deployed in the ongoing panchayat polls. This created difficulties for the workers. ''We have arranged private buses for the workers to take them to their hometowns,'' said a senior UP Roadways official on Tuesday. UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh accused the Delhi government of leaving the workers on the borders at Noida and Ghaziabad. ''The lockdown in Delhi was announced in haste....the migrant workers had to face many problems....Delhi government buses left them at the borders,'' Singh said. The minister said that the UP government would make arrangements to take them (workers) home. The UP government has refused to announce lockdown in the state despite a record surge in the number of Covid positive cases and deaths of many patients owing to shortage of oxygen and non-availability of beds at the hospitals. The state government has, instead, announced a weekend lockdown on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-workers-flock-to-uttar-pradesh-after-delhi-lockdown-976525.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||No gap in oxygen supply to Delhi; industrial use banned, Centre tells HC||There is no gap in oxygen supply to Delhi at present and its use has been banned for industrial purposes except for certain industries, the Centre told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday. The Ministry of Health told the high court that there has been an inordinate increase of 133 per cent in the projected medical oxygen required, as on April 20, between the initial estimate of 300 metric tonnes and revised estimate of 700 metric tonnes submitted by Delhi. The Centre also informed the high court that it has provided Delhi government hospitals with around 1,390 ventilators. Earlier in the day, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli had asked the Centre whether oxygen supplied to industries can be diverted for Covid-19 patients. "Industries can wait. Patients cannot. Human lives are at stake," the bench said.3 It said it has heard that doctors at Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce oxygen being given to Covid-19 patients admitted there as there was scarcity of oxygen. The ministry, in the affidavit filed through central government standing counsel Monika Arora, has also said that in order to increase the capacity of medical oxygen in Delhi, eight Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen Generation plants are being installed by the support of PM CARES Funds.  "These plants would enhance capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 metric tonnes," the ministry's affidavit said. The observations by the bench came during the hearing of a disposed of petition related to Covid-19 tests and the high court revived it on April 19 by noting that the virus has raised its "ugly head" once again and the pandemic is raging with much greater intensity and "it is evident that the healthcare infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-gap-in-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-industrial-use-banned-centre-tells-hc-976543.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Urge Centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi, some hospitals left with just a few hours of it, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre to provide medical oxygen to Delhi, saying some hospitals are going to run out of it in a few hours. He had on Sunday termed the shortage of oxygen for coronavirus patients an "emergency". Kejriwal also wrote to Union Minister of Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention in the matter. "Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge the Centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," the chief minister tweeted. Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen. The Delhi government had on Monday set up a 24-member committee to ensure "rational" use of oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients An order issued by the Health Department said the 'Oxygen Audit Committee' will identify areas of wasteful consumption. The consumption of oxygen has undergone a quantum increase with the admission of a large number of serious patients who require oxygen support, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/urge-centre-to-urgently-provide-oxygen-to-delhi-some-hospitals-left-with-just-a-few-hours-of-it-says-arvind-kejriwal-976564.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||J&K records 2,030 Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day toll||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported 2,030 Covid-19 cases in a single day, its highest one-day spike, while the union territory (UT) also recorded eight coronavirus-related deaths in the last 24 hours. Jammu and Kashmir hit an all-time high of 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12 last year and this year’s highest was 1,526 on April 18. Out of the fresh cases, 1,086 were from Kashmir and 944 were from Jammu division of the UT, officials said. As many as 352 travelers were among the fresh cases. Srinagar district recorded the highest with 589 cases, including 58 travelers, followed by 501 in Jammu and 136 in Baramulla and 119 in Budgam districts. Only two out of 20 districts reported single-digit cases while 14 districts hit double-digits. Remaining districts had three-digit positive cases. The active case count has surged to 13,470 comprising 8.96 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 1,34,697. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths. The travelers and tourists who arrived in J&K during the first three weeks of April account for 35 per cent of the total infections recorded in the region during this time, according to the official data. In April, 3,606 travelers and tourists tested positive for the viral infection which included 1,593 who arrived in the capital city of Srinagar. Due to the huge surge in Covid-19 positive cases, J&K government on Tuesday extended night curfew to all 20 districts of the UT. Public transport shall be permitted to ply only at 50 per cent of its authorized seating capacity while only 50 per cent shops within the municipal limits/urban local body limits shall be open on an alternate basis through a rotation system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-records-2030-covid-19-cases-its-highest-single-day-toll-976578.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||SC fixes timelines for appointment of judges, notes HCs are in crisis||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued directions affixing timeline for the Union government to make appointment of judges in the High Courts, saying promptness was to facilitate the larger cause of timely justice.  "The High Courts are in a crisis situation. There are almost 40 per cent vacancies, with many of the larger High Courts working under 50 per cent of their sanctioned strength," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. Holding that a “collaborative” exercise was required, the top court for the first time indicated an outer time limit of 18 weeks to complete the process for appointments of the High Court judges.   The existing Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) which guides the judicial appointments, has not suggested any period within which the Centre is supposed to forward the recommendations to the Supreme Court Collegium. Within the 18 weeks, the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, said after High Courts send their recommendations to the Union law ministry, the Intelligence Bureau (IB) should not take more than eight weeks to give its inputs.   Afterwards, the Centre should process these names within eight to 12 weeks and send them to the Supreme Court collegium with their comments for final approval, taking a maximum 18 weeks in the entire process.  As laid down in the MoP, the Supreme Court Collegium, led by the CJI, will send its final recommendations in the next four weeks and these recommendations will preferably be put up before the Prime Minister, who will advise the President in the matter of appointment.  The court has said that in case the government had any reservation, those names may be sent back to the Supreme Court Collegium with specific reasons.   However, the bench has held, if the Supreme Court Collegium reiterated unanimously, "such appointment should be processed and appointment should be made within three to four weeks”.  The court also stressed at the requirement of the Chief Justices of the 25 high courts to recommend vacancies as early as possible.   Out of sanctioned post of 1,080 judges in 25 High Courts, there were vacancies of 411 judges. In its order, the bench dismissed a contention that this subject was beyond its ambit, saying the restraint imposed by the constitution bench in the Third Judge’s Case (1998) related to judicial review of particular appointments and not to the aspects of the appointment processes like delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-fixes-timelines-for-appointment-of-judges-notes-hcs-are-in-crisis-976595.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Pakistan repatriates Kashmiri boy after eight months||A young boy from north Kashmir's Bandipora district, missing since last September, was Thursday repatriated at Teetwal crossing in frontier Kupwara district by Pakistani authorities.  An official said the boy identified as Mohammad Syed Ganai from a village near Line of Control in Gurez area of Bandipora was Tuesday repatriated by Pakistan in presence of the officials at Teetwal bridge (crossing). He said that the boy had gone missing in September last year from his native village and returned today in the presence of administrative and army officials. "Proactive coordination by Indian authorities has enabled repatriation of the child," a senior official said adding that "at around 11:55 AM the young boy was taken over from Pakistan authorities". Notably, Indian authorities recently on humanitarian grounds returned two Pakistani nationals who had inadvertently crossed the LoC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-repatriates-kashmiri-boy-after-eight-months-976598.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt announces free Covid-19 vaccines for all people age 18 and above from May 1||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to administer Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to all those above 18 years of age from May 1. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The Cabinet also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for allowing administering of coronavirus vaccine to those above 18 years of age. "The PM's decision will help in better management of Covid and massive vaccination will help in defeating coronavirus. We have decided to vaccinate all above 18 years free of cost. The state government will take forward the vaccination programme with its own resources," the CM said, according to a statement issued here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-announces-free-covid-19-vaccines-for-all-people-age-18-and-above-from-may-1-976608.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Amrita Hospitals organises health camp during Khumb Mela at Haridwar||Amrita Hospitals, health care facilities established by Mata Amritanandamayi Math, conducted a successful health camp at Haridwar during Kumbh Mela. Health camp- Amrita Swastha Kumbh -21- (Allopathic services), was jointly organised by Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi;  Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Faridabad and Amrita Kripa Hospital, Mysuru from April 4 to April 17 and treated pilgrims came to take holy bath.  Around 2,000 patients mostly pilgrims and sadhus, who have come to participate in Maha Kumbh-21 at Haridwar, were treated free of cost by expert doctors and experienced paramedical staff from Kochi & Faridabad, a statement from the institution said. The mobile telemedicine van was provided by Amrita Kripa hospitals-Mysore which catered the free diagnostic services. Free medicines were also distributed to the patients during the camp. "Free treatment was given to various patients with Hypertension, Diabetics, CAD patients and patients who required Orthopaedic care. Approximately 715 patients underwent lab tests, ECGs were taken for approximately 159 patients, around 74 patients got X-rays done and USGs were done for around 43 patients," the statement from the institution said. Guruvinder Saluja ji, eminent trustee of Katyayani Mandir, Muni-ki-Reti, Rishikesh, presented certificates of acknowledgements were presented to the members of the medical team during the concluding function held on April 18. The medical camp was inaugurated at Rishikul Ayurvedic Medical University Campus, Haridwar on April 5th by eminent personalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amrita-hospitals-organises-health-camp-during-khumb-mela-at-haridwar-976653.html
20-04-2021||North and Central||Weekend curfew in Uttar Pradesh, night curfew in districts with 500-plus Covid-19 cases||In a bid to curb the Covid-19 spread, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday imposed till further orders a weekend curfew in the entire state and a night curfew during weekdays in all districts having more than 500 cases. While the night curfew in the districts with 500-plus cases will be effective from 8 pm to 7 am next day starting Tuesday, the weekend curfew will be enforced from Friday 8 pm to Monday 7 am, during which all non-essential activities will be restricted. A top UP government official had earlier said the night curfew will be imposed “throughout” the state. These decisions, aimed at breaking the transmission chain of the virus spread, were taken in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The night curfew was imposed earlier in Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Allahabad, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bareilly and Muzaffarnagar districts and the Lucknow Municipal Corporation area of the state. A state government bulletin issued on Covid-19 situation in the state on Monday had said the districts registering less than 500 cases include Maharajganj (497), Hamirpur (489), Mahoba (387), Sharvasti (354), Baghpat (306), Pilibhit (279), Kasganj (112) and Hathras (89). The move by the UP government came hours after the Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed an Allahabad High Court order asking the state government to impose strict restrictions till April 26 in five cities amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde passed the order after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, told it that the state government has taken several steps to contain the spread of coronavirus but to lockdown five cities by a judicial order may not be the right approach. The high court had asked the UP government to impose strict restrictions including the closing of malls, shopping complexes and restaurants till April 26 in five cities -- Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Nagar and Gorakhpur -- but stopped short of calling it a "complete lockdown". On the issue of migrants coming back to the state from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Delhi, Chief Minister Adityanath said the bordering districts of UP must exercise special caution, and provisions should be made for smooth movement of the migrant workers. He also asked the Home Department and the Transport Department to coordinate and act to provide adequate facilities for the testing and treatment of the migrant labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/weekend-curfew-in-uttar-pradesh-night-curfew-in-districts-with-500-plus-covid-19-cases-976655.html
20-04-2021||Opinion||Why India's Covid-19 surge will make the pandemic more deadly this year||By David Fickling Covid-19 is going to kill more people in 2021 than it did last year. If you want to see why, look at what’s happening in India. Cases have been surging in the country of 1.37 billion people. On Sunday alone, 261,500 new infections were recorded. That’s as bad as the US during all but the worst five days of the pandemic in December and early January. Case counts are rising far more quickly, too. Average infection numbers over the past seven days have run at nearly three times the level two weeks ago, a pace of growth that the US last saw in the early days of the outbreak a year ago.  The real numbers may be yet higher. The city of Bhopal used Covid-19 protocols to cremate or bury 84 people last Tuesday, according to the Hindustan Times, while declaring only five Covid deaths. The B.1.617 variant, which isn’t well understood yet, has features associated with higher infection rates and lower antibody resistance. It's turning up in more than half of viral samples taken in India. As caseloads push medical facilities toward capacity, the health system itself is starting to crack. Vaccine stocks, hospital beds and even oxygen supplies are running short, leading to bitter arguments between the states and the federal government. In some places, the dead are being transported by truck because cities have run out of hearses. Elsewhere, crematoria have started to break down because of the sheer number of bodies being burned. The government Monday promised to open up vaccines to all people over the age of 18. If things don’t change soon, the country will be facing 3,000 deaths a day — twice its current level, and 10 times what was being seen through most of this year — Bhramar Mukherjee, a biostatistician at the University of Michigan, wrote last week.    As Mihir Sharma has written, arrogance, hyper-nationalism and incompetence helped foster a fatal sense of complacency amid India’s apparent success against the outbreak earlier this year. Until a few weeks ago, lockdown restrictions had been progressively loosening for months. Cinemas were allowed to open to full capacity Feb. 1. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan declared the country “in the endgame of the Covid-19 pandemic” in early March, at almost precisely the point that cases started to surge again. Worryingly, the clear signs of a second wave haven’t prompted much course correction since. With elections underway in the states of Assam and West Bengal, the Twitter feed of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been interspersing updates about the virus with Trump-style footage of him, unmasked, addressing mass rallies: The other side isn’t necessarily doing much better, either. West Bengal’s chief minister only got around to canceling her campaign rallies Sunday. Worse may be to come. The Kumbh Mela, a Hindu pilgrimage festival that’s normally the largest mass gathering on earth, is now underway on the banks of the Ganges, attended by an estimated 3.5 million people. That’s well down on the numbers in a normal year, and even Modi, far too late, urged over the weekend that the event be purely “symbolic” rather than physical. Still, it’s far above the mere thousands allowed to other mass events like last year’s Hajj in Saudi Arabia and Arbaeen pilgrimage in Iraq. Even held outdoors, such events carry a profound risk of spreading the most infectious variants to every corner of the country. Close to 10% of people returning to Gujarat’s largest city, Ahmedabad, from the festival tested positive for Covid over the weekend, PTI reported Monday. Hitherto, the coronavirus has mostly hit the relatively affluent, urbanized parts of the country that are best able to cope with it, such as the southern states of Kerala and Karnataka, the capital Delhi, and Maharashtra, home to Mumbai. If the Kumbh Mela seeds it in rural districts, where the majority of India’s population lives, the death toll could be higher still.  There’s a lesson in this for the world. The 1.2 million people who’ve died from Covid so far this year already represent about two-thirds of the 1.8 million fatalities in 2020. Yet people are  behaving as if it’s already over. That's removing the sense of unified urgency that led many nations to make such strides in turning around the pandemic last year. Vaccine supplies for the richest (and, thanks to global initiatives, poorest) countries are relatively ample. Yet those for middle-income nations, where the majority of the planet’s population lives, are grossly inadequate, blocked by restrictive patent rules. India, with one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical industries, is far better placed than most midsize economies to cope, but even it is crumbling under the strain. The more people infected in emerging countries while the rest of the world looks away, the more opportunities Covid-19 will have to develop into fresh strains and prolong this death and misery. We must do better. The globe is still under attack, but our defenses are in disarray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-indias-covid-19-surge-will-make-the-pandemic-more-deadly-this-year-976548.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||A quiet arms race is rapidly heating up between the two Koreas||By Choe Sang-hun, Pride and jealousy have driven North and South Korea to engage in propaganda shouting matches and compete over who could build a taller flagpole on their border. Now that one-upmanship is intensifying a much more dangerous side of their rivalry: The arms race. Earlier this month, South Korea’s dream of building its own supersonic fighter jet was realized when it unveiled the KF-21, developed at a cost of $7.8 billion. The country also recently revealed plans to acquire dozens of new American combat helicopters. When President Moon Jae-in visited the Defense Ministry’s Agency for Defense Development last year, he said South Korea had “developed a short-range ballistic missile with one of the largest warheads in the world.” Unlike North Korea, the South lacks nuclear weapons. But in recent years the country has revved up its military spending, procuring American stealth jets and building increasingly powerful conventional missiles capable of targeting North Korean missile facilities and war bunkers. The impoverished North has used those moves to justify expanding its own arsenal, and has threatened to tip its short-range missiles with nuclear warheads and make them harder to intercept. Experts warn that the ensuing arms race between the two countries is jeopardizing the delicate balance of peace on the Korean Peninsula. As both sides act and react through arms buildups in the name of national defense, it will create a vicious cycle that will eventually undermine their defense and deepen their security dilemma,” said Jang Cheol-wun, an analyst at the Korea Institute for National Unification, a government-funded research group. The two Koreas have long been locked in a perpetual arms race. But Pyongyang’s growing nuclear capabilities, coupled with the fear of a withdrawal of American troops from South Korea under President Donald J. Trump, added to those tensions. While in office, Moon has increased South Korea’s annual military spending by an average of 7% , compared with the 4.1% average of his predecessor. After diplomacy failed to eliminate the North’s nuclear arsenal, Moon had to reassure South Koreans that their country was not a “sitting duck,” said Yoon Suk-joon, a researcher at the Korea Institute for Military Affairs. Soon after Moon’s visit to the Agency for Defense Development, South Korean media reported that the weapon he referred to was the Hyunmoo-4, a missile tested last year. According to missile experts, the Hyunmoo-4 can fly 497 miles, enough to target all of North Korea. Its two-ton payload — unusually large for a short-range missile — could destroy the North’s underground missile bases. Whether it could destroy the deep bunkers into which Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader, would retreat in wartime depends on how deeply they are buried. According to missile experts, though, South Korea would likely need earth-penetrating nuclear weapons from the United States to destroy such prized targets. Not to be outdone, on March 25 North Korea launched a new ballistic missile of its own and said the weapon flew 372 miles with a 2.5-ton warhead. The test prompted Moon to claim the following day that South Korea had “world-class missile capabilities, enough to defend ourselves while abiding by our commitment to make the Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons.” Washington has tried to prevent missile proliferation on the Korean Peninsula for decades. Under guidelines first adopted between Washington and Seoul in 1979, South Korea was barred from developing ballistic missiles with a range of more than 187 miles and a payload of more than 1,100 pounds. After North Korea attacked a South Korean island with a rocket barrage in 2010, South Korea demanded that Washington ease the restrictions so it could build more powerful missiles. “We hinted that we might scrap the missile guidelines unilaterally,” said Chun Yung-woo, the national security adviser at the time. “We told the Americans that if we didn’t address concern over the North’s growing nuclear and missile threat, more and more South Koreans would call for building nuclear bombs for ourselves.” In 2012, Washington agreed to let South Korea deploy ballistic missiles with a range of up to 497 miles as long as it abided by the 1,100-pound warhead limit. It also said South Korea could exceed the payload limit by several times on missiles with shorter ranges. South Korea has since tested missiles with growing ranges and bigger warheads, including the Hyunmoo-2A, Hyunmoo-2B and Hyunmoo-2C. Once North Korea launched its first intercontinental ballistic missile in 2017, Trump lifted the payload limit entirely, making way for the Hyunmoo-4. Ever since taking power a decade ago, Kim has tried to build ICBMs capable of reaching the United States. But he has also threatened to tip the missile balance against South Korea. In January, he indicated that his country had already built short-range nuclear missiles aimed at South Korea and vowed to improve them by making the warheads “smaller, lighter and tactical.” South Korea’s strategy of deterrence has been based on the belief that the best chance it has against the North without nuclear weapons of its own is to build up a conventional missile defense and deploy ever more powerful “bunker busters” to make Kim fear for his life. When North Korea tested its intercontinental ballistic missile in 2017, the United States and South Korea responded by launching their own ballistic missiles to demonstrate their “deep-strike precision” capabilities. In his book “Rage,” the journalist Bob Woodward wrote that the American missile travelled the exact distance between its launching point and the location from which Kim watched his I.C.B.M. launch. Kim halted all missile tests in 2018, the year of the first of his two summit meetings with Trump. After their talks collapsed, North Korea resumed tests in 2019, rolling out three short-range ballistic missiles that were designed to counter the allies’ antimissile capabilities. North Korea’s old fleet of Scud and Rodong missiles used liquid fuel and lacked precision. The country’s new generation of missiles uses solid propellants, making them quicker to launch, easier to transport and more difficult to target. They also have greater accuracy and evasive manoeuvring power that could confound the South’s missile defense systems. The new solid-fuel ballistic missile North Korea tested in March likely evaded the allies’ radar during its low-altitude manoeuvring, leading the South Korean military to estimate its range at 280 miles, not the 372 miles the North claimed, said Chang Young-keun, a missile expert at Korea Aerospace University. Chang said the missile could also likely increase range and warhead weight because it was powered by “the largest solid-fuel rocket motor developed and tested in North Korea so far.” The North’s ICBMs still use liquid fuel, which takes hours to load before launching, making them vulnerable to American pre-emptive strikes. But in his January speech, Kim vowed to build solid-fuel ICBMs, presenting an even bigger challenge for American missile defenses. Such prospects deepen the fear among some South Koreans that Washington would be less likely to intervene if it, too, faced a possible North Korean nuclear attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-quiet-arms-race-is-rapidly-heating-up-between-the-two-koreas-976337.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||‘Museums across the world are redefining themselves in Covid-19 times’||The Covid-19 pandemic – for the second year running - has deeply affected the world and the buzzword is redefine yourself.  In such a scenario, museums are redefining themselves – and India, which has several world-class museums, is not an exception. DH’s Mrityunjay Bose spoke to Shivaprasad M Khened, Director of Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai, on the challenges that the museums face. Hailing from Karnataka, Khened is former Director, National Gallery of Modern Art, Mumbai and Bengaluru and former Director, Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum, Bengaluru. “Museums are redefining because of the challenges thrown up by the Covid-19 pandemic and the emerging technologies…in real sense people are now custodians of museums and not just the curators,” says Khened. Excerpts:   The year 2020 was full of challenges because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Even when it appeared that things were going our way, comes a major challenge in the form of a second wave and there may be subsequent waves. How do you see museums ahead?  There are museums of various types across the globe. Most of them are facing challenges in terms of revenue and footfall due to the raging pandemic. Several of them have been closed, as reflected in the survey of the International Council of Museums (ICOM), the apex international body for museums. Definitely, that is a worrying sign but it is because of conditions beyond the control of governments or museum administrations. But most of the museums across the world have taken museums to the drawing rooms or study rooms.  Information Technology and Artificial Intelligence are making it possible. We can have a 3D view of an object on laptops or TV sets. Over the last one year, most museums have tried to innovate and create several online digital content and programmes, which have been aired to the homes during the lockdown.  Q. Can we have some examples? A. Let’s take our case as an example. We made arrangements to show live the Annular Solar Eclipse of June 21, 2020. We streamed it on our social media platforms. Can you guess how many people viewed it? It is unimaginable! Around seven lakh people saw it. Bottom lines have been affected but then this has been the case across different sectors, let’s take it as a challenge and prepare for the future. Museums have enhanced their digital activities and digital presence and are continuing to upgrade across platforms and this is perhaps the right answer. Q. Has there been an interaction across museums of the world?  A. Yes, the lockdown did help us enhance co-operation. We could host several events with top scientists across the world, we had online talks, events, lecture series. Recently, we collaborated with the Russian Centre for Science and Culture to commemorate online the 60th anniversary of Yuri Gagarin’s flight to space. We had more than 500 people who were online to witness the event. We had three cosmonauts from Russia, and from India we had Wing Commander Rakesh Sharma, the first astronaut of India, sharing his experience. We also had T K Alex from Isro who spoke about the Indo Russian Space collaboration. Last year, former Isro chairman A S Kiran Kumar told us how India must harness the potential of the $400 billion global space economy.  Veteran archaeologist Vasant Shinde spoke about Rakhigarhi excavation. Veteran nuclear scientist Anil Kakodkar spoke on India’s nuclear power programme. Nasscom president Debjani Ghosh and former TCS chairman S Ramadorai were other dignitaries who spoke to our audience from our platform.  Q. How are you ensuring that people keep on coming?  A. We have increased the outreach. From websites to social media platforms, details of events are being shared in advance, registrations are done in advance. There are reminders and mailers. And after the event, we are in touch with them. Many of them are returning for new events and online workshops.  It is emerging as a platform for discussions and exchange of ideas. Q. Can you share some pluses that the year has given?  Fortunately, the Covid-19 challenge, which has compelled all museums including our science museum, to be closed for visitors, has given us an opportunity to take up restoration of our precious locomotive collections during this lockdown period. You have to think out-of-the-box and keep innovating, and adapt to new challenges the Darwinian way perhaps. Q. How is India facing the challenges? A. We also have such examples in India of developing new types of digital museums/exhibitions - Virtual Experiential Museums (VEM) that perhaps will be very useful in the current context. Incidentally, the National Council  of Science  Museums, Kolkata has been involved in developing two of these exhibitions for the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. The first VEM has come up in Varanasi; it provides an immersive experience of the vibrancy of the socio-cultural, religious, artistic and historic significance of the city of Varanasi. Similarly, there is another VEM that has been created at the National Museum which has been curated, designed and developed by IIT-Bombay. It provides an amazing immersive experience for the visitors and the digital content and technologies developed for these two VEMs in India are so very relevant in the current context for connecting museums virtually to our visitors. Once Covid-19 pandemic is over, museums would be crowded for sure and footfalls, we hope,  would double or triple because of the interest that we could generate and also because of the fatigue that people have faced staying home. They would love to go out for sure and what better place for an outing than a visit to the museums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/museums-across-the-world-are-redefining-themselves-in-covid-19-times-976338.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||God moves in mysterious ways||God’s timing and reasoning is perfect; He will answer our prayers even if we don't understand how at the moment. The battlefield of Kurukshetra was being prepared for combat. Elephants were being used to uproot trees and clear the ground. When a tree was thus uprooted, a sparrow’s nest flew to the ground. Her chicks, however, remained miraculously unharmed.  The vulnerable and apprehensive sparrow saw Lord Krishna and appealed for help. “Please save my children, O Krishna, or they will be crushed when the battle starts” she pleaded.  “I understand your plight but cannot go against the flow of the natural order,” said Lord Krishna. “You are the law, time and the entire universe all in one O Lord, the fate of my children is now in your hands,” cried the sparrow. “In that case,” said lord Krishna, “stock food for three weeks in your nest”.  The little sparrow flew away gratified.  Just before the commencement of the battle, Krishna asked Arjuna for his bow and arrow. Arjuna wondered if  Krishna had forgotten his vow to not lift any weapon in the war. Quietly taking the bow from Arjuna, Krishna took aim at an elephant. But, instead of hitting the animal, the arrow hit the bell around its neck. Arjuna assumed that Krishna missed an easy mark. “May I?” he offered but Krishna only smiled and shook his head. “Why did you shoot the elephant Lord?” Arjuna asked in bewilderment. “This elephant had knocked down the tree sheltering the sparrow’s nest,” answered Lord Krishna. Many questions enveloped Arjuna's mind but the war had begun. Numerous lives were lost over the next eighteen days. The Pandavas won in the end and Krishna took Arjuna with him to navigate through the field littered with corpses. He stopped at a certain point and asked Arjuna to lift an elephant-bell from the ground. When Arjuna looked at Krishna questioningly he smiled and said, “It’s the same bell that had come off the elephant’s neck I had shot at.” Arjuna bent down to lift the bell and all his questions were answered as four young birds flew out one after another followed by a sparrow who circled around Krishna in great joy. The bell had protected the entire family. When we are down to nothing, God is always up to something.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/god-moves-in-mysterious-ways-976339.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||A home of one’s own||Single women in India are often looked at as aberrations and threats to patriarchal systems that encourage them to marry and ‘settle’ well before the mid-30s. A woman in her mid-30s, single by choice, is inadvertently assumed to not have been able to find a partner, rather than being genuinely selective about it, or choosing to stay single for as long as she pleases. There is an assumption in Indian culture, that a woman is entitled to her ‘own’ home, where she calls the shots only post marriage. As though marriage itself is a license to privacy and space, since the home she shares with her parents doesn’t encourage that autonomy. The systems are that of the authoritarian figures, in this case, the parents, where the woman sharing that space, is a part and must conform to those systems. ‘Tum shaadi karo aur apne ghar mein jo chahe karo’ straddles two deeply problematic notions. One, that a woman’s home becomes her own only once she marries. As deeply problematic as ‘settling’, which for a woman means latching on to a man and finding anchorage only then. The second, is the concept of autonomy and choice. That she can exercise her will for the smallest to the largest decisions only when she is in a conformist space of a married household. The idea of privacy within a shared space with parents is novel, and almost amounts to disrespect when demanded. As the numbers of single women swell in India, it is imperative to understand that many would share home space with parents. Economic realities are ensuring this. If not, rented accommodations do not provide homes to single women with ease either. There are questions asked, aspersions cast, and evaluation of her ‘character’, again from deeply patriarchal ideas of morality.  In that world, these kinds of jibes are sexist, demeaning and reduce the identity of a woman to be incomplete before the socially accepted ideas of marriage. When contested, and privacy demanded, the demand is often viewed as an act of rebellion, with parents assuming that the ‘freedoms’ they ‘give’ are not adequate. Who decides what is freedom, and what authority do these figures have to ‘give’ freedom? Both these notions are singular and tie back to diffused patriarchy. Where within the now expanded patriarchal framework (thanks to thousands of women fighting innumerable battles), the ideas of freedoms that are socially acceptable still conform to the idea of relaxed patriarchal constructs. A woman can be independent, earn, choose a partner, as long as she fulfils these. The idea of freedom, the agency of choice must rest with the woman unquestionably.  The very idea that a woman can be autonomous about the decisions of living in her own space over taking phone calls, choosing to drink, choosing to smoke, choosing to have male friends over are still viewed with suspicion. The woman in her mid-30s transforms to that of a daughter. As one who must wake up to help in the kitchen on time, as one who must keep her room and herself presentable at all hours. Before any of these are justified as ideas of ‘adjustments’, what is critical to be questioned is that if the ideas are laced with patriarchal expectations? When sharing house space, adjustments are a given. Are they different basis gender? A look at men, and having the expectation that they must move out (whether economically viable) because they have grown up, is also a patriarchal thought. However, men moving out and their expectations of privacy are met often with reverence, for women this is met with suspicion and unhappiness. Home is a safe space for everyone. And a woman choosing to lead her life is entitled to the same respect. So why for women, must it only come with a space that she buys or owns? Do we encourage the same levels of freedom and privacy for men as we do for women? A woman can and must take care of her parents, and yet should she not be entitled to the same levels of autonomy within the households of those parents? Should refusal, demands for privacy be viewed as acts of disrespect? It is imperative for fights against patriarchy to be won within the home. Those battles are often the hardest to fight. But also the most necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-home-of-one-s-own-976340.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||Covid-19 turns spotlight on 'invisible' workers let down by labour laws||In India, the post-Covid-19 scenario brought to the fore issues of migrant/informal employment and labour law reforms in the most dramatic fashion. As the migrant exodus unfolded with unrelenting grimness around this time last year, there was frequent mention of how the pandemic had exposed the 'invisibility' of migrant labour to Indian planners and policy-makers.   As Barbara Harris-White has observed, in comparison with other low-middle income countries, the very large proportions of the Indian workforce in vulnerable employment make for a 'distinctively' Indian pattern. The scale of informal employment and its wide-ranging ramifications are glaringly obvious to anyone with the slightest familiarity with urban Indian street-life. The reference to the supposed invisibility allegedly 'exposed' through the draconian lockdown was, therefore, both startling and telling. For nearly a decade now, studies on global employment trends to classify economies according to the degree and intensity of their employment of informal labour have shown India to be at the top of this league table. In what precise sense could India’s migrant workforce then have been termed 'invisible'? How do we understand the metaphor of labour invisibility when more than 90% of the workforce is in informal employment? And importantly, what was it a metaphor for? Given the high visibility of governmental interventions to support vulnerable groups, what does it mean to propose that policymakers were ‘unaware’ of the conditions of work and survival for this overwhelming majority of labour force? Indeed, in highlighting the alleged invisibility of migrant labour, were we not, as commentators, pointing to our own implicit endorsement in the production of this invisibility? And most critically, how could an overwhelming majority of the workforce be rendered invisible to the public eye without an active contribution from current and previous policy paradigms? So, are there ways in which planning discourse and labour policy have been instrumental in producing and sustaining this invisibility of migrant, informal labour? Quite rightly, the manner in which the lockdown was announced and enforced has elicited much comment. However, the above questions suggest it would be utterly shortsighted to locate the migrant crisis only vis-à-vis  the ‘insensitivity’ of the current regime. We know major changes in labour law followed close on the heels of the migrant exodus, which only advanced strategies towards labour pursued over the last decade or more.    Introduced initially in the form of ordinances passed by nine states in May 2020, many provisions in those ordinances were soon consolidated through the three labour codes passed by Parliament in September 2020, namely the Industrial Relations Code Bill; the Code on Social Security Bill; and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code Bill. The Code on Wages was passed by Parliament in 2019.   These labour law reforms had been in the making for many years; yet presently, they were explained as geared to the changing needs of the post-Covid economy. The government claimed these measures to let employers hire and fire at ease, and extend working hours to incentivise investors in the changed business environment to set up big factories to generate more jobs. Such arguments about supposed labour market inflexibility being the primary impediment to investment have been a strong influence upon policymaking leading up to the reforms of 1991 and since. Labour market In response, scholars have shown the evidence to correlate labour market flexibility with employment outcomes to be less than weak. Simultaneously, labour law experts, activists and commentators have argued for labour market reforms that would enhance transparency and consistency in the codes while providing greater social security to strengthen demand and welfare and stimulate growth. However, the new labour codes bypassed much of this existing discussion. Indeed, we may speak of a long tradition of disjunct between informed debate, expert recommendations and the course of labour policy, going back all the way to the report of the First National Labour Commission (FNCL), submitted in 1969. Appointed by the Vajpayee-led NDA government in 1999 with a mandate to review and suggest amendments in labour laws, the Second National Labour Commission (SNCL) submitted its report in 2002. In keeping with its terms of reference to suggest ways to provide social security protection to all workers, particularly those in the unorganised sector, who make up nearly 93% of our workforce, the National Commission of Employment in the Unorganised Sector (NCEUS) submitted nine reports to the UPA government between 2006 and 2009. At the manifest level, all three reports seem to have met with the same fate. However, following the introduction of The Unorganised Sector Workers’ Security Bill in Parliament in 2007, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour held extensive deliberations with stakeholder groups, many of whom had met with the NCEUS. Writing in the context of the Covid lockdown, NCEUS member K P Kannan pertinently argued that NCEUS proposals for social security for informal workers would have covered an overwhelming proportion of deserving households through the multiple crises induced by the pandemic. Even such a schematic take on the course of labour policy highlights its role in aggravating the precarity of living conditions for the overwhelming numbers in informal employment, all of which culminated in the migrant workers crisis that unfolded post-Covid. Clearly, the tortuous course of policy deliberations cannot be easily extricated from the steps that have fed into the trope of labour ‘invisibility’. Rather than viewed as discrete instances, the unfolding of the migrant crisis and subsequent labour law reforms need to be read together to consider how current terms and scenarios were anticipated in earlier formulations of policy and desired change. Befittingly framed as measures reflecting the current hegemonic consensus on optimal possibilities open to labour, such a reading would enable us to explore continuities between the current labour policy and its previous phases. Tracing these continuities will alone allow questions about the deeper logics embedded in the trajectories of policy discourse that extend beyond ideological differences espoused by particular governments and different policy regimes. (The writer is Professor of Sociology, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-turns-spotlight-on-invisible-workers-let-down-by-labour-laws-976623.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||Medical graduates in limbo||Young medical graduates of the 2021 batch must bear the brunt of the indecisiveness which has put their future at stake.  Students were wide-eyed when they got selected, registered at respective medical colleges, and deemed themselves lucky in this academic path.  All graduates in general, and those who made it with flying colours specifically, with an unflinching focus on their next destination --a gruelling path in pursuance of a post-graduate degree--were hopeful of realizing their dreams.  Only to crash-land in disillusionment! A logical next step post a graduation ceremony was to obtain a registration number from the board or council.  They are provided a license which helps them to practice or take up employment or furnish as details if they need to pursue their higher education. A prerequisite is to collect all previous education marks cards from the college which were deposited at the time of admission. When they proceeded onwards, graduates were in for a shock. Graduates were informed that they need to serve a mandatory rural service of one year and their marks cards would not be released.  What entitles the college authorities or the Board or the Government to confiscate forcefully their transcripts?  While graduates from a few other colleges had obtained their marks cards, they were denied the registration numbers.  Some others obtained the registration numbers during the initial period of 2-3 days and proved to be a happy lot.  In summary, the decision that lacked cohesion with no proper set guidelines made the graduates sulk in frustration. At this point, some graduates proceeded to file a court petition to absolve them of the rural duty by citing certain clauses. During the interim, they were left to fend for themselves since the government would not decide one way or the other.  If there were clear guidelines, they would have served now for almost three months in rural areas and left with a balance of only nine more months.   Our expectations are that governments will facilitate by setting up a paradigm with forward-looking thoughts and guidelines.  What if the government turns out to be the stumbling block?  Now there are informed sources that propound that the government does not have enough funds to pay stipulated amounts for some 2,000 medical graduates.  Others suggest that the concerned minister has new additional responsibilities and is befuddled to make the right decision.  Few others suggest that the pandemic is escalating its reach throughout the country and the state has the vision to ringfence eligible doctors to tide over the virus-related far-reaching detrimental effects.  For a common man though, it appears the government is busy with sleaze CDs and related controversies and focused on retaining their power rather than providing solace to young graduates.  Every political leader offers his obeisance to the healthcare workers in this pandemic.  Of what value is that a mere eyewash, if they cannot provide clarity to these young medical graduates who have been pushed into a state of limbo? Bright medical graduates in a noble profession have gravitated to a state of utter confusion.  The nobleness enhanced due to a continued pandemic onslaught and its lasting impression, probably best forgotten. Do we need the legal system to step in to bail these graduates out of this limbo or would the media houses have the guts to deep dive into this situation to present a fair story to the public and the decision-makers?  Or would political honchos play their ‘Hand of God’ to spin a different story and make these graduates a scapegoat in these circumstances? Does it require more time to cast a spell of disillusionment on our medical graduates or will the system wake up instantly to motivate them to be the future proponents of the healthcare system?  High time for the lip service by our so-called busy politicians to fructify in the most valued frontiers of our healthcare system. Can we urge the government and the board to make the right decisions now and act as a beacon of light to these medical graduates?  Our plight as well-wishers to watch this as mute spectators is akin to walking our future generation medical professionals straight to the altar called guillotine!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/medical-graduates-in-limbo-976625.html
20-04-2021||Panorama||Faith bestows courage||Albeit faith, meaning complete and unconditional trust, is extensively used in the domain of spirituality, it has numerous benefits when sincerely adapted in mundane affairs also. Instead of using it for strengthening our courage, confidence and contentment, we ignorantly wait for a disaster to pounce upon us and drive us towards invoking our faith or take recourse to absurd religious beliefs. Unwavering faith in God, regardless of whether He exists or not, exercised by means of prayer and meditation, right thinking and right actions enable us to become better human beings and keeps high our courage, confidence and contentment.  If we cultivate faith in ourselves in addition to this, the benefits multiply. They work in tandem internally.    For faith to work effectively, we need to possess and practice it implicitly and unconditionally without doubting whether or not our miserable situation will vanish by it.   Similarly, we must have unshakeable faith in our wisdom, skills and abilities without an iota of doubt, to accomplish our goals. There is no fundamental conflict or difference between faith in God and faith in oneself, as self and God are identical at the highest level of intellectual probe and analysis.      It is doubt that diminishes the efficacy of faith and, therefore, it should be banished.  Doubt deceptively encourages us to ask questions like whether God exists or not, whether He helps directly or through other human beings, and also seek evidence.   God’s ways, helping or hindering humans, work in mysterious ways – through humans, divine instruments and bringing about appropriate situations and enablers.   Here is a supporting reassurance from Bhagawad Gita (18/61) as to how God accomplishes His objectives through His mysterious ways. The Supreme Lord, situated in everyone’s heart, is directing the  thoughts and actions of all living entities, who are seated as on a machine, made of the material energy.   Such actions interact with, connect and shape everything that occurs in the lives of humans and drive them towards their respective destinies.  Similarly, when we activate our dormant inner powers through building faith and confidence in ourselves and direct them towards righteous actions,  all required divine help will spontaneously flow in and wonderous results will manifest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/faith-bestows-courage-976626.html
20-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Midnight sandwiches||Forget about other midnights—'Midnight Cowboy', 'Midnight’s Children', 'Before Midnight' and the like. This is about midnight sandwiches, a title coined by a born humourist from Mysuru.  No, not R.K. Narayan. It was January 1, 2015. I had just drained my first cup of 2015 coffee to the last drop. ‘It’s about our trip tonight,’ she said, ‘I’ll pick you up at 7 pm. Our train is at 8 and we reach Mysuru at 9:30pm. Are you bringing any food for the train?’ ‘Yeah,’ I said, ‘Some aloo parathas for our dinner. It’ll keep us going till we reach Mangalore next morning.’ ‘Don’t you bother,’ she said quickly. ‘My cousin Sundar insisted on bringing some food for us. He’ll meet us at the station platform in Mysuru.’ All the same, I decided to pack some parathas in case Sundar hit some roadblock and was unable to deliver. As it happened Mangalore Express started half an hour late. Once we got going the Express, for no earthly reason was stopping after every couple of kilometres. It was about 10:30 and no sign of Mysuru. I wanted to unpack the parathas but Raji would not hear of it. ‘Poor Sundar will be waiting for us with the sandwiches. Let’s hold out till we reach Mysuru.’ Ah, sandwiches, I thought lightly. Raji called Sundar on her mobile and exchanged a few sentences with him. She turned to me and smiled. ‘Yeah, he’s there with the snack. And his wife Andal too. Good old chap!’ I offered her the parathas again at 11 pm but she refused it politely. I was hungry. The man in the side berth was snoring under his blanket and we were still up, Raji and I, dinnerless. At last, the train chugged into the dimly-lit Mysuru station. Raji put her head out and scanned the platform.  The next moment she’d caught sight of Sundar and Andal rushing like a pair of tornados towards our compartment window. ‘Well, well it’s rather late, almost midnight. Have you guys had your dinner?’ queried Sundar adjusting his scarf, while Andal brought out the food package. ‘Noooo,’ we cried out in unison. ‘We were waiting for the sandwiches.’ ‘Oh, oh, I’m extremely sorry, ‘apologised Raji’s cousin. ‘You should have finished your dinner, by now. It’ so late. After all these are just by the way...just some midnight sandwiches to munch.’ In a trice, Sundar’s  ‘by the way sandwiches’ were gone; we were that hungry. The Express was about to resume its journey rather reluctantly. Raji and I waved to the two figures on the platform who had braved the cold on a January night to meet their relatives with food and drink. It was sweet of them and the sandwiches had tasted heavenly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/midnight-sandwiches-976341.html
20-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Educative entertainment||“The devil is a sportsman and likes big game- he makes the deadliest assaults on the finest minds and on noblest spirits. That devil seems to be enjoying the games being played on the small screen in our homes day in and day out” I said, as the conversation went freewheeling between me and my friend over a cup of coffee. "Yes, absolutely...I wonder why human beings are shown as an embodiment of all deadly sins - jealousy, greed, anger, sloth, pride, lust etc and they are depicted as social climbers ready to do anything to achieve their goals. Why are they characterised in such a straight-jacketed manner...as though their emotional quotient is at the lowest? There may exist such people in socio-political and entertainment spheres, maybe in small percentage but when family relations are shown in such a crass way, it definitely must be shunned. Sadly, a majority of people seem to enjoy the large doses of such worthless stuff,” my friend sounded angry and naturally so. I remembered something amusing as well. My husband and I had a fine time with the family of my (then) would be daughter-in-law in Sri Lanka, and later after the marriage. As a compliment, my daughter-in-law mentioned that her family found me to be very nice, not like the mothers-in-law they see in the Indian TV serials. I felt very good though was sad to know the impression these serials create in the minds of people about our important family relations. Saas-Bahu serials filled with conspiracies, schemes have become a part of many real lives--their TRP keeps going up as people lap up every scene with great delight. Children are very impressionable, please save them from negative influences and try to teach them that "a great relationship is about two things- first find similarities, second, respect the differences.” As long as you keep your face towards the light, the shadow will fall behind you. This is the case with relationships, we must turn towards brightness and enjoy the warmth. Many of the TV serials show people in a bad light, highlight their weaknesses and evil side, show how they scheme and manipulate, show how easily others crumble and fall. Why cannot they send across positive messages, that there are people with great minds and noble thoughts, that when we feel God is destroying us by troubling us, he actually is tuning us, the way a violinist screws up the key till the tense cord sounds the concert pitch? He doesn’t do that to break it, but to use it tunefully, he stretches the string fully. Then entertainment becomes educative too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/educative-entertainment-976622.html
20-04-2021||Second Edit||Halt rallies in West Bengal||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has done well to call off all his election rallies ahead of the sixth, seventh and final phases of voting in the West Bengal assembly elections.  Other leaders and political parties would do well to follow his example. Bengal is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infections. On Sunday, it reported 8,419 new cases, the highest daily count in the state since the outbreak of infections in 2020. Kolkata alone reported around 2,200 new cases. Amid this grave and deteriorating situation, parties across the political spectrum have been holding jam-packed rallies and road shows, where neither leaders nor supporters wear masks or follow social distancing norms.  Instead of cautioning people against crowding at rallies, Home Minister Amit Shah said that it is “not right to link elections” to the spread of infections. It is in this context that Rahul Gandhi’s decision to call off his rallies comes as a breath of fresh air. It is heartening that the Trinamool Congress has decided to follow suit, albeit half-heartedly. It has announced that it will avoid organising big rallies in Kolkata and will also cut down on the duration of events. This is a step in the right direction but doesn’t go far enough as the TMC will hold small rallies in Kolkata and continue with large ones outside this city. The TMC must go the whole hog and cancel all its rallies across the state. It is worrying that BJP leaders are yet to respond. The party is determined to wrest power in Bengal and to this end, it is conducting a massive and aggressive campaign. It needs to revise its strategy for the public good. It must halt its rallies. The Election Commission has done little so far to control crowding during campaigning. It could have heeded the request of parties to club together the last three phases of voting in response to the Covid surge.  It did not. And while it has banned rallies, public meetings and even street plays between 7 pm and 10 am, this doesn’t go far enough. Piecemeal or half-hearted solutions to deal with a crisis have little impact. The EC must ban rallies across Bengal with immediate effect. Parties can turn to digital campaigning. During the 2014 general election, the BJP used 3D holographic technology to reach out to people. It was able to reach far more people than it could have by holding traditional rallies. Parties could turn to such technology now. The battle for Bengal is no doubt important. But the pandemic is claiming lives. Politicians should put the well-being of people ahead of power and polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/halt-rallies-in-west-bengal-976332.html
20-04-2021||Second Edit||Scrutiny by scribes in Valley important||The advisory issued by the Kashmir police to the media to refrain from reporting live encounters is yet another attempt to constrain the right of journalists to report, and thus to curb freedom of expression. About two weeks ago, a senior police officer of the state sent out a message to WhatsApp groups of journalists telling them `not to interfere’ in police operations during encounters and other law and order situations. In effect, it was an order to stop all live media coverage of anti-terror operations. The advisory was sought to be justified on the grounds that freedom of speech and expression is subject to reasonable restriction, the right to life should not be violated and national security should not be jeopardised. It was also asserted that ‘’no operational content should be carried which is likely to incite violence or contains anything against maintenance of law and order or which promotes anti-national sentiment.’’ These arguments are wrong and self-serving and are routinely used by the security forces to shield themselves against public scrutiny. A vigilant media which reports an encounter or an anti-terror operation will ensure that the forces act rightly and within the boundaries of the law. Media scrutiny will also ensure that the claims made by the forces are correct and people are not killed in staged encounters. There have been hundreds of cases of killing of innocent people by the forces in strife-torn regions, and courts, including the Supreme Court, have taken note of them. Such scrutiny is especially important in Kashmir which has seen strong-arm measures by security forces with support from the government. The new advisory is part of the policy behind these measures, which have only helped to further alienate the people. More militant actions are being reported now. It is unwise to ban the media from reporting the forces’ operations because then rumours will take over and that will do more damage. As the Editors’ Guild, which has opposed the advisory, has said, live reporting from conflict areas is among the most important duties of journalists and the arguments for banning it are specious and untenable. It has described the advisory as draconian and undemocratic, and has demanded its withdrawal. It has said that at best some guidelines can be issued. Even this may not be necessary, because the media already have sound guidelines for such reporting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/scrutiny-by-scribes-in-valley-important-976620.html
20-04-2021||South||Night curfew in Telangana till May 1 morning||The Telangana government has decided to impose night curfew in the state from Tuesday night till morning of May 1, to control the spread of Covid-19. The restrictive orders will be in place from 9 pm till 5 am, with all offices, firms, shops, establishments, restaurants etc to close by 8 pm. Medical services like hospitals, diagnostic labs, pharmacies and those dealing with supply of essential services like media, telecom, IT, ITES, delivery of all goods by e-commerce, petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, and gas outlets are exempted from the curfew. The decision comes a day after the Telangana High Court expressed concern over bars, pubs, malls, theatres etc being open. It has asked the state to take immediate actions to curb the virus spread and posted the matter for Friday. Telangana has been reporting a steep ascent in new cases for a few days now. On Monday, the state health department recorded 5,926 new cases and the active cases at present are at 42,853. The state has a cumulative Covid-19 case count of over 3.61 lakh. The daily case numbers are higher than those recorded during the first wave last year.  Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao also tested positive for the virus on Monday. According to the government order on Covid-19 curfew issued on Tuesday by chief secretary Somesh Kumar, movement of all persons is prohibited from 9 pm except essential workers journalists, state and central government employees, all private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedics and providers, pregnant women and patients for moving for the purpose of receiving medical care, and persons coming from/going to airports, railway stations, bus stands on production of valid ticket.  Public transport services including autos and taxis would be allowed to function within stipulated time for the transportation of above mentioned categories of people during the period of night curfew.  “Any violation of the instructions shall result in prosecution under Sections 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws,” the chief secretary said. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement/transportation of essential and non-essential goods. No separate permission/pass will be required for such movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/night-curfew-in-telangana-till-may-1-morning-976425.html
20-04-2021||South||Endosulfan victim dies in Kasargod after ambulance delay||The weak health infrastructure of Kasargod district in Kerala stands exposed once again as a 30-year-old endosulfan victim died after a delay in hospitalisation owing to the unavailability of an ambulance. Fatimath Tasria, 30, who died on Sunday, is considered to be the first endosulfan victim who died due to Covid-19. Daughter of Ismail and Suhra of Kanhangad, Tasria suffered from breathing difficulties on Sunday. Three members in her family were already Covid-infected and hence, the family did not get any private vehicle to take her to the hospital. Though the family approached the health authorities and endosulfan cell, no ambulance was provided as ambulances were engaged in Covid activities. Muneesa, who has been working for endosulfan victims, said that she had contacted the endosulfan and health authorities. But the advice was to arrange some private vehicle to take Tasria to the hospital. It took several hours for the family to get a private vehicle and by the time she was taken to hospital, she died. Tasriya tested Covid-positive after death. While district medical officer A V Ramdas said that the issue did not come to his notice, Endosulfan cell officials said that most of the ambulances were dedicated for Covid-related duties which is why an ambulance could not be provided to her. Amblathara Kunhikrishnan of the endosulfan victims' forum said that ever since Covid broke out, the endosulfan victims were facing acute hardship in getting medical attention. Even as Tata set up a 540-bedded hospital, only around 100 beds were made functional so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/endosulfan-victim-dies-in-kasargod-after-ambulance-delay-976553.html
20-04-2021||South||Cop allegedly loots robber in Kerala||A police personnel was placed under suspension at Kannur district in Kerala following an allegation that he looted a robber. Civil police officer Sreekath of Taliparamba police station allegedly extracted around Rs 50,000 from a person held for looting Rs 70,000 from another person. The police held one Gokul on charges of stealing an ATM card from a person and looting Rs 70,000. Gokul reportedly deposited a portion of the stolen money in his sister's bank account. The police personnel allegedly came across this and obtained the ATM card of the robber's sister and withdrew money from it. Gokul's sister petitioned the police higherups about this and subsequently, the police personnel was placed under suspension following a preliminary probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cop-allegedly-loots-robber-in-kerala-976618.html
20-04-2021||South||Kerala CM urges PM to ensure free Covid vaccine supply to states||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has expressed concern over the new vaccine policy of the centre and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure supply of entire dose of vaccines required by state government's free of cost. In a letter sent to Modi, Vijayan said that though the new policy states that state government's would be supplied vaccine from the 50 per cent quota based on critera, the states may be given a reassurance that they would no be left to compete with the open market players. Vijayan suggested that instead of supplying 50 per cent of the vaccines to the centre and the remaining 50 per cent to state governments and open market, the vaccine supply shall be made through a common channel involving the centre and state governments. The state government have constitutional obligation in the health sector and hence required assured quota for free distribution during the pandemic. Moreover, the states were not in a position to meet the additional financial burden of purchasing Covid vaccines, Vijayan pointed out. He also urged the centre to allow additional vaccine doses to state at the earliest as Kerala's vaccination drive was hit owing to the scarcity. While the state sought 50 lakh doses, it received only 5.5 lakh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-urges-pm-to-ensure-free-covid-vaccine-supply-to-states-976630.html
20-04-2021||State||Set up temporary crematorium, R Ashoka tells deputy commissioners||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Tuesday ordered all deputy commissioners to immediately identify government land as temporary crematorium. Such facilities will come up near cities, including Bengaluru. "It has come to my notice that land was unavailable to perform the last rites of those who perished due to Covid-19," the letter said, noting that cases were on an upward surge in a few city corporations of the state. Deputy commissioners, Ashoka said, should immediately identify government land within one to two km of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits and other cities, as a temporary facility for the cremation of Covid-19 victims. The minister has also directed officials to identify such land at the earliest. It can be recalled that growing fatalities in the second wave of the pandemic has lead to huge queues in crematoria, especially in Bengaluru. Ashoka had also announced setting up temporary burial grounds near Yelahanka, as burial grounds in the city too ran out of space.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/set-up-temporary-crematorium-r-ashoka-tells-deputy-commissioners-976600.html
20-04-2021||State||Possibly the worst time for transport strike, observes Karnataka HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday expressed hope that the public transport workers would call off their strike and resume operations without compromising on their demands. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka ordered notice to the respondents, including the Karnataka State Transport Employees’ League and posted the matter for further hearing to Thursday. Acting on a batch of PILs seeking intervention of the court, the bench said that assuming the demands made by the Transport (employees) Union are legitimate, it is possibly the worst time to take recourse to the transport strike, since the entire state is under the grip of Covid-19 pandemic. The bench also ordered notice to the state government, four state-owned transport corporations - KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC. The bench hoped that without compromising on the demands, the Union will come forward before the court with an assurance that the operations of the four entities will be immediately resumed so that the common man, who is already under huge stress, does not suffer further inconvenience. During the hearing, Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi informed the court that action had been taken against the employees. The advocate general said that among other demands, the Union has put forth an unviable demand to declare the employees as government staff. The bench clarified that it was not on the legitimacy or correctness of the demands of the Union and said that it views that amidst the Covid-19 situation, such strikes violate fundamental rights of the citizens under Article 21 of the Constitution. “It cannot be disputed that disruption of bus services of these four entities has affected the common man in the most difficult times. Practically, the entire state is in the grip of a sudden surge of Covid-19 cases. There have been a large number of deaths due to Covid-19. The BMTC is perhaps the cheapest mode of transportation for the common man. People have to report to their duty, they have to go to vaccination centres for vaccination. This is the time when this service should be available to the common man,” the benchsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/possibly-the-worst-time-for-transport-strike-observes-karnataka-hc-976610.html
20-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai rejects conspiracy theories around Governor meet||Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said governors of all states were holding meetings on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s direction, after questions were raised on Governor Vajubhai R Vala’s move to chair an all-party roundtable scheduled later today on Covid-19. “The PM has spoken with all Governors and has asked them to hold talks with state governments and Opposition parties to ensure coordination for a united fight against Covid-19 during such an extraordinary circumstance. Governors of all states are holding meetings,” Bommai, who is also the parliamentary affairs minister, said.  Vala’s move to chair an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation has sparked off some fundamental questions, with Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar wondering if the state had slipped under the Governor's rule.  “There’s a Congress government in Rajasthan. If the Governor holds a meeting, does it mean there’s Governor’s rule in Rajasthan? Maharashtra has a coalition where the Congress is a partner. If the Governor there holds a meeting, does Maharashtra come under the Governor’s rule?” Bommai asked.  Shivakumar had said that he received an invitation for the all-party meeting from the Governor’s office, and not the Chief Minister’s Office. “This is the first time the Governor has convened an all-party meeting. Signs that the state will officially come under Governor’s rule are everywhere,” Shivakumar had said.  Bommai said it was wrong to politicise everything every time.  On the possibility of imposing prohibitory orders to curb the movement of people, Bommai said this would be discussed in the all-party meeting.  The minister further defended the government over criticism on its handling of the second Covid-19 wave. “Everybody knows that this mutation of the coronavirus is faster in terms of the way it has spread in just three weeks. Still, we’ve ensured beds for thousands of people and the situation is under control in the districts,” Bommai said. “But I admit there’s a problem in Bengaluru. We’re taking all steps. We’ve spoken to oxygen manufacturers and I spoke to Jindal myself. We’re taking all steps and we need to work together,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-rejects-conspiracy-theories-around-governor-meet-976432.html
20-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cancels exams for Classes 1-9, all kids to be promoted through CCE||Putting an end to several days long speculations over the school examinations, the Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to cancel the annual examination for classes 1st standard to 9th standard affiliated to the state board. All students will be promoted to the next classes based on the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE). After chairing a high-level meeting, Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar announced the decision to cancel the exams in Bengaluru. Previously, the education department had directed all the schools to complete the results process by April 30. A statement released by the minister stated that schools shall not ask children to attend the evaluation physically. "The evaluation and the result announcement must be a tool, only for assessing the learning capabilities of the children. In case of lesser learning outcomes, then the same should be addressed as part of the bridge course during the commencement of the next academic year," Suresh Kumar said. In the meantime, the schools affiliated with the state board will remain closed for the summer holidays from May 1 to June 14 for grades 1st to 8th standards. The schools will reopen from June 15. Similarly, for grades 8th and 9th standard, the summer holidays will begin from May 1 to July 15. "The SSLC examination will be held as per the schedule from June 21 to July 5," the minister clarified. The high school teachers will be getting their summer holidays from June 15 to July 14 and the fresh academic year for 2021-22 will begin from July 15 for High Schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cancels-exams-for-classes-1-9-all-kids-to-be-promoted-through-cce-976462.html
20-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka imposes weekend curfew amid Covid-19 surge||The BS Yediyurappa administration stopped short of announcing a full-fledged lockdown, choosing "a middle ground" instead, with curfews every day and on weekends till May 4 to curb the spread of Covid-19.   Starting Wednesday, the government has ordered the closure of theatres, malls, bars and dine-in services at hotels to keep people from venturing out amid an unprecedented spike in coronavirus cases. The new curbs will be applicable all over Karnataka. The night curfew will be in effect from 9 pm to 6 am as against the earlier 10 pm to 5 am. The weekend curfew will kick in from 9 pm Friday till 6 am Monday.  The decision of the government comes even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised states to consider a lockdown only as the last resort. The new guidelines were the culmination of an all-party meeting chaired by Governor Vajubhai R Vala, which was followed by a meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). At the all-party meeting, Vala asked the state government to take "tough measures" to contain the spread of the virus even as former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy pitched for a total lockdown. Even Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah favoured curbs on the movement of people. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with the TAC, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said the new guidelines did not amount to a lockdown. "We've picked a middle ground," he said. "The new guidelines will be in effect till 6 am on May 4. On May 3, we will review the situation again," he added. With cases rising, pressure was mounting on the government to keep people at home. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and several others in the government were not in favour of a lockdown, given the devastation it caused last year. "We have reached a stage where more stringent norms are needed. But, we need to be pragmatic," Home & Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, stressing on the need to save lives while sustaining livelihoods. "We saw what happened last year," he said, referring to the lockdown. The government has also tweaked permissions for marriages. Earlier, up to 100 people indoors and 200 outdoors were allowed. Under the new norms, the government has put an overall cap of 50 people for marriages and 20 for funerals.  Places of religious worship will remain closed for the public, except for priests who are allowed to perform daily rituals and the like. All essential services will remain functional. That apart, inter-state and intra-state travel will not be restricted, according to the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-imposes-weekend-curfew-amid-covid-19-surge-976583.html
20-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 21,794 new Covid-19 cases, 149 deaths||Karnataka breached the 20,000-mark in new coronavirus cases reported in a single day. It also set a new record for the highest number of deaths reported in a day. The state reported 21,794 new cases of Covid-19 and a record 149 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 11,98,644 and the death toll to 13,646, on Tuesday. Bengaluru Urban alone recorded 13,782 new infections on Tuesday. A total of over 2,38,64,354 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,47,488 were tested on Tuesday. The day also saw 4,571 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of April 20 evening, cumulatively 10,25,821 discharges have been reported in the state. Out of 1,59,158 active cases, 751 are in ICU, out of which 181 are in Bengaluru and 101 in Kalaburagi. Bengaluru Urban reported 92 deaths and Bangalore Rural district 13, followed by others. Tumakuru, for the first time, reported cases in four digits with 1,055 cases, indicating that other districts were seeing a surge after an initial lull. Kalaburagi reported 818 cases, Mysuru 699, and Bengaluru Rural 513, followed by others. The State vaccinated 1,97,579 people on Tuesday taking the total vaccinated population to 77,66,222.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-21794-new-covid-19-cases-149-deaths-976616.html
20-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government cracks whip against agitating transport employees, over 100 arrested||Cracking the whip against agitating state-owned transport employees who are on strike for the past 14 days over wage related issues, as many as 112 employees have been arrested for damaging buses and 55 under the Karnataka Essential Services Management Act (KESMA). Bus services remained hit for the 14th day as well though a few buses were seen plying on the roads. The employees have been on strike since April 7 demanding the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations, which the government has turned down. According to Transport department officials, as many as 51 FIRs have been registered against 231 employees of whom 55 have already been arrested. Since the strike started, as many as 114 buses have been damaged by the agitating employees. In this connection, 206 FIRs have been registered against 467 employees of whom 112 have been arrested. The department has sacked 1,970 employees, suspended 2,941 and given notices to 7,666 to return to work. The KSRTC has revoked the suspension of 56 employees. By the end of the day, the Transport department managed to operate 7,719 buses in the state including 1,525 in Bengaluru||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-cracks-whip-against-agitating-transport-employees-over-100-arrested-976632.html
20-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Opposition leaders attack Karnataka government at all-party meet||Opposition leaders on Tuesday lashed out at the BJP government for "poor" crisis management, asking why authorities delayed taking measures despite knowing that the second Covid-19 wave was coming. Taking part in a virtual meeting chaired by Governor Vajubhai Vala, Congress and JD(S) leaders made several suggestions to the government for better management of the crisis. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said it was unconstitutional for the Governor to chair the all-party meeting. "The Governor intervening in administrative affairs is extra-Constitutional and I believe that this meeting goes against the Constitutional provisions," he said. He further criticised Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa for being lax about the second Covid-19 wave. "He did not call for an all-party meeting until now," Siddaramaiah said. He also suggested that the government reschedule the Zilla Panchayat and Taluk Panchayat elections to a later date. JD(S) Legislature Party leader HD Kumaraswamy, who joined the meeting virtually from the hospital where he is being treated for Covid-19, asked the government to impose a lockdown. "The state government seems to have ignored the suggestions by Technical Advisory Committee. I personally believe that in the present situation, there is a need for lockdown. The government cannot put people's health at peril by thinking only from a financial perspective," he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar minced no words as he attacked the state government. "Where's the common sense," he asked, as he pointed out the government's "failure in preparing" for the pandemic. Yediyurappa also took part in the meeting virtually from the hospital where he is being currently treated for Covid-19. At the meeting, Yediyurappa reportedly admitted that there were shortcomings. He said the government would take further steps considering suggestions made by the Governor and Opposition leaders. The CM said that "continuous efforts" were underway to ensure proper treatment, medicines, ventilators and ICUs for the infected. "During the last one year, infrastructure development in government hospitals was taken up on priority and as a result, there is 12 per cent increase in beds and the number of oxygenated beds has increased manifold with 29,667 beds," Yediyurappa said, according to a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opposition-leaders-attack-karnataka-government-at-all-party-meet-976644.html
20-04-2021||West||Fadnavis faces flak as 22-year-old nephew Tanmay gets Covid-19 vaccine||Maharashtra’s Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis came under severe criticism after a (now deleted) photo went viral that showed his 22-year-old nephew Tanmay Fadnavis receiving a Covid-19 vaccine jab. As of now, only people above the age of 45 are eligible to receive the Covid-19 vaccine, but from 1 May, all above the age of 18 can be inoculated. Tanmay took the vaccine at the National Cancer Institute, Nagpur. Tanmay is the grandson Shobha Fadnavis, an MLC and former minister in the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP alliance government between 1995-99. Shobha Fadnavis is the aunt of Devendra Fadnavis. The Maha Vikas Aghadi partners have targeted the BJP and Fadnavis. NCP spokesperson Clyde Crasto said: “A proverb for Devendra Fadnavis….'People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones'.” “The Modi government had put up a condition that only people above the age of 45 will be vaccinated. In such a situation, how can Fadnavis' nephew who is less than 45 years of age get vaccinated? The lives of BJP leaders' families are important. Are common people insects? Isn't their life worth anything!",” the Maharashtra Congress posted on its Twitter handle. The issue has gone viral on social media. Indian Youth Congress chief Srivatsa said that Tanmay, an actor, receiving the vaccine despite being under the age of 45 was an example of nepotism. Tanmay Fadnavis got Vaccinated even though he is an Actor and below 45 years! Is this NEPOTISM or not? Is Tanmay not part of BOLLYWOOD MAFIA? Another user on Twitter drew a parallel to an Amazon Prime show 'Chacha Vidhayak Hai Hamare' (My uncle is an MLA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-faces-flak-as-22-year-old-nephew-tanmay-gets-covid-19-vaccine-976427.html
20-04-2021||West||'Remdesivir procured by BJP was meant for Maharashtra govt'||Days after the Remdesivir procurement controversy, it now appears that the injections being procured by the BJP were intended for the Maharashtra government. The admission comes from Food and Drug Administration Minister Dr Rajendra Shingne. During a midnight clash on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, BJP MLC Prasad Lad and MLA Parag Alavani, rushed the Bandra-Kurla Complex police station following information that a person from Bruck Pharma Pvt Ltd was being investigated after a tip-off that the company has stocked 60,000 vials of Remdesivir. Bruck Pharma is an exporter of the medicine, however, now exports of Remesivir are banned. “Yes…I was aware of it… The BJP leaders had met me on this… Pravin ji informed me. They offered to help us procure the Remdesivir stocks for the state government and I agreed to it...it was meant for our state,” Dr Shingne told a Marathi news channel. “However, the issue took a turn, lets there be no politics on Covid-19,” he said. Darekar confirmed that he had taken a delegation of manufacturers to meet him.   “Shingne had thanked us for our efforts and we also assured the injection doses would be given to the state government,” Darekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/remdesivir-procured-by-bjp-was-meant-for-maharashtra-govt-976437.html
20-04-2021||West||GJC seeks postponement of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery to June 2022||All India Gem & Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC), the national apex body of the gems and jewellery industry, has written to the Department of Consumer Affairs to consider extending the deadline for implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery to June 2022 instead of June 2021 due to Covid-19.  Also, out of the 733 districts in the country, only 245 districts now have A&H Centres (as per BIS data) and GJC urged the BIS to ensure that there is at least one A&H Centre in each district in the country. GJC has organised an online national level industry meet to discuss the issues and problems in mandatory hallmarking regime on Wednesday. In a press release, the GJC whole-heartedly welcomed the new "pro-consumer" government order dated January 15, 2020, issued by the Bureau of Indian Standard and further amended Order dated October 9, 2020, mandating that all gold articles are required to be hallmarked and sold only by registered jewellers. However, GJC stated that it is essential to have properly accredited, fully functional A&H  (Assaying & Hallmarking) Centres in all districts across the country, with proper infrastructure and trained personnel prior to the requirement of mandatory hallmarking. As per the recent data taken from BIS website, there are 940 A&H centres in 245 districts across India and the number of jewellers registered with BIS are 31,585. Ashish Pethe, Chairman, GJC, said, “There are various operational and procedural issues in relation to implementation of the mandatory requirement, which if unaddressed will create an obstacle for compliance of the hallmarking requirements. This will also severely affect the jewellery industry, leading to drastic consequences such as cessation of business, loss of livelihood, litigation and unnecessary waste of time and energy. Mandatory hallmarking in its current state has the potential to affect the livelihood of millions of people and will lead to huge disruption in the century old jewellery business.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gjc-seeks-postponement-of-mandatory-hallmarking-of-gold-jewellery-to-june-2022-976463.html
20-04-2021||West||Mumbai Police seize 2,200 Remdesivir vials stocked by exporters||Police and FDA officials have raided two locations in Mumbai and seized 2,200 vials of Remdesivir stocked by exporters, an official said on Tuesday. Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre last week banned its export till the situation improves. Acting on information, the police and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials conducted raids on Monday at two locations in suburban Andheri and New Marine Lines in south Mumbai, he said. A total of 2,000 vials of Remdesivir belonging to a pharmaceutical company were recovered from an exporter's location in Marol area of Andheri (East), Mumbai police spokesperson S Chaitanya said in a statement. Besides, 200 vials of the key anti-viral drug were recovered from another premises of an exporter in the New Marine Lines area, he said. These vials were produced for overseas markets, but were stocked after the government imposed a ban on the export of the drug, he said. The FDA took the 2,200 vials into its possession and would make them available to hospitals, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-seize-2200-remdesivir-vials-stocked-by-exporters-976491.html
20-04-2021||West||Covid-19 surge: Maharashtra heads for total lockdown||With no let-up in Covid-19 cases and a large section of people on roads without reason, the Maharashtra government has decided to go in for strengthening the measures further and go in for a total lockdown. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, to take a final call. Thackeray is expected to make an announcement on Wednesday. The Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, the existing restrictions as part of the Break-the-Chain initiative, shortage of hospital beds of all types - general, oxygen, ICU and ventilators, shortage of medical oxygen, medicines like Remdesivir were discussed at the weekly Cabinet meeting, in which ministers of Shiv Sena, NCP, Congress and allies were unanimous over a complete lockdown and left the final decision for Thackeray. “We are heading for a total lockdown,” textiles minister Aslam Shaikh of Congress said. “We have to strengthen the norms and there is no option to it, the chief minister will himself make an announcement,'' said urban development minister Eknath Shinde of Shiv Sena. “This would be a lockdown like the one we had last year…complete and total,” he added. “The situation is serious…there are various issues that we are faced with. We will be strengthening the news,” said public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope of NCP. “The ministers were of the opinion of complete lockdown, the final decision would be of the Chief Minister,” he said.   Class X exams cancelled  Meanwhile, the Maharashtra boards Class X examination has been cancelled and students would be promoted to Class XI after the evaluation process, which would be decided in consultation with experts.  Earlier, the exams for Class X and XII were postponed. “Given the worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has now decided to cancel the state board exams for class 10th. The health and safety of our students and teachers is our topmost priority,” state School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said.  As far as Class XII examinations are concerned, it would be held end-May, 2021, as students need to appear for professional courses.  Grocery shop timings curtailed  In a fresh notification, the government has said that all groceries, vegetable shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectioneries, all types of food shops like chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs, can remain open only between 7 am-11 am daily for the next 10 days.  The Break-the-Chain order covers shops related to agriculture implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for the impending rainy season for individuals and organizations.  According to the order issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, these shops would be allowed to make home deliveries between 7 am-8 pm, though the timings may be revised by the local authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-surge-maharashtra-heads-for-total-lockdown-976542.html
20-04-2021||West||Kishore Nandlaskar dies of Covid-19||Veteran actor of Hindi and Marathi cinema, Kishore Nandlaskar, who had tested Covid-19 positive, passed away in a hospital in Thane on Tuesday. Nandlaskar (81) was admitted to the Covid Care Centre in Thane, where he died. Nandlaskar was a well-known figure in the Marathi film industry and essayed several memorable roles in ‘Ina Mina Dika’, 'Miss You Miss', 'Bhavishyachi Aishi Taishi', 'Gaon Thor Pudhari Chor', 'Jara Japun Kara', 'Hello Gandhe Sir', 'Madhyamvarg - The Middle Class'. He has also featured in a slew of Bollywood films like Jis Desh Mein Ganga Rehta Hain (2000), Khakee (2004), Vaastav: The Reality (1999), Singham (2011), Simmba (2018).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kishore-nandlaskar-dies-of-covid-19-976563.html
20-04-2021||West||Goa speaker dismisses disqualification petition against 12 MLAs||Goa legislative assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Tuesday dismissed two disqualification petitions filed against 12 BJP MLAs, nearly 20 months after the 10 Congress MLAs and 2 Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party legislators crossed over to the ruling saffron party, triggering outrage in the coastal state. Patnekar passed two oral orders on Tuesday dismissing the petitions filed by state Congress president Girish Chodankar and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Sudin Dhavalikar, even as the Supreme Court earlier this month, had directed the Speaker to pass the order on April 20.  Both Chodankar and Dhavalikar have expressed disappointment at the order, even as the former said that the passing of the order after 20 months would now enable Congress to exercise further legal options. "Now that an order has been passed, we have various options. Our legal team is assessing options. We will either be challenging the order in HC or mention it in SC when matter comes up there," Chodankar told reporters. Chodankar in his petition before the SC had accused Patnekar of adopting delaying tactics while hearing the disqualification petition. Chodankar in his petition had argued that the split in the party caused by the 10 MLAs and their subsequent claim to have merged the Congress party in Goa into the BJP, was illegal and violative of the provisions of Schedule 10 of the Indian Constitution. He also said that the Speaker's order had political overtones and had been carried out at the bidding of Goa Bharatiya Janata Party's organisational secretary Satish Dhond. Dhavalikar also said that he would be in a position to comment on the order once he received a written copy of the order, but did not rule out appealing against it. "We will see once we read the order," Dhavalikar said. In his petition, Dhavalikar had sought disqualification of two former MGP MLAs Manohar Ajgaonkar and Deepak Prabhu Pauskar, who also split the party and merged it with the BJP in March 2019. Currently, the ruling government in Goa has the support of 27 BJP MLAs and one independent MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-speaker-dismisses-disqualification-petition-against-12-mlas-976585.html
