21-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Case booked for graffiti on flyover embankment in Mangaluru||The Kadri police booked a case under the Karnataka Open Spaces (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981, against unidentified persons for scribbling graffiti on the embankment of the flyover at Mahaveer (Pumpwell) circle, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said. The writings such as ‘lockdown needed’ ‘bad boys in the city’ were found scribbled on the embankment of the flyover. Different colours had been used for scribbling the graffiti. Aditattva ART, which had taken up the work on beautifying pump well flyover, took to social media to express anguish over the vandalism. It said that it had taken up the task of beautifying the flyover after Karnataka Bank offered to sponsor the work. “Such vandalism will discourage companies from investing their money on the beautification of Mangaluru and demoralise artists like us,” Aditattva ART stressed. It appealed to the public to keep Mangaluru city beautiful. “It’s our duty as Mangaloreans,” Aditattva ART added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/case-booked-for-graffiti-on-flyover-embankment-in-mangaluru-976679.html
21-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Water tank built 7 years ago in Mangaluru stands unused to this day||A water tank constructed seven years ago to supply water to the residents of Alpe Chinganigudde in Panja Gram Panchayat has not received a drop of water so far. The water tank was constructed under the Zilla Panchayat grants seven years ago. Apart from the water tank, a purification tank too was also constructed. Every year during peak summer, when all water sources dry up, the water tank also remains empty without a drop of water. Under the ZP grants, two water tanks were sanctioned at a cost of Rs 20 lakh. A water storage tank with a purification tank was constructed at an elevated area. After the construction of the tank, a jack well was built at Pulikukku in order to draw water from the Kumaradhara river. Pipelines were also laid from Pulikukku to Chinganigudde to fill up the tank with water. Even after installing a pump to lift water, the water never reached the tank. Now, water is supplied to a tank near the college, informs resident Jinnappa Gowda Alpe. “The project is an example of government funds going waste. Weeds have grown around the unutilised tank. A cow which had wandered close to the tank had fallen into a pit and died,” he said. “There are allegations that water cannot reach the tank as it is located on an elevated area. When the action plan was being prepared, how did officials fail to check the pros and cons of the project?” he sought to know. The issue of water tank without water is being widely discussed on social media. “We want the water tank to be of some use,” villagers add. The officials should immediately initiate measures to supply water and ensure that the tank is of come benefit to the villagers. Officials clarified that the pipelines were damaged after the road work was taken up. Though a proposal seeking funds for carrying out repair works were submitted, funds had not been released so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/water-tank-built-7-years-ago-in-mangaluru-stands-unused-to-this-day-976695.html
21-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 days into launch, mango board website flooded with orders||Just four days into launching its website, the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd (KSMDMCL) has received 481 orders for the king of fruits.  Board officials said the orders would amount to Rs 2.90 lakh of sales of 516 boxes or 1,548 kilograms of mangoes.  KSMDMCL chairperson K V Nagaraju was thrilled about the demand. “We’re expecting the orders to increase further in the coming days,” he said.  Sagar N, a farmer who received nearly 130 orders, told DH that the farmers and the mango board planned to further publicise the sales and hoped that the orders would grow exponentially. “We’re gearing ourselves and our labour to meet the growing demand,” he said, stressing the need to take extra precautions due to the Covid-19 situation.  The website, www.karsirimangoes.karnataka.gov.in, opened to sell all varieties of mangoes to Bengalureans on April 16. Their orders will be door-delivered via the Indian Postal Service. The first delivery will start on Wednesday, with the board deciding to deliver the orders on Tuesdays and Fridays. Board officials also said the frequency of deliveries could be increased based on the demand.  Last year’s sales Last year, the portal sold 100 tonnes of mangoes of different varieties, as it remained open for sales between April 14 and July 10. The overall sales were Rs 150 lakh with 36,889 people booking 32,543 boxes weighing about 97,629 kilograms of mangoes.  The demand last year was serviced by 60 farmers from Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Kolar and Chikkaballapur. The board is hoping to better the sales record this year.  Sale time Total orders: 481 Boxes of mangoes: 516 Quantity: 1,548 kg Amount: Rs 2,90,443||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-days-into-launch-mango-board-website-flooded-with-orders-976698.html
21-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cleanliness Task force in Dakshina Kannada GPs to monitor garbage dumping||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat (DKZP) has issued a circular to set up Sanitation and Cleanliness Task Force at the gram panchayat (GP) level with an objective to end indiscriminate dumping of garbage beside national, state highways and PWD roads that pass through the GPs. DKZP chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Kumar issued the circular under the Swacchata Neethi 2017, Karnataka State Police and Strategy for Sanitation and Waste Management in Rural Areas, Karnataka Panchayat Raj (Management of Solid Waste) Model Bye-laws, 2020 and also under the resolution passed in the ZP meeting on March 30, 2021. The Task Force will include PDO, panchayat secretary, beat police, Asha workers, Swacchagrahi, revenue collector and pump operators. The Task Force has the responsibility to effectively dispose of the solid waste collected in the GP jurisdiction. They have the power to check and act against those who dump garbage beside the roads. The Task Force should take up night patrolling in areas where garbage is dumped regularly and identify vandals who dump the garbage and initiate strict action against them, CEO stressed in the circular issued to all GPs. Cases should be registered in police station against those vehicles that dump waste. A complaint can also be submitted to RTO for cancelling the permit of vehicle. The task force also has the responsibility to convert dark spot into beautiful garden by planting saplings and taking up wall drawings to create awareness on cleanliness. Fines should also be collected from violators, said the CEO. The Task Force should also guide bulk waste generators (above 50 kg) to manage the garbage on their own. To help the Task Force, a sanitation and cleanliness advisory committee comprising gram panchayat president, vice-president and members too have to be constituted, the CEO added. Fine amount on violators||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cleanliness-task-force-in-dakshina-kannada-gps-to-monitor-garbage-dumping-976752.html
21-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reports 975 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mysuru district reported 975 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday and seven people succumbed to the infection. The total number of positive cases has increased to 63,993 and the total deaths stand at 1,133. There are 4,612 active cases in Mysuru district. Among the new cases, 781 are primary contacts of infected persons, while 180 are suffering from Influenza like illness (ILA) and 14 are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reports-975-fresh-covid-19-cases-976977.html
21-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three friends killed in mishap||Three youths of the same village were killed in a collision between a motorbike and a car, near Ibdane in Hassan taluk on Tuesday night. The deceased are Chandan (18), Santosh Kumar (27) and Ramesh (32), of Bidirinakere, Hassan taluk. All three deceased are said to be friends and had gone to Hagare Deviramma temple on a motorbike. While returning, the motorbike rammed into a car coming from the opposite direction, near Ibdane, on Hassan-Belur road. While Santosh and Chandan died on the spot, Ramesh breathed his last at the hospital on Wednesday. The car driver is at large. Hassan rural police have visited the spot. The bodies were handed over to the kin after post-mortem at the district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-friends-killed-in-mishap-976982.html
21-04-2021||Mysuru||Covid-19 patients from Bengaluru choose Mysuru for treatment||There is no shortage of ICU, oxygen or oxygenated beds in the district, but, Covid-19 patients from other districts, including Bengaluru, are coming to Mysuru for admission. It has been observed that the death rate is little high due to late admission of patients. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that the district has 1,700 oxygenated beds and sufficient supply of oxygen. The death rate is less in Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Kodagu as many cases are coming to Mysuru. Even the patients from Bengaluru are coming to Mysuru demanding admission. “We are not supposed to reject the patients and have to provide them treatment,” she said. Earlier, 85% cases were reporting from the city and now, 50% are reporting from city and another 50% reporting from Mysuru rural. The beds at the district hospital are full at present and now, K R Hospital is supporting. There are 200 beds in K R Hospital and in addition, 200 beds are available at trauma care centre. As of now, there is no problem for ICU, oxygenated beds, testing and vaccine. But, people's behaviour is the problem now. The people who have given samples for test should self isolate them until their report is available, she appealed. Metagalli Covid Care Centre has reopened and 230 people are under quarantine here. A total of 550 beds are available in the hospital, she said. Every private hospital are directed to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients and all the taluks are directed to establish Covid Care Centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-patients-from-bengaluru-choose-mysuru-for-treatment-977006.html
21-04-2021||National||Ramp up Covid testing, hospital infrastructure: Centre||Centre on Tuesday asked union territories to ramp up testing and beef up hospital infrastructure even as the national capital gasped for oxygen with hospitals reporting scarce supplies. The directions came at a review meeting Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan held with chief secretaries of union territories. The meeting came on a day when Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal raised concerns over severe shortage of oxygen in the national capital with the government saying that several hospitals have supplies that could barely last a few hours. An official statement said, the Union Home Secretary asked the UT officers to maintain constant vigil against the grave situation in union territories and increase RT-PCR tests in addition to rapid antigen tests. Bhalla also asked the UTs to prepare for the next three weeks keeping view of the critical situation of the pandemic. The union territories of Ladakh, J&K and Lakshadweep said the surge in new cases was due to increase in in-bound travellers, Bhalla asked the officials from Delhi to undertake a survey to identify Covid-19 positive persons. In the last 11 days, new cases have almost doubled from 1.31 lakh reported on April 9 to 2.73 lakh on April 20. India on Tuesday reported more than 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours ending at 8:00 a.m. with 10 states including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, accounting for 77.67% of the new Covid-19 infections. The daily Covid-19 positivity rate (seven-day moving average) continued to show an upward trend and was currently at 15.99%, the Health Ministry said. Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are the other states in the list of 10. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 58,924, followed by Uttar Pradesh (28,211) and Delhi (23,686). India's total active caseload has reached 20,31,977 and now comprises 13.26% of the country's total infections. As many as 1,761 deaths were reported in the 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. Tuesday with Maharashtra accounting for maximum casualties (351) followed by Delhi (240).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramp-up-covid-testing-hospital-infrastructure-centre-976656.html
21-04-2021||National||US advises its citizens to avoid travelling to India||The United States has advised its citizens to avoid travelling to India as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is raging across the South Asian nation. The US move came just a day after the British government decided to deny entry to any citizen of India unless she or he has residency rights in the United Kingdom. The American Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) stated that the US citizens should avoid all travel to India. “Because of the current situation in India, even fully vaccinated travellers may be at risk for getting and spreading Covid-19 variants and should avoid all travel to India,” it stated in an advisory. “If you must travel to India, get fully vaccinated before travel. All travellers should wear a mask, stay 6 feet from others, avoid crowds, and wash their hands.” The UK put India on its “travel ban red list” with effect from Friday. The British Government took the decision shortly after the UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson dropped his plan to fly to New Delhi for a summit with his counterpart Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-advises-its-citizens-to-avoid-travelling-to-india-976658.html
21-04-2021||National||UK extends G7 foreign ministers’ meet invite to India||India is among the guest countries invited to join parts of the G7 Foreign and Development Ministers’ meeting to be hosted by the UK next month, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) said on Tuesday. The meeting in London will be the first in-person summit of the foreign ministers of the Group of Seven countries – Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, US and UK as well as the European Union (EU) and will be held in what has been dubbed a Covid-secure way between May 3 and 5. It is also likely to include External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar for parts of the summit, with India included among the guest nations from the Indo-Pacific region. "The Foreign Secretary has also invited India, Australia, the Republic of Korea, South Africa, and the Chair and Secretary-General of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), to join parts of this year’s G7 Foreign and Development Ministers’ meeting as guests,” the FCDO said. "Their attendance will bring broader experience and geographic representation, and demonstrates the importance of the Indo-Pacific region," it notes. UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab confirmed the plans for the meeting in Parliament on Tuesday, highlighting that the event would be an opportunity for the world’s biggest democracies to come together. "The meeting of G7 Foreign and Development Ministers next month is an opportunity to show how the world’s biggest democracies work together to ensure equitable access to vaccines, build back better from the pandemic, support girls in the poorest countries get a good quality education and agree ambitious action to tackle climate change," Raab said. The last G-7 Foreign Ministers meeting took place in April 2019 at Dinard and Saint-Malo in France. For the first in-person meeting in over two years, the FCDO said that organisers will put strict Covid-secure measures in place, including daily testing to ensure the health and wellbeing of all staff, attendees, and the public. All domestic social distancing guidelines will be in force, which places limits on large gatherings under the UK's lockdown easing roadmap. The Foreign Office said the meeting is a crucial opportunity to revitalise in-person diplomacy and will look to establish a shared approach among the world’s leading democracies on equitable vaccine access, to agree global girls’ education targets, rigorous goals on climate finance and new measures to prevent famine and food insecurity. It comes as part of the UK’s G7 presidency this year, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson set to host the G7 Summit in the coastal region of Cornwall between June 11 and 13. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is among the guest heads of government invited to attend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-extends-g7-foreign-ministers-meet-invite-to-india-976689.html
21-04-2021||National||Five states, UTs have no private Covid-19 vaccine facilities: Government data||With the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination opening up in less than two weeks for everyone above 18 years largely through private facilities, government data shows almost all small states and union territories are still entirely or mostly dependent upon government facilities. According to the government's CoWIN portal, 13 small states and union territories have less than 10 private facilities where vaccination against Coovid-19 infection is being conducted and out of these, five states and union territories have no private facilities for vaccination. The states and union territories with less than 10 private facilities for vaccination are - Andaman and Nicobar (0 private facility), Arunachal Pradesh (0), Dadra and Nagar Haveli (2), Daman and Diu (0), Ladakh (0), Lakshadweep (0), Manipur (3), Meghalaya (7), Nagaland (4), Puducherry (7), Sikkim (1), Tripura (1) and Mizoram (2), according to the CoWIN portal's dashboard. A senior health ministry official had earlier said some states and union territories have no private facilities conducting vaccination due to absence of such facilities there. Interestingly, Tamil Nadu is the only state in the country with over 1,000 private facilities conducting vaccinations. It has 1118 facilities. In comparison, Delhi, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh reporting high numbers of Covid-19 cases have 817, 230, 1101 and 561 private facilities conducting vaccinations respectively. The role of private facilities conducting vaccinations holds importance in view of the government's announcement to liberalise the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the doses directly from manufacturers in the third phase of Covid-19 vaccinations. In the third phase commencing from May 1, all above 18 years of age will be eligible for Covid vaccination. The announcement comes as India grappled to rein in the surging coronavirus infections that crossed 1.50 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-uts-have-no-private-covid-19-vaccine-facilities-government-data-976697.html
21-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Amid oxygen shortage, a 'stale gas' in the air||Even as India reels with an acute shortage of oxygen, vaccines and remdesivir, PM Modi's address on Tuesday did nothing to address the real problem. Summing up to one point: "Be careful, each to their own," the Prime Minister basically said that a lockown is the last resort. “The sum and substance of the pearls of wisdom at 8:45 pm — ‘it is beyond my control, passengers should protect their own lives,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre to provide medical oxygen to Delhi, saying some hospitals are going to run out of it in a few hours.  On the other hand, as the oxygen crisis finished its fourth day on Tuesday, Bengaluru’s glaring gaps in supply are no closer to being sorted out.  While the new oxygen war room, set up at the office of the additional drug controller, insisted that supplies of oxygen were being distributed effectively across the city, the ground realities presented a different picture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-amid-oxygen-shortage-a-stale-gas-in-the-air-976721.html
21-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre extends insurance scheme for healthcare workers by one year after facing flak||After facing flak, the Centre on Tuesday extended the Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme for healthcare workers who die on Covid-19 duty by one year. “During the coronavirus pandemic, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) has provided a safety net to the dependents of Corona Warriors who lost their lives to Covid-19. I am glad to announce that this scheme has now been extended for a period of one year with effect from today,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said. The insurance scheme was set to expire on April 24. "Government of India, you are utterly ungrateful," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said referring to reports on the end of the insurance scheme. Last month, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had informed the states about the conclusion of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, the insurance scheme for healthcare workers who die in the line of Covid-19 duty. The scheme was launched to provide a safety net for healthcare workers to ensure that in case of any adversity due to the coronavirus pandemic, their families are taken care of. The scheme for the healthcare workers fighting Covid-19 was implemented with effect from 30 March 2020, initially for a period of 90 days and was extended up to 24 March 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-extends-insurance-scheme-for-healthcare-workers-by-one-year-after-facing-flak-976722.html
21-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 21||India surpassed 1.5 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented surge in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally.  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,56,06,311 as of April 21, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,82,507 as of April 21, 2021        
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--   No. of people discharged: 1,32,76,039   Total Vaccination: 13,01,19,310    Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-21-976726.html
21-04-2021||National||The Lead: How PM Narendra Modi's home state Gujarat deals with Covid-19||In this episode, get to know the ground situation of the pandemic in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state of Gujarat. Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio. In today's episode, we will look at the Covid-19 situation in Gujarat. According to the tracker maintained by DH, Gujarat has seen a total of over 4 lakh Covid-19 cases and has reported over 5,000 deaths. Of late, as the second wave of the pandemic furthers its grip on the country, the reports coming from the state showing overwhelmed crematoriums is a cause of concern and begs the question: what's going on? To know about it and more, we are joined by our correspondent from Ahmedabad, Satish Jha. Listen to the conversation. Hi, Satish and welcome to DH Radio. Satish Jha: Hi. Ahmed:  Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has said that the capacity of beds, oxygen and other facilities for treatment is lower than the required numbers. What's the situation on the ground like? Satish: Yes. This is the first time that this government had admitted that there is a shortage of beds across the state because of the rise in the number of people infected by the virus and that's a fact...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-how-pm-narendra-modis-home-state-gujarat-deals-with-covid-19-976735.html
21-04-2021||National||In biggest spike so far, India logs 2.95 lakh new Covid-19 cases, over 2,000 deaths||India's brutal new Covid outbreak set new records on Wednesday with more than 2,000 deaths in 24 hours as hospitals in New Delhi ran perilously low on oxygen. India has been in the grips of the second wave of infections blamed on lax government rules and a new "double mutant" virus variant, adding almost 3.5 million new cases this month alone. Health ministry data on Wednesday showed 2,95,000 new cases in 24 hours and 2,023 fatalities, among the world's biggest daily totals of the pandemic and on a par with numbers seen in the United States in January. In an address to the nation on Tuesday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the country of 1.3 billion people was "once again fighting a big fight". "The situation was under control till a few weeks back, and then this second corona wave came like a storm," Modi said. There had been hopes that despite its packed cities and poor health care, India had managed to dodge largely unscathed a pandemic that has killed more than three million people around the world. Recent weeks have seen mass gatherings including millions attending the Kumbh Mela religious festival, political rallies as well as lavish weddings and cricket matches against England. Production of key coronavirus drugs slowed or even halted at some factories and there were delays inviting bids for oxygen generation plants, according to press reports. Now distraught relatives are being forced to pay exorbitant rates on the black market for medicine and oxygen and WhatsApp groups are awash with desperate pleas for help. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who on Tuesday went into self-isolation after his wife tested positive, tweeted late Tuesday that some hospitals in the capital "are left with just a few hours of oxygen". The health minister of the megacity of around 25 million inhabitants, Satyendar Jain, urged the federal government to "restore oxygen supply chain to avert a major crisis". Hospitals in the western state of Maharashtra and its teeming capital Mumbai, the epicentre of the surge, were also experiencing dire shortages, press reports said. "The central government, states and private sectors are trying to ensure every needy patient gets oxygen," Modi said in his address. States across India have imposed restrictions, with Delhi in a week-long lockdown, all non-essential shops shut in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh set for a weekend shutdown. Delhi's lockdown prompted tens of thousands of migrant workers to flee the mega-city, in scenes reminiscent of the national shut down a year ago that inflicted economic and human misery. The United States now advises against travelling to India, even for those fully vaccinated, while Britain has added India to its "red list". Hong Kong and New Zealand have banned flights. India has administered more than 130 million shots so far and from May 1 all adults will be eligible for a shot. Some local authorities have however been running short of supplies, and India has put the brakes on exports of the AstraZeneca shot. "I think in the coming week or two we will have a more quantitative estimate of and if any effect of this variant on the vaccine," Rakesh Mishra from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology told AFP. In total India has recorded 15.6 million cases, second only to the United States, and more than 1,80,000 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-biggest-spike-so-far-india-logs-295-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-over-2000-deaths-976758.html
21-04-2021||National||PM Modi wishes people on Ram Navami, asks people to follow Covid guidelines||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on Ram Navami on Wednesday and asked people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, saying the message of Lord Ram to all of us is that they should follow the appropriate behaviour.  May Lord Shri Ram's boundless compassion always remain on the countrymen, he tweeted.  The festival is celebrated to mark the birth of Lord Ram. Modi asked people to follow all the protocols in place to avoid getting the infection and keep the mantra of "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (yes to medicine and yes to caution) in mind.  आज रामनवमी है और मर्यादा पुरुषोत्तम श्रीराम का हम सभी को यही संदेश है कि मर्यादाओं का पालन करें। कोरोना के इस संकट काल में, कोरोना से बचने के जो भी उपाय हैं, कृपया करके उनका पालन कीजिए। 'दवाई भी, कड़ाई भी' के मंत्र को याद रखिए।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-wishes-people-on-ram-navami-asks-people-to-follow-covid-guidelines-976761.html
21-04-2021||National||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, L-G Anil Baijal to hold meet over Covid-19 cases, oxygen supply||As the surge in Covid-19 cases continues in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lt Governor Anil Baijal are going to hold a meeting at 11 am on Wednesday. Issues such as oxygen supply, Covid-19 cases and deaths are expected to be taken up in the meet. More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-l-g-anil-baijal-to-hold-meet-over-covid-19-cases-oxygen-supply-976773.html
21-04-2021||National||Public healthcare expert recommends new Covid-19 vaccine strategy for India||As India experiences a new wave of Covid-19 pandemic, an Indian public healthcare expert has called for adopting a “build, buy and jab” strategy for mass vaccination to handle the crisis along with the enforcement of appropriate behaviours and continuous communication from doctors, political leaders and administration. “We are witnessing an awful resurgence of the pandemic in India, where it was perceived, just a few months back, to be essentially over. Unfortunately, it lurked in the population and hit back with a vengeance when our guard was down,” Indian civil servant Dr Mrinalini Darswal, currently pursuing doctoral studies in public health with a focus on Covid-19 at Harvard University, told PTI. It may be attributed in part to the pandemic fatigue in a population that relies on hard labour to earn a living and for whom waiting out the crisis over a prolonged period is not an option. However, the main reason seems to be the immune evading and highly infectious mutants, she said. A 2002-batch Odisha-cadre IAS officer, Darswal served as Special Secretary, Health; Commissioner Food Safety; Drugs Controller, and Project Director for HIV/AIDS Control Programme for the Delhi government. Darswal, who recently earned MSc Economics at University of Texas at Austin, argued that this virus is more elusive and unpredictable than the viruses that have been dealt with before, like flu and HIV. As such, vaccination is unlikely to be a successful strategy in isolation. At the current rate of vaccination, it would take two years to cover 75 per cent of the Indian population, she said, adding that to get back to normal, there is a need to step up speed and coverage of the population manifold. “As we aim to achieve the goal of full coverage, we need to move strategically,” Darswal said and called for the new potential strategy “build, buy and jab”. “Build: We did exceptionally well in rolling out indigenous vaccines like Covaxin by utilising our expertise and getting priority allocation of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII) -- the biggest vaccine manufacturer in the world. Given the sheer number of people we need to vaccinate, the quantum is falling short of the requirement,” she said. There are at least two major concerns with this gap, Darswal said. First: the transmission of the virus is not suppressed enough for us to go back to normal. Second: the 'to and from' transmission of infection from non-vaccinated to vaccinated population gives a vast laboratory to the virus to learn to evade the immune response and develop into more virulent forms. “That means we need to come up with modified vaccines frequently, and the goal of achieving transmission control through herd immunity will stretch indefinitely. “Therefore, other indigenous vaccine developments, trials, and Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) need to be fast-tracked. Government must keep a keen eye on raw material shortages faced by the SII in the production of the Novavax vaccine due to the export embargo on bags and filters imposed by the Biden administration under the Defence Production Act,” she said. Production of other stuff like gloves, refrigerators, syringes among others also needs a full assessment, regulatory ease, and oversight for the long term. Observing that meeting the entire requirement for vaccines within the home is possible but would take a long time, Darswal said utilising India's pharmaceutical manufacturing strength to get licenses for new manufacture and distribution of vaccines like the mRNA vaccines is something they can seriously consider. And finally, India needs to replicate the Bhutan model in thousands of locations using a Primary Health Care (PHC) as the focal centre. Using vaccines gifted by India, Bhutan vaccinated its entire population in two weeks. Vaccine coverage must be provided at worksites like factories, big markets through market associations among others to ensure workers get vaccinated. Their safety will prevent mass migration as seen during the first lockdown, keep them safe, and add to the communities' overall immunity, she said. “Even with a low attributable death rate, given that many people are getting infected in this new wave, the absolute count we may face may be staggering and spread panic among the people. Continuous communication from doctors, political leaders, and administrators is essential to calm the sentiments in this critical time,” said Darswal, who was a medical doctor before becoming an IAS officer. “These measures need to be bolstered by solid regulation enforcing mandatory Covid appropriate behaviours like universal mask-wearing, prohibition of activities where people can gather and form crowds, and compulsory maintenance of social distance when out. Only by being vigilant and responsible can we hope to minimise the damage of the current wave and make fast strides in beating the pandemic for good,” she said. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday, the single-day rise in new coronavirus infections inched closer to 3 lakh, pushing India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,56,16,130, while the death toll increased to 1,82,553 with a record 2,023 daily fatalities. A total of 2,95,041 fresh infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the active cases crossed the 21-lakh mark, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/public-healthcare-expert-recommends-new-covid-19-vaccine-strategy-for-india-976780.html
21-04-2021||National||What medicines should you take if you have Covid-19? Here is what an expert has to say||As the second wave of Covid-19 rages across India cripplig the healthcare system of several states, people have been advised to undergo home quarantine as states try to ramp up the health infrastrucutre. In the midst of this, many states are reporting shortage of medicines like Remdesivir, used to help Covid patients recover, with alleged black marketing of the medicine being actively kept in check by some states. While the government has announced an expansion of the coverage of vaccination across the country to include all people over 18, it has also shared a list of tips on which medicines to take a person contracts Covid-19. This is what  Dr C S Pramesh, Director, Tata Memorial Hospital, had to say on what medicines to take (or not to take) if you have Covid-19: What medicines should you take if you have Covid-19? If your oxygen saturation is fine and you have no symptoms other than fever, all you need is Paracetamol. There is some data that inhaling Budesonide helps you recover faster, but no hard endpoints like reduced mortality. There is no evidence to suggest that anything helps - including Favipiravir/Ivermectin. Don't waste your time desperately trying to procure them. What about Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and convalescent plasma? Remdesivir doesn't work in all patients, probably a small subgroup of those requiring oxygen, but not sick enough to require ventilation. And even here, it doesn't reduce mortality, probably helps early recovery. Tocilizumab also helps only in very specic subgroups - those requiring rapidly increasing levels of oxygen or rapidly deteriorating respiratory parameters. There is even less evidence to support the use of convalescent plasma for Covid-19. Almost all studies done so far have shown that it is of no benefit. What medicines definitely help Covid-19 patients? Unfortunately, very few. What definitely works is proning and oxygen (when saturation is low) & steroids (Dexamethasone) for moderate to severe level of the disease. Dr Pramesh also advises people to allow physicians to prescribe Remdesivir or Tocilizumab, saying there are very limited situtations where they are beneficial. He also asks people to not pressurise physicians to prescribe it, saying that much of the shortage today is due to 'unncecessary prescriptions'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-medicines-should-you-take-if-you-have-covid-19-here-is-what-an-expert-has-to-say-976784.html
21-04-2021||National||Bengali poet and Sahitya Akademi awardee Shankha Ghosh passes away||Eminent Bengali poet and Padma Bhushan awardee Shankha Ghosh passed away on Wednesday morning at his Kolkata residence after testing positive for Covid-19 a week ago. The 89 year old poet was under home isolation after he tested positive for the infection on April 14. According to doctors attending to him, Ghosh was stable but his condition suddenly deteriorated on Tuesday night and he was put under ventilation, He passed away at around 8.30 am on Wednesday. They also said that the poet suffered from several comorbidities which made his condition all the more critical. He was hospitalized a few months back due to ill health. Ghosh, a prominent voice of the civil society in Bengal, was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2011 and the Jnanpith award in 2016. He received the Sahitya Academy award in 1977 for his book ‘Baborer Prarthana’. He also penned books such as ‘Murkho Boro Samajik Nay’ and ‘Adim Lata-Gulmomay’. He was considered to be an authority on the works of Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore. Born in 1932 at Chandpur in modern day Bangladesh, Ghosh graduated in Bengal from Kolkata’s erstwhile Presidency College (now Presidency University). He joined Bangabashi College as a faculty members in 1955 and later joined the Jadavur University. He retired from Jadavpur University in 1992. Condolences poured in from across the political spectrum as well as from the civil society. “Shri Shankha Ghosh will be remembered for his contributions to Bengali and Indian literature. His works were widely read and admired. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Condoling the death of the poet, Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted “Anguished to learn about the sad demise of a renowned Bengali poet and Sahitya Akademi Awardee, Shri Shankha Ghosh Ji. He will always be remembered for his outstanding poems, deeply rooted in the social context. My deepest condolences to his family and followers. Om Shanti!” Anguished to learn about the sad demise of a renowned Bengali poet and Sahitya Akademi Awardee, Shri Shankha Ghosh Ji. He will always be remembered for his outstanding poems, deeply rooted in the social context. My deepest condolences to his family and followers. Om Shanti! West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that she was deeply saddened with the demise of Ghosh. She said that she has instructed the Chief Secretary to ensure that his last rites are performed with full State honors. “ Since he (Ghosh) did not like the custom of gun salute, we are keeping it out of the ceremony,” said Mamata. Eminent author Subodh Sarkar said Ghosh was taken away by Covid-19 when “he was most needed as Bengal faced the threat of fascism.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengali-poet-and-sahitya-akademi-awardee-shankha-ghosh-passes-away-976793.html
21-04-2021||National||Tatas importing two dozen cryogenic tankers for oxygen supply amid Covid-19 surge||Salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Group has decided to help out the country as it reels under medical oxygen shortage in the wake of ever-growing demand for the gas to help Covid-19 patients. “The Tata group is importing 24 cryogenic containers to transport liquid oxygen and help ease the oxygen shortage in the country. #ThisIsTata,” the Tata Group posted in its social media platforms. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to the people of India is laudatory and we at the Tata Group, are committed to doing as much as possible to strengthen the fight against Covid-19. To mitigate the oxygen crisis, here is one such effort to boost our health Infrastructure,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tatas-importing-two-dozen-cryogenic-tankers-for-oxygen-supply-amid-covid-19-surge-976803.html
21-04-2021||National||Covaxin neutralises double mutant strain: ICMR study||Indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin neutralises multiple variants of SARS-CoV-2 and effectively neutralises the double mutant strain as well, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Wednesday. ICMR-National Institute of Virology has successfully isolated and cultured multiple variants of concern of SARS-CoV-2 virus: B.1.1.7 (the UK variant), B.1.1.28 (Brazil variant ) and B.1.351 (South Africa variant). ICMR-NIV has demonstrated the neutralisation potential of Covaxin against the UK variant and Brazil variant, the apex health research body said. ICMR-NIV recently has been successful in isolating and culturing the double mutant strain B.1.617 SARS-CoV-2 identified in certain regions of India and several other countries, the ICMR stated. "Covaxin has been found to effectively neutralise the double mutant strain as well," it said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-neutralises-double-mutant-strain-icmr-study-976804.html
21-04-2021||National||Uttarakhand tightens restrictions in view of Covid-19 surge||The Uttarakhand government has ordered the closure of markets in urban areas barring shops dealing in essential commodities from 2 pm onwards and changing the curfew timing across the state from 9 pm to 7 pm. The order aimed at checking the spread of Covid-19 comes into effect from Wednesday, Chief Secretary Om Prakash said. "The night curfew timing for all 13 districts has been revised from 9 pm-5 am to 7 pm-5 am," it said. The order of closing shops and business establishments also applies to shopping malls, he said. Considering the likelihood of people from Uttarakhand working in Delhi returning home in the wake of a six-day lockdown in the national capital, online registration and a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours has been made mandatory for the returnees. All schools, degree colleges, institutes and coaching centres have been closed.   The revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) also makes it mandatory for all modes of public transport, including buses and auto rickshaws, besides facilities like cinema halls, restaurants, bars and gyms to run at half their seating capacity. According to the new SOPs, not more than 100 people can gather for religious, political and social functions barring the ongoing Kumbh Mela where the restrictions announced earlier will remain effective. It orders complete closure of swimming pools and spas in all districts. Organising religious, political and social functions will be completely prohibited in containment and micro containment zones.   Uttarakhand reported its highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day on Tuesday with 3,012 people testing positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-tightens-restrictions-in-view-of-covid-19-surge-976806.html
21-04-2021||National||SII fixes Covishield price at Rs 600 for private hospitals, Rs 400 for state governments||Serum Institute of India on Wednesday said it would sell the Covishield vaccine to state governments at Rs 400 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, in a statement, urged all corporate and private individuals to access the vaccines through the state facilitated machinery and private health systems. He said that after four to five months, the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade. The Pune-based vaccine-maker had offered vaccines to the Central government at a special rate of Rs 150 per dose when the vaccination drive began in January. “For the next two months, we will address the limited capacity by scaling up the vaccine production,” Poonawalla said. “Going ahead, 50% of our capacities will be served to the Government of India's vaccination programme, and the remaining 50% of the capacity will be for the state governments and private hospitals,” it said. He said considering the global vaccine prices, SII was ensuring that its vaccines were affordable in comparison to any other vaccines in the world. He said American vaccines cost Rs 1,500 per dose, while Russian and Chinese vaccines come at Rs 750 per dose. On January 12, Poonawalla had said SII was offering Covishield to the Government of India at a special price of Rs 200 for the first 100 million doses and later, the company would sell the vaccine at Rs 1,000 per dose in private markets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-fixes-covishield-price-at-rs-600-for-private-hospitals-rs-400-for-state-governments-976807.html
21-04-2021||National||India becomes fastest country to administer 13 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses||India took only 95 days to administer 13 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the fastest country to do so, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The US took 101 days to administer 13 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine, while China took 109 days to cross the same number, it said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has reached 13,01,19,310 with 29,90,197 vaccine doses being given in a span of 24 hours, according to data updated at 7 am.  Eight states -- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala -- account for 59.33 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) starting from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.  Meanwhile, the government on Monday decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 eligible to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-fastest-country-to-administer-13-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-976828.html
21-04-2021||National||Private Covid vaccination centres to procure directly from manufacturers starting May 1||From May 1, the present system of private Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) receiving doses from the government and charging up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist and they will procure directly from vaccine manufacturers. According to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, Covid-19 vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups comprising health care workers, frontline workers and population above 45 years of age in government Covid vaccination centres which receive doses from the Government of India. Vaccine manufacturers would make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to state governments in the open market before May 1.  Based on this price, states, private hospitals, industrial establishments may procure vaccine doses from manufacturers.  Private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of Covid-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked for other than the Government of India channel. The price charged for vaccination by private hospitals would be monitored, it said.  "Consequently the present dispensation where private Covid vaccination centres receive doses from the government and can charge up to Rs.250 per dose will cease to exist," the Union Health ministry document said. Vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the Government of India and would be free to supply remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market.    For Government of India vaccination centres, the eligible population would be the same which exists today that is healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) and population above 45 years of age.  For other than the government of India channel, the eligibility would be all adult citizens of the country, the document said. The Covid-19 vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups in all those Government Covid Vaccination Centres which receive vaccine doses from Government of India.  All vaccination (through Govt. of India vaccination centres and other than Govt. of India channel) would be part of the National Vaccination Programme, will follow all existing guidelines, will be captured on CoWIN platform along with the stocks and price per vaccination applicable in all vaccination centres, will comply with Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) management and reporting, digital vaccination certificate and all other prescribed norms.  The division of vaccine supply which would mean 50 per cent to Govt of India and 50 per cent to other than Govt of India channel would be applicable uniformly across for all vaccines manufactured in the country.  However, the fully ready to use imported vaccine would be allowed to be utilized entirely in the other than Government of India channel.  The Centre from its share, will allocate vaccines to states and UTs based on the criteria of performance (speed of administration, average consumption), extent of infections (number of active Covid cases), the document stated. Wastage of vaccine will also be considered in the criteria and will affect the allocation negatively. Based on the above criteria, state-wise quota would be decided and communicated to the states in advance.  Second dose of all existing priority groups i.e. HCWs, FLWs and population above 45 years, where ever it has become due, would be given priority, for which a specific and focused strategy would be communicated to all stakeholders.  This policy would come into effect from May 1 and will be reviewed from time to time.  "The Government of India will make advance purchase offer for a maximum quantity that manufacturers commit to supply by a pre-defined period. Such an advance purchase provision signals Government's willingness to pay upfront to vaccine manufacturers to enable them to augment their production and supply capacities," the document said.    In its phase-III, the National Vaccine Strategy aims at liberalized vaccine pricing and scaling up of vaccine coverage.  This would incentivise vaccine manufacturers to rapidly scale up their production and also attract new vaccine manufacturers.  It would make pricing, procurement and administration of vaccines more flexible and ensure augmented vaccine production as well as wider availability of vaccines in the country, the document said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-covid-vaccination-centres-to-procure-directly-from-manufacturers-starting-may-1-976830.html
21-04-2021||National||Haryana govt declares summer vacation in schools till May 31||The Haryana government Wednesday announced summer vacation in schools till May 31, amid surging Covid-19 cases in the state. "The schools will remain closed on account of summer holidays from April 22 to May 31," Haryana’s Education Minister Kanwar Pal Wednesday said in a tweet. Earlier this month, the state government had decided to close schools till April 30 for students up to class 8, but later they were shut for all classes in the wake of a sharp rise in coronavirus cases. However, teachers had been attending schools to prepare examination results. "Teachers have been regularly coming to schools. Along with the safety of the children, safety of the teachers is also our responsibility, so the summer vacations have been declared in advance," the minister further said. Haryana has witnessed a sharp increase in coronavirus cases over the last three weeks. On April 20, the state had recorded 7,811 new cases in its biggest single-day spike so far, while 35 people had succumbed to the disease. The number of active coronavirus cases in the state is currently over 50,000. Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat districts, all in the National Capital Region, have seen a steep jump in new cases, while other areas such as Panchkula, Karnal and Kurukshetra have also added to the surge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-govt-declares-summer-vacation-in-schools-till-may-31-976831.html
21-04-2021||National||Higher vaccine prices will bleed state finances dry: Jairam Ramesh||Congress on Wednesday made a strong pitch for uniform pricing of vaccines even as Serum Institute of India announced that it would offer Covishield for Rs 400 per dose to state governments. Ramesh said the Centre will continue to pay Rs 150 per dose for Covishield, while state governments will now be charged Rs 400 per dose. “This is not cooperative federalism. This will bleed dry the already reeling state finances. Atrocious,” the former union minister said. The SII on Wednesday said it would offer vaccines at Rs 400 per dose to state governments and Rs 600 per dose to private hospitals. It asked corporate and private individuals to access the vaccines through the state-facilitated machinery initially and said the doses would be available in retail and free trade in the next four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-vaccine-prices-will-bleed-state-finances-dry-jairam-ramesh-976833.html
21-04-2021||National||'We're helpless': Mumbai doctor's emotional plea goes viral||"We are helpless." This is how Dr Trupti Gilada, an infectious diseases specialist, described the current situation of doctors in Covid-battered Mumbai. As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic sweeps the country, the medical infrastructure and fraternity have been reeling under immense pressure. A video of Dr Trupti on the plight of doctors in the midst of a building crisis went viral on social media platforms on Tuesday. "Like a lot of other doctors, even I'm distressed and want to tell you a few things and if I tell these to you and you stay safe, I might be at more peace.." Dr Trupti can be heard saying in the video. She breaks down while talking about how helpless the doctors in Mumbai currently are and how even young people are getting infected and are on ventilators. “We have to manage so many patients... critically ill patients are being treated at home with oxygen because there are no beds... we are not enjoying this... don't want any of you to be in this situation," a teary-eyed Dr Gilada says. She asks people to not be under the misconception that they won't get Covid-19 because they have been successful in evading the virus for a year now.  The financial capital is witnessing a major medical crisis in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic and is seeing a staggering surge in infections, lack of beds, shortage of oxygen and medicines.  Offering advice on how to stay safe during the pandemic, Dr Gilada says, "Covid is everywhere! If you leave home, for whatever reason, you must wear a mask. It doesn't matter why you are going out... but you have to wear face masks, and make sure your nose is fully covered." "If you get unwell, if you feel unwell... don't panic and try to get admitted. There is no space at any hospital... and the few beds we have we need for critically ill patients. First isolate yourself, get in touch with your doctor... and let us decide." Dr Gilada says in her appeal. She also advised people to get vaccinated without worrying much about the side effects and said that vaccines have proven to be effective. Dr Trupti is the daughter of Dr Ishwar Gilada, the Chairman and Managing Director of Unison Medicare and Research Centre. “The video was meant to be only for her school friends and family as she wanted to forewarn them on the currently on second surge of Covid-19 pandemic. Somehow it got leaked out from one of her friends and then it became viral,” said Dr Gilada, who is also the Secretary General Secretary General of the Organised Medicines Academic Guild (OMAG). "I am sure this will contribute in some way to contain the Covid pandemic and its aggressive avataar,” he said. Dr Gilada said that very few know that his daughter had started her HIV awareness through a public announcement at Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at the AIDS Exhibition of the People's Health Organisation in 1988 when she was barely 3-year-old. "Now that this video is already in the public domain, let this be part of ever-increasing requirements of public awareness material for preventing current and subsequent surges of Covid-19,” said Dr Gilada, also the President, AIDS Society of India  and Governing Council Member, International AIDS Society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/were-helpless-mumbai-doctors-emotional-plea-goes-viral-976834.html
21-04-2021||National||Over 90% of 12.76 crore Covid-19 jabs administered so far are Covishield||Covishield, from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable, comprises over 90 per cent of the 12.76 crore Covid-19 vaccines administered across the country so far, according to government data on Wednesday. Of this, 15 states and union territories have only given Covishield, being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Instiute of India. The other vaccine being administered in India is the indigenous Covaxin from Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad. Giving details, of the 127,605,870 Covid-19 vaccination jabs administered till now, 11,60,65,107 are of Covishield while 1,15,40,763 are of Covaxin, according to the government's CO-WIN portal. Moreover, about 15 states and union territories, including Goa, Chandigarh and Jammu and Kashmir, have administered only Covishield to its beneficiaries. Experts said Covishield is being produced at a much higher scale than Covaxin due to which its availability is more. Dr Samiran Panda, the Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said soon the production of Covaxin will be ramped up. "Following which, the vaccine production capacity will increase significantly," he said. Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said capacity expansion has been implemented across multiple facilities in Hyderabad and Bangalore, to reach approximately 700 million doses per year. The Department of Biotechnology is also providing financial support as grants to vaccine manufacturing facilities for enhanced production capacities. "The current production capacity of indigenously developed Covaxin vaccine will be doubled by May-June 2021 and then increased nearly 6-7 fold by July-August 2021 i.e increasing the production from 10 million vaccine doses in April, 2021 to 60-70 million vaccine dose per month in July-August," said the ministry of science and technology in a statement on Monday. India granted emergency use authorisation to Covaxin and Covishield, following which the vaccination drive started in the country on January 16. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar were among those administered Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-90-of-1276-crore-covid-19-jabs-administered-so-far-are-covishield-976848.html
21-04-2021||National||Chhattisgarh govt announces free Covid-19 vaccine for all above 18 years||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel has announced that the state government would provide free Covid-19 vaccines for all above 18 years in the state.   छत्तीसगढ़ में 18 वर्ष से अधिक उम्र के लोगों को कोरोना वैक्सीन का भुगतान राज्य सरकार करेगी। अपने नागरिकों की जीवन रक्षा के लिए हम हर संभव कदम उठाएंगे। केंद्र सरकार से अनुरोध है कि वह पर्याप्त संख्या में वैक्सीन की उपलब्धता सुनिश्चित करे। On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh goverment had also announced that it will give Covid-19 vaccine to its citizens above 18 years free of cost. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-govt-announces-free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-above-18-years-976849.html
21-04-2021||National||Customs duty waive off on Remdesivir will further augment domestic availability: Sadanand Gowda||The government's decision to waive off customs duty on antiviral drug Remdesivir would help in augmenting the supply of the medicine in the wake of soaring Covid-19 cases in the country, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Sadanand Gowda said on Wednesday. The government on Tuesday waived off all customs duty on imported Remdesivir injections and the drug's active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) in order to boost supplies. There is already a ban on the export of the Remdesivir injection from the country. "Considering the immediate requirement on the recommendation of the Department of Pharmaceuticals, the Department of Revenue has reduced customs duty on #Remdesivir and its API/KSM. This step will further augment domestic availability of Remdesivir injection," Gowda said in a tweet. The minister had earlier asked the state governments to take strict action against anyone found indulged in black marketing or hoarding of Remdesivir. Black marketing, hoarding of Remdesivir is being strictly monitored and state governments have been advised to take strict action against those indulging in such malpractices, he had tweeted. On Sunday, Minister of State of Chemicals and Fertilisers Mansukh L Mandaviya had tweeted that the government plans to double the production of Remdesivir to around 3 lakh vials per day over the next 15 days, to make it available readily for the treatment of Covid-19. The government has given permission to 20 plants to produce the antiviral drug, he had said. Already, Remdesivir is being rolled out of 20 plants in the country. On Saturday, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) had announced that the pharmaceutical companies like Cadila Healthcare, Dr Reddy's Laboratories and Cipla have reduced the price of their respective brands of Remdesivir injection (100mg/vial). Nearly 3 lakh new Covid-19 cases and over 2,000 deaths were reported in the country on Wednesday, a record-high since the pandemic broke out last year. As per the union health ministry, as many as 2,95,041 new Covid-19 cases and 2,023 deaths were reported, taking the total cases to 1,56,16,130, including 21,57,538 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/customs-duty-waive-off-on-remdesivir-will-further-augment-domestic-availability-sadanand-gowda-976855.html
21-04-2021||National||Ten states account for over 76% of India's new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Rajasthan are among 10 states that account for over 76 per cent of the 2,95,041 new Covid-19 cases registered in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily cases at 62,097. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 29,574 while Delhi reported 28,395 new cases.  The other states in the list of 10 are Karnataka, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu. India's total active caseload has reached 21,57,538 and now comprises 13.82 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 1,25,561 cases have been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, and Kerala cumulatively account for 60.86 per cent of India's total active cases. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,32,76,039 with 1,67,457 recoveries being registered in a day. The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.17 per cent, the ministry. A total of 2,023 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. The 10 states account for 82.6 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (519). Delhi follows with 277 daily deaths, the ministry said. Nine states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Tripura, Sikkim, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-76-of-indias-new-covid-19-cases-976858.html
21-04-2021||National||Serum Institute to raise output to 100 million AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses by July, not end-May||The Serum Institute of India will be able to raise its monthly output of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to 100 million doses by July from 60-70 million now, later than a previous timeline of end-May, its chief executive Adar Poonawalla told CNBC-TV18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-to-raise-output-to-100-million-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-doses-by-july-not-end-may-976866.html
21-04-2021||National||Delhi govt asks private schools to keep online teaching, learning activities suspended in summer vacation||All online and semi-online teaching and learning activities shall remain suspended during the summer vacation from April 20 to June 9, the Delhi government directed private schools on Wednesday. The Directorate of Education (DoE) had on Monday advanced summer vacations in view of the deteriorating Covid-19 situation. The vacation, which was scheduled from May 11 to June 3, has now been rescheduled from April 20 to June 9. "lt has been brought to the notice of this directorate that despite the summer vacation which has been advanced due to surge in Covid 10 cases, the regular online learning method continues to be adopted in one way or the other by some private schools," the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in an official order. The DoE then directed all private schools that all "online and semi-online teaching and learning activities shall remain suspended during the aforesaid period of summer vacation in line with the government schools". "However, the schools may conduct vacation related specific activities, remedial classes for specific set of students and other activities for creativity, happiness and overall social and emotional wellbeing to enrich the overall growth of the students without calling them to school physically," it added. Schools in the national capital were closed in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain spread of coronavirus. The government then ordered reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12 with consent of parents. However, with the Covid-19 cases rising again, the schools have been closed again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-asks-private-schools-to-keep-online-teaching-learning-activities-suspended-in-summer-vacation-976869.html
21-04-2021||National||Indian national reinfected with Covid-19 infects two relatives in Singapore||A 43-year-old Indian national who tested positive on arrival in Singapore on April 2 and was discharged from a hospital four days later after being deemed to be no longer infectious has been identified by health authorities as a likely case of reinfection after he infected two of his relatives. The Indian, who has not been identified, has infected two of his relatives, prompting the Ministry of Health (MOH) to open a new local cluster around the three cases. A cluster is considered the point of spreading the disease. The two cases he has been linked to are his 41-year old sister-in-law who is an accountant and her 44-year-old husband who is a restaurant manager at two eateries here, the MOH said on Tuesday. They were reported as community cases on April 16 and April 18 respectively. The man, who arrived from India, is here on a work pass and was classified as an imported case when he tested positive for the virus on April 2 in an on-arrival swab test, and was taken to a hospital. He was then discharged on April 6 without being required to isolate, as he was deemed to be no longer infectious, the MOH said. Eleven days later, on April 17, the man was tested for Covid-19 after being identified as a close contact of his sister-in-law. His polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test and serology test both came back positive. In a release on Tuesday night, the ministry, in consultation with an expert panel that comprises infectious diseases and microbiology experts, said it assessed that he was likely to have been reinfected with Covid-19 recently. It said, "With the emergence of new variants of concern around the world, we will closely monitor for reinfection of recovered Covid-19 cases, and are reviewing our border measures for recovered travellers. "Similar imported cases suspected of reinfection will be isolated and undergo repeat Covid-19 PCR tests to monitor the trend of their viral loads, to ensure that such cases are detected promptly." On Tuesday, the Ministry said entry approvals for non-Singapore citizens and non-permanent residents are being reduced with immediate effect, in response to the worsening Covid-19 situation in India and the emergence of new virus variants. From 11.59 pm (local time) on Thursday, all travellers from India will also have to serve an additional seven-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at their place of residence, following the usual 14-day SHN at a dedicated facility, reported The Straits Times. Those who have yet to complete their 14-day SHN by that time will also have to serve the extra seven days. This is not the first case of Covid-19 reinfection in Singapore. On January 25, a 28-year old Bangladeshi national, working here, tested positive for the virus after having recovered from it in June last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-national-reinfected-with-covid-19-infects-two-relatives-in-singapore-976871.html
21-04-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh govt announces free Covid-19 vaccine for all above 18 years||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday announced that all people above the age of 18 years will be offered Covid-19 vaccine free of cost in the state from May 1. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made the announcement. In current circumstances, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given relief by opening vaccination for all those above 18 years of age from May 1. "A detailed guidelines of the Government of India will be issued later, but the people above the age of 18 will be vaccinated for free in Madhya Pradesh, Chouhan said. The chief minister said if Covid-19 is to be curbed, then the chain of its infection must be broken and for this, people need to stay indoors and avoid unnecessary travel. He urged people to impose janata curfew (public curfew) in their localities till April 30 to break the transmission chain. On April 19, the Centre had announced that everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination from May 1, while private hospitals and states will be able to buy doses from manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-govt-announces-free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-above-18-years-976873.html
21-04-2021||National||SC disapproves HCs passing bail orders without reasons||The Supreme Court has disapproved the practice of rejecting or granting bail with a "lone sentence" that is adopted by the High Courts in certain cases. In a judgement on Tuesday, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said, "We must disapprove of the manner in which a succession of orders in the present batch of cases has recorded that counsel for the 'respective parties do not press for further reasoned order'. If this is a euphemism for not recording adequate reasons (for bail), this kind of a formula cannot shield the order from judicial scrutiny." The court set aside the Gujarat High Court's order allowing bail to six accused in a case involving five murders due to a land dispute in the district of East Kachchh -Gandhidham, acting on a special leave petition filed by complainant Ramesh Bhavan Rathod. "Grant of bail under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code is a matter involving the exercise of judicial discretion, which is vested in a court as a judicial institution and is not unstructured," the apex court said. "These are not matters involving the private rights of two individual parties, as in a civil proceeding. The proper enforcement of criminal law is a matter of public interest," the bench pointed out. The duty to record reasons is a significant safeguard to ensure that the discretion is exercised in a judicious manner. This also ensures that the thought process underlying the order is subject to scrutiny and that it meets objective standards of reason and justice, the top court added. The bench said the court cannot obviate its duty to apply a judicial mind and to record reasons, brief as they may be. Even the consent of parties cannot be a ground not to indicate its reasons why it has either granted or refused bail, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-disapproves-hcs-passing-bail-orders-without-reasons-976877.html
21-04-2021||National||Explained | Covid-19, breathlessness and oxygen shortage across India||The second wave of Covid-19 has put an unprecedented amount of pressure on India's healthcare infrastructure. Beds and medicines are scarce in almost every state, even as the country continues to post record rises in cases and deaths with each passing day. However, the most disheartening impact on the health infrastructure is the severe lack of oxygen for hospitals. Across the country, hospitals are trying to get their hands on as much oxygen as they can for Covid-19 patients, while state governments are begging the Centre to do something about the oxygen supply. But why does a Covid-19 patient need oxygen? How does SARS-CoV-2 affect the respiratory system? Read on to find out One of the most common symptoms of a Covid-19 infection is shortness of breath in a patient. It can range from mild trouble in breathing to severe pain and inability to breathe. A typical healthy person's lungs enable the body to absorb oxygen and dispel carbon dioxide through the lungs. The process works by the function of alveoli - the so-called air sacs that line the inside of the lungs. Lining the lungs and the respiratory tract are the respiratory epithelial cells, whose purpose is to defend the respiratory system from pathogens and infections. Since SARS-Cov-2 affects the lower respiratory tract, the body's immune system triggers an inflammatory reaction to prevent damage to the lungs - and this, combined with subsequent fluid buildup in lungs, is what causes shortness of breath. Why does a patient need oxygen? The inflammatory reaction and the fluid buildup in the lungs can impact the body's ability to efficiently absorb oxygen into the blood. A healthy person typically has a SpO2 (oxygen saturation) level of 95-96 per cent. Respiratory infections, such as pneumonia and Covid-19, can cause that number to fall. While a fall in oxygen levels due to Covid-19 is expected, doctors recommend rushing a patient to a hospital if the oxygen levels fall below 90 per cent, as the resulting condition, called hypoxemia, can lead to multiple issues like organ failure and cardiac arrest if not treated early. Why is oxygen in high demand? According to data from hospitalised patients during the first and second wave, the requirement of oxygen is higher in the second wave at 54.5 per cent as compared to the first wave at 41.1 per cent, while the demand for mechanical ventilation is lower in the second wave at 27.8 per cent in comparison to the first at 37.3 per cent. On why oxygen requirement is higher this time, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said, "It could be explained by the fact that there has been a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, creating panic among people to get admitted to hospitals and therefore, the oxygen requirement suddenly shot up, which is one reason. But this is limited data from hospital settings and more will have to be looked at." What is being done to alleviate the oxygen shortage? The Centre has banned the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes except in nine specified industries in view of the shortage of the essential public health commodity in several states, with a total of 6,600 metric tonnes out of 7,500 metric tonnes produced in India being supplied to states for medical use. With agency and DHNS inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-covid-19-breathlessness-and-oxygen-shortage-across-india-976878.html
21-04-2021||National||Centre to increase oxygen supplies amid shortage||As hospitals gasped for oxygen, the Centre on Wednesday stepped in to streamline supplies by setting up control rooms to sort out the problems related to transport faced by states even as it advised rational use of the lifesaver. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the government was also working to increase supplies of medical oxygen and was examining applications from suppliers for imports. “Our total oxygen production capacity is 7,500 metric tonnes per day. We have allocated 6,600 MT to states,” Bhushan said, advising on its effective planning and rational use. He said a 24x7 control room has been set up to handle issues related to oxygen transport, amid claims by the Delhi government of Haryana blocking supplies to hospitals in the national capital. Bhushan admitted that there were issues related to the supply of oxygen from Faridabad in Haryana to hospitals in the national capital, but the same were sorted out by the Centre. He said the Delhi Police had also created a green corridor to ensure smooth supplies of oxygen to hospitals in the national capital which is inundated with Covid-19 patients. “There is a shortage of oxygen in Delhi. The quota for Delhi was decided before the surge in cases. As the number of cases increased, so has the demand for oxygen. Delhi’s quota should be increased from 378 MT to 700 MT,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told reporters. Bhushan said the Centre had also issued global tenders for the supply of 50,000 MT of medical oxygen. “We have received expressions of interest, We are evaluating applications from suppliers overseas for oxygen imports,” he said. Earlier, Haryana had accused Delhi of "looting" an oxygen tanker bound for Faridabad. “We are being forced to give our oxygen to Delhi. First, we will complete our needs, then give to others,” Vij said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-increase-oxygen-supplies-amid-shortage-976884.html
21-04-2021||National||Union Health Ministry releases Covid-19 data showing severity, demography of victims in second wave||The Health Ministry on Wednesday released a slew of comparative data, showing that the severity, virulence and demography of the victims in the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 are about the same as the first wave. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 146 districts reported Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 15 per cent, while 274 districts reported case positivity between 5 and 15 per cent. The release of the statistics follows growing panic in the country over concerns that the second wave is somehow more powerful and could cause greater havoc. According to the figures shared by Bhushan, 4.03 per cent Covid-19 cases were reported in the first wave in those below 10 years, while 2.97 per cent cases were registered in the second wave. "In he age group 10-20 years, 8.07 per cent Covid-19 cases were reported in the first wave, while 8.50 per cent cases were registered in the second wave. In the age group 20-30 years, 20.41 per cent cases were reported in the first wave, while 19.35 per cent cases ere registered in the second wave," he said. Bhushan further shared data which showed that in those aged 30 and above, 67.5 per cent Covid-19 cases were reported in the first wave, while 69.18 per cent cases registered in second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-ministry-releases-covid-19-data-showing-severity-demography-of-victims-in-second-wave-976891.html
21-04-2021||National||Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal tests positive for Covid-19||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The 61-year-old minister said he is following medical advice after his report came positive. "This is to inform you all that I have tested COVID positive today. I am taking medication and treatment as per the advice of my doctors. Request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant, and get themselves tested," he tweeted. "All the work of @EduMinOfIndia is being conducted normally observing necessary precautions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-976893.html
21-04-2021||National||Goa govt imposes night curfew from tonight||Faced with a steep increase in Covid-19 cases, the Goa government on Wednesday announced night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am from April 21 till April 30, in its bid to slow down the rate of infections in the coastal state. Casinos and hotels would be allowed to operate during the curfew hours. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told a press conference on Wednesday that casinos, bars and restaurants, river cruises, water parks, entertainment parks, gyms, massage parlours, cinema halls, multiplexes, public transport would be allowed to operate only at 50 per cent capacity. He also announced the postponement of Class X and XII exams that were scheduled to be held through April and May. Elections to five municipal councils, which are scheduled to be held on April 23, will be held, he said. "The night curfew will be in place till April 30, after which we will review the situation and take a further decision on it," Sawant said. "Public swimming pools, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes will remain shut. Social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural congregations will not be allowed. Mass gatherings in religious places will also not be allowed. Rituals, however, can be held in a minimal scale," Sawant said. The night curfew announcement comes on a day when 1,502 persons tested positive for Covid-19 over 24 hours, while 17 persons died in the same period due to the novel coronavirus infection. Goa currently has 9,300 active cases. Sawant maintained that the increase in reporting of Covid-19 cases in the state was due to a hike in the number of tests conducted in Goa. "Today, approximately 4,000 tests were conducted. We want to increase the number to 5,000," he said. The Chief Minister also said that the state's health apparatus to tackle Covid-19 was in order, with no shortage of oxygen or the essential drug Remdesivir. "We are working towards increasing bed capacity at our hospitals to handle more patients," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-govt-imposes-night-curfew-from-tonight-976895.html
21-04-2021||National||Indefinite night curfew to be imposed in Agartala from April 22||The Tripura government has decided to impose a seven-hour night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) area from Thursday onwards for an indefinite period to contain the spread of Covid-19, a notification said. The decision was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb. The capital city has been reporting most of the coronavirus cases in the state. The order issued by Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar said that essential services have been exempted from the purview of the curfew. Various recruitment examinations, including Joint Recruitment Board of Manpower and Employment Department and physical test of the IR battalion, however, stand postponed. The government has also imposed restrictions on gatherings in closed places, allowing a maximum of 50 per cent hall occupancy with a ceiling of 100 people in marriages and 20 in funerals. It said that organisers have to deploy an adequate number of volunteers to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Meanwhile, the state's coronavirus tally rose to 34,186 as 92 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said. The death toll remained unchanged at 391 as no fresh fatality was reported, he said. Tripura now has 446 active cases, while 33,205 people have recovered from the disease and 23 patients have migrated to other states, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indefinite-night-curfew-to-be-imposed-in-agartala-from-april-22-976897.html
21-04-2021||National||Twitter becomes platform of hope amid the despair of India's Covid-19 crisis||After spending hours fruitlessly calling government helplines in a search for a hospital bed for a critically ill Covid-19 patient, Indian lawyer Jeevika Shiv posted an SOS request on Twitter. "Serious #Covid19 patient in #Delhi with oxygen level 62 needs immediate hospital bed," Shiv, part of a 350-member Covid-19 volunteer Medical Support Group, said on Twitter late last week. Help came quickly. The patient found a bed and was soon showing signs of recovery. "Finally, it was help online that worked as people responded with information," Shiv said. India is reporting more than 250,000 new Covid-19 cases a day in its worst phase of the pandemic. Hospitals are turning away patients and supplies of oxygen and medication are running short. In response, people are bypassing the conventional lines of communication and turning to Twitter to crowdsource help for oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and other requirements. People in need and those with information or resources share telephone numbers of volunteers, vendors who have oxygen cylinders or drugs, and details of which medical facility can take patients using hashtags like #CovidSOS. Some users have offered to help with home-cooked meals for Covid patients quarantining at home and to meet a host of other needs like arranging to feed pets. "Twitter is having to do what the government helpline numbers should be doing," wrote Twitter user Karanbir Singh. "We are on our own folks." Twitter is not as widely used in India as Facebook or WhatsApp but it is proving a more valuable tool to get pleas for help out in the coronavirus crisis, largely because of its "re-tweet" function that can quickly amplify a message through users' networks of contacts. A Google spreadsheet drawn up by a volunteer group that collates information on hospital beds, oxygen supplies, blood plasma and ambulance helplines in various states is being rapidly shared on Twitter and runs into dozens of pages. Bengaluru-based software developer Umang Galaiya, 25, has created a website that allows users to select the name of the city and the requirement - be it oxygen or the antiviral drug remdesivir - and then directs them to results on Twitter using its advance search feature. His website has received more than 110,000 hits. "Every other tweet on my feed has been about Covid," Galaiya said. "I'm glad people are finding this helpful." But for some, help comes too late. On Monday, journalist Sweta Dash posted a plea for help on Twitter to find bed with a ventilator for a pregnant woman in New Delhi. Her message spread quickly through more than 100 retweets and a Delhi government official soon suggested a hospital. But a few hours later, Dash posted another message. "The patient passed away".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-becomes-platform-of-hope-amid-the-despair-of-indias-covid-19-crisis-976898.html
21-04-2021||National||Jammu has at least 28 cases of UK, other Covid variants; none in Kashmir||While terming the steep increase in coronavirus cases challenging, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday said that the growth rate in Covid-19 positive cases was 8.12 per cent, which is much higher than what it was last year. "At present we have 13,400 active cases. Last year we had 22,000 positive cases at a peak. In April, there were 77 deaths. Rate of growth in cases is 8.12 per cent. Mortality rate is 1.38% in J&K," Financial Commissioner Health, Atal Duloo, told reporters in Jammu. He said the situation was challenging if compared it with last year April. Duloo, who was flanked by government spokesman Rohit Kansal, said 28 cases of the UK Covid variant and other new strains were reported in Jammu and none from Kashmir. "We are conducting 40,000 tests a day in J&K UT,” he said, adding that government has framed a five-pillared strategy to deal with the situation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-has-at-least-28-cases-of-uk-other-covid-variants-none-in-kashmir-976903.html
21-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: SII sets price for Covid-19 vaccine, 22 die at Nashik hospital due to low oxygen supply after leakage||In your evening news brief, 22 patients at Nashik hospital die due to low oxygen supply following leakage; Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel announces that the state government would provide free Covid-19 vaccines for all above 18 years in the state and Serum Institute of India said it would sell the Covishield vaccine to state governments at Rs 400 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose.  Here is the top news of April 21, 2021: In a horrific incident, 22 patients at Nashik's Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital died due to low oxygen supply following leakage in a tank. The hospital is run by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). In the hospital, over 150 patients were undergoing treatment in oxygen and ventilator beds. A pall of gloom descended at the hospital as massive police deployment has been made in and around the hospital.   Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel has announced that the state government would provide free Covid-19 vaccines for all above 18 years in the state. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh goverment had also announced that it will give Covid-19 vaccine to its citizens above 18 years free of cost.   Serum Institute of India on Wednesday said it would sell the Covishield vaccine to state governments at Rs 400 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, in a statement, urged all corporate and private individuals to access the vaccines through the state facilitated machinery and private health systems. He said that after four to five months, the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade. The Pune-based vaccine-maker had offered vaccines to the Central government at a special rate of Rs 150 per dose when the vaccination drive began in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sii-sets-price-for-covid-19-vaccine-22-die-at-nashik-hospital-due-to-low-oxygen-supply-after-leakage-976907.html
21-04-2021||National||Keep border issue at ‘appropriate position’, focus on long term ties: China tells India||China said on Wednesday that it was committed to maintain peace and stability along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as it urged India to put the boundary issue at an "appropriate position" and meet it "halfway" for the long term development of the bilateral ties. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said this at his media briefing as he parried questions on India's assertion that consensus reached by the leaders on maintaining peace along the border cannot be swept under the carpet. Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri in his recent address to the India-China dialogue forum said that the significance of the consensus reached between leaders of the two countries to maintain peace along the LAC cannot be "swept under the carpet" and called for the complete disengagement of troops in Eastern Ladakh to rebuild bilateral ties strained by the "serious incidents". In a candid address to the ICWA (Indian Council of World Affairs)-CPIFA (Chinese People's Institute of Foreign Affairs) virtual dialogue on April 15, Misri also questioned the Chinese officials ignoring the "significant consensus" reached by the leaders of the two sides about the importance of maintaining peace along the LAC. Asked for his reaction, Wang said that both sides held in-depth and candid talks on resolving the disengagement from the remaining areas of Eastern Ladakh after the withdrawal from Pangong Tso lake area. Top Commanders of the two militaries held the 11th round of talks on April 9 to disengage the troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang areas in Eastern Ladakh. "On the issue of China-India boundary situation, China’s position is consistent and clear. We are committed to maintaining peace and stability in the border areas and we are firmly determined to safeguard our territorial sovereignty and security," Wang said. "Recently, the two sides have maintained communications through diplomatic and military channels. On the basis of disengagement in the Galwan Valley and the Pangong Tso regions, the two sides exchanged in depth and in a candid manner, opinions on resolving the remaining issue in the Western section of the boundary," he said. "We hope India will meet China halfway and will focus on the bigger picture of long term development of bilateral relations, put the boundary at an appropriate position and work to bring relations back to the track of steady and sound development," he said. To a follow-up question on Misri’s remarks, Wang reiterated that "we hope that India will meet China halfway and focus on the long-term development of bilateral relations, cherish the existing hard-won momentum for the de-escalation and take concrete measures to safeguard peace and tranquility along the border and work to bring bilateral relations back to the track of sound and steady development". Asked why China is not disengaging its troops from the remaining areas after the withdrawal from Pangong Tso, Wang said, "I would like to stress that recently, China and India through diplomatic and military channels maintained close communications". "On the basis of realising disengagement in the Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso, the two sides held candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolving remaining issues in the Western section of the boundary,” he said. "We hope that the Indian side will abide by the agreements between the two militaries and consensus of the two sides and take concrete measures to safeguard peace and tranquility along the border," he said. In his address, Misri said the "sustainable solution" to the "present difficulties" in the Sino-India relations is "it must be one, as External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar has suggested, that is based on mutual sensitivity and respect and paves the way for maximizing our mutual interests". "The first is to note the importance of the two sides having maintained a sustained diplomatic and military dialogue in attempting to resolve issues. These discussions thus far have helped in achieving substantial disengagement of our forces,” he said. "The second is to point out that senior leaders on both sides have committed and agreed that we must achieve complete disengagement in all friction areas. That would be an important first step towards considering de-escalation; it would also help in restoring peace and tranquility and, together, these would provide conditions for gradual and step-by-step progress in the bilateral relationship,” he said. "This is also what would begin to restore trust and confidence in the relationship and help us rebuild the foundation of the relationship that was damaged through last year's actions in Eastern Ladakh," Misri had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keep-border-issue-at-appropriate-position-focus-on-long-term-ties-china-tells-india-976911.html
21-04-2021||National||Over 21,000 tested positive for Covid-19 after taking first dose of either Covishield or Covaxin: Govt||More than 21,000 people tested positive for Covid-19 after taking the first dose of either Covishield or Covaxin, while over 5,500 contracted the infection after taking the second dose, the Centre said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said 0.04 per cent of 17,37,178 individuals, who received the second dose of Covaxin, were positive for Covid-19, while 0.03 per cent of 1,57,32,754 people, who took the second dose of Covishield, contracted the infection. Bhargava who presented the data said vaccines reduce the risk of infection and prevent death and severe infection. "After vaccination if one gets infection then it is known as breakthrough infection," he said. So far, 1.1 crore doses of Covaxin have been administered. Out of which 93 lakh received the first dose and out of that 4,208 (0.04 per cent) people got the infection which is four per 10,000 individuals. About 17,37,178 people received the second dose of which only 695 (0.04 per cent) tested positive for Covid-19, Bhargava said. Of Covishield, 11.6 crore doses have been given. Ten crore received the first dose and 17,145 i.e. 2 per 10,000 people contracted the infection. About 1,57,32,754 individuals took the second dose of covishield and of that 5,014 (0.03 per cent) got infected. Two to four per 10,000 breakthrough infections have occurred, a very small number. This was mainly healthcare workers prone to more occupational hazards, he said. According to the data, 5,709 people contracted the infection after the second dose of either of the two vaccines. "This is a very small number and not at all worrisome. Secondly, the highly transmissable second wave also contribute miniscule to the percentage so this could have been even zero per cent," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul noted that there is a risk even after taking vaccination so "we stress people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour even after taking the vaccination". Amid oxygen shortage in the country, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 7,500 metric tonnes of oxygen is being produced in the country per day and 6,600 metric tonnes is being supplied to the states for medical use. "Presently, we have issued instructions that, leaving a few industries, the supply of industries will be restricted so that more and more oxygen can be made available for medical use. We have allocated 6,600 MT out of 7,500 MT to states," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-21000-tested-positive-for-covid-19-after-taking-first-dose-of-either-covishield-or-covaxin-govt-976913.html
21-04-2021||National||Bharat Biotech says Covaxin has shown 78% efficacy against mild to severe Covid-19 symptoms||Covaxin has showed overall clinical efficacy of 78 per cent and 100 per cent efficacy against severe Covid-19 infections, Bharat Biotech International Limited and the Indian Council of Medical Research have together announced on Wednesday quoting the second interim analysis from Phase-3 trials. The vaccine, part of the ongoing vaccination drive in the country, is stated by Prof Balram Bhargava, Secretary of the central government's department of health research and Director General, ICMR as “working well against most variants of SARS-CoV-2.” – the Covid-19 causing virus. The current surge in positive cases, especially, in states like Maharashtra is believed to have been caused by variants like B.1.167 which carries double mutations. Due to the recent surge in cases, 127 symptomatic cases were recorded, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 78 per cent against mild, moderate, and severe Covid-19 cases, BBIL and ICMR said in a joint statement on Wednesday. “The efficacy against severe Covid-19 cases is 100 per cent, with an impact on reduction in hospitalisations. The efficacy against asymptomatic Covid-19 infection is 70 per cent, suggesting decreased transmission in Covaxin recipients.” The testimony comes at a time when the nation is gripped under the Covid-19 second wave with about three lakh daily cases being recorded lately. The medical infrastructure is reeling under the pressure of the spiraling cases of virulent infection. Patients' woes are compounded by the shortage of drugs and oxygen. The present estimates of Covaxin's efficacy are based on the second interim analysis from the Phase-3 trials of the indigenous vaccine conducted on 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, including 10 per cent over the age of 60, from November to February. In its first interim analysis results declared in the first week of March, BBIL claimed that Covaxin was demonstrating 81 per cent efficacy in preventing Covid-19 infection. Safety and efficacy results from the final analysis will be available in June, and reports would be submitted to a peer-reviewed publication. Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said that the second interim analysis results have established Covaxin's efficacy against SARS-Cov-2. “Covaxin has demonstrated an excellent safety record in human clinical trials and in usage under emergency use. It is now a global innovator vaccine derived from India's Research & Development. The efficacy data against severe Covid-19 and asymptomatic infections is highly significant, as this helps reduce hospitalisations and disease transmission". Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based BBIL, was developed with seed strains received from the ICMR's National Institute of Virology at Pune. The Phase 3 clinical trial was co-funded by ICMR, in a public, private partnership. “The tireless efforts of scientists at ICMR and BBIL have resulted in a truly effective international vaccine of the highest standards and efficacy. I am also happy to note that Covaxin works well against most variants of SARS-CoV-2. These findings together consolidate the position of our indigenous vaccine in the global vaccine landscape,” Prof Bhargava said. Bharat Biotech has on Tuesday said that it has “implemented capacity expansion across multiple facilities in Hyderabad and Bangalore to reach 700 million doses production annually,” without disclosing its current output. BBIL had last year pegged its Covid-19 vaccine manufacturing capacity at 200 million doses per year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-says-covaxin-has-shown-78-efficacy-against-mild-to-severe-covid-19-symptoms-976915.html
21-04-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 deaths cross 2,000-mark for the first time||New Delhi, DHNS: India on Wednesday reported the highest deaths in a single day due to Covid-19 as casualties topped the 2,000-mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic. According to the health ministry, 2,023 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours ending 8.00 am on Wednesday with Maharashtra reporting 519 deaths followed by Delhi at 277, Chhattisgarh (191), Uttar Pradesh (162), Karnataka (149) and Gujarat (121). A total of 1,82,553 people have succumbed to the disease so far across the country. India’s total active caseload has reached 21,57,538, which accounts for 13.82% of the country's total infections. A net increase of 1,25,561 cases have been recorded in the total active caseload in 24 hours. “There are 21,57,000 active cases in India currently, which is twice the number of maximum active Covid-19 cases last year,” Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference here. On the Covid-19 deaths, Bhushan said the case fatality rate was on a decline and was presently at 1.17% of the total cases. According to Bhushan, there have been more deaths in the age group of 70 years and above during the second wave of the pandemic when compared to last year. India also reported 2,95,041 new cases in 24 hours ending at 8.00 am on Wednesday with Maharashtra (62,097), Uttar Pradesh (29,574) and Delhi (28,395) reporting the maximum new cases. The ministry said there has been a slight increase in infections in the 10-20 years category and 60-70 years age group during the second wave in comparison with the first wave past year. “As many as 8.50% of the total cases reported in 2021 are in the age group of 10-20 years as against the 8.07% last year. In the 60-70 years age group 9.99% of the total case this year were infected with the virus as against 9.01% last year,” the health ministry data said. Last year, the death toll had witnessed a sharp spike on June 17 when 2,038 deaths were reported. However, more than 1,000 deaths were a result of data backlog by Mumbai and Delhi, which were previously unreported. The Ministry said 146 districts across the country had a case positivity rate of more than 15%, which was a cause of concern. Most of these districts are in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-deaths-cross-2000-mark-for-the-first-time-976916.html
21-04-2021||National||PM Modi to speak at US-hosted virtual climate summit on April 22||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the Leaders’ Summit on Climate convened by American President Joe Biden on Thursday and Friday. Modi will make his remarks on Thursday during the session on “Our Collective Sprint to 2030”. Nearly 40 other world leaders are participating in the summit. They will include representatives of the countries, which are members of the Major Economies Forum. India is also a member of the Major Economies Forum. The leaders of the countries vulnerable to climate change will also take part in the conclave, the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi. The leaders will exchange views on climate change, enhancing climate actions, mobilising finance towards climate mitigation and adaptation, nature based solutions, climate security as well as technological innovations for clean energy, Arindam Bagchi, the MEA spokesperson, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-speak-at-us-hosted-virtual-climate-summit-on-april-22-976920.html
21-04-2021||National||Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury test positive for coronavirus||Congress leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Chowdhury, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, said he will continue to campaign for the West Bengal Assembly polls through virtual mode. The sixth phase of the state polls is due on Thursday. "I have been tested covid positive, requesting all who came in contact with me for the last 7 days must comply with covid protocols, I will be continuing my campaign through the virtual platform," the West Bengal Pradesh Congress president said on Twitter. "I do suggest and request all to take utmost care to keep away covid from your lives," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished him a speedy recovery. "Praying for the well-being and swift recovery of Adhir Da," he tweeted. Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, Shashi Tharoor also confirmed that he has tested positive for the infection. “After waiting two days for a test appointment and another day & a half for the results, I finally have confirmation: I’m #Covid positive. Hoping to deal with it in a “positive” frame of mind, with rest, steam & plenty of fluids. “My sister& 85 year old mother are in the same boat,” he tweeted. A number of senior Congress leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Digvijaya Singh and Randeep Surjewala have tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection. Some of the leaders have been hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-shashi-tharoor-and-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-test-positive-for-coronavirus-976923.html
21-04-2021||National||Cong leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tests positive for Covid-19||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha, tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Chowdhury will continue to campaign for the remaining phases of the West Bengal election virtually, he tweeted. I have been tested covid positive, requesting all who came in contact with me for last 7 days must comply with covid protocols, I will be continuing my campaign through virtual platform, I do suggest and request all to take utmost care to keep away covid from your lives.   He had been actively campaigning for Congress in West Bengal. Minutes after Chowdhury's announcement, Shashi Tharoor also tweeted that his family and he had tested positive for the virus. On Wednesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tested positive for Covid-19, meanwhile, former PM Manmohan Singh is in AIIMS afflicted by the virus. Reacting to the news, PM Modi tweeted that he is "Praying for the well-being and swift recovery" of the Opposition leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-leader-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-tests-positive-for-covid-19-976930.html
21-04-2021||National||Night curfew comes into effect in Tamil Nadu||A six-hour long night curfew from 10 pm to 4 am as part of efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 came into effect in Tamil Nadu from the night of April 20. The curbs will be in place till April 30. Chennai and other cities and towns wore a deserted look as police deployed additional personnel to ensure that people comply with the curfew order. The State Transport Corporation (STC) and State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) rescheduled timings of buses operated by it to and from various places to ensure that they reach their destinations before the night curfew comes into force. The timings of long-distance bus services from Chennai to far-away places like Nagercoil, Kanyakumari, and Madurai have been advanced by 12 to six hours. Timing of private buses were also rescheduled with majority of the buses running during the day time instead of their regular night service due to the night curfew. The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has also asked its staff who are above the age of 45 years to get vaccinated immediately. Suburban train services also came to close at 10 pm. The state government announced that night curfew and a total lockdown on Sunday will be enforced till April 30 to contain the spread of Covid-19. In Chennai, majority of the flyovers were closed for traffic after 10 pm on Tuesday, while only essential and emergency services like media, and ambulance were allowed. Chennai City Police installed 200 checkpoints across the city to monitor the movement of vehicles and people during the night curfew. The state, which has been witnessing rapid increase in the number of people testing positive for the virus, has also closed beaches and tourist destinations like Ooty, Kodaikannal, and Yercaud for tourists. The Nilgiris Mountain Railway that runs daily train services from Mettupalayam to Ooty has suspended services from April 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/night-curfew-comes-into-effect-in-tamil-nadu-976941.html
21-04-2021||National||Provide oxygen forthwith to hospitals by whatever means, Delhi High Court tells Centre||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its "inability" to immediately divert oxygen supply to hospitals from industries, asking if human lives are not important for the government. "We are shocked and dismayed that the government does not seem to be mindful of extremely urgent need of oxygen supply," a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The court told the Union government to beg, borrow or steal but ensure sufficient supply of oxygen as people cannot be left to die. "Today, we are in a dire state. Today we are in a situation that we might lose thousands of lives. As a government, it’s your responsibility to supply oxygen for patients. It’s your duty," the bench told the Centre's counsel. The court was hearing an urgent plea by Max Hospitals on Wednesday evening as they claimed to have been left with just two-three hours of oxygen against 1,400 Covid patients. The bench said the Centre should take over production of oxygen from steel and petroleum plants, even if it meant that such industries had to stop production for sometime. "If Tatas can divert oxygen meant for its captive plant, why can't others do so? There is no sense of humanity left. What are we looking at?" the bench asked. The court also pulled up the Centre on relying upon a policy decision that captive plants can use their own oxygen. "It is the responsibility of State to arrange the supply. You cannot say we can arrange this much and people have to die. We cannot accept that. We cannot see people dying because oxygen is not available," the bench said. The court directed the Union government to ensure safe and unobstructed passage of oxygen from base of production to recipients throughout the country. It also asked the Delhi government to provide logistical support in the process. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, submitted that the government was doing everything possible for ensuring supply of oxygen. The concerns of Max Hospital will be addressed. Senior Cabinet Minister has spoken to the Delhi Dy CM in this regard, he said. Additional Secretary and in-charge of oxygen supply, Sumita Dawra, submitted before the court that the production of oxygen was at 8,000 MT now. The officer, who herself was suffering from the Covid-19 infection, joined the proceedings through video conferencing. She submitted that the allocation of oxygen for Delhi has been raised from 370 MT to 480 MT on Wednesday. The court, which heard the matter till 10.40 pm, would take it up again on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-oxygen-forthwith-to-hospitals-by-whatever-means-delhi-high-court-tells-centre-976944.html
21-04-2021||National||Free vaccinations for all people age 18 and above, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||The Bihar government on Wednesday announced that it will provide free Covdi-19 vaccination to all aged above 18. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar informed this through a tweet message. Kumar said the state government will bear the cost of administering jabs to all citizens of the state above 18 years of age starting from May 1. 18 वर्ष एवं इससे ऊपर के सभी बिहार वासियों का मुफ्त टीकाकरण राज्य सरकार द्वारा किया जाएगा। From the beginning the state government has been providing vaccine to its natives of all the categories without any payment, in the government as well as in the listed private hospitals across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-vaccinations-for-all-people-age-18-and-above-says-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-976945.html
21-04-2021||National||A fourth Covid-19 vaccine in India by August?||India could get its fourth Covid-19 vaccine by August this year, V K Paul, member Niti Ayog said on Wednesday. He said Hyderabad-based Biological E has completed Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials and would soon submit the data to regulatory authorities in India. This data pertains to the indigenous vaccine developed by Biological E with help from the Department of Biotechnology, Paul said, adding that the phase 3 trials would begin soon. “This is a very significant development as they have a capacity of seven crore vaccines per month,” he said. Paul said the government was also in talks with vaccine makers abroad, who, he claimed were pleased with India’s vaccine policy. “Renewed efforts are being made and we are actively talking to suppliers and manufacturers,” Paul said. Biological E is working on three Covid-19 vaccine candidates, including the one developed by Johnson & Johnson. Under the Quad Vaccine Partnership, Biological E has been selected to manufacture one billion doses of the J&J vaccine. The company is also developing a protein subunit vaccine licensed from Texas-based Baylor College of Medicine (BCM). India currently has two vaccines – homegrown Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. The government recently approved Russian made Sputnik V vaccine for emergency use in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-fourth-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-by-august-976946.html
21-04-2021||National||India ranks 87th in global energy transition index||India has been ranked at the 87th position among 115 countries in the Energy Transition Index (ETI) that tracks nations on the current performance of their energy systems across various aspects, according to a report. The report from the World Economic Forum (WEF) released on Wednesday and prepared in collaboration with Accenture also draws on insights from ETI. The top 10 countries in the index are Western and Northern European countries, and Sweden is in the first position followed by Norway (2nd) and Denmark (3rd). "China (68) and India (87), which collectively account for a third of global energy demand, have both made strong improvements over the past decade, despite coal continuing to play a significant role in their energy mix," the report said. As per the report, India has targeted improvements through subsidy reforms and rapidly scaling energy access, with a strong political commitment and regulatory environment for the energy transition. "China's improvements primarily result from reducing the energy intensity of the economy, gains in decarbonising the energy mix through the expansion of renewables and strengthening the enabling environment through investments and infrastructure," it added. The index benchmarks 115 countries on the current performance of their energy systems across three dimensions -- economic development and growth, environmental sustainability, and energy security and access indicators -- and their readiness to transition to secure, sustainable, affordable, and inclusive energy systems. The latest report is based on a revised ETI methodology that takes into account recent changes in the global energy landscape and the increasing urgency of climate change action. As per the report, 92 out of 115 countries tracked on the ETI increased their aggregate score over the past 10 years, which affirms the positive direction and steady momentum of the global energy transition. "As we enter into the decade of action and delivery on climate change, the focus must also encompass speed and resilience of the transition. With the energy transition moving beyond the low hanging fruit, sustained incremental progress will be more challenging due to the evolving landscape of risks to the energy transition," Roberto Bocca, Head of Energy and Materials at WEF, said. Other countries in the top 10 are Switzerland (4), Austria (5), Finland (6), the United Kingdom (7), New Zealand (8), France (9) and Iceland (10).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-87th-in-global-energy-transition-index-976949.html
21-04-2021||National||Of 12.7 crore inoculated, 21,000 got Covid-19 after vaccine: Centre||Two to four persons per 10,000 who have received the Covid-19 vaccine were getting infected with the disease—a number too small to be worried about, the government said on Wednesday. Of the 12.7 crore persons vaccinated by the two vaccines, 21,000 have tested positive for Covid-19, Indian Council for Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava told reporters here. He said most of the breakthrough infections, those testing positive post-vaccination, have been reported in the high-risk category such as healthcare workers, who have exposure to the virus. According to the data presented at the press conference, of the 93.56 lakh who were administered the first dose of Covaxin 4,208 or 0.04% had tested positive. Of the 17.37 lakh who received the second dose, 695 or 0.04% tested positive. Bhargava said 17,145 persons or 0.02% of the 10.03 crore persons who received the Covishield vaccine tested positive after the first dose, while 5,014 persons or 0.03% of the 1.57 crore were infected with the disease after receiving the second dose. “This is a very small number and not at all worrisome. There is a possibility that a newer highly transmissible variant may be responsible, else it would have been zero,” Bhargava said. He said even if a person gets infected after vaccination, the infection was not severe and urged people to get the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/of-127-crore-inoculated-21000-got-covid-19-after-vaccine-centre-976950.html
21-04-2021||National||Parliamentary panel suggests providing free medical help to poor who are victims of road accidents||With the highest number of road accidents victims belonging to low income households, the government should ensure providing free quality medical help to such victims, a Parliamentary Committee recommended to the government. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport and Tourism said that according to the World Bank report, 44% of households in rural areas reported at least one death after a road crash, compared to 11.6% of the households in urban areas. Similarly, low income households reported twice the number of deaths post-crash vis-à-vis high income households. This striking difference might be because of the difference in the quality of medical care available to the victims of road accidents, the panel said. “The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways should work in close coordination with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, to ensure that free quality medical help is provided to road accident victims belonging to low-income households. This may be partially funded by the penalties collected for the violation of traffic rules,” the committee headed by Rajya Sabha member T G Venkatesh recommended. The Committee suggested the Road Transport Ministry to develop a road safety score to quantify the safety of the National Highways across the country. The ongoing projects of the Ministry may be granted approval only if they score excellent in terms of road safety, the Panel said. Asking the Ministry to prepare an action plan to reduce black spots on highways, the Panel suggested the government adopt best international practices in designing stages of roads to reduce accidents where traffic merges from service lanes to the highway. As per the Union Ministry of Road Transport data, a total number of 4,49,002 accidents took place in the country during the calendar year 2019 leading to 151,113 deaths and 4,51,361 injured. Union Road Transport Minister Gadkari earlier releasing the World Bank report on 'Traffic Crash Injuries And Disabilities: The Burden on India Society', said that in India cost per seriously injured person comes to Rs 3.64 lakh while cost per minor injured person stands at Rs 77, 938 and the cost per death is estimated at Rs 91.16 lakh. "So death cost is 100 times more than injury cost. It shows that if we succeed in preventing deaths in a road accident and restrict the life of accident victims to minor injuries only, we can save around Rs 90 lakh per person," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-suggests-providing-free-medical-help-to-poor-who-are-victims-of-road-accidents-976956.html
21-04-2021||National||Railways to run special trains to cater to passenger demand as states lock down||Amid several states announcing lockdowns, Indian Railways will be running special train services across the country for the convenience of passengers. Apart from regular train services, additional trains will be run during April-May 2021 as summer special trains, the railways said in a statement. "As on April 20,  Indian Railways is running total 1512 special train services(Mail/Express and Festival Specials) on an average per day. Total 5,387 suburban train services and 981 passenger train services are also operational," the  statement said. The railways also operated additional trains from Delhi and Mumbai region to Eastern parts of the country.  "Indian Railways will continue to run special trains as per the demand on routes. Indian Railways shall make all efforts to ensure that passengers may travel comfortably without any inconvenience. Indian Railways is fully prepared to operate trains at short notices on any particular route," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-run-special-trains-to-cater-to-passenger-demand-as-states-lock-down-976961.html
21-04-2021||National||IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria flags off four Rafale aircraft for India in France||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Wednesday flagged off four Rafale fighter jets for India from a military airbase in France, people familiar with the development said. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria visited a Rafale aircraft training facility on the third day of his five-day visit to France. He also thanked the French aerospace industry for ensuring timely delivery of the jets. "Air Chief Mshl RKS Bhadauria on an official tour to France lauds pilots and sees off the next batch of Rafales on a non stop flight to India with mid air refueling by French Air force and UAE. "Thanks France especially FASF and French Industry for timely delivery & pilot training on schedule despite COVID," the Indian embassy in France tweeted. The Indian embassy did not mention the number of aircraft flagged off by the IAF Chief but people associated with the event said four jets formed the new batch that left from France's Merignac airbase. In his brief remarks, the IAF Chief said some of the Rafale aircraft have been delivered a "little bit" ahead of time and it has contributed to the overall combat potential of the Indian Air Force (IAF). Ahead of his visit, military officials in Delhi said that his trip to France is expected to boost cooperation between the IAF and the French Air and Space Force (FASF). "This ferry, which is fifth from here, marks the end of the third batch of our pilots and all our maintenance crew. The Rafale training centre has provided world class training and it is because of the level and quality of training that we were able to operationalise the aircraft quickly," he said. He also thanked the French government, the French Air Force for providing the required support for the training programme as well as for ferrying of the aircraft to India. The arrival of the new batch of the aircraft will pave the way for the IAF to raise a second squadron of the Rafale jets. The new squadron will be based in Hasimara air base in West Bengal. The first Rafale squadron is based in Ambala air force station. A squadron comprises around 18 aircraft. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around Rs 58,000 crore. So far, 14 Rafale jets are operating in the IAF and the number will go up to 18 after the arrival of the new batch. The first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29 last. On Tuesday, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria held talks with Gen Philippe Lavigne, Chief of Staff of French Air and Space Force (FASF), on ways to further expand cooperation between the two sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chief-rks-bhadauria-flags-off-four-rafale-aircraft-for-india-in-france-976966.html
21-04-2021||National||Door-to-door vaccination not possible: Centre to Bombay HC||The Union government on Wednesday informed the Bombay High Court that door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination was not possible due to various reasons including fear of contamination and wastage. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare submitted its reply to a public interest litigation filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari. The PIL sought at-home vaccination facility for those above 75, the disabled and those who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. Satyendra Singh, Under Secretary in the Union Ministry of Health, listed in the affidavit several reasons for not providing this facility. "In case of any Adverse Event Following Immunisation, case management may not be proper and there will be delay in reaching the health facility and challenges in maintaining protocol of observation of the patient for 30 minutes after vaccination," the affidavit said. Further, there were chances of contamination as during door-to-door inoculation, the vaccine container will be taken out at each house which could affect its efficacy, it said. There was also the possibility of high wastage as inoculation drive will take longer, the reply said. At the request of state governments, more vaccination centres have been approved with special consideration for senior citizens, the Centre's affidavit said. As to the registration for vaccination, it informed that people can register in advance or on site. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni is likely to take up the petition for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/door-to-door-vaccination-not-possible-centre-to-bombay-hc-976968.html
21-04-2021||National||Centre to allocate Covid-19 vaccines to states for priority groups||The Centre on Wednesday said it would continue to allocate vaccines to state governments under the new policy for administering the jabs to priority groups identified for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre would allot vaccines to the state governments 15 days in advance on the basis of a quota fixed on three points – average consumption of vaccines, extent of infections and wastage of doses. Bhushan said wastage of doses will affect the allocation negatively, he said adding that the states would be informed in advance about the quotas allocated to it. “This will give them an idea how much they are getting from the Government of India, how much they should procure, if they so desire, and how much private hospitals in their respective states are procuring,” he said. Bhushan said this approach would provide the states a bigger picture on the availability of vaccines as on date and future availability for the next fortnight. He said primacy would be given to ensure that all priority groups identified by the government get the second dose of the vaccines to ensure full protection to them. He said after the new vaccine policy gets rolling on May 1, the Rs 250 per dose system followed by private hospitals would cease to exist. Bhushan said free vaccination would be available at all the vaccination centres that receive vaccine doses from the Centre. “Therefore, the vulnerable sections, the aged sections and the poor sections will get vaccines free of cost at the centres where vaccines would be provided by the government of India,” he said. Bhushan said vaccination would continue to be free for eligible groups identified by the Centre, while the others will have to go to the separate channels to get inoculated for the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-allocate-covid-19-vaccines-to-states-for-priority-groups-976969.html
21-04-2021||National||Australia announces cyber projects with India under AICCTP||Australia on Wednesday announced three cyber projects with India as it launched its International Cyber and Critical Technology Engagement Strategy, setting the goal for a safe, secure and prosperous Australia, Indo-Pacific and the world. "At the heart of the strategy is the prioritisation and enhancement of our cyber and critical tech diplomacy. We'll do that through our bilateral partnerships, through groupings such as the Quad, the ASEAN Regional Forum, the Pacific Islands Forum,” Foreign Minister Marise Payne said. “We'll work globally through the United Nations, where we're already proving we can have a real effect in multilateral rules-setting and we'll support partners in our region to build capacity for cyber and critical technology resilience," Payne said in her speech. Based on three key pillars of values, security and prosperity, this framework will guide Australia's practical international engagement across cyber and critical technology issues, in order to create an environment that embraces the enormous opportunities of innovation while avoiding and mitigating the risks, she said. Payne announced three projects in Round 1 of the Australia-India Cyber and Critical Technology Partnership (AICCTP) Grant Programme, a USD 12.7 million programme over four years. "As a very positive example of deepening the bilateral cooperation on these issues, we're working more closely with India, recognising that it's both a growing market for technology and, increasingly, an innovator and regulator of digital technologies. "Amongst other things, this programme will support both Australian and Indian researchers to enhance the ethical frameworks, the technical standards, underpinning the development of critical technology," she said. The grants programme exists to enhance practical cooperation and collaboration between the two countries on cyber and critical technology issues, which will help shape a global technology environment that meets Australia and India’s shared vision of an open, free, rules-based Indo-Pacific region, according to Australian government's international cyber technology website. Australia and India, with their technical expertise and engaged user base, are key players in the global development of critical and emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), next generation telecommunications (5G/6G), Internet of Things (IoT), quantum computing, synthetic biology, blockchain and big data, she said. Grant Round 1 prioritised proposals that focused on strengthening understanding of ethical frameworks and developing best practice on translating them into practical action and encouraging the development of technical standards on critical technologies, the minister said. Payne said that in the first round, the programme received over 50 applications and grants have been awarded to three projects: the Centre for International Security Studies at the University of Sydney and India's Observer Research Foundation, the ORF, to develop ethical frameworks and best practices for emerging quantum technologies. The second grant has been given to La Trobe University and the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur to operationalise ethical frameworks in the critical technology supply chains of global companies. The School of Computer Science at the University of Sydney, in partnership with the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, Reliance Jio and the University of New South Wales, to address privacy and security challenges in next generation telecommunications networks was also awarded the grant. "I'm very excited about the opportunities that exist under these grants and I look forward to seeing the outcomes of this very important work. I know it's of great interest to our partners in India as well. And, COVID-19 allowing, I look forward to visiting India again soon to work to engage with counterparts there," Payne said. Payne said that Australia's shared goals with India, along with Japan and the United States, were also reflected in the recent establishment of the new critical and emerging tech working group at the first summit of the Quad leaders on that first agenda. The Working Group's Coordinating Committee held its first meeting early in April, and it will continue to meet monthly. The committee agreed to a programme of practical outcomes, including a joint statement on technologies and a technical dialogue between national standards bodies, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australia-announces-cyber-projects-with-india-under-aicctp-976975.html
21-04-2021||National||France to impose entry restrictions on travellers from India||France will impose new entry restrictions on travellers from India to fight a contagious coronavirus variant spreading in that country, an official said on Wednesday. The restrictions come in addition to those previously announced regarding four other countries — Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Brazil — that will be implemented starting from Saturday. Government spokesman Gabriel Attal also confirmed that France will lift its ban on domestic travel as planned on May 3, but will maintain its nighttime curfew, now in place from 7 pm to 6 am Nonessential shops, closed since the partial lockdown of the country at beginning of April, won't reopen before mid-May, he said. France suspended all flights from Brazil earlier this month in an effort to curb the spread of a new Covid-19 variant found in the South American country. The temporary measure is to be replaced Saturday by tight travel restrictions regarding a list of now five countries, including a mandatory 10-day quarantine with police checks to ensure people arriving in France observe the requirement. France is also requiring more stringent testing for the coronavirus on travellers from these countries, who will need to pass a mandatory antigen test upon their arrival, in addition to a pre-boarding PCR test. A variant first identified in England is now responsible for about 80 per cent of the virus cases in France, while the variants first seen in Brazil and South Africa make up less than 4% of French infections, Health Minister Olivier Veran said last week. Attal said on Wednesday that daily numbers of new infections are tending to decrease in the country — yet they still reach more than 30,000 people per day on average. With almost 6,000 Covid-19 patients in intensive care units and hospitals close to capacity, Attal said France may be close to reaching a "peak." He noted "encouraging" signs, but this is "not sufficient enough." "The epidemic is decreasing twice as slow as in November especially due to the English variant," he said. "The pressure on hospitals is extremely strong." Nursery and primary schools will reopen on April 26 after a three-week closure as planned, followed by high schools on May 3, Attal said. France intends to gradually reopen nonessential shops, some of its cultural places and cafe and restaurant terraces starting from mid-May. President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday praised the acceleration of the vaccination campaign in the country, with more than 2.5 million jabs injected last week. France has reported more than 100,00 deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-to-impose-entry-restrictions-on-travellers-from-india-976985.html
21-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Maharashtra to get 2,69,200 vials of Remdesivir as Centre makes interim allocation to 19 states, UTs||The Centre on Wednesday allocated supply of Remdesivir to 19 states and UTs with high burden of Covid-19 cases and Maharashtra, the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic, has been allocated 2,69,200 vials of the drug. Karnataka would receive 25,400 vials of the anti-viral drug for the period up to April 30 as parts of the country have been facing shortages of the medicine. The Centre has made an interim allocation of 11 lakh vials of Remdesivir to 14 states to which medical oxygen has been allocated and five other states where high volume of supplies have been observed. Manufacturers of the drug have been mapped with the states and Karnataka would receive 17,400 vials from Mylan, 1,000 vials from Cipla, 6,000 vials from Syngene/Sun, and 1,000 vials from Jubilant, an official statement said. “The allocation includes bulk purchases made by the states as well as supplies through private distribution channels,” it said. The initial allocation was dynamic and would be reviewed constantly in consultation with the states to ensure all needs can be met within the available supplies, the statement said. “Manufacturers have been directed to manufacture and dispatch the supplies as per the agreed state allocation and mapping. They may be asked to balance supplies to the government and distribution channel,” it said. Centre has also asked states to appoint a nodal officer for remdesivir, who will be responsible for unrestricted and timely movement of the anti-viral within their states as per the manufacturer-based mapping. Gujarat would get 1,63,500 vials, Uttar Pradesh 1,22,800\, Madhya Pradesh 92,400, Tamil Nadu 58,900, Delhi 61,900, Andhra Pradesh 59,000, Rajasthan 26,500. The production capacity of Remdesivir is being ramped up from current level of 38 lakh vials per month to 74 lakh vials per month, and 20 additional manufacturing sites have been approved. Export of Remdesivir has also been prohibited on April, 11 in order to shore up domestic supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-to-get-269200-vials-of-remdesivir-as-centre-makes-interim-allocation-to-19-states-uts-976986.html
21-04-2021||National||Pak's demand on Article 370 won't help create conducive atmosphere for talks: India tells UAE||Pakistan’s rhetoric asking India to roll back its August 5, 2019 decision on Jammu and Kashmir will not help to create conducive atmosphere for restarting talks between the two nations, New Delhi has conveyed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). With Abu Dhabi playing a behind-the-scenes role to mediate between the two nations, India informally conveyed to the UAE that Pakistan must reconcile with the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government would never roll back its decision to strip J&K of its special status and to reorganise the state into two Union Territories, sources told DH. New Delhi’s position on the issue has been clearly conveyed to the UAE, when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with Emirati Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Jaishankar and Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi visited Abu Dhabi recently. Their visit to the UAE around the same time lent credence to speculation over Abu Dhabi’s behind-the-scenes efforts to mediate between the two South Asian nations and bring them back on the table of negotiation. Qureshi formally acknowledged during an interview with Gulf News that the UAE was informally facilitating back-channel talks between Islamabad and New Delhi. Jaishankar, however, refrained from making any comment on the UAE’s mediation between India and Pakistan. The Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi too remained tight-lipped on the issue. Jaishankar and Qureshi had separate meetings with Sheikh Abdullah in Abu Dhabi on Sunday and Monday respectively. Qureshi told journalists in Dubai on Sunday that Pakistan was ready to hold talks with India if the Modi government roll back its August 5, 2019 decision. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan too had earlier this month stated that Islamabad would not hold talks with New Delhi unless the Government of India restored the special status of J&K. India, however, firmly rejected the condition set by Pakistan for resumption of bilateral talks, which remained suspended since January 2013. New Delhi informally conveyed to Islamabad through the UAE that the Modi government’s decision to withdraw the special status granted to J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution was endorsed by Parliament of India and was irreversible. India also stressed that the UAE might advise Pakistan that such rhetoric would neither help to create mobilize public opinion in favour of resumption of talks between the two South Asian neighbours nor would create conducive atmosphere for such engagements, sources told DH in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paks-demand-on-article-370-wont-help-create-conducive-atmosphere-for-talks-india-tells-uae-976993.html
21-04-2021||National||Covid: SC to take up only urgent matters from April 22||The Supreme Court is going to take up only urgent matters for consideration from Thursday, apparently after several judges and their staff have tested positive of Covid-19. It is learnt that several judges have contracted the virus with some in home isolation and a few in hospitals. Recently, Justice M R Shah, during the court hearing, declared that his entire staff was under the grip of the virus. Justice Indira Banerjee said something along similar lines.  The Supreme Court website showed that only four courts would be sitting on Thursday to take up a few cases. The Delhi government had already announced a six-day lockdown from Monday in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. A total of 2.95 lakh cases of the novel coronavirus were recorded on Wednesday, the highest daily increase since the outbreak of the pandemic. The country also reported 2,023 deaths on the same day. India’s Covid-19 tally of 1,56,16,130 cases includes 21,57,538 active cases, 1,32,76,039 recoveries and 1,82,553 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-sc-to-take-up-only-urgent-matters-from-april-22-977001.html
21-04-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi calls Centre's Covid-19 vaccine strategy 'abject failure'||Slamming the government's alleged lack of preparedness to deal with the Covid-19 second wave and terming its vaccine strategy "abject failure", Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the BJP-led Centre cannot shift the blame as Jawaharlal Nehru isn't in-charge, Narendra Modi is and he should protect Indians. In an exclusive interview with PTI, the Congress general secretary said constructive suggestions from opposition parties are being dismissed as politicisation rather than being accepted in the spirit that the nation is in crisis, every single life matters and, therefore, "all of us must stand together and do whatever we can to save lives regardless of our politics". "They (government) are wasting time engaging in pettiness, making a minister respond to a letter addressed by a former prime minister who served this nation selflessly and with dignity to the present Prime Minister, Union Ministers are blaming state governments for increased oxygen consumption and central government press releases are targeting Opposition governments," she said. Priyanka Gandhi's remarks come two days after Health Minister Harsh Vardhan responded to former prime minister Manmohan Singh's letter with suggestions on Covid-19 management, and alleged that the second wave of the pandemic was fueled by Congress-ruled states as they were busy raising doubts about vaccines rather than vaccinating people. Talking about the Congress' long-standing demand for universalization of Covid-19 vaccination and the government's inoculation strategy, Priyanka Gandhi slammed the government for exporting vaccine doses for a "PR exercise". Thanks to 70 years of forward-thinking governance, today India is the largest manufacturer of vaccines in the world, she said. "The Union government enabled the export of six crore vaccines between January and March 2021. A huge PR exercise was conducted with photos of vaccines arriving in countries like Mauritius, Guyana and Nepal being circulated. During this same period, Indian citizens received only three to four crore doses," she said. "Why didn’t the government prioritise Indians first. Why did the prime minister place self-promotion above the nation? In a state like UP with a 22 crore population, only 1 crore doses have been administered," the Congress general secretary in-charge Uttar Pradesh said. Foreign agencies purchased vaccines from Indian vaccine manufacturers much before the Indian government placed an order and several large countries placed advance orders for vaccines twice the size of their population, she said, adding that India placed its first order only in January 2021. The Modi government's lack of foresight has compelled India to become an importer of vaccines today and even now, their "vaccine strategy is flawed and discriminatory", Priyanka Gandhi said. "Why are free vaccines not being made available to 18-45 year olds? The new variants are supposedly even more virulent and many young people are affected. And why is the government allowing middlemen into the equation without price controls?" she said. This is not a coherent strategy, it is an "abject failure", Priyanka Gandhi said. Asked about Union minister Piyush Goyal's statement that states must keep oxygen demand under control, she said Goyal’s "heartless comment" shows the "brutal coldness" at the heart of this administration. "They see precious human life in terms of demand and supply. But then what can one expect from a government led by a prime minister who is continuing to hold public rallies and laughing on stage while lakhs of people are crying for help, the healthcare system is reeling under a massive pandemic and lakhs of Indians are fighting for their lives," she said. On the shortage of medical grade oxygen and critical medicines like Remdisivir, she said that due to the very governments that Prime Minister Modi holds responsible for every ill in the country, India’s capacity as one of the world’s largest producers of oxygen was built over decades. India produces 7,500 metric tonnes of oxygen per day, at the peak of the last wave the cumulative use of oxygen in hospitals across the nation was less than half this quantity per day, she pointed out. "We produce enough oxygen, the government has simply not created the adequate logistics to supply it across India. It had the entire period between the first and the second wave to do this. It did nothing," she alleged. India has exported about 9,300 metric tonnes of Oxygen in the last 12 months, Priyanka Gandhi said and asked who is responsible for the deaths due to lack of oxygen. India has exported 1.1 million injections of Remdesivir in the last six months and since December production of crucial medicine was reduced, she said. "Export has been stopped only five days back, Why? Who can they shift the blame onto? Jawaharlal Nehru isn't in charge, Narendra Modi is. He should step up to the plate. He is the Prime Minister. It is incumbent on him to protect Indians, to give them a sense of safety and to fight this battle from the front," Priyanka Gandhi said. She asserted that the Congress is firm in its commitment towards the people of India to remain constructive and supportive during this crisis. "We have not and will not politicise this unprecedented human tragedy under any circumstances. We will, however, continue to push the government to act, we will continue to raise issues that need to be addressed urgently to save lives, they can label us in whichever terms they like," she asserted. "We fully understand our responsibility towards our country. Manmohan Singh ji, the Congress President (Sonia Gandhi) and Rahul ji have all offered our party's constructive cooperation to the prime minister time and again," Priyanka Gandhi added. India has been regularly registering over 2 lakh Covid-19 cases daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-calls-centres-covid-19-vaccine-strategy-abject-failure-976832.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Show-cause notice to ayurvedic drugs firm for misleading claims related to Covid-19 treatment||A show-cause notice has been issued to a Rajkot-based ayurvedic drugs manufacturer for allegedly making a misleading claim that its product 'AAYUDH advance' is the "first clinically tested medicine for Covid-19 management and treatment", an AYUSH Ministry statement said. The company has also claimed that its product is "three times better than remdesivir and that 'AAYUDH Advance starts where vaccines stop'." Acting on a letter from the AYUSH Ministry, the show cause notice has been sent by the joint commissioner (Ayurveda) of the Food and Drug Control Administration of Gujarat. The drugs policy section of the AYUSH Ministry directed the Ayurvedic Licensing Authority of Gujarat to initiate strict action against the company that has made such misleading claims, the statement said. In a letter issued on April 18 by S R Chinta, Deputy Advisor of the drug policy section of the AYUSH Ministry, the joint commissioner of the Ayurvedic Drugs Licensing Authority of Gujarat was asked to take strict and immediate action against M/s Shukla AsharImPex Pvt Ltd Rajkot. The letter from the ministry pointed out grave misconduct on the part of the company regarding drug formulation-related claims. Citing the ayurvedic rule book, the letter said the formulation was "violating section 33 EEB which puts a particular drug in 'misbranded, adulterated and spurious' category". The ministry's letter has also mentioned that the said drug was violating section 33EED for not having the therapeutic value as claimed by the manufacturer causing public grievance. It also cited rule 158-B and said its conditions were not fulfilled. This rule deals with licensing of 3(h) formulation and requires that "the ingredients should be part of Authoritative Books mentioned under the First Schedule". It is noteworthy that the clinical study of the product was referred to different committees, including the 'Interdisciplinary Ayush R&D Task Force on COVID-19' and 'Interdisciplinary Technical Review Committee'. Both the panels had rejected the product as well as the trial clinical trial as it did not follow the principles of ayurveda and study protocols. The company has claimed that this product is "a liquid formulation comprising 21 different types of plant-based extracts. Ayurvedic scriptures report these ingredients to be effective and safe to be used for human consumption". To this claim, the ministry's letter mentions that some of the ingredients in the formulation of the product in question are not mentioned in the ayurvedic classical text as prescribe in the first schedule of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, hence it cannot be termed as ayurvedic drugs under rule 3a and 3(h)(i) of the said legislation. The AYUSH Ministry had asked for an action-taken report by the joint commissioner (Ayurveda) of the Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration, acting on which the state authority issued a show-cause notice to be replied in seven days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/show-cause-notice-to-ayurvedic-drugs-firm-for-misleading-claims-related-to-covid-19-treatment-976681.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at furniture market in west Delhi||A fire broke out at a furniture market in west Delhi's Kirti Nagar area on Wednesday morning, officials said. However, no one was injured in the incident, they said. According to fire officials, they received information regarding the blaze around 3.00 am and 28 fire engines were rushed to the spot. The fire was brought under control around 6 am, they said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-furniture-market-in-west-delhi-976757.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Taken the Covid-19 vaccine in Chhattisgarh? You may get 2 kg tomatoes!||As countries around the world try to inoculate maximum citizens, Covid-19 vaccination campaigns across India have spared no effort to get people vaccinated and stay ahead of the pandemic.  However, in a strange-sounding proposition, Chattisgarh will give its residents a unique gift for getting the jab: juicy tomatoes! Those getting vaccinated will be provided two kilograms of in a bid to encourage more people to be vaccinated. this "offer" has been implemented in all of Bijapur's hospitals that prescribe the Covid-19 vaccine. Purshottam Sallur, a district official, told ANI that the free tomatoes were given out to inspire more people in the district to get the vaccine. “It's being done to encourage them. We appealed to vegetable vendors, they supplied to the municipality", Sallur said. And it seems that the initiatives have paid off. According to the survey, the possibility of receiving free tomatoes – a kilogram of which costs about Rs 40  – has drawn huge crowds to hospitals across the district for vaccination shots. As India is facing an increasing number of coronavirus cases, the Centre announced on Tuesday that from May 1, all people over the age of 18 will be eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine and allowed private hospitals and states to directly purchase the dosage from the manufacturer. The total number of Covid-19 cases in India rose to 1,56,16,130, with 2,95,041 new coronavirus infections and 2,023 new deaths recorded on Wednesday, according to Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taken-the-covid-19-vaccine-in-chhattisgarh-you-may-get-2-kg-tomatoes-976781.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Some Delhi hospitals get medical oxygen amid crisis, Covid-19 surge||Some major government and private hospitals in Delhi received fresh stock of medical oxygen in the early hours of Wednesday, averting a crisis just in time, according to officials. Gangaram Hospital received 5,000 cubic metres of oxygen supply from a private vendor before 3 am. This stock should last till Wednesday afternoon. The supply from another oxygen firm is still awaited, sources said. An official at the Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital confirmed that a truck carrying oxygen from a firm reached them around 1:30 am. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, said a truck carrying oxygen from a vendor reached the facility around 3 am. Ambedkar Hospital received fresh supply of oxygen at 5 am which officials said can last till 24 hours A record 28,395 coronavirus cases and 277 deaths marked the aggravation of the pandemic situation in Delhi on Tuesday as the positivity rate shot up to 32.82 per cent -- meaning every third sample came out positive -- amid a "serious oxygen crisis" unfolding in the city. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday urged the Centre "with folded hands" to provide medical oxygen to Delhi and his deputy Manish Sisodia said there will be chaos in the city if the stocks are not replenished by Wednesday morning. "Most hospitals in Delhi have only eight to 12 hours of oxygen left. We have been asking the Centre to increase its supply for the last seven days. There will be chaos in Delhi if hospitals do not get enough oxygen by Wednesday morning," Sisodia had tweeted in Hindi. दिल्ली में अधिकतर अस्पतालों में केवल अगले 8 से 12 घंटे के लिए ही ऑक्सिजन उपलब्ध है. He had also posted a note on Twitter mentioning the status of oxygen stock in various hospitals. According to the note, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Burari Hospital, Ambedkar Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, B L Kapoor Hospital and Max Hospital in Patparganj were among those having only eight to 12 hours of oxygen left at 6 pm on Tuesday. ICU beds in Delhi hospitals were also filling up fast. Only 28 of them were available for coronavirus patients in government and private hospitals across the national capital at 9 am on Wednesday, according to data from the city government's Delhi Corona app. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had sent an SOS to Union minister Piyush Goyal at 10:20 pm, saying “oxygen at GTB Hospital may not last beyond 4 hrs.” “More than 500 corona patients on oxygen. Pl help @PiyushGoyal to restore oxygen supply to avert major crisis,” he tweeted on Tuesday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-delhi-hospitals-get-medical-oxygen-amid-crisis-covid-19-surge-976785.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana govt accuses Delhi govt of 'looting' oxygen, orders police protection to tankers||Amid a scarcity of oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Haryana government on Wednesday ordered police protection for all tankers, alleging 'loot' by neigbouring Delhi. "We are being forced to give our oxygen to Delhi. First, we’ll complete our needs, then give to others. Yesterday, one of our O2 tankers was looted by Delhi Govt that was going to Faridabad. From now, I've ordered police protection for all tankers," Haryana Health Min Anil Vij said. More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-accuses-delhi-govt-of-looting-oxygen-orders-police-protection-to-tankers-976818.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Inquiry commission gives clean chit to UP Police in Vikas Dubey encounter case||A probe panel, formed to inquire into the 'encounter' of gangster Vikar Dubey, who, with his accomplices, had gunned down eight cops, has given a clean chit to the Uttar Pradesh police in the matter. The three member judicial commission, headed by Supreme Court judge justice (retired) B S Chauhan, submitted its report to the state government. The report would now be submitted to the Supreme Court, which had ordered formation of the Commission after several PIL were filed before it seeking a thorough probe into the alleged encounter. According to the sources, the Commission visited the spot, where the 'encounter' had taken place in July last year, and spoke to the police personnel and others, who were present at the spot during its inquiry. The panel had summoned media personnel, relatives and family members of the slain gangster but none came before it to depose, sources said. ''The panel did not find any evidence to support the claim that the encounter was fake,'' said a senior police official on Wednesday. Vikas Dubey, with his associates, had killed eight cops, including a circle officer at Bikaru village in Kanpur Dehat district in June last year, when the police team had gone to arrest him. Dubey, who was nabbed from Ujjain town in Madhya Pradesh, was gunned down in an 'encounter' with the UP police while transporting him to Kanpur on July 2, 2020.   The cops claimed that the car in which Dubey was travelling overturned near Kanpur. ''Dubey snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to flee taking advantage of the situation.... he was asked to surrender but he fired and was killed in retaliatory firing,'' the police had then said. Rights activists and even a senior ex-IPS officer had questioned their claim and suspected that the 'encounter' might have been conducted to 'save' some people. Two close aides of the gangster - Prabhat Mishra and Baua Dubey - had also been gunned down in an encounter with the cops barely half a kilomtere away from the spot, where Vikas was killed, a day before. The cops had then too claimed that Prabhat snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape and was killed in the ensuing gun battle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inquiry-commission-gives-clean-chit-to-up-police-in-vikas-dubey-encounter-case-976826.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Post Article 370, Jammu and Kashmir’s new industrial policy comes into effect||Post abrogation of Article 370, the new Industrial Policy in Jammu and Kashmir, aimed at attracting investment, giving impetus to the industrial sector of the Union Territory (UT) and create employment avenues, has come into effect from April 1 this year. Under the new policy, all industrial units coming into commercial production, as well as the existing units undertaking substantial expansion shall be entitled for incentives while the existing units eligible for incentives under the erstwhile Industrial Policy 2016 shall be allowed to avail the same under the old policy till 31 March 2026. The policy mentions that the government would act as a facilitator rather than a regulator. All UT related services, consents and permissions required to set up and operate an industry in J&K shall be provided through a single window portal. The government aims to bring in investments worth Rs 30,000-35,000 crore in J&K as subsidies offered to investors under the new policy will be linked with the progress of the project on the ground. It will also address issues such as the sale of land and regulations regarding rent, lease or tenancy of properties. Over 6000 acres of state land across J&K will reportedly be used to house the new industries, of which 3000 acres have already been acquired from the UT’s revenue department. Under the policy, land will be allotted to investors on lease for an initial period of 40 years, extendable to 99 years. The policy aims at achieving inclusive growth through sustainable industrialization and employment generation, and includes provisions for evolving a fair and transparent mechanism for land allotment for industrial use. The PhD Chamber of Commerce and Industry-Kashmir said that the new policy has given hope to the entrepreneurs of J&K. “The turnover based incentive is a welcome move to attract investors from many sectors placing J&K on the global map in regards to advanced manufacturing, tourism & hospitality, health and wellness, education, skill development, ITeS, innovation, creativity and research and development,” the chamber said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-article-370-jammu-and-kashmir-s-new-industrial-policy-comes-into-effect-976852.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir hospitals gasp for oxygen as Covid-19 cases soar||Hospitals in Jammu and Kashmir have been running perilously low on oxygen amid rising demand for beds as the Union Territory recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 tally on Tuesday with 2,030 positive cases.  According to the Covid-19 media bulletin on Monday, 441 patients were admitted to hospitals in Kashmir for treatment while the number of patients admitted in Jammu stood at 261. Currently, the Union Territory has a total of 11,467 active Covid-19 cases and of the known positive cases, just over 6% have been admitted to hospitals. In November 2020, the rate of admission was higher with the number standing at approximately 12% of the total people who tested Covid-19 positive, media bulletin archives show. On 17 November 2020, for example, 672 of the 5,585 active cases needed hospital admission and 414 of these were on oxygen support.  On Monday, 462 patients were on oxygen support. A senior medico at tertiary care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said that at the moment, Kashmir wasn't facing the mammoth load that hospitals in Delhi, Mumbai or other cities in the country have been burdened with. “In fact, we are more or less where we were six month ago in terms of patient load. However, given the steep rise in positive cases and subsequent hospitalization in the last one week, it appears that very soon, hospital beds in Kashmir fitted with an oxygen port will run out,” he said, adding that the situation was still manageable but in next few days, the new wave of infections might come like a storm. When asked about the number of oxygen beds available to cater to the growing load of Covid-19 cases, Dr Mushtaq Ahmed Rather, Director Health Services Kashmir, couldn’t come up with a figure. He said the Mechanical Division of the J&K government was working to make the oxygen plants functional but was not clear on the timeline of its completion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-hospitals-gasp-for-oxygen-as-covid-19-cases-soar-976854.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi nearly breathless as India struggles with Covid-19 storm||Authorities scrambled to shore up supplies of medical oxygen to hospitals in Delhi on Wednesday as a fast-spreading second wave of coronavirus stretched medical infrastructure to breaking point, officials and doctors said. India, the world's second-most populous country, is reporting the world's highest number of new daily cases and approaching a peak of about 2.97 lakh cases in one day that the United States hit in January. The latest data released by the health ministry showed there had been 2,95,041 new infections nationwide overnight and 2,023 deaths, India's highest in the pandemic. Delhi's government hospitals reported they only had enough oxygen to last another eight to 24 hours while some private ones had enough for just four or five hours. "We are facing huge problems in oxygen supply but somehow we are managing. Yesterday, it was very critical. We had only four to five hours oxygen in the evening," said Ronit Kumar, head Biomedical Engineering at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute. Replenishment came before dawn on Wednesday, with enough to last through the day, he said, adding they were pushing their suppliers. "Since they are also facing huge requirements, so I don't know. I have not got confirmation," he said. Delhi, like large parts of India, lets its guard down when the virus seemed to be under control, allowing big gatherings such as weddings and festivals as daily infections fell to fewer than 1,000 during the winter, health experts said. On Tuesday, the city of 20 million recorded 28,395 new cases and 277 deaths, its highest since the pandemic began. Every third person tested for coronavirus was found positive, the state government said, piling the pressure on health infrastructure. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India faced a coronavirus "storm" overwhelming its health system and the government was working with state governments and private companies to deliver oxygen with "speed and sensitivity". "The central and state governments, as well as the private sector, are together trying to ensure oxygen supplies to those in need. We are trying to increase oxygen production and supply across the country," Modi said in his address to the nation on Tuesday evening. 'Feel your pain' A source at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in New Delhi, a top private hospital, said staff had a “crazy night” as they ran short of oxygen but two tankers finally arrived after midnight. The hospital has 12 to 14 hours of oxygen left for 200 patients relying on it, the source added. “We were hand to mouth but hoping the supply levels will increase from today,” said the hospital source, who is not authorised to speak to media. Modi has faced accusations that his government did not prepare for the second wave and instead allowed gatherings such as the Kumbh Mela and political rallies that he himself addressed to go ahead. Thousands of people, very few wearing masks, packed into those meetings. "I feel your pain, those who have lost loved ones," he said in the Tuesday evening address. People pleaded on social media for help arranging beds, oxygen supplies, and the anti-viral drug Remdevisir in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. There were no beds for Covid-19 patients in about 80 of 142 hospitals in Delhi, according to government data. Saurabh Mittal, a New Delhi-based businessman, who was trying to help someone get treatment said he called a hospital that a government database showed had beds free but the operator said they were full and could not take anyone. "I told them there is online availability but they said the real-time data showed no beds,” Mittal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-nearly-breathless-as-india-struggles-with-covid-19-storm-976862.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||BSF demands FIR against Pakistani pigeon||The BSF has sought registration of an FIR against an intruder from Pakistan that happens to be a pigeon. The Punjab Police are seeking legal opinion on this. The pigeon perched itself on the shoulder of a Border Security Force jawan at the Rorawala post here last Saturday, apparently after flying across the border, an official said. A small piece of paper with a “contact number” was wrapped around its leg, the official said. The BSF personnel handed over the bird to the police with a demand in writing for taking legal action. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dahiya said the BSF demanded registration of an FIR against the pigeon. “As the pigeon is a bird, I don’t think an FIR can be registered against it. But we have referred the matter to our legal experts for their opinion,” he said on Wednesday. The number tagged on the pigeon’s leg is being analysed, he said. Pigeons have been “captured” earlier as well in border areas with security forces suspecting espionage attempts. Homing pigeons can be used to courier information and the tags can carry coded messages. Or the birds can be innocent, tagged with identification numbers by their keepers. For now, the pigeon is being kept at the Khangarh police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-demands-fir-against-pakistani-pigeon-976870.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers reject allegations they are blocking oxygen transport to Delhi||Farmers protesting at several Delhi borders Wednesday rejected as "false propaganda" allegations that they were not letting medical oxygen carriers into Delhi, thus putting lives of several Covid-19 patients at risk. BJP MP Parvesh Verma had Tuesday night alleged that transportation of medical use oxygen into Delhi was hampered due to the road blockade caused by protesters. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a representative body of several protesting farmer unions, said on Wednesday they have kept a way open for emergency services since day one of their agitation. "Not a single ambulance or essential goods service has been stopped. It is the government that has put strong and multilayer barricades (nails), not the farmers. Farmers are fighting for human rights and they support every human's rights," the morcha said. "A false propaganda is being spread against farmers that they have blocked the roads and not letting oxygen into Delhi. This is completely false news. Yes, we are protesting but not against Covid-19 patients, corona warriors or common citizens. We are against the government's discriminatory policy on agriculture," it added. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November last year, seeking a repeal of three farm laws enacted last September. Making the allegations, Verma had tweeted last night, "I spoke to hospitals. I was told that only few hours of oxygen supply is left and due to road blockade by protesters at Ghazipur border, the transportation of oxygen is getting difficult. The protesters must open the road," he had tweeted. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday urged the Centre "with folded hands" to provide medical oxygen to Delhi. His deputy Manish Sisodia had said there will be chaos in the city if the stocks are not replenished by Wednesday morning. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had also sent an SOS to Union minister Piyush Goyal at 10:20 pm, saying "oxygen at GTB Hospital may not last beyond 4 hrs". Some major government and private hospitals in Delhi received fresh stock of medical oxygen in the early hours of Wednesday, averting a crisis just in time, according to officials. A record 28,395 coronavirus cases and 277 deaths marked the aggravation of the pandemic situation in Delhi on Tuesday as the positivity rate shot up to 32.82 per cent -- meaning every third sample came out positive -- amid a "serious oxygen crisis" unfolding in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-reject-allegations-they-are-blocking-oxygen-transport-to-delhi-976890.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir reports record 2,204 Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths in single day||The Covid-19 pandemic continues to engulf Jammu and Kashmir with highest-ever 2,204 fresh cases and 13 deaths reported on Wednesday across the union territory (UT). On Tuesday, the UT had reported 2030 Covid positive cases which was the highest number in the UT since the pandemic erupted last year March. Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. Out of the fresh cases, 1,299 were from Kashmir and 905 from Jammu division of the UT, officials said. As many as 410 travelers were among the fresh cases in the UT. Srinagar district recorded the highest with 612 cases, including 65 travelers, followed by 461 in Jammu, 232 in Baramulla and 102 in Budgam districts. Only two out of 20 districts reported single-digit cases while 14 districts had double digit and remaining districts had three digit positive cases. The active case count has surged to 14,928 comprising over 9% of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 1,35,430. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September, when the UT had witnessed 37,372 cases and 478 deaths. The travelers and tourists who arrived in J&K during this month account for over 35 per cent of the total infections recorded in the region during this time, according to official data. 4,016 travelers and tourists tested positive for the viral infection in April which included 1658 who arrived in the capital city of Srinagar. Due to the huge surge in Covid-19 positive cases, J&K government on Tuesday extended night curfew to all 20 districts of the UT. Besides, public transport shall be permitted to ply only at 50% of its authorised seating capacity while only 50% shops within the municipal limits/urban local body limits shall be open on an alternate basis through a rotation system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-record-2204-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-in-single-day-976931.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal says Centre has raised Delhi's oxygen quota||With several private and city government hospitals here running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that the Centre has enhanced the national capital's oxygen quota. "Central govt has increased Delhi's quota of oxygen. We r very grateful to centre for this (sic)," Kejriwal tweeted. Central govt has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen. We r very grateful to centre for this. Hours before this announcement, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had alleged in a press briefing that an official of the Haryana government stopped oxygen supply to Delhi from a plant in Faridabad. Several hospitals in Delhi also alleged that the Haryana government was not allowing vendors to supply oxygen to them and there is only limited stock left as hundreds of coronavirus patients battled for their life in these healthcare facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-says-centre-has-raised-delhis-oxygen-quota-976953.html
21-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana government official stopped oxygen supply, says Manish Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged on Wednesday that an official of the Haryana government stopped oxygen supply to Delhi from a plant in Faridabad. Sisodia said the Centre decides the quota of oxygen for states and the AAP govt had been demanding that the Centre increase Delhi's quota of oxygen from 378 metric tonnes to 700 metric tonnes. The central government is yet to take a step in this direction, he said. "We again demand that the Centre increase our oxygen quota to 700 MT in view of the increased consumption. Patients from several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, are admitted in city hospitals," Sisodia said at a press conference. He claimed that an official of the Haryana government stopped oxygen supply from a plant in Faridabad. A similar incident took place in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. This led to a crisis in some hospitals, Sisodia said, adding the oxygen supply had been restored now. The Delhi government demands that states should get their allotted share of oxygen without others interfering into it, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-official-stopped-oxygen-supply-says-manish-sisodia-976955.html
21-04-2021||South||Tourist spots to be shut, night curfew extended by 1 hour in Andaman and Nicobar Islands amid Covid surge||Tourist spots and cinema halls will be shut for one month from April 22 and night curfew will be extended by one hour with immediate effect in Andaman and Nicobar Islands as the archipelago is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, a notification said on Wednesday. The restrictions were necessitated as a large number of cases are being detected among tourists coming from the mainland, some of whom have been found to be tampering with Covid-19 test reports, for which FIRs have been registered against them, it said. Members of the Great Andamanese tribe employed in the administration in Port Blair will be granted special leave to return to their hometowns after they test negative for Covid-19, the notification said. It said that the existing night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be revised to 9 pm to 5 am with immediate effect. Activities attracting large gatherings like light and sound shows at Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Island and Cellular Jail will remain suspended and beaches in all the three districts will remain out of bounds for visitors for four weeks from April 22. Authorities at supermarkets and shopping malls have been advised to regulate the entry of people and ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, it said. The notification urged the police to take strict action against those not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. The Union territory's Covid-19 tally rose to 5,466 on Wednesday as 45 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said. The archipelago now has 159 active cases, while 5,243 people have recovered from the disease and 64 patients have succumbed to the infection to date, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tourist-spots-to-be-shut-night-curfew-extended-by-1-hour-in-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-amid-covid-surge-976811.html
21-04-2021||South||Kerala priest suspended for collecting 'dakshina' using QR code||A temple priest in Kerala was suspended after he was found to be accepting money as 'dakshina' (offering) from devotees using a mobile wallet QR code. Sateesh Namboothiri, one of the chief priests of the sub-deities at the renowned Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple in Ernakulam district was placed under suspension pending enquiry. Temple sources said that a QR code board of the mobile wallet under Namboothiri's name and mobile phone was recovered from the 'prasadam' distribution counter of the temple.  An official of the temple said that as per the norms, temple priests were not supposed to conduct any pooja by directly accepting cash from devotees. The priests are only supposed to collect 'dakshina' offered by devotees while giving prasadams. It was suspected that Namboothiri used to accept money from devotees using the mobile wallet and conduct poojas for them. The temple authorities came across this only after some employees happened to notice the QR code board. It is not yet known for how long the priest has been doing this and how much amount has been collected from the devotees. The Chottanikkara temple, managed by the Cochin Devaswom Board, was recently in the news over unverified reports of a person, supposedly a businessman from Karnataka, offered Rs 526 crore for the temple's development works. The CDB has ordered a detailed inquiry by an assistant commissioner of the board into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-priest-suspended-for-collecting-dakshina-using-qr-code-976887.html
21-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to ramp up hospital beds as Covid-19 cases swell||As Covid-19 cases continue to increase rapidly, the Tamil Nadu government has swung into action to augment bed facilities for patients who test positive for the novel coronavirus in both government and private sectors. The Director of Medical and Rural Health Services has asked all private hospitals in the state to earmark 50 per cent of their beds for Covid-19 patients to handle the anticipated increase in the number of patients. In a separate move, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), which is at the forefront of the Covid-19 containment efforts in the state capital, has allowed private hospitals that possess infrastructure to open Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the city. The GCC is currently running 14 CCCs which are attached to five government hospitals that serve as Covid hospitals in the city. The GCC said the private hospitals can launch the CCCs either on their own or in collaboration with hotels that have facilities to lodge patients. Asymptomatic patients and those who do not need constant monitoring but are Covid positive are usually sent to Covid Care Centres. As cases continue to rise – the number of active cases was 84,361 on Wednesday evening with 11,681 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours – the government asked all private hospitals to earmark 50 per cent of their total beds to Covid-19 patients. “In view of present circumstances all the private hospitals are instructed to allocate at least 50 per cent of the total beds exclusively for Covid-19 patients duly following the norms as prescribed. It is further instructed to reduce the number of elective procedures and planned admissions,” a communication sent to private hospitals by the Director of Medical and Rural Health Services read. Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan told Deccan Herald that the government was constantly increasing the bed capacity across the state. “We are increasing the bed capacity in government hospitals across the state. Besides we have also launched several Covid Care Centres in the state to treat and monitor Covid-19 patients,” he said. Though many hospitals across the country have reported shortage of oxygen supply, Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said the state has enough supply of oxygen to be provided for patients. As against the daily supply of 400 tonnes of oxygen, the state's demand was 240 tonnes, he said. According to figures available, as many as 6,121 patients were on oxygen support in both government and private hospitals and Covid Health Centres in the state as on 8 pm on Tuesday. The data showed 28,548 beds being vacant across the state, while 1,921 patients are receiving treatment in Intensive Care Units (ICUs). Prabhdeep Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) said it would be impossible for the health system to cope if the trend of increasing cases fails to slow down. “We must escalate the restrictions. People should cooperate by wearing masks and avoiding all non-essential activities,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-ramp-up-hospital-beds-as-covid-19-cases-swell-976935.html
21-04-2021||South||Covid test positivity rate shoots up in many parts of Kerala; govt tightens norms||Kerala government is imposing fresh restrictions like five day week and 50 per cent attendance in government offices as Covid situation continues to be alarming with test positivity rate in many parts of districts like Kozhikode and Kochi even touching the 50 per cent mark. On Monday 22,414 more fresh cases were reported in Kerala, which is again the highest daily fresh cases reported so far. Test positivity rate of the state also further escalated to 18.41 per cent. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who just recovered from Covid-19, held a high-level meeting on Wednesday to review the prevailing situation and told reporters that the TPR at districts like Malappuram, Kannur, Kozhikode, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Kasargod continues to be high. Stringent containment measures were being taken in these districts on a war footing level. He also said that the death rate in the second wave was also found to be comparatively higher and hence there was need for more caution. While thousands of people are struggling to get the first and even second dose of vaccination, the state is witnessing a political spat between the ruling left-front in the state and the BJP at the centre over vaccine supply. The Chief Minister said that the states would not be able to afford the cost of vaccine owing to the financial crisis caused by Covid and hence centre should ensure free vaccine supply. Vaccine shortage was the major concern of the state now at it affected the states vaccination targets, he said. Meanwhile, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said that the state government had earlier assured free vaccine supply to all and hence should make efforts to procure vaccine. The Chief Minister clarified that the state did not intend a lockdown model situation. While 50 per cent attendance on a rotation basis is being implemented in government offices, private establishments should also initiate similar measures. He also directed local bodies to initiate grass root level measures like ensuring supply of medicines and other essential commodities at households of aged persons staying alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-test-positivity-rate-shoots-up-in-many-parts-of-kerala-govt-tightens-norms-976936.html
21-04-2021||South||TTD declares Tirumala Anjanadri as Hanuman's birthplace; rules out Hampi-Kishkinda||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has declared Anjanadri of the Tirumala hills as the birthplace of Lord Hanuman, a conclusion it says is based on literary, mythological, epigraphical, and scientific, geographical evidence. The provenance of Hanuman or Anjaneya, one of the most revered deities in Hindu religion, is of intense debate as several places especially south of the Vindhyas claim to be his cradle. Karnataka's Hampi – known as Kishkinda in legends and puranas, is one such prominent place. Renewing the discussion at a time when a grand temple of Lord Ram is being built on the Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya, the Tirupati temple board had in December constituted an expert committee to determine Anjanadri, one of the seven sacred hills of the Seshachalam range at Tirupati, as Hanuman's birthplace. In a presentation made on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami on Wednesday, Prof Muralidhara Sharma Viriventi, vice-chancellor of the National Sanskrit University, Tirupati and chairman of the committee ruled out Hampi as Anjaneya's birthplace. “While there is no doubt about Hampi being the Kishkinda of the Ramayana, it cannot be the origin of Hanuman. I am ready for any debate, without any prejudice, with anyone on this aspect,” Sharma told DH. Scholars of Kannada University also affirmed that there is no material evidence for Hampi, the committee, including a senior ISRO scientist, said. Quoting from the Skanda Puranam, Sharma said that Matanga maharshi had advised Anjana to do penance seeking a child at Venkatachalam, “about 10 yojanas south of Ahobilam.” Ahobilam is in present day Kurnool district, while Venkatachalam or Tirumala is in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. The location where Anjana gave birth to Anjaneya is pinpointed as Japali Theertham, near Aakasha-Ganga, where a Hanuman temple stands now. Anjaneri near Trimbakeshwar in Maharashtra, Anjan in Gumla district of Jharkhand, Anjan hill in Navsari of Gujarat and Kaithal in Haryana are some of the other places stated to be Anjaneya's birthplace. “Such claims are only based on local beliefs and without any evidence,” asserted TTD Executive Officer Dr Jawahar Reddy. “It is possible that Anjaneya could have moved from Tirumala to Hampi, 363 kms away. While Hampi is 1240 kms from Gumla, 1626 km from Kaithal, about 616 kms from Trimbakeshwar,” the committee said. The TTD committee stated their determination as based on ... Rock inscriptions at Lord Venkateshwara temple of 1491 and 1545 mentioning Anjanadri as Anjaneya birth place. Anjanadri Mahatyam, a book in the London Library “clearly explaining Anjanadri as the birthplace of Hanuman.” Valmiki Ramayana Sundarakanda episode, chapter 35, which “mentions that as Hanuman was born to Anjana on these sacred mountains after a penance, he attained the name Anjaneya while the hillock came to be known as Anjanadri.” Vyasa Mahabharata Vanaparva chapter 147, Valmiki Ramayana Kishkinda Kanda chapter 66, Shiva Puranam Shata Rudra Samhita chapter 20, Brahmanda Puranam Sri Venkatachala Mahatyam Thirtha Khandam chapter 1, Skanda Purana Vaishnava Khandam 1.38, Kamba Ramayanam-Kishkindha Kandam, Hamsa-Dootham, Epigraphia Indica Vol VI page 323 are some of the literary works sourced for the conclusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-declares-tirumala-anjanadri-as-hanumans-birthplace-rules-out-hampi-kishkinda-976937.html
21-04-2021||South||Vedanta offers to produce oxygen at its closed Sterlite plant in Tamil Nadu's Thoothukudi||Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper wants to restart production at its two oxygen plants in the now-closed copper smelter at Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu to bridge the gap between the demand and supply owing to the second wave of Covid-19 infection. Besides writing to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, the company has also moved the Supreme Court seeking its permission to produce oxygen at the smelter, which was closed in mid-March 2018. In the letter to the Union Health Minister, Sterlite Copper CEO Pankaj Kumar said the company's plant in Thoothukudi contains two oxygen plants with a combined capacity of producing 1,000 tons of oxygen daily. “We would like to now offer these facilities for your use, towards ensuring that there is no lack of the vital commodity in the nation, and also to join hands with the commendable efforts of our PM at this critical juncture,” Kumar wrote in the letter. He said Sterlite Copper's staff stand prepared to get these plants to operationalise in the shorter possible time and begin dispatching oxygen to the critical areas. Kumar's letter to Palaniswami was also identical, expressing the company's interest to pitch in to solve the crisis that has erupted due to shortage of oxygen. Sterlite Copper was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018 following months of protests by locals and activists which was overturned by the National Green Tribunal the same year. The state government approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the NGT order. The apex court stayed the order of the NGT and allowed Sterlite Copper to approach the Madras High Court, which upheld the government order. The case is now in the Supreme Court with Sterlite Copper challenging the Madras High Court verdict. The company's plea to access the plant for maintenance purpose has not been entertained by the court so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vedanta-offers-to-produce-oxygen-at-its-closed-sterlite-plant-in-tamil-nadus-thoothukudi-976947.html
21-04-2021||South||Two murders unravelled in Kerala; one with 'Drishyam' like plot||Kerala Police on Wednesday unravelled the mystery behind two heinous murders in the state. While a man missing over the last two years was found to be killed and buried by his brother with the connivance of their mother at Anchal in Kollam district, a 21-year-old woman missing at Valancherry in Malappuram district was suspected to be murdered and buried by a local with the intention of stealing gold ornaments weighing three sovereign. The first case of Shaji Petre, aged around 45, who was reported missing over the last two years was finally solved by the cops after his remains were discovered. His mother Ponnamma was among those arrested, apart from his brother, Sajin. Police suspect that the incident, which resembled popular Malayalam movie 'Drishyam', happened in 2018 and the family was maintaining that Shaji was missing. Shaji was said to be having a criminal background and was staying away from his family. A scuffle broke out between the brothers over some family matter, following which Shaji was killed and buried. The incident came out after Ponnamma revealed it to some of their relatives. The police exhumed the body remains from a premises near their house. At Malappuram district, the body of Subeera Farhath, who was missing since March 10, was recovered from a deserted land near her house on Tuesday. The body was identified on Wednesday and Anvar, a  native with criminal track record, was held by police. He was suspected to have killed the woman with the intention of stealing her ornaments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-murders-unravelled-in-kerala-one-with-drishyam-like-plot-976952.html
21-04-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan defends Covid-19 protocol violation allegations||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan maintained that it was due to family relationship that his wife travelled along with him when he had tested Covid-19 positive and he travelled with his wife when she was positive. He also denied allegations that he participated in election campaigning despite having symptoms. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, Vijayan said he did not have any symptoms during the campaign and on the polling day of April 6. However, he decided to undergo a test later as his daughter had tested positive. He added that his wife, who was negative, accompanied him and their grandson to the hospital after the two tested positive, owing to the family relationship. It may be recalled that Vijayan was accused of flouting social distancing norms. His critics mainly highlighted that Vijayan used to appeal to the people to strictly follow Covid-19 regulations and he himself had flouted the norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-defends-covid-19-protocol-violation-allegations-976954.html
21-04-2021||South||Telangana CM undergoes tests, docs say condition stable||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao, who recently tested positive for Covid-19, on Wednesday underwent medical tests at a corporate hospital here. The doctors who conducted the tests said his condition is stable and he will recover in a short time, an official release said. Rao is currently in homeisolation in his farmhouse at Erravalli, about 70 km from here. On the doctors advice, a CT scan and other general medical tests were done on Rao. The doctors said that his lungs are normal and there is no infection in them. Blood samples were collected and the results would be known on Thursday, the release said. The tests were done under the supervision of the Chief Ministers personal physician Dr M V Rao. Along with Rao, his son and state Minister K T Rama Rao, MP J Santosh Kumar and other family members were present. Rao had tested positive on April 19, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had said, adding he had mild symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-undergoes-tests-docs-say-condition-stable-976963.html
21-04-2021||South||Kerala will provide vaccine free of cost: CM Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the Left Democratic Front government would provide the vaccine against Covid-19 free for everyone in the state. This statement comes on a day the Serum Institute of India announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. "Vaccines will be provided free of cost for everyone in Kerala. We don't have the habit of changing our stance like others. We had announced free vaccines in the State," he said. The SII had, in a statement, said, "Fifty per cent of our capacities will be served to the Central government's vaccination drive and the remaining 50 per cent will be for the State governments and private hospitals." "The Centre has asked the State governments to purchase the vaccine from the vaccine-makers. The governments are already reeling under a financial crisis. This decision will create additional burden on State governments," he said. In a press meet held after he recovered from Covid-19, the Chief Minister said there was shortage of vaccine in the state and it has affected the goal of the government to administer 2.5 lakh doses per day. "Our aim was to provide a vaccine to 2.5 lakh people per day in the State so that 1,13,00,000 people abovethe age of 45 can be vaccinated by May 20. But, this has been affected due to shortage of vaccines. Now, we need to administer 3,70,000 vaccines per day to achieve that goal," Vijayan said. He asked the Centre to take steps to make available the necessary quantity of vaccines. The state, which had requested for 50 lakh doses of vaccine to implement its vaccination plan, had so far received only 5.5 lakh doses, he said. Because of this, the government was forced to stop on- the-spot registration thereby hampering efforts to deal with the rapid surge, he said and urged the Centre to allot thebalance doses at the earliest. Vijayan had on Tuesday written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the additional burden of purchasing the vaccines would strain the State's finances, hence the vaccines should be distributed free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-will-provide-vaccine-free-of-cost-cm-vijayan-976972.html
21-04-2021||State||JSW Steel to supply 400 tonnes oxygen: Murugesh Nirani||In some respite, billionaire Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Steel has decided to supply 400 tonnes of liquefied oxygen daily to the Karnataka government for treatment of Covid-19 patients. This was decided at a meeting between Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani and representatives from JSW Steel. According to a statement from Nirani’s office, JSW Steel deputy managing director Vinod Nowal agreed to supply 400 tonnes of liquefied oxygen per day. “Our company's commitment is towards Karnataka. We are equipped and ready to supply more tonnes of oxygen if demand arises,” Nowal was quoted as saying in the statement. The statement said Nirani convened a meeting with representatives of several companies that produce liquefied oxygen for steel production. Nirani urged the steel companies to “respond to the crisis, produce oxygen on a war footing and supply them to hospitals on priority”. Nirani also said the pandemic had thrown big challenges and devastated many families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jsw-steel-to-supply-400-tonnes-oxygen-murugesh-nirani-976713.html
21-04-2021||State||Karnataka bus strike called off a day after High Court observation||The Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League called off its two-week-long strike on Wednesday a day after the Karnataka High Court observed that the workers of the state road transport corporations (RTCs) had chosen the "worst time to go on a strike" citing the pandemic. The announcement came from farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar who has been leading the strike for the past 15 days. "The court has said that we should attend work. We respect the trust and the responsibility the court has placed on us. We will postpone the strike temporarily and resume work from Thursday. That doesn't mean our struggle ends," he said. Chandrashekhar said that the department is demanding an undertaking from the employees that they will not resort to strike again. "It is nothing but taking away their fundamental rights. We will bring all these issues before the court in our application to be filed on Thursday," he added. He demanded that the government roll back the punitive measures initiated against nearly 20,000 employees. "As many as 2,169 have been dismissed, 2,941 suspended, 7,666 given a show-cause notice and about 8,000 transferred. This is the government's policy of suppression and it has to stop," he urged. The strike had started petering out much before the formal announcement as thousands of employees reported to duty on Wednesday, allowing the KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC to run 12,879 buses by 6 pm. This is more than 50 per cent of the 21,000-odd buses that were operated daily before the strike. Though the corporations have over 24,000 buses, the services were slightly cut down during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bus-strike-called-off-a-day-after-high-court-observation-976904.html
21-04-2021||State||K-SET exams postponed again amid rise in Covid cases||University of Mysore (UoM), the nodal agency that conducts the Karnataka State Eligibility Test for Assistant Professorship, has postponed the examination for the second time. In a communication issued by K-SET convener H Rajashekar, the UoM has mentioned that the examination scheduled for has for April 25 has been cancelled due to the weekend lockdown and the next dates will be announced shortly on its website http://kset.uni-mysore.ac.in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/k-set-exams-postponed-again-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-976910.html
21-04-2021||State||Karnataka MLA, kin contract Covid-19||Karnataka Soaps & Detergents Limited Chairman and MLA Madal Virupakshappa tested positive for Covid-19, here on Wednesday. The MLA's son Mallikarjun had tested positive three days ago. Now, the MLA's wife and personal assistant have also tested positive. In total, eight persons have tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mla-kin-contract-covid-19-977002.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Oxygen companies to get prompt clearances in Karnataka||As the state reels under an acute shortage of oxygen, Commerce and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar instructed officials from various departments like transport, commercial tax, and energy to provide immediate clearances for uninhibited movement of oxygen tankers. Shettar also met oxygen distributors from across the state to address their challenges and difficulties in oxygen production and supply. “When oxygen is being transported, the RTO (regional transport office) or the district administration should pose no disruption to their movement. We have also held a virtual discussion with the National Highway Authority of India regarding logistics. It has come to our notice that tankers are stopped for collecting toll fee. The tankers will bear a sticker henceforth with a red cross indicating that it is for Covid medical emergency. They should be allowed in just like ambulances are,” said Shettar. Currently, the state’s existing 45 oxygen tankers only have a capacity of transporting 484 metric tonnes. Now, 33 nitrogen tankers and 16 argon tankers have got permission to carry oxygen in addition to this existing fleet.  The state has also written to the Union Cabinet secretary to increase its allocation from the 300 tonnes out of the 812 tonnes it produces daily.  Shettar said he had instructed officials to provide an immediate power supply for a new plant of Universal Gases. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a medical oxygen plant as a spin-off technology of the ‘On board oxygen generation system’ (OBOGS) of Light Combat Aircraft Tejas. “We also want the DRDO to set up oxygen plants here in Karnataka within five or six days. They have already started the process in Uttar Pradesh. We have discussed it with them to set it up here as well, as Bengaluru is facing a shortage of oxygen,” he said. Manjunath Prabhu, Senior Vice President, Jindal Steel Works, told DH, “On an average, we produce 340-350 tonnes of oxygen, on some days this exceeds 400 tonnes. Out of this, 120 tonnes is sent to other states. On days when we produce 300 tonnes, 75-80 tonnes is sent to other states. There is no directive disallowing supply to other states.” Subramani Govindaswamy, production manager at the Bengaluru-based Bhuruka Gases said that 80% of their production goes for medical purposes as per government requirements and only 20% goes to industries. There are seven liquid oxygen manufacturing plants: Bhuruka Gases (65 metric tonnes), Praxair, Koppal (65 metric tonnes), Praxair, Ballari (160 metric tonnes), Air Water India (92 metric tonnes), Bellary Oxygen (80 metric tonnes), Universal Air (50 metric tonnes), and JSW Industrial Gases (300 metric tonnes), and 56 distributors in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-oxygen-companies-to-get-prompt-clearances-in-karnataka-976706.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka weekend lockdown: What's allowed, what's not||In addition to extending the pre-existing night curfew in Karnataka (now 9 pm-6 am), the state government has added a weekend curfew to battle Covid-19. As the virus surges, forcing governments to take big steps, we urge our readers to exercise utmost caution and step out only if necessary. In a time like this, your health is the biggest asset. Meanwhile, across Karnataka, the new lockdown guidelines will come into effect from 9 pm, April 21 to 6 am, May 4, until further notice. Individuals are not allowed to venture out during curfew unless in case of emergencies/essential activities. Here's a look at what is allowed and what is not during the weekend lockdown: If I am a government employee and/or involved in essential services, can I go to work? Yes, employees of state/central government  and their autonomous bodies involved in essential Covid-19 services can move unrestricted. Those who are part of industries and organisations requiring operations 24x7 and those deployed in essential services will be allowed to move and would have to provide valid IDs issued by their employer. Who is permitted to step out during the weekend lockdown? Telecom/internet service provider employees are allowed movement upon providing valid ID. Essential staff of IT/ITeS companies can work from office, others have to work from home. Those eligible for vaccination can move upon showing minimal proof. Those travelling from and to the state can avail public transport or private vehicles to move but must carry relevant proof such as tickets. What if I have someone in critical care or need to visit the hospital? Patients and their helpers requiring essential travel are allowed to move. Those who need medical assistance can also step out. In case of any genuine emergencies, individuals can step out to visit a doctor or hospitals. However, if a visit can be pushed for later, it is advisable to do so. What if I have tickets booked during the weekend lockdown? Can I travel outside Karnataka? Yes, there is no prohibition on taking flights. Will grocery shops, milk supplies remain open during the weekend? Neighbourhood shops dealing with groceries will get a four-hour window on Saturdays and Sundays from 6 am to 10 am. Online delivery of essential items are permitted throughout the lockdown. Will Dunzo, Swiggy and Amazon be allowed to deliver? Yes, food deliveries have been permitted throughout the shutdown period. Restaurants will only be allowed takeaways. Will liquor shops/ bars/ restaurants be open? No, liquor shops, bars and restaurants will remain closed during the weekend lockdown. During the week, deliveries and takeaways will be allowed from these. Assembling, dining at these spaces is not permitted. What about cinema halls, malls, gyms and swimming pools? All cinema halls, shopping malls, gyms/yoga centres, spas, sports complexes, swimming pools amusement parks, stadia/playground, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will remain shut for the four days of the weekend lockdown Are wedding ceremonies and funerals allowed? These are allowed with a maximum capacity of 50 people for weddings and 20 at funerals and crematoriums, respectively. Those present must strictly follow Covid-19 norms. What about religious gatherings? Will temples, churches, mosques and other religious places be open? Gatherings of any kind are prohibited, including for religious purposes. Only personnel involved in the service of the place of worship can perform their duties, without visitors. Can construction activities be undertaken? Construction work will not be allowed during the weekend shutdown. Note of caution! The toll that the pandemic has taken on everyone is only mounting and to ease the pressure on healthcare infrastructure, families and those suffering, we must do our part and be careful. We urge you to take care of yourself and your loved ones and keep information in case of emergencies handy. Stay safe!||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-weekend-lockdown-whats-allowed-whats-not-976743.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government sets up war room to monitor supply of oxygen, Remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment||With complaints pouring in regarding shortage and black marketing of oxygen and Remdesivir, the Karnataka government on Wednesday announced setting up a 'War Room'. "In order to ensure timely & sufficient supply of Oxygen and #Remdesivir a 24x7 war room has been established with staff working round the clock in 3 shifts," state Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. Passing an order to this effect, the Drug Controller of Karnataka appointed 26 government employees and officers to manage the war room. The government also set up a new 6 Kilo Litre capacity Medical Oxygen plant at the Chamarajanagar District Hospital. Sharing the information on Twitter, Sudhakar said the oxygen plant will be operational very soon. A new 6 Kilo Litre capacity Medical Oxygen Plant has been installed at Chamarajanagara District Hospital and it will be operational very soon. There had been an acute shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen in the state ever since the surge in Covid-19 cases was noticed. To meet the oxygen shortage, the government asked private companies to establish oxygen plants and supply medical oxygen as well. The shortage of Remdesivir amid a surge in coronavirus cases has led to illegal storage and black marketing of the important drug. Recently a few people were arrested in Karnataka for allegedly selling the drug at exorbitant prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-sets-up-war-room-to-monitor-supply-of-oxygen-remdesivir-for-covid-19-treatment-976840.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka hikes compensation for livestock loss in man-animal conflict||In a bid to support distressed farmers who lose livestock during man-animal conflict along the forest areas, the Karnataka government on Wednesday revised the compensation for the same from the current ₹10,000 to ₹75,000.  The steep hike in compensation, however, is only meant for cattle and buffalo killed by wild animals. The compensation for other livestock like sheep and goat has only been marginally increased -- from the current ₹ 5,000 to ₹ 10,000. Ordering the revision, Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali pointed out that this has been a long pending demand from the farmers. “An official order has already been issued on Tuesday. If the livestock are killed by wild animals, the jurisdictional Deputy Conservators of Forest (DCFs) can release ₹ 20,000 immediately and they can release up to ₹ 75,000 subject to submission of a declaration by the local veterinary officer certifying the death,” Limbavali said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hikes-compensation-for-livestock-loss-in-man-animal-conflict-976845.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa directs ministers to take measures to contain Covid-19 in districts||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed all his Cabinet colleagues to turn their focus on the Covid-19 situation in districts where they are in charge.  Yediyurappa’s directive came in the form of a letter to each minister, a day after they received a dressing down from the Opposition during the all-party meeting chaired by the governor for being ‘inactive’ during the pandemic situation.  “You already know that the government is taking all necessary steps to tackle the second Covid-19 wave that is spreading all over the country. As part of containing the spread of the virus, it is necessary to take quick steps in every district,” Yediyurappa said in his letter, asking them to get to work.  The CM has directed all district in-charge ministers to remain in touch with deputy commissioners and create awareness among citizens on precautionary measures to control the virus’ spread. He also asked the ministers to ensure Covid-19 patients get necessary medical attention. By doing all this, the ministers should see to it that the situation in their districts does not deteriorate, the CM said.  Earlier in the day, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar continued his attack on the state government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “People are sick of ministers. That’s why they’re making the chief secretary speak. The government has completely failed,” he said. “Show me, which minister has gone where? There are some 30 ministers. Have they gone to districts, to hospitals, to patients? Have they seen the suffering?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-directs-ministers-to-take-measures-to-contain-covid-19-in-districts-976882.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reported biggest single day spike of 23,558 Covid-19 cases, 116 deaths||Karnataka has reported another biggest single day spike of 23,558 new Covid-19 cases and 116 related fatalities, taking the total caseload 12.22 lakh and the toll to 13,762, the health department said on Wednesday. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 13,640 of the total number of cases. The day also saw 6,412 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively 12,22,202 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, which includes 13,762 deaths and 10,32,233 discharges,the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 1,76,188 active cases, 1,75,284 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 904 are in Intensive Care Units. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 15.47 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.49 per cent. Among 116 deaths reported on Wednesday, 70 were from Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi (8), Mysuru (7), Bidar (5), Ballari (4), Hassan (3), followed by others. Behind Bengaluru in the number of new cases reported was Tumakuru 1,176, Mysuru 975, Ballari 792, Kalaburagi 757, Bengaluru Rural 544, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 5,83,675, followed by Mysuru 63,993 and Ballari 43,537. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 4,53,398, followed by Mysuru 58,248 and Ballari 39,888. A total of over 2,40,16,635 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,52,281 were on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reported-biggest-single-day-spike-of-23558-covid-19-cases-116-deaths-976928.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka permits cremation, burial of Covid-19 victims on land or farmhouses owned by their families||Owing to a steady rise in Covid-19 deaths, the Karnataka government on Wednesday allowed families to cremate and bury bodies of Covid-19 victims in their own land or farm house. This has been approved to decentralise the process and allow the family members to say goodbye to their loved ones without having to queue up at crematoria and burial grounds, according to an order issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad. The government's decision comes in the wake of several complaints and concerns about lack of space or long queues at burial grounds and crematoria.  However, families will have to adhere to all other Covid -19 protocols including sanitisation, ensuring that those placing the bodies in the grave wear PPE kits, gloves and other protective gear. No rituals that involve touching of the body will be allowed, as per the guidelines. Bathing and hugging the deceased should be avoided, according to the existing Covid-19 protocols. Meanwhile, 116 people died of Covid-19 in Karnataka on Wednesday. Overall, the state has recorded 13,762 deaths during the pandemic. 'Tougher measures in store' Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday said the government is thinking of making Covid-19 guidelines more stringent to break the chain of the virus’ spread. “If people cooperate, we will stop here. Otherwise, we will have to take tougher measures,” Ashoka told reporters.  The minister also assured “merciless” action against ambulances fleecing citizens during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Immediately, we will take action. Charging more money during the pandemic is a criminal offence. Those who are asked for more money should file a police complaint and we will make arrests immediately,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-permits-cremation-burial-of-covid-19-victims-on-land-or-farmhouses-owned-by-their-families-976938.html
21-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Give RT-PCR test results in 24 hours: Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government on Wednesday directed labs and testing agencies in the state to give the RT-PCR test results within 24-hours after collecting samples. It also instructed that the test results be updated on the ICMR portal. Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Jawaid Akhtar, in an order, pointed to the Karnataka High Court's direction to the government in this regard in the wake of the rampant spread of the second wave of coronavirus in the state. "Along with giving the RT-PCR test results within 24 hours, the information should also be updated on the ICMR portal," he said. The High Court had on Saturday directed the state government to issue necessary instructions to the authorities and laboratories to give results at the earliest and not later than 24 hours. There have been rising complaints about delay in getting the test results, in some cases upto three to four days, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/give-rt-pcr-test-results-in-24-hours-karnataka-govt-976959.html
21-04-2021||West||Maharashtra to unveil non-conventional energy policy soon||The Maharashtra government is contemplating floating its own Non-Conventional Energy Policy soon. The state will make an investment of Rs 1 lakh crore by 2025 and it intends to generate non-conventional energy such as solar, wind, hydroelectric, waste-to-energy, and new technology-based among others, to the tune of 17,385 mega-watts.  “We are encouraging the use of alternative clean fuels like hydrogen cell fuel while our commitment is to have a minimum of 25% of our overall energy needs to be met through solar energy by 2025. Innovative methods like solarising highways, barren farmlands and floating solar panels on our dams are a part of that effort,” state Environment, Tourism and Protocol Minister Aditya Thackeray said. As a part of the energy transition, Maharashtra has an Electric Vehicles (EV) Policy, approved in early 2018, which will come into effect soon. It aims at increasing the registered number of EVs to five lakh through the 5-year policy duration while creating over one lakh jobs with an investment of Rs 25.5 crore through manufacturing. “This policy will be implemented in six cities including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nagpur,” said Thackeray at Climate Voices, a collaborative initiative aimed at engaging people in Maharashtra on climate change and amplifying solutions. The government is working alongside the Netherlands to cooperate on an integrated approach towards a sustainable circular economy in the water-plastics-reuse sector. A climate action curriculum has been developed for young minds in Maharashtra under the state’s Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyaan (My Earth Campaign). In 2020, Maharashtra had to pay out almost Rs 13,000 crores as compensation for weather events related to climate change. “The livelihood of communities, from coastal areas to hills to farmlands, is dependent on each of these ecosystems, which will be altered by effects of climate change. This might lead to distress and social instability,” said Thackeray. Among scaling climate efforts internationally, Maharashtra has also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the C40 Climate Leadership Group. Under this, a draft climate action plan will be prepared for Mumbai by August 2021. “This is a first for any C40 city in the Indian subcontinent,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-unveil-non-conventional-energy-policy-soon-976712.html
21-04-2021||West||Body dies, soul doesn’t, writes doctor hours before she dies of Covid-19||Body dies, soul doesn’t, wrote Mumbai-based doctor Manisha Jadhav on Facebook, hours before she passed away due to the deadly Covid-19 infection. “May be last Good Morning. I may not meet you here on this platform. Take care all. Body die. Soul doesn’t. Soul is immortal,” wrote Dr Jadhav, a specialist in tuberculosis treatment, who was attached to the Sewri TB Hospital. May be last Good Morning. I may not meet you here on this plateform. Take care all. Body die. Soul doesnt. Soul is immortal 🙏🙏🙏🙏 She passed away at the Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivali on Tuesday. She leaves behind her husband Dr Navnath Jadhav, a pathologist, and her son. She had been working at the Sewri TB Hospital for two decades, handling clinical and administrative duties. She last reported to the hospital on 12 April and was hospitalized after that. A couple of days ago, the Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State had highlighted the plight of doctors. “We are with the government. Our members are already working in the private sector and we have given services in the public sector as well. We can still offer help in the form of telemedicine, e-ICU and vaccination. And in this struggle 17,975 doctors have contracted the infection and unfortunately 168 have succumbed to Covid-19 in our state. But the government has not given the insurance cover to all. So the government must come clear on the insurance cover to all those working in Covid hospitals,” IMA-Maharashtra President Dr Ramkrishna Londe, President-elect Dr Suhas Pingle, Honorary State Secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar, Joint Secretary Mangesh Pate, and Chairman of Action Committee Dr Rajendra Kulkarni said in a joint statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/body-dies-soul-doesn-t-writes-doctor-hours-before-she-dies-of-covid-19-976746.html
21-04-2021||West||Pune poultry farmer does not chicken away from approaching cops after hen stops laying eggs||A poultry farmer from Pune has approached the police claiming that hens at his farm have stopped laying eggs after consuming the feed manufactured by a particular firm, an official said on Wednesday. No FIR is registered as the concerned manufacturer has agreed to pay the compensation to owners of three to four poultry farms who also faced this issue. "The complainant is a poultry farm owner. He and at least four other poultry farm owners in his area also faced the same issue, following which he submitted a complaint to us," said Rajendra Mokashi, senior police inspector, Loni Kalbhor police station. The complainant stated he had purchased the poultry feed from a company based in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district of the state. "He mentioned in the application that after consuming that feed, hens at his farm have stopped laying eggs," Mokashi said. He said the police consulted the block level animal husbandry officer in Ahmednagar over this issue. "The official told us that it is a common phenomenon that sometimes a particular feed does not suit hens and they stop laying eggs after consuming it," said Mokashi. Citing the official, Mokashi said such instances of hens not laying eggs after they were given a new feed had occurred in the past. Once hens are fed the old feed they started laying eggs again, he said. "We also spoke to the concerned poultry farm manufacturer who told us to have received similar complaints about the feed from some other customers as well. The manufacturer assured us they would take back the feed and offer the compensation to the affected farmers for their losses," Mokashi said. The police officer said the complainants used to buy poultry feed from a reputed manufacturer based in Pune, but chose the Ahmednagar-based company as the former increased rates. Demand for eggs and poultry is on the rise because of the surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-poultry-farmer-does-not-chicken-away-from-approaching-cops-after-hen-stops-laying-eggs-976802.html
21-04-2021||West||Postoperative procedure performed on Sharad Pawar: Malik||A postoperative procedure has been performed on NCP chief Sharad Pawar at a private hospital here, the party spokesperson Nawab Malik said on Wednesday. "Sharad Pawar underwent a follow-up procedure at the Breach Candy hospital on Tuesday late night days after his gall bladder removal surgery which was conducted on April 12. He was admitted to the hospital (for the follow-up procedure) on Tuesday evening," Malik said. Malik said Pawar, 80, is recuperating. Pawar had undergone laparoscopic surgery (a minimally invasive procedure) on his gall bladder at the hospital on April 12. He was discharged on April 15. Earlier, the NCP president had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of a stone from his bile duct at the hospital on March 30. Pawar's party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/postoperative-procedure-performed-on-sharad-pawar-malik-976810.html
21-04-2021||West||22 patients die in Nashik hospital after oxygen tank leak||In a horrific incident, 22 patients at Nashik's Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital died due to low oxygen supply following leakage in a tank. The hospital is run by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). In the hospital, over 150 patients were undergoing treatment in oxygen and ventilator beds. A pall of gloom descended at the hospital as massive police deployment has been made in and around the hospital. Nashik’s Divisional Commissioner Radhakrishna Game, District Collector Suraj Mandhare, Municipal Commissioner Kailas Jadhav and Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey were at the spot. “The information that we have received is that 22 persons have died,” said Mandhare. Game said that the leak was noticed when the oxygen plant was being refilled. “If it was not noticed the situation would have been different,” he said. “It is a serious incident… The information that we received is that the pressure dropped because of leakage,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. “We have got a preliminary report…the incident was because of a leakage in the supply to the wards from the oxygen tank. There would be a thorough probe and responsibilities will be fixed,” he said. “The (NMC) Commissioner and the administration are solely responsible,” said Leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar. Agitated relatives said that patients were restless and died gasping for breath. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is the Guardian Minister of Nashik district, reached the hospital. “What has happened is serious, let us ensure that such things do not get repeated in future,” Leader of Opposition and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said. “If we need to shift patients at this stage, it must be done,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/22-patients-die-in-nashik-hospital-after-oxygen-tank-leak-976837.html
21-04-2021||West||Never allowed BJP to buy or give away Remdesivir: Maharashtra minister||Amid a political slugfest over Remdesivir, Maharashtra FDA Minister Rajendra Shingne has denied claims of the BJP that he had allowed the saffron party or any individual to purchase or distribute the injections, which are in high demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Shingne alleged the BJP was spreading wrong information even as he acknowledged that some leaders of the saffron party had approached him earlier on Remdesivir. "No organisation or political party has the permission to purchase or distribute Remdesivir in the name of helping Covid-19 patients. The party (BJP) is spreading unnecessarily wrong information in various forms of media," the Foods and Drug Administration (FDA) minister told reporters on Tuesday night. Mumbai police had last Saturday questioned Rajesh Dokania, director of Daman-based Bruck pharma, over the alleged excess stock of the Remdesivir drug. However, the questioning took a political turn when senior BJP leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, rushed to the police station and questioned the police's move to grill Dokania. Fadnavis had admitted that BJP leaders had contacted Bruck Pharma to supply the stock to Maharashtra as the state is facing a shortage of Remdesivir vials. "We even informed the state FDA minister (Shingne) about it and approached the Union government seeking necessary permissions. Some Maharashtra BJP leaders went to Daman recently to meet Bruck Pharma officials, requesting them to sell their exportable stock in Maharashtra," he had said. Against this backdrop, Shingne said, "It is true that BJP leaders had approached me but I had not given any permission to the party or any individual to purchase or distribute Remdesivir injections". The NCP, which is one of the constituents in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government, had on Sunday accused the BJP of trying to ensure that Maharashtra does not get Remdesivir stock, and wondered why state BJP leaders got scared when Mumbai police questioned Dokania.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/never-allowed-bjp-to-buy-or-give-away-remdesivir-maharashtra-minister-976839.html
21-04-2021||West||In Maharashtra, Indrani Mukerjea, 39 other jail inmates test positive for Covid-19||Sheena Bora murder case accused Indrani Mukerjea and 39 other inmates of the Byculla prison have tested positive for coronavirus and shifted to a quarantine centre, an official said on Wednesday. These 40 inmates were found positive for coronavirus after they were subjected to Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), he said. "Most of the 40 inmates are asymptomatic. They were shifted to the isolation centre of the prison at Patankar School in Byculla in Central Mumbai as a precautionary measure," he said. The RAT was performed on Sunday as one of the women prisoners was found infected and shifted to the Covid-19 centre at St George Hospital in South Mumbai, the official said. Subsequently, RAT was conducted on 350 women prisoners, 225 men inmates and 60 staff of the jail, out of whom 40 women tested positive for coronavirus. Mukerjea has been lodged at the Byculla prison since her arrest in the murder case in August 2015. The prosecution's case is that Mukerjea, along with her former husbands Sanjeev Khanna and Peter Mukerjea, had killed Sheena Bora, who was born of her previous relationship, in the year 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtra-indrani-mukerjea-39-other-jail-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19-976867.html
21-04-2021||West||Gujarat private hospitals, clinics can treat Covid-19 patients sans prior permission till June 15||The Gujarat government has permitted all private hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and dispensaries to treat coronavirus patients till June 15, an official said on Wednesday. The decision was taken during a core-committee meeting chaired by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday night in light of the surge in coronavirus cases in the state. "Looking at the growing number of novel coronavirus cases, the Gujarat government has decided to permit doctors in private hospitals, clinics, dispensaries and nursing homes to treat Covid-19 patients till June 15," an official release stated. According to the release, nursing homes and dispensaries don't have to seek any permission from the government, but will have to inform district collectors or municipal commissioners in their respective areas. The state government has also decided to appoint new specialist doctors for three months with a monthly honorarium of Rs 2.50 lakh, Rs 1.25 lakh for medical officers, Rs 40,000 for dentists, Rs 35,000 for Ayush and homeopathic doctors, it was stated. The chief minister has appealed to doctors and paramedics of all cadres to join the state government's efforts, while advertisements have been issued for hiring more staff for government hospitals, the release said. Meanwhile, the chief minister said the state government has also decided to increase the monthly salary of outsourcing staff nurses in Class-III category for three months to Rs 20,000. The number of beds in all hospitals of Gujarat, which was about 41,000 till March 15, has been increased to 78,000 till April 20, he said, adding that the numbers are still insufficient considering the rise in infections. Rupani said that an appeal has been made to the Centre to allow coronavirus patients to be treated at Army hospitals in Ahmedabad, Kutch, Jamnagar and Vadodara. A meeting with officers of the state government and Armed Forces will be held on Wednesday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-private-hospitals-clinics-can-treat-covid-19-patients-sans-prior-permission-till-june-15-976876.html
21-04-2021||West||Goa: Ex-minister Somnath Juwarkar dies of Covid-19||Former Goa minister Somnath Juwarkar has succumbed to the Covid-19 infection, his family sources said on Wednesday. He was 74. "Juwarkar was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here after testing positive for coronavirus. He died last (Tuesday) night," the sources said. He had represented Taleigao Assembly constituency near Panaji from 1989 till 2002 on a Congress ticket. Juwarkar had served as the minister for Civil Supplies, Cooperation and Transport in the governments led by Pratapsingh Rane and Fransico Sardina. "Deeply saddened by the passing away of former Cabinet minister of Goa Shri Somnath Juwarkar. My deepest condolences to the family in this hour of grief. May God gives them strength to bear this great loss," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-ex-minister-somnath-juwarkar-dies-of-covid-19-976892.html
21-04-2021||West||Covid-19 projection in Mumbai-Pune-Nashik region paints a grim picture||The Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra’s highly industrial belt of Mumbai-Pune-Nashik is going to be deteriorating further with addition of more than 2 lakh active patients in nearly 10 days time, according to official projections. The area comprises the Mumbai Metropolitan Region including twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban, large parts neighbouring Thane, Palghar, Raigad districts and Pune and Nashik – of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra. The MMR-Pune-Nashik is often referred to as the 'Golden Triangle' of Maharashtra, and comprises 16 of the 48 Lok Sabha and 100 of the 288 Vidhan Sabha seats. The current situation and projects were discussed at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday. The total active patients in Maharashtra stood at 6,76,998 as on Tuesday evening. “The total active patients in these seven districts as on 20 April was 3,51,763, while on 2 May, it is expected that it would touch 5,58,199,” according to the projections of the Public Health Department. Thus, it means that the numbers would increase by 2,06,436. A cross-section of doctors and epidemiologists that DH spoke to, felt that the situation is grim. “It is a difficult situation. In Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, people are now not getting beds, oxygen and medicine…10 days down the line, the situation would be extremely difficult,” a senior infectious diseases expert said. According to the projections, the active patients now and on 2 May and in Mumbai would be (82,671) 1,46,065; Thane (80,440) 1,22,476; Palghar (13,573) 17,654; Raigad (13,279) 18,446; Pune (1,17,521) 1,85,192, and Nashik (44,279) 68,336.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-projection-in-mumbai-pune-nashik-region-paints-a-grim-picture-976902.html
21-04-2021||West||Thorough probe will be conducted into Nashik oxygen leak incident, says Rajesh Tope||A through probe will be conducted to find out if negligence led to the leakage of oxygen at a municipal hospital in Nashik which caused the death of 22 Covid-19 patients, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. The incident took place at Zakir Hussain municipal hospital in the north Maharashtra city earlier in the day. The deceased included 11 men and 11 women, all of whom were on ventilator, Tope told reporters here. As per the local officials, the patients died as the oxygen supply was disrupted due to a leakage in the oxygen storage plant. "It is a very tragic incident. It is a Covid-19 hospital run by the Nashik Municipal Corporation where 157 patients were admitted of which 67 were on ventilator," Tope said. "It is yet to be ascertained if the leakage from the oxygen tank was caused by negligence or it was the issue of workmanship. The incident will be probed thoroughly," the minister said. The kin of the deceased will get financial assistance from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, he added. The state government will also seek opinions from experts to prevent such incidents in future, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thorough-probe-will-be-conducted-into-nashik-oxygen-leak-incident-says-rajesh-tope-976924.html
21-04-2021||West||Covid-19 patient attacks nurse with knife in Mumbai||A case has been registered against a 45-year-old coronavirus patient for allegedly assaulting a nurse with a knife at a COVID Care Centre in south Mumbai, police said on Wednesday. The incident occurred at the facility located in Malabar Hill area on April 16, an official said. "The patient, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital, complained about not getting proper treatment at the centre before assaulting the nurse with a knife," he said. The nurse sustained injuries in the incident, he said. The man was booked under several IPC sections, including 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and also under the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA), he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-attacks-nurse-with-knife-in-mumbai-976932.html
21-04-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally crosses 40-lakh mark||More than 13 months after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra, the progressive total in the worst-affected state crossed the 40-lakh mark on Wednesday. In the past 24 hours, 67,468 fresh cases and 568 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 40,27,827 and 61,911 respectively. The death toll of 568 is the highest in a day so far. The first coronavirus case was detected in Pune on March 9, 2020, and in 13 months, it has crossed the 40-lakh mark — the highest in India. As many as 54,985 patients were discharged during the day, taking the total to 32,68,449, who have been treated so far. Currently, 39,15,292 people are in home quarantine and 28,384 in institutional quarantine. The active cases in the state stand at 6,95,747. In Mumbai, 7,654 cases and 62 deaths were reported, while in the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it was 16,491 and 150 respectively. The 150 deaths in 24 hours in Mumbai-MMR is the highest in a day in 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-tally-crosses-40-lakh-mark-976940.html
