22-04-2021||First Edit||Covid-19 vaccination: Good strategy, address issues||The government has done well to liberalise its vaccine strategy by announcing that all citizens above the age of 18 will be eligible for the jab from May 1. The fast spreading second wave of the pandemic and pressure from the public and many experts may have persuaded the government to further expand recipient eligibility. It had only recently unwisely announced that the vaccine would only be available to those who need it and not to those who want it. Most people have become needy in just a few days. From next month, vaccine manufacturers will also be free to supply 50% of the doses to states and in the open market. The government has approved a payment of Rs 4,500 crore to two domestic vaccine manufacturers to help them to step up their production capacity. It also proposes to waive 10% customs duty levied on imported vaccines.  While the decisions are welcome, major problems are likely to arise in the implementation of the new regime. It will be a big challenge to ramp up the vaccine supplies by May 1 or even in the next few weeks to meet the increased demand. About 130 million doses are needed a month to inoculate the frontline workers and the 45 plus age group in the next three months. The domestic production capacity is only 80 million doses. Much more supplies will be needed with the addition of the 18-45 age group as beneficiaries. The gap will have to be covered by foreign vaccines. The Russian Sputnik-V vaccine has been given the green signal but it is not known how much of it will be produced. Even if regulatory norms are eased for Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, these companies may not be able to make any large supplies because of existing commitments.  There will also be pricing and procedural issues. Those in the 18-45 age group will have to pay for the vaccines. Since they will be priced much higher than now, many people will not be able to afford them, unless the state governments subsidise them. Most states may not be in a position to do so. It is also not clear how much each state can get or procure from the manufacturers and whether they should negotiate with the producers for the supplies. The norms for allocation of vaccines by the Centre to the states are also not known. The logistics of suddenly expanding vaccination coverage to about 95 crore of people may be forbidding, with serious infrastructural and other difficulties. But the plan for expanded vaccine coverage should be pushed through in earnest, and the problems of implementation should be addressed as they crop up. Maximum coverage should remain the motto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-vaccination-good-strategy-address-issues-977027.html
22-04-2021||In Perspective||Old mess and a new 'waste' body  ||Bengaluru will soon have another infrastructure agency to ‘manage’ the city. Welcome the Bengaluru Solid Waste Management Limited (BSWML). Just approved by the state Cabinet, the BSWML will be responsible for the collection, transportation and processing of waste from households and commercial establishments in the city. Additionally, the new entity will also be responsible for managing the waste processing plants and the newer waste-to-energy (WtE) proposals under consideration. Why has this happened? Because the BBMP, which has by all accounts made a remarkable mess of waste management in the city (no pun intended), will no longer be in charge of solid waste management. Reports, however, suggest that the Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development Department will be the chairman and BBMP Commissioner the co-chairman of the new company. So, will the BSWML become another parastatal agency with no locally elected representatives for consultations and not accountable to the citizenry of Bengaluru? Also, since it is the BBMP’s obligatory functions as a corporation to clean public roads and places, clear sewage and garbage and disposal, construct and maintain drains, construct and maintain roads and bridges, pavements and streetlights, solid waste management, tree planting etc, what will the overlap in roles with the BSWML be and will confusion ensue? In the last decade or so, front page headlines in Bengaluru have always involved an issue with the BBMP or BDA or BMRCL or BESCOM or one of the other many parastatal agencies in this city (Pothole-ridden roads need immediate attention; HC orders BBMP to give details of garbage work orders; Solid waste management: Mining landfills may be eco-friendly, but BBMP struggles to kick-start it). The problem is that the issues are usually the same but in different locations in the city and they repeat themselves ad nauseum every few weeks. Between the increasingly aware and vocal citizenry, non-government civic agencies and the media focus on infrastructure lacunae in the city, one would imagine that lessons would have been learnt; that structural change would be on the anvil and not just superficial panacea to problems. Bengaluru is one of the few cities that truly has the capacity and temperament for substantive change. Like in the rest of India, state bureaucrats control civic agencies in Bengaluru. This results in the constant erosion of the functional domain of these bodies, contrary to the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act, which delegates decision-making powers to local governments and mandates the involvement of residents, with an aim to bridge the gap between the government and the people. Voice of the people Similar to other municipal corporations across the country, the BBMP is being pushed towards change by non-government and civic agencies across the city and now, to an extent, by the courts. The voices of the people in the city to make them part of the political decision-making process are getting louder and more strident. While no one is really in-charge of the city or accountable to the citizens for delivery of services, the municipal government is being pushed into a corner almost every week. Opaque non-participatory decisions are being revoked almost monthly by civic protests or court rulings (see revocation of Turahalli tree park order, saving of 872 trees along the Nagawara-Gottigere metro alignment etc) and the decisions of the municipal government are under constant scrutiny. So, will the decision to set up the BSWML be yet another step that will be scrapped in the long run? More significantly, the question is, why is the government wasting its time, energy and effort by constantly churning out unrealistic ideas like this instead of actually engaging in true reform that is urgently needed and making this city a harbinger of the tenets of the 74th amendment.  To enable ‘local self-government’ and participatory processes, it is necessary to reform the colonial era’s Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, and the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964. By doing so, the mayor’s powers will not be overseen by a commissioner appointed by the state government and s/he will be more than a ceremonial position. Additionally, reforms to remove state approvals above small amounts should be made. The state should facilitate better governance by redefining the jurisdictions and roles of all parastatal agencies in the city so that they act in concert rather than at odds with each other (no more roads being dug up for new sewage lines by BBMP only to be dug up by BESCOM for electric cables, a month later); transfer public transport (bus and metro services) under local government. Municipal governments across the country lack mechanisms to provide sufficient housing, healthcare, sanitation etc, due to a paucity of funds. The state government should be fighting the Centre for a more equitable share of revenues for the state and city. Till we decentralise municipal governance and make it reflective of democratic and participatory tenets, agencies like the Bengaluru Solid Waste Management Limited are only going to produce more chaos and avenues to blame for the literal mess that Bengaluru is in.  (The writer is an urban planner in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/old-mess-and-a-new-waste-body-977029.html
22-04-2021||In Perspective||Climate change puts morning cup of coffee under threat||Climate change could make about 50-88% of coffee-producing areas unsuitable and lead to an increase in pests and diseases, affecting its production and quality. There is an urgent need for research to save the bean from extinction. Who on earth would like to miss a morning cup of hot steaming coffee?  Coffee is becoming more popular, especially among the young around the world. Around 2.5 billion cups of coffee are consumed every day. The demand for coffee is projected to double by 2050. But the question is: Can coffee supply be sustained? Coffee is produced in around 70 countries but the dominant among them are Brazil, Vietnam, Columbia, Indonesia, Ethiopia, Honduras and India. Coffee is also the second-most traded commodity after petroleum oil, employing over 125 million people around the world. Most of the coffee grown is made up of two types: Coffea arabica and Coffea robusta, with the former making up 70% of all coffee grown globally. In India, robusta dominates in terms of production. Karnataka is the dominant state producing coffee in India, accounting for nearly 70% of the total production, followed by Kerala. Together, they account for about 90% of the production. In India, the area under coffee cultivation is 4,16,741 hectares (ha). There are 3,79,697 coffee holdings, out of which most are smallholdings of less than 10 ha in size. Weather and long-term climate patterns are very critical for growing coffee. Temperature and rainfall conditions are the main drivers determining the yield, production and quality. Altitude is another key factor. Robusta is slightly hardier, as it evolved in lowland equatorial Africa, but grows well in areas with abundant rainfall, which should be well distributed. The optimum temperature range for robusta is 24 to 30°C, but it is less tolerant to very high or very low temperatures. Currently, the annual and seasonal temperature and rainfall variability lead to fluctuations in yield in almost all coffee-growing countries, affecting supply and price. Climate change is projected to impact all crops, including plantation crops. Changing climate and associated pest and diseases could adversely impact coffee-growing areas. Higher temperatures will not only favour the proliferation of certain pests and diseases but also kill large swaths of insects that pollinate coffee plants. As temperature rises, coffee ripens more quickly, leading to a fall in quality. Rising temperature is expected to make some areas less suitable or completely unsuitable for coffee cultivation. A recent review of studies in 2020 concluded that all studies based on modelling predict that areas suitable for coffee cultivation could decline by about 50% under moderate climate change projection scenarios by 2050 for both arabica and robusta. Another study published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences concludes that the area unsuitable for coffee cultivation could be as high as 88% in Latin America, the dominant producer, by 2050. About half of the land around the world currently used to produce high-quality coffee could be unproductive by 2050, according to a recent study in the journal Climatic Change. Thus, multiple studies show that climate change will have an extremely negative effect on future coffee production worldwide in terms of suitable cultivation areas, pest and diseases. Howard Schultz, who was the chairman of Starbucks — the largest global coffee chain — till 2017, is quoted to have said, "Climate change is going to play a bigger role in affecting the quality and integrity of the coffee." Coffee is a globally traded product and any impact on it in one part of the world will impact the rest, including India. International prices will determine the investment, income and survival of Indian coffee growers. If there is surplus production in Brazil and Columbia, prices in the international market will collapse. This will lead to a decline in market prices for Indian coffee, due to which farmers will experience heavy losses. Research in India There is limited research on the impact of climate change on coffee production in India. There are two ways the impact can be assessed: first, by long-term monitoring of changing climate and response of coffee production, which may take decades. Modelling is another option to project the impact of climate change. There is limited modelling efforts globally and in India, in particular. With the current knowledge, one can conclude that climate change will have serious implications for coffee production and quality. We may have to brace for the disrupted supply of coffee and loss of aroma. According to climate change models, an increase of 20% to 25% in monsoon rainfall is projected for the Western Ghats districts of Karnataka and Kerala, along with the increased occurrence of high-intensity rainfall events. Further, increased warming of around 2 degrees Celsius is projected by the mid-2030s for these districts.  India has a Central Coffee Research Institute under the Coffee Board. Research on developing climate-resilient coffee varieties and cultivation practices would require several years or decades. Further, there is a need for extension service to train farmers in new practices, especially since a majority are smallholdings. In the meantime, coffee growers may need increased protection, price and insurance support from the Government of India and Karnataka. In response to the risk of climate change on coffee, a global alliance of companies has been formed ('Coffee and Climate') with an objective to develop and implement coping strategies and to support smallholders to adapt to climate change, and ultimately to increase the resilience of entire coffee landscapes. Even Starbucks is conducting dedicated research and training of coffee growers in adaptation to climate change. Hope the Coffee Board also takes serious note of the threat of climate change and implement strategies to develop resilient varieties and practices, not only to help coffee growers sustain production, but also to ensure that hundreds of millions of coffee lovers continue to enjoy their morning cup. (The writer is a retired professor, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/climate-change-puts-morning-cup-of-coffee-under-threat-977030.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Sudden suspension of Sarpa Samskara seva at Kukke Subrahmanya temple irks devotees||Chaos prevailed for some time at Kukke Subrahmanya temple in Dakshina Kannada district after temple authorities suspended sarpa samskara sevas as per government’s Covid-19 guidelines on Wednesday. Unaware of the guidelines of the government, devotees from far off places had descended on the temple to take part in the seva on Wednesday. The devotees were seen taking temple authorities to task for cancelling sevas without any prior notice. One devotee said, “We had booked the seva two to three months in advance. As per the booking, we had arrived in the temple town to take part in the seva. Now, the seva has been cancelled.” Temple management committee clarified, “We are adhering to the guidelines of the state government. Sarpa Samskara seva is a two-day event. As no sevas can be performed from April 22, we have cancelled all sevas from Wednesday." Sarpa Samskara is the most sought after seva at the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple. Kukke Subrahmanya Temple Executive Officer Ningaiah said that darshana of the deity, sevas/distribution of theertha prasadam, food, allocation of rooms in  lodgings and guest houses remained suspended until further order from Wednesday night. All pre booked sevas will remain suspended and priority will be given for those who had booked when the government relaxed the guidelines. "The daily puja rituals will be restricted to the temple staff, priests and public are prohibited from taking part in the puja rituals," he||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-sudden-suspension-of-sarpa-samskara-seva-at-kukke-subrahmanya-temple-irks-devotees-977010.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru rail museum and Malgudi museum closed till May 3||Due to the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country, the South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to close the Mysuru Rail Museum and Malgudi Museum at Arasalu railway station in Shivamogga district for public from April 22 to May 3. The decision has been taken to contain the spread of coronavirus and to comply with the guidelines and standard operating procedures issued by the Union and the state governments. The reopening of the museums will be announced after assessing the overall situation. The SWR has sought the cooperation of the public to combat the present health emergency, according to a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-rail-museum-and-malgudi-museum-closed-till-may-3-977019.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Programme to give police personnel get hot, nutritious food flagged off||Amidst the surge in Covid-19 cases and stricter restrictions imposed by the state government, an arrangement for supplying hot and nutritious meals to police personnel was flagged off on the premises of City Armed Reserve on Wednesday. The hot mid-day food has come as a boon to all those bachelors hailing from North Karnataka and are discharging their duties in Mangaluru. With the stricter rules, the police personnel are unable to sit and have lunch in hotels and restaurants. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said that food will be provided to at least 250 to 300 personnel and will be served from 11 am to 3 pm. Out of 2,000-odd police personnel, more than 1,000 personnel hail from North Karnataka, he told mediapersons. “There are many single police personnel serving in the department. Owing to the surge in Covid cases, many have sent their aged parents to their native villages as a precautionary measure. As a result, many personnel are dependent on the hotels for food. Since only takeaway services are provided at the hotels and restaurants, the police personnel are unable to sit and have food. Hence this facility was arranged on the premises of city armed reserve. In case of necessity, arrangements will be made to supply food even at night,” the Commissioner said. A few of the police personnel and Home Guards have volunteered to prepare the food. “We will continue the initiative as long as possible. At present, the expenses will be borne by us. Four to five separate counters will be set up to serve the food, to ensure that there is no crowding while serving the food,” he explained. Recalling the problems faced by the police personnel in getting food during the pandemic a year ago, Police Constable Manjunath said, “Many a time, we had to skip meals in the noon and cook food only after reaching home at 1 am. The canteen facility will benefit us”. Covid protocols The Commissioner directed all police stations to adhere to Covid-19 protocols. The visitors can visit the Commissioner’s office between 1 pm and 2 pm. A 'shamiyana' was put up outside the commissioner’s office. Visitors will be screened for body temperature before they are allowed to enter the office. Drinking water facility has be provided, along with sanitisers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/programme-to-give-police-personnel-get-hot-nutritious-food-flagged-off-977045.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Marriages, events permitted during weekend curfew'||Marriages and other events, planned months ago, will be permitted during the weekend curfew, announced by the government to check the spread of Covid-19, if the guest list does not exceed 50 members, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Wednesday. The certification of the list of 50 guests and issuing of passes to guests will be done by officials concerned. The guest list should be submitted to Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner if the event is being planned within the Corporation limits. The list should be submitted to the City Municipal Council Commissioner or Town Municipal Council officials if the event is held in urban local body limits. As it will be difficult to issue passes planned during this weekend, guests included in the list should carry the marriage invitation card and an identity card (Voter ID or Aadhaar Card). Only the invitee will be allowed to travel in a car and cannot ferry guests not included in the list of invitees. All the documents should be with invitees while attending the marriage, the DC stressed. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said, “Overloading of people in cars while travelling to marriages will not be permitted.” Even if marriages are held in temples, the guest list should be restricted to 50. “Photographers and priests are included in the list of 50 persons attending the marriage,” Kumar said. To a query on religious rituals planned in temples to mark 'Brahmakalashotsava' celebrations, the DC said that all the rituals by priests should be carried out in absentia of devotees. People have been prohibited from taking part in the rituals in the temples. The entry of the public to all the places of worship has been banned, he added. Kumar clarified that people cannot travel with their family during weekend curfew citing emergency issues. The relaxation during weekend curfew will be provided from 6 am to 10 am to help the public purchase essential commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/marriages-events-permitted-during-weekend-curfew-977049.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||No shortage of vaccines in Dakshina Kannada, says DC Rajendra K V||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V clarified that there was no shortage of vaccines in Dakshina Kannada district. “There was a shortage of Covishield for half-a-day in DK on Tuesday, but the district received 20,000 doses of Covishield and 2,000 doses of Covaxin by Wednesday. Arrangements had been made to distribute vaccines to PHCs and hospitals,” the DC told media persons on Wednesday. The DC said there were enough beds for treatment of Covid-19 infected. Out of 2,275 active cases, 487 are undergoing treatment in hospitals. This includes 235 in normal beds, 136 in oxygenated beds, 14 in high flow oxygen beds, 60 in ICU, and 37 in ventilators. Nodal officers had been deployed to each hospital to verify the availability of beds, ICU, ventilators. Measures had been taken to increase the testing from 5,000 to 6,000 samples per day. The reports will be available within 24 to 36 hours, he said. If needed, Covid Care Centres will be opened at the ESI Hospital, NITK International Block, Morarji Desai Residential Schools, hostels in Mangalore University. There is no shortage of oxygen in the district, he clarified.  Arogya Mitra Arrangements will be made to ensure that Arogya Mitra will be available even during the night at empanelled hospitals under the Ayushman Bharath Arogya Karnataka scheme, to facilitate smooth admission of Covid-19 patients. If the government denies permission, the district administration will depute Arogya Mitras by utilising money under the District Mineral Foundation Fund. Cremation The last rites of Covid-19 victims will be performed at Boloor, Nandigudde and Surathkal crematorium free of cost. The cost will be borne by Mangaluru City Corporation and will be reimbursed later by the government. No charges will be levied for shifting the body from the hospital to the crematorium. The district administration also had reserved five acres of land in Badaga Ekkar for cremation. Hot spot identification The Covid war room set up at the Mangaluru Smart City Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), will begin hot spot identification using a software within a week. Using the software, hot spots will be identified daily and an alert will be issued to the public on hot spots in a particular locality. About 90% of Covid cases in the district come from the MCC limits and Bantwal taluks, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-shortage-of-vaccines-in-dakshina-kannada-says-dc-rajendra-k-v-977050.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt permits burial, cremation in farmhouses, pvt lands||Owing to a steady rise in Covid-19 deaths, the state government on Wednesday allowed families to cremate and bury their dead in their own land or farm house. This has been approved to decentralise the process and allow the family members to say goodbye to their loved ones without having to queue up at crematoria and burial grounds, according to an order issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunatha Prasad. The government decision comes in the wake of several complaints and concerns about lack of space or long queues at burial grounds and crematoria.  However, families will have to adhere to all other Covid -19 protocols including sanitisation, ensuring that those placing the body in the grave are wearing PPE kits, gloves and other protective gear. No rituals that involve touching of the body will be allowed, as per the guidelines. Bathing and hugging the deceased should be avoided, according to the existing Covid-19 protocols. Meanwhile, 116 people died of Covid-19 in Karnataka on Wednesday. Overall, the state has recorded 13,762 deaths during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-permits-burial-cremation-in-farmhouses-pvt-lands-977119.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||No offline classes for SSLC students||Considering the increase in Covid-19 cases across the state, the department of public instruction has asked the schools to stop offline classes for class 10 students immediately and switch to online classes. The teachers taking classes have been exempted from coming to schools between April 27 and May 4. But they have been asked to keep in touch with SSLC students through online classes. The schools are told to complete the result announcement for class 1 to 9 students by April 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-offline-classes-for-sslc-students-977123.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Transport strike: BMTC extends bus pass validity||The BMTC on Wednesday issued a circular extending the validity of bus passes by 15 days to compensate for the loss suffered by the pass holders due to the strike by the state road transport corporation (RTC) employees from April 7 to 21. "The validity of all bus passes issued in April has been extended till May 16," the BMTC said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transport-strike-bmtc-extends-bus-pass-validity-977124.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Patient dies due to lack of bed in Kalaburagi||A 50-year-old non-Covid patient died after failing to get a ventilator-supported bed, in front of a private hospital in the city onWednesday. The deceased, Shankar, was a resident of Kalagi. It is said that he did not get a  bed despite moving around four hospitals in a car. “Shankar breathed his last before he could arrive at Satya hospital following information about the bed availability there”, an eye witness said. He was suffering from severe breathing difficulty and had undergone a Covid test. The result was negative. Dr Sharanabasappa Ganajalkhed of the District Health and Family Welfare Department said he is unaware of the death of a patient, mainly due to the lack of a bed. He said a total of 400 beds, including 40 ventilators, have been reserved for the Covid patients in GIMS. Treatment is being provided for both Covid and non-Covid patients in the ESIC Hospital. Ten beds, with oxygen cylinder, are being readied in the taluk hospital, heexplained. It is also said that a girl, who was injured in an accident on Tuesday, has died due to the unavailability of a bed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/patient-dies-due-to-lack-of-bed-in-kalaburagi-977138.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Banks to work till 2 pm at 50% strength till May 31||All banks in Karnataka will have business hours from 10 am to 2 pm from April 22 till May 31 with reduced staff strength, the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) said in an advisory on Wednesday. Only basic banking services - cash transaction, clearance services, remittances and government business - will be provided at the branches until this date. According to the advisory, banks will have business hours until 2 pm and working hours until 4 pm with staff strength to 50%. To ensure smooth functioning, the banks have been directed to ensure that neither bank branches nor ATMs run out of cash. All customers have to be sensitised about the usage of digital banking, ATMs, cash deposit machines, the committee has said.  If any bank wants to close their branches on account of their staff having contracted Covid, they will have to consult the district administration for the same, the committee directed banks in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/banks-to-work-till-2-pm-at-50-strength-till-may-31-977140.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka hikes compensation for livestock loss in man-animal conflict||Supporting the distressed farmers who lose livestock during man-animal conflict along forest areas, the state government on Wednesday revised the existing compensation from Rs 10,000 to Rs 75,000. However, the steep hike in compensation is only meant for cattle and buffalo killed by wild animals. The compensation for other livestock such as sheep, goat was revised by little from the current Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000. Ordering the revision of tariff, Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali said this has been a long pending demand from the farmers. “An official order has already been issued on Tuesday. If the livestock are killed by wild animals, the jurisdictional Deputy Conservators of Forest (DCFs) can release Rs 20,000 immediately and they can release up to Rs 75,000 subject to submission of a declaration by the local veterinary officer certifying the death,” Limbavali said in a statement. This apart, he also clarified that compensation for other livestock like goat, sheep has also been revised from the current Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hikes-compensation-for-livestock-loss-in-man-animal-conflict-977145.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Footpath encroachment: Invoke penal provisions, HC tells state||The High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to ensure that criminal law is set into motion in cases of encroachment of footpaths. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said unless penal provisions are invoked strictly the directions issued will remain only on paper.  The bench observed that apart from the point of view of fundamental rights of the citizens, right to have footpaths in reasonable conditions, the statutory laws relating to footpaths and public streets are rarely effectively implemented. The court said there is a complete prohibition on parking of any vehicles on footpaths under several acts, rules and regulations.   “We hold that it is the duty of all the respondents to ensure that footways and public streets are free from obstructions, in particular the footways. It is also the responsibility of all the respondents to ensure that violations of the provisions of law are not taken casually and criminal law must be set in motion,” the court said. The bench directed the state government and the police department to ensure that Sections 117, 122, 127 and 207 of Motor Vehicle Act, provisions under the Karnataka Traffic Control Act 1960 and IPC are scrupulously implemented and the criminal law is set in motion.  “We direct the state government as well as BBMP to issue directions to its officers for the purposes of implementation of the directions.  We may also note here that non-implementation of the provisions may in a given case amounts to violation of right to life under Article 21 of Constitution of India,” the court said. The PIL filed by R S Ramachandra Reddy had contended that two-wheelers and four-wheelers are parked on the footpaths, besides directions on other issues relating to vehicular movement. After the compliance report was filed by the state government, the court had directed the Bengaluru District Legal Services Authority to inspect the places and submit a report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/footpath-encroachment-invoke-penal-provisions-hc-tells-state-977146.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man held for issuing fake Covid-19 negative reports||The Hosapete police have arrested a 28-year-old man for allegedly issuing fake Covid-19 negative reports to the college students and travellers through the government portal. The accused, identified as Shivu, has been running a photocopy shop near JMFC court in the town. According to the police, the accused used to create fake Covid-19 negative reports by forging the original lab reports through the government portal. He used to issue such fake reports to the interstate travellers and college students. Based on the complaint filed by taluk health officer Dr Bhaskar, the police arrested Shivu on Tuesday. The police have seized computer, hard disk and other devices from the photocopy shop, police inspector M Srinivas told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-negative-reports-977150.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five women labourers killed in Yadgir road mishap||Five women farm labourers died on the spot while five others sustained grievous injuries when a tam-tam they were travelling in collided with a tanker near Kolluru in the taluk on Wednesday. The deceased are Aiyamma (60), Sharanamma (40), Kashimbi (40), Bhimabai (40) and Devindramma (70). The injured have been admitted to the taluk hospital in Shahpur. The accident occurred when the victims, residents of Munamutugi in Vadagera taluk, were going to the work site. The Shahpur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-women-labourers-killed-in-yadgir-road-mishap-977152.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||K'taka to get 25,400 vials of Remdesivir injections||The Centre on Wednesday allocated Remdesivir injections to 19 states and UTs with high burden of Covid-19 cases and Karnataka is set to receive 25,400 vials of the anti-viral drug for the period up to April 30. The Centre has made an interim allocation of 11 lakh vials of Remdesivir to 14 states to which medical oxygen has been allocated and five other states where high volume of supplies have been observed. Karnataka would receive 17,400 vials from Mylan, 1,000 from Cipla, 6,000 from Syngene/Sun, and 1,000 vials from Jubilant, an official statement said. The allocation includes bulk purchases by the states and supplies through private distribution channels, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ktaka-to-get-25400-vials-of-remdesivir-injections-977154.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka reports 23,558 fresh Covid cases, 116 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 23,558 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 12,22,202. Of these, 13,640 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The state had previously reported its biggest single-day spike of 21,794 cases on Tuesday. With 116 deaths, the toll rose to 13,762. As many as 6,412 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 10,32,233. Of the remaining 1,76,188 active patients, 904 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 15.47%, the case fatality rate touched 0.49%. Tumakuru reported 1,176 fresh cases, Mysuru 975, Ballari 792, Kalaburagi 757, and Bengaluru Rural recorded 544 cases. Among 116 deaths reported on Wednesday, 70 were from Bengaluru Urban followed by Kalaburagi (8), Mysuru (7), Bidar (5), Ballari (4) and Hassan (3) As many as 1,52,281 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,35,382 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,40,16,635.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-reports-23558-fresh-covid-cases-116-deaths-977155.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||VTU gives additional chance to students who miss 1st sem exams||Relieving the stress among engineering students over attending offline exams for the first semester in the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases, the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) on Wednesday announced that students will be given another chance to appear for the exams and they will still be considered freshers.  Fearing infection, several students had raised concerns over attending offline exams and demanded online examination. But the government had rejected the request. However, on Wednesday, VTU announced that the students who miss out on the exams now can appear for the exams during the second semester exam.  “Due to the unavoidable circumstances of prevailing Covid pandemic, if any student misses the examinations in the first semester, they will be allowed to join the second semester and will be permitted to take the missed examinations during the second semester exams conducted next and it will be considered as first attempt of the students,” said a statement from VTU. However, this exemption will be provided only for BE regular students.  The university said that for the examination of two subjects completed already, the attendance of students was around 98%. “Any further delay in completing examinations will harm the academic schedule and future career of the students as there is already a four-month delay currently. Hence, the students are informed to take the examinations with all seriousness and adhere to all the precautions and SOPs circulated by the university,” the statement said.   Further, the affiliated colleges have been directed to make separate arrangements for students who are found symptomatic for Covid. “It is clarified that this exemption applies only in case of Covid-related issues,” clarified a senior official of VTU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vtu-gives-additional-chance-to-students-who-miss-1st-sem-exams-977157.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt to push airports, rly projects with infra budget hike||Karnataka’s infrastructure development budget has more than doubled with Rs 939.6 crore allocated this fiscal, which the government will use to double down on airports and railway projects.  A government order has been issued allocating funds for the Infrastructure Development department, which had a budget of Rs 417 crore in 2020 and the figure has been decreasing year on year. Since 2008, the department’s highest budget allocation was Rs 809.68 crore in 2016-17. “We have Shivamogga and Vijayapura airports, whose works are going on. We propose to spend money this year to start work on airports in Hassan, Raichur and Karwar,” Additional Chief Secretary (Infrastructure Development) Kapil Mohan told DH.  One more airport will come up in Ballari city on public-private partnership, Mohan said. “Work will start this year and it’s totally funded privately,” he said.  Over the last two years, Karnataka commissioned airports at Kalaburagi and Bidar.  The government is also working on setting up a joint venture company with the Airports Authority of India for speedy construction and development of airports and helipads. Of the Rs 939.6 crore budget, Rs 298 crore is earmarked for airports, according to the government order. A bigger share of the budget - Rs 490 crore - will go towards railway projects. “As far as railway projects go, we have our quota full and we’re a bit overstretched. This year, we have not yet planned any new railway projects. But, we want to take up construction of and complete old, lingering projects,” Mohan said.   Railway projects are taken up on a cost-sharing basis between the state and the Centre.  In the 2021-22 budget, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced that the government would take up seven projects for laying 1,173 km of railway lines at a cost of Rs 7,984 crore. The state government’s share will be Rs 3,991 crore.  Yediyurappa also announced in the Budget that the government would take up work on the 73-km-long Dharwad-Kittur-Belagavi railway line, for which the government has set asideRs 463 crore.   “My department does a lot of things on a partnership basis. The budget we have is more like a seed fund,” Mohan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-to-push-airports-rly-projects-with-infra-budget-hike-977158.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 in Davangere held over illicit sale of Remdesivir drug||A team of officials led by drug controller Geetha M S rushed to the autorickshaw stand in front of the District General hospital in the city and nabbed two persons on charges of selling Remdesivir to the public by violating the norms and seized nine bottles of Remdesivir injection, Rs 10,000 cash, and an autorickshaw. According to police, the arrested have been identified as Ganesh, a daily wage worker in the hospital and Manjunath, a pharmacist at the hospital. It is said that Manjunath had given  Remdesivir drug to Ganesh to sell them to the public and share the money between them. Extension police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-in-davangere-held-over-illicit-sale-of-remdesivir-drug-977216.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police shut non-essential shops to curb spread of Covid-19||With a sudden surge of Covid-19 cases in the city, the Mysuru Police on Thursday forced some non-essential shop owners to shutter their shops to curb the spread of the virus. Hotels, bakeries, medical shops and other essential shops continued to remain open with only takeaways being allowed in hotels. A police officer said that the shops were closed as a precautionary measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-shut-non-essential-shops-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-977219.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six people drown in two separate incidents||Six people, including four teenage boys, drowned when they had gone for a swim, in Mysuru and Mandya districts, on Thursday. Four boys of Hemmige village of Talkad hobli, T Narasipur taluk, Mysuru district, met their watery grave, when they had gone for a swim in River Cauvery. The deceased are Yashwanth (15), Mahadevaprasad (14), Kishore (13) and Parashivamurthy (15). While the bodies of Yashwanth and Mahadevaprasad were retrieved, search is on to trace the bodies of the other two, according to Talkad police. Two persons, who had come to a temple at North Bank village of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, drowned in Visvesvaraya Canal in the taluk on Thursday. The deceased are Basavegowda (26), son of Karigowda, and Sannegowda (34), son of Javaregowda, both from Mallinathapura, Bilikere hobli, Hunsur taluk in Mysuru district, and are relatives. Their bodies were retrieved at a little distance from where they drowned and were handed over to the relatives after the post-mortem. Four people, including Basavegowda and Sannegowda, had come to Kalamma temple at North Bank village. They decided to take a bath before visiting the temple and went for a swim in Visvesvaraya Canal nearby. As 2,500 cusec of water is being released into the canal, they were washed away due to the force, said the police officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-people-drown-in-two-separate-incidents-977345.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 norms: Set up grievance redress mechanisms, HC tells state||The High Court directed the state government to set up grievance redress mechanisms within three days to enable the citizens to file complaints about violations of rules regarding wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked the government to facilitate media platforms so that citizens can submit complaints through e-mail/Whatsapp or any other form. The court said if the mechanism is set up then those complaints of citizens can be immediately looked into by the state-level committee as well as Bengaluru city committee. "Wide publicity shall be given to the mechanism in newspapers and electronic media. Information regarding availability of such mechanisms shall be published in offices of all local authorities including BBMP," the bench said. The state government submitted a memo enclosing the April 17 circular issued by DG and IGP directing strict enforcement of regulations to curb the spread of Covid-19 as per the directions by the high court on April 15. The direction was for strict enforcement of the penal provisions of Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. The memo also contained April 21 circular wherein the state government constituted state-level committee under ADGP (Law and order) and Bengaluru city police committee under City police commissioner for enforcing Covid-19 related regulations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-norms-set-up-grievance-redress-mechanisms-hc-tells-state-977347.html
22-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Anjanadri is the birthplace of Anjaneya: MLA Paranna Munavalli||MLA Paranna Munavalli on Thursday said Anjanadri in the Kishkindha area of Anegondi is the birthplace of Lord Anjaneya (Hanuman). He was speaking to reporters, with historians and researchers, after releasing records in this connection.  “The evidence given by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams about the birthplace of Anjaneya is not acceptable. There is confusion in their records. No one should give importance to them. That is all false,” he claimed.  He said the Centre and the state governments have already released funds for the Anjanadri temple with the faith that it is the birthplace of Lord Anjaneya. All of a sudden, the TTD now wants to change the people’s feelings,” he charged. Historian-researcher Dr Sharanabasappa Kolkar said the TTD has agreed that Kishkindha is on the banks of the River Tungabhadra. When this is the case, there is confusion in saying that Lord Anjaneya was born at Anjanadri near Tirupati. Kishkindha, as described in Valmiki’s Ramayana, was situated here. It is a universal truth that Hanuman was also here, he said adding that the TTD is creating a controversy unnecessarily.  Dr Kolkar said all the places, mentioned in Ramayana, like Shabari Gudda, Vali fort, Pampa Sarovara, Rushyamooka, Mathanga Parvathas, and Anjanadri are here only. “The birthplace of Lord Anjaneya has been well-established through various pieces of evidence, folk songs, literary workers, and inscriptions,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anjanadri-is-the-birthplace-of-anjaneya-mla-paranna-munavalli-977350.html
22-04-2021||National||Amid reports of shortage, Centre ramps up production capacity of Remdesivir injections||Amid reports of shortage of antiviral drug Remdesivir, the Centre on Wednesday announced that the production capacity of Remdesivir injections is being ramped up from the current level of 38 lakh vials per month to 74 lakh vials per month. It also said that 20 additional manufacturing sites have been approved. The Union health ministry in coordination with the Department of Pharmaceuticals has made an interim allocation of Remdesivir for 19 states and Union territories (UTs) for the period up to April 30, to further address reports of shortage of the drug in certain regions of the country and facilitate its smooth inter-state supply. “Remdesivir being an investigational therapy drug given in acute and severe versions of Covid-19 where oxygen support is a must, this allocation pertains to 14 states/UTs, including Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Gujarat, to which medical oxygen is allocated, and five other states where high volume of supplies is being observed,” the ministry said in a statement. Keeping in mind the sudden surge in demand for Remdesivir injections, the manufacturing capacity of domestic Remdesivir manufacturers has been ramped up, it said. "All support is being extended to manufacturers by the government in this endeavour. The production capacity is being ramped up from current level of 38 lakh vials per month to 74 lakh vials per month, and 20 additional manufacturing sites have been approved. Export of Remdesivir has also been prohibited on 11th April in order to shore up domestic supplies," the ministry said. The allocation includes bulk purchases made by the states as well as supplies through private distribution channels. Several states and UTs have reported an acute shortage of Remdesivir and raised the issue with the Centre. The ministry said this initial allocation is dynamic and will be reviewed constantly in consultation with the states/UTs to ensure all needs can be met within the available supplies. It said the manufacturers have been advised to consider supply orders already made to them, geographical proximity with a state and terms of supply, and give inputs for mapping of manufacturers to states for the allocated volumes. "Manufacturers have been directed to manufacture and dispatch the supplies as per the agreed state allocation and mapping. They may be asked to balance supplies to the government and distribution channel. All states may place their supply orders to manufacturers, if not already done, either by government purchase or distribution channel, within the above-mentioned state-wise allocation and manufacturer-wise mapping," the ministry said. It further said that in case any state does not require or is unable to fully utilise its allocation before April 30, that would be available for reallocation to other states as per their requirement. "The states may immediately appoint state nodal officers for Remdesivir who will be responsible for unrestricted and timely movement of the drug within their states as per the above-mentioned allocation and mapping," the statement said. The control room set up by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) shall be responsible for monitoring the operations as per the allocations. A WhatsApp group comprising nodal officers of states to coordinate the unhindered movement of Remdesivir within the country is being created. Liaison Officers of Remdesivir manufacturers and officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Pharmaceuticals, National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will be part of this group for day-to-day monitoring and coordination," the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-reports-of-shortage-centre-ramps-up-production-capacity-of-remdesivir-injections-977068.html
22-04-2021||National||DH Toon | PM Narendra Modi's 'thali bajao'-like ideas out of stock?||Ruling out lockdown as a solution to the resurgent second wave of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that while all efforts to save life are being taken, the attempt is also to ensure a minimum adverse impact on livelihood and economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-narendra-modis-thali-bajao-like-ideas-out-of-stock-977073.html
22-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 22||India surpassed 1.5 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented spike in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 21-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,59,30,965 as of April 22, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,84,657 as of April 22, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged: 1,34,54,880 Total Vaccination: 13,23,30,644 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-22-977078.html
22-04-2021||National||Sitaram Yechury's 35-year-old son dies of Covid-19 in Gurgaon hospital||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s son Ashish died of Covid-19 at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning. The death of the journalist who would have celebrated his 35th birthday on June 9 was announced by Yechury and the CPI(M) Politburo. Ashish was recovering well at Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital, people close to the family added, describing his sudden death at 5.30 am after a two-week battle with Covid-19 as a shock. "It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son Ashish Yechury to Covid-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us," Yechury said on Twitter.  It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us. Ashish, who studied at the Asian College of Journalism, Chennai, worked in several publications, including the Times of India in Delhi, before moving to Pune. Journalists who worked with him remembered him as a mild-mannered and warm professional who was knowledgeable and well read. "We are deeply sorry to announce the passing away this morning (22 April) of Ashish Yechury, son of Sitaram Yechury and Indrani Mazumdar. He died of Covid related complications. He was 35 years old,” the CPI(M) Politburo said in statement. It conveyed its “deepest condolences to Sitaram and Indrani, his wife Swati, his sister Akhila and all other members of the bereaved family".  As news of the death came in, condolences for the family poured in from leaders and others, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind. The president said he was grieved beyond words to learn about the untimely demise. “In this moment of profound grief, my deepest condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury, his family and loved ones. May you find the strength to bear this irreparable loss," Kovind tweeted. "Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti,” Modi said. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he was devastated by the news. “There is no greater loss for a parent to endure. May you find the strength to bear the inexpressible grief of your loss. My heart goes out to you at this painful time," he said. "Deeply saddened and pained to hear about the loss of Ashish Yechury. I offer my heartfelt condolences to Comrade @SitaramYechury, his family and friends at this difficult time," tweeted DMK leader MK Stalin. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also expressed her shock and sadness and sent her deepest condolences. "My heartfelt condolences to Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the loss of his son, Ashish. I hope they find the strength to withstand this tragic loss," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a message on Telegram. Ashish also worked at NewsLaundry, IBNLive and Pune Mirror earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitaram-yechurys-35-year-old-son-dies-of-covid-19-in-gurgaon-hospital-977095.html
22-04-2021||National||21-day quarantine for travellers from India to Singapore||All travellers from India should be isolated for 21 days instead of 14 to help strengthen Singapore's defences against a new double mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 that appears to be more infectious, reported The Straits Times citing experts on Thursday. However, it is not yet necessary to ban flights from India, it said. "A 14-day quarantine or SHN (stay home notice) would detect more than 98 per cent of Covid-19 cases, including those who were infected while on the plane," said Associate Professor Hsu Li Yang, the vice-dean of global health at the NUS Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health. "A 21-day quarantine backed by specific tests would detect virtually all cases. However, that would impose a significant mental and financial cost" to the traveller, Yang said. Singapore announced new safety measures on Tuesday, including fewer approvals for foreigners who are not permanent residents and are coming in from India, which is experiencing a second wave believed to be fuelled by a variant with a double mutation. All travellers from India must now isolate for seven days at a residence after spending 14 days at a dedicated facility for those serving SHN. The new measures have come amid a recent rise in locally-transmitted cases and as a new three-person cluster here has just been linked to a 43-year-old Indian national who was "probably reinfected" in India. The work pass holder, who was asymptomatic, had tested positive on arrival from India on April 2 but was discharged after a few days as he was considered no longer infectious. But he went on to infect his sister-in-law and her husband. Associate Professor Alex Cook, vice-dean of research from the NUS Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, said the positive swab result could mean that the Indian was infectious or had recently recovered from an infection. A serology test to look for Covid-19 antibodies was then done and the man tested positive, meaning that he was infectious at least two weeks ago. But it is now clear that he could have been infected sometime back and then reinfected recently, and hence tested positive on both tests. Cook said this shows that it's vital to assess the interpretation of the combination of a positive swab and serology tests, given that it can be a reinfection case, and continued vigilance is key. India's surging outbreak has prompted places such as Hong Kong and New Zealand to ban flights. But the Singapore daily had experts saying that it is not yet necessary to ban flights from India or tighten guidelines on social and other gatherings. Infectious disease expert Leong Hoe Nam said while banning flights is easy, it is about achieving a balance, as there's also the need to support the economy and be compassionate in allowing family members to come to visit. Flight bans provide just short-term relief, said Professor Teo Yik Ying, dean of the NUS Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health. "If such flight bans were successful, we would have seen a much smaller Covid-19 footprint globally, given the number of flight bans and border closures in the early months of 2020," he said. "What I suspect ... is that these new variants that have emerged in one country are in fact already circulating in other countries," Teo said. It's better to prevent virus variants from going on to seed uncontrollable community outbreaks with a comprehensive strategy that includes stricter border controls for travellers from India, he said. "This, together with the repeated testing that will be applied to such travellers, will greatly increase our ability to reduce any leakage into the community, such as what we have seen last week," Teo said. He added that the 14-day quarantine was never able to detect 100 per cent of the cases. "We know from the epidemiological data that there are people whose incubation period actually extends beyond 14 days, just that the chance of this happening is low," he said. Meanwhile, 11 workers tested positive for Covid-19 at Westlite Woodlands dormitory on Wednesday -- the largest number of infections in the foreign worker dormitories in months. A letter from Westlite Woodlands to its clients said that 11 of the residents at the dormitory were confirmed to have tested positive for Covid-19 as of Wednesday morning, reported the Channel News Asia (CNA), adding it has seen the letter. The results are from 568 tests carried out on Tuesday for residents from levels two to seven of Block A of the dormitory, located at 2 Woodlands Sector 2. According to the letter dated April 21, all the block residents, which number more than 1,100, will be sent to a government quarantine facility (GQF) for 14 days as a "precautionary measure". Swab tests will also be conducted on all the remaining residents in Block B of the dormitory, it said. The 11 dormitory cases did not appear in the Ministry of Health's case count on Wednesday, which said there was one new community Covid-19 infection and 14 imported cases. One of the infected workers is the roommate of a worker who tested positive on Apr 19, said the Ministry of Manpower in a press release on Wednesday night. As a close contact of the infected worker, he had already been quarantined. There have been more than 54,000 Covid-19 cases detected in foreign worker dormitories since the start of the pandemic last year. Although the numbers peaked in the middle of last year, cases in the dormitories have fallen dramatically and before Wednesday, there were only seven cases reported since Janary 1 this year. As of Wednesday, Singapore has reported a total of 60,880 Covid-19 cases and 30 fatalities from the disease. As of Tuesday, 60,540 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or community care facilities. There are currently 74 confirmed cases who are still in hospital including one in critical condition in the intensive care unit while 221 are isolated and cared for at community facilities for mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-day-quarantine-for-travellers-from-india-to-singapore-977098.html
22-04-2021||National||Biggest spike globally: India sees over 3.1L fresh Covid cases, 2,104 deaths||India reported on Thursday 3,14,835 new cases of Covid-19 over the previous 24 hours, the highest daily increase recorded anywhere, as its second wave and similar surges elsewhere in the world raised new fears about the virus. Hospitals across northern and western states including New Delhi, have issued notices to say they have only a few hours of medical oxygen required to keep Covid-19 patients alive. More than two-thirds of hospitals had no vacant beds, according to the Delhi government's online database and doctors advised patients to stay at home. "Covid-19 has become a public health crisis in India leading to a collapse of the healthcare system," said Krutika Kuppalli, assistant professor at the Division of Infectious Diseases, Medical University of South Carolina in the United States, on Twitter. The previous record one-day rise in cases was held by the United States, which had 297,430 new cases on one day in January, though its tally has since fallen sharply. India's total cases are now at 1.5 crore, while deaths rose by 2,104 to reach a total of 1,84,657, according to the latest health ministry data. Television showed images of people with empty oxygen cylinders crowding refilling facilities in Uttar Pradesh as they scrambled to save relatives in hospitals. "We never thought a second wave would hit us so hard," wrote Kiran Mazumdar Shaw in the Economic Times. Mazumdar Shaw is executive chairman of Biocon & Biocon Biologics, an Indian healthcare firm. "Complacency led to unanticipated shortages of medicines, medical supplies and hospital beds." India has launched a vaccination drive but only a tiny fraction of the population has received the shots. Authorities announced that vaccines would be available to anyone over the age of 18 from May 1 but India won't have enough shots for the 600 million people who will become eligible, experts say. Similar surges of infections elsewhere, in South America in particular, are overwhelming health services there. Health experts said India had let its guard down when the virus seemed to be under control during the winter and when new daily cases were about 10,000, The country lifted restrictions and allowed big gatherings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government have come in for criticism for holding packed political rallies for state elections and allowing the Maha Kumbh Mela to be held where lakhs of people gathered. On Thursday, despite the biggest public health emergency the country has faced in a generation, people were voting in West Bengal for a new state Assembly in an election that Modi has been campaigning in. "It's a festival of democracy and everyone is participating. You can see the queues," said Krishna Kalyan, a BJP candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-spike-globally-india-sees-over-31l-fresh-covid-cases-2104-deaths-977102.html
22-04-2021||National||All you need to know about India's new Covid-19 vaccine policy||To ramp up its fight against Covid-19, the Centre is widening its vaccination drive to include everyone aged above 18 years of age. In the fourth phase of what is claimed to be the biggest vaccination drive in the world, the government has brought about many changes. Here's all you need to know. How will procurement change? When vaccination began in January for the healthcare and frontline workers and subsequently for senior citizens and those above 45 years of age, the government procured all vaccines produced by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to give to states. Government facilities administered these vaccines for free while private hospitals charged Rs 250 per dose. However, from May 1, there will be two groups for supply — 50 per cent will be from the Centre and the other 50 per cent will be available in the open market. State governments and private hospitals can procure vaccines directly from manufacturers in the second group. Changes to distribution Vaccine doses procured from the open market will be used to inoculate those aged above 18 years of age. Meanwhile, the vaccine doses provided by the Centre will be available free of cost to vaccinate healthcare and frontline workers and those above 45 years of age. What will the cost of vaccination at private facilities be? Since the doses will be made available directly, private hospitals will decide their own rates for the shots. In the initial phases of vaccination, private facilities were paid Rs 100 by the government for every Rs 250 they charged the beneficiary. The procurement is now likely to cost much more, which is why the price is expected to be higher. But the government has assured that the price will be monitored. How will the Centre decide the number of vaccines to different states? The government will look at the extent of Covid-19 active cases and speed of vaccination, and decide the number of doses accordingly. Till now, the governments had been getting vaccines based on the number of registrations and walk-in vaccinations. This is to focus on low wastage of doses. After May 1, will the government prioritise those who are due their second dose? Yes, the government has said that the second dose to all existing priority groups will be given preference, and they will be kept in the loop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-indias-new-covid-19-vaccine-policy-977127.html
22-04-2021||National||No price difference for Centre, states: Adar Poonawalla on Covishield price row||Soon after Pune's Serum Institute of India announced that the open market price of its vaccine Covishield will be Rs 400 per dose, CEO Adar Poonawalla clarified that this price applies for both the Centre and state governments that buy from it under the new contracts. A rift had broken out as opposition parties had questioned why state governments are receiving vaccines for Rs 400 when the Centre procured the doses at Rs 150. Poonawalla had explained after this issue had been raised that Rs 150 per dose was a price fixed for the Centre in the earlier contracts, without any knowledge if the vaccine will work. He said that it was a 'risk sharing' price that was agreed upon by both the parties for a limited quantity of vaccines. "Now that the vaccine is licenced and is showing good efficacy, we have now announced, based on the new policy of the government, these prices," he is quoted as saying by PTI. DMK's M K Stalin had posted on Twitter, urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure 'common vaccine prices for all'. "The differential pricing for vaccines between Union and State governments is discriminatory and defeats the objective of universal vaccination," he wrote. Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra had also tweeted asking why the vaccine is priced Rs 150 for Centre and Rs 400 for states. Congress leader and former Finance Minister P Chidambaram has questioned if people in the age group of 18 to 44 will be able to afford vaccines at Rs 400 per dose. "How many states would be willing to pay the price of the vaccine and subsidise people?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-price-difference-for-centre-states-adar-poonawalla-on-covishield-price-row-977132.html
22-04-2021||National||Zomato introduces new delivery option, allows user to mark food orders as 'Covid-19 emergency'||In a bid to make things easier for customers as the second wave of Covid-19 continues to grip the nation, food delivery platform Zomato recently added a new delivery option that lets users to flag orders as "related to Covid-19 emergency". This would allow Zomato to prioritise and schedule the quickest delivery by assigning the "fastest riders" based on the location and route from the restaurants that have signed up for the service. These urgent orders would receive special customer support and the delivery would be contactless with no additional costs. "A huge thank you to the entire restaurant community for joining hands to serve our customers who need us the most right now," he added. Meanwhile, the platform has asked users to select this option on their order page only in case of a real emergency. The feature description on the app reads, "Treat this as an ambulance and please don't misuse it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zomato-introduces-new-delivery-option-allows-user-to-mark-food-orders-as-covid-19-emergency-977141.html
22-04-2021||National||Beg, borrow, steal! It’s your duty to keep patients alive: Key points from Delhi HC hearing||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its "inability" to immediately divert oxygen supply to hospitals from industries, asking if human lives are not important for the government. Here are the key points from the hearing: 1. "We are shocked and dismayed that the government does not seem to be mindful of extremely urgent need of oxygen supply," a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. 2. "Today, we are in a dire state. Today we are in a situation that we might lose thousands of lives. As a government, it’s your responsibility to supply oxygen for patients. It’s your duty," the bench told the Centre's counsel. 3. The court was hearing an urgent plea by Max Hospitals on Wednesday evening as they claimed to have been left with just two-three hours of oxygen against 1,400 Covid patients. 4. The court told the Union government to beg, borrow or steal but ensure sufficient supply of oxygen as people cannot be left to die. 5. The bench said the Centre should take over production of oxygen from steel and petroleum plants, even if it meant that such industries had to stop production for sometime. 6. "If Tatas can divert oxygen meant for its captive plant, why can't others do so? There is no sense of humanity left. What are we looking at?" the bench asked. 7. "It is the responsibility of State to arrange the supply (of oxygen). You cannot say we can arrange this much and people have to die. We cannot accept that. We cannot see people dying because oxygen is not available," the bench said. 8. The court directed the Union government to ensure safe and unobstructed passage of oxygen from base of production to recipients throughout the country. It also asked the Delhi government to provide logistical support in the process. As more states and individuals file cases over lack of oxygen supply and mismanagement of the Covid crisis, the Supreme Court on Thursday decided to hear suo motu a case on the Covid-19 situation and management by the government. It also told the Centre that it wants a “national plan” on issues including supply of oxygen and essential drugs for treatment of patients infected with the virus. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beg-borrow-steal-it-s-your-duty-to-keep-patients-alive-key-points-from-delhi-hc-hearing-977166.html
22-04-2021||National||Centre's Covid-19 vaccination drive will lead to profiteering by private companies: Forum||A national association of doctors and scientists have accused the Centre of lending the Covid-19 vaccination drive to "profiteering" by private companies rather than ensuring public financing of the programme. In a statement, the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, said on Wednesday that the Centre's move is "bound to lend the vaccine prices to market manipulation for maximising private profits". "Rather than ensuring entirely public financing of vaccination, which makes far better epidemiological and economic sense, the government has lent even the vaccination drive to profiteering by private companies by announcing that 50 per cent of all the doses shall now be routed through open market. "This is bound to lend the vaccine prices to all manner market manipulation for maximising private profits. Promises of free vaccination, it appears, are good only for winning elections, and dumping the people thereafter," it said. The forum said the central government commands the financial resources to extend grants to, and thereby demand answerability of private manufacturers. "In a situation where there is already a critical shortage of vaccine doses, this implies that the states shall have to bargain at their level with the manufacturers for the best price, and shall in (all) probability have to out-bid each other to be able to secure enough doses to meet their respective demands. "The situation demanded of the Centre to procure vaccine supplies at a much reasonable cost through public sector and extend liberal grants to the states," it added. The Centre had on Monday announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1. It also allowed states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the vaccine doses directly from manufacturers. Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government. They would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-covid-19-vaccination-drive-will-lead-to-profiteering-by-private-companies-forum-977171.html
22-04-2021||National||SC takes up suo motu case on Covid management, oxygen crisis in country||As the country grapples with the current wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court Thursday took suo motu cognisance of the prevailing grim situation and said it wanted a “national plan” on issues, including supply of oxygen and essential drugs for treatment of patients infected with the virus. A bench headed by Chief S A Bobde said it would also consider the issue pertaining to method and manner of Covid-19 vaccination in the country. The bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and S R Bhat, said it would examine the aspect relating to power of the high courts to declare lockdown amid the pandemic. The apex court appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as an amicus curiae to assist it in the suo motu proceedings. The bench issued notice to the Centre and said it would hear the matter on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-takes-up-suo-motu-case-on-covid-management-oxygen-crisis-in-country-977172.html
22-04-2021||National||AIIMS Covid-19 task force chief urges other departments for more doctors||The head of the medicine department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has requested his colleagues from other departments to provide 80 per cent of their resident doctors and faculty members for Covid-19 management. In an urgent request, Dr Naveet Wig, who is also the chairperson of the hospital's Covid-19 Task Force, said that in view of an alarming rise in the number of patients suffering from the disease and the opening of multiple Covid-19 facilities in the hospital, the need of manpower has increased multi-fold. "To meet this demand, as directed by the director, you are requested to provide 80 per cent of your residents and 80 per cent of your faculty members for Covid-19 management," the request stated. "Please provide the names of residents and faculty members urgently from your department to finalise the roster for Covid-19 at the earliest," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-covid-19-task-force-chief-urges-other-departments-for-more-doctors-977176.html
22-04-2021||National||President Kovind condoles passing away of CPI (M) leader Sitaram Yechury’s son||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said he was grieved beyond words to learn about the death of CPI (M) leader Sitaram Yechury’s son. Sitaram Yechury is the General Secretary of CPI(M). "Grieved beyond words to learn about the untimely demise of Shri Ashish Yechury. In this moment of profound grief, my deepest condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury, his family and loved ones. May you find the strength to bear this irreparable loss," Kovind tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-condoles-passing-away-of-cpi-m-leader-sitaram-yechury-s-son-977183.html
22-04-2021||National||Ten states account for over 75% of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Gujarat are among 10 states that account for over 75 per cent of the 3,14,835 new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The number of coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high with over 3.14 lakh new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours pushing India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,59,30,965, according to the ministry data updated in the morning. The other states in the list of 10 are Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, and Rajasthan. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 67,468. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 33,106 while Delhi reported 24,638 new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 22,91,428 and now comprises 14.38 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 1,33,890 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala cumulatively account for 59.99 per cent of India's total active cases. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,34,54,880 with 1,78,841 recoveries being  registered in  a day. The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.16 per cent.2,104 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 81.08 per cent of the new deaths, the ministry said. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (568). Delhi follows with 249 daily deaths.  On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 13.23 crore. Cumulatively, 13,23,30,644 vaccine doses have been administered through 19,28,118 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am, the ministry said.  These include 92,19,544 healthcare workers (HCWs who have taken the first dose and 58,52,071 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,16,32,050  frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 59,36,530 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,78,67,118 and 57,60,331 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively whole 4,44,28,884 and 16,34,116 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively. Eight states account for 59.25 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country. Over 22 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of  24 hours. As on day-96 of the vaccination drive (April 21), 22,11,334 vaccine doses were given.A total of 15,01,704 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 35,499 sessions for the first dose and 7,09,630 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-75-of-new-covid-19-cases-977194.html
22-04-2021||National||Most single-screens in Kolkata to shut as Covid-19 cases rise||Most of the single-screen theatres in Kolkata will shut down for an indefinite period as the city grapples with the second wave of the coronavirus, an industry official said on Thursday. The alarming rise of Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks forced most of the single-screens to take the extreme step for public safety, an office-bearer of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association said. Single-screens such as Navina, Menoka, Jaya, Ajanta and Orient are among the theatres downing their shutters from Friday, he said. Screenings will not be started before the situation turns conducive for the public to enjoy a film at a theatre without the fear of infection, he added. "We have no alternative. We were chugging on despite poor footfall since October last year when the cinema halls reopened after lockdown. The surge in Covid-19 cases is another blow. We cannot afford to be oblivious to the emerging situation," said Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of Ajanta Cinema and a multiplex chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-single-screens-in-kolkata-to-shut-as-covid-19-cases-rise-977200.html
22-04-2021||National||Indian Navy deploys vessel to support Indonesia's hunt for missing submarine||The Indian Navy on Thursday deployed a deep submergence rescue vessel to support the Indonesian Navy's hunt for a submarine that went missing with 53 people on board. According to Indonesian authorities, the KRI Nanggala-402, a German-made submarine, went missing during a military exercise around the Bali Strait on Wednesday. Indian Navy officials said a deep submergence rescue vessel (DSRV) departed from Visakhapatnam to support the Indonesian Navy in its operation to locate the diesel-electric attack submarine. They said the Indian DSRV is fitted with latest technology and that it has a side scan sonar for locating the position of submarines in distress at sea. A number of countries including Singapore and Malaysia are sending rescue vessels to help the Indonesian Navy trace the missing submarine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-deploys-vessel-to-support-indonesias-hunt-for-missing-submarine-977202.html
22-04-2021||National||Pfizer in talks with India to supply Covid-19 vaccine||Pfizer is in discussions with India and committed to make its Covid-19 vaccine available for deployment in the country, the US drugmaker said on Thursday. The company said it had offered India a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government's immunisation programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfizer-in-talks-with-india-to-supply-covid-19-vaccine-977204.html
22-04-2021||National||'Please help!': Covid-19 tragedy spills onto social media in India||By Saritha Rai and Supriya Batra These days, social media posts in India are no longer about cheeky photos, funny memes or political jokes. Instead, frantic calls to save lives are flooding Twitter and Instagram as the latest wave of coronavirus cases and deaths overwhelm the nation’s hospitals and crematoriums. On Bharath Pottekkat’s Instagram feed, one message screams “Mumbai please help! Lungs damaged due to pneumonia infection. In need of ICU bed.” Another reads “Plasma urgently required for treatment of Covid patient in Max Hospital, Delhi.” More follow. “Urgently needed Tocilizumab injection. Please DM if you know of stock in and around Mumbai.” New appeals land with every refresh. “My brain can’t handle the social media overload,” said Pottekkat, a 20-year-old Delhi law student. “I can’t process what I’m reading. I feel numb.” Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Telegram are all inundated with messages from distraught family members and friends begging for everything from hospital beds to medicines, CT scans, doorstep Covid tests, and even food for the elderly in quarantine. The desperate pleas, hoping someone will respond with a speedy remedy, offer a peek into the unfolding tragedy buffeting a country of 1.3 billion people that now has the world’s fastest-growing Covid-19 caseload. The messages also reveal the panic and disarray amid shortages of drugs, intensive-care beds and medical oxygen. Highlighting the grim situation, India on Thursday reported a record 2,104 new Covid-19 deaths, and an unprecedented 314,835 fresh cases — the world’s highest daily tally. The South Asian country is second only to the US in terms of total infections after surpassing Brazil. The surge has forced both India’s financial and political capitals — Mumbai and New Delhi — to impose restrictions on movement, with the latter mandating a six-day strict lockdown starting April 20. Maharashtra state, home to Mumbai, is tightening curbs starting Thursday. One particular Instagram post rattled Pottekkat. A woman at her mother’s bedside described an apocalyptic scene at a hospital in the northern city of Lucknow, where people got into a scuffle to lay their hands on a fresh batch of oxygen cylinders that just arrived. Separately, a hospital chain in New Delhi approached a court to help secure the critical gas. Barkha Dutt, a journalist, pointed out the shortage of crematoriums around the country, tweeting pictures of a cremation ground in Surat, a city in the western state of Gujarat. Nowhere is the desperation more evident than in the social media feed of Ranjan Pai, the billionaire owner and co-founder of Manipal Education & Medical Group, which runs the country’s second-largest hospital chain -- the TPG and Temasek-backed Manipal Health Enterprises Pvt. Pai is deluged with DMs from hundreds of people, mostly strangers, asking him for ICU beds, oxygen supply and Covid drugs. The 7,000 beds in his 27-hospital chain are full. “We were caught off-guard,” Pai said. “No country is equipped to handle a surge this fast and this severe.” In February, only 4 per cent of Manipal’s beds were taken by coronavirus patients. A few weeks later, that number has climbed to 65 per cent, the rest already occupied by emergency cardiac, oncology and other patients. Pai’s hospitals, doctors and administrators are stretched to the limit, he said. India’s stocks and the rupee have taken a hit on concern the latest surge and curbs will pummel the $2.9 trillion economy that was just recovering from a rare recession last year. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex is down almost 9 per cent from its Feb. 15 record, while the rupee is approaching an all-time low. The collapse of the country’s decrepit public health system is evident in the gut-wrenching photos on social media of multiple Covid patients sharing a single hospital bed, a line of ambulances outside a hospital in Mumbai, and people dying as they wait for oxygen. Government helplines are broken. Thousands of social media forwards plead for the antiviral drug Remdesivir, and many more seek donor plasma. There’s however a bright side to this mayhem. Responders from students to technology professionals, non-profit organizations and even Bollywood actors like Sonu Sood are rallying to supply meals, circulate information on availability of hospital beds or Remdesivir. They’ve amplified voices of those in need of emergency help. Total strangers are volunteering to bring supplies and food to patients’ doorsteps. Those who put together crowd-sourced, authentic information on social media are today’s heroes in the current situation, said Vikas Chawla, co-founder of Chennai-headquartered digital agency, Social Beat. “It takes just a few people to step forward and make it happen,” Chawla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/please-help-covid-19-tragedy-spills-onto-social-media-in-india-977225.html
22-04-2021||National||India to get Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine only by end-May||India will start receiving Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine by end-May, its local distributor Dr. Reddy's Laboratories told Reuters on Thursday, a later than expected schedule that could slow the country's immunisation drive. "We are targeting to have the first batches imported by (fiscal) Q1, and are trying our best to have them by end-May," a Dr. Reddy’s spokesman told Reuters. "Sputnik is going to be made in India in a few months. We expect the India-made vaccine to start being available from the second quarter of the fiscal (year)." India's ambassador to Moscow said last week deliveries of Sputnik V to the country were expected to begin this month, the TASS news agency reported. India recorded the world's highest daily tally of 314,835 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday as a second wave of the pandemic raised new fears about the ability of crumbling health services to cope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-get-russias-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-only-by-end-may-977236.html
22-04-2021||National||BSF thwarts infiltration bid by 3 Pak intruders along IB in Punjab's Pathankot||The BSF thwarted an infiltration attempt by three Pakistani intruders along the India-Pakistan international border in Punjab's Pathankot district, officials said on Thursday. Border Security Force personnel opened fire when they noticed suspicious movement of three people trying to enter into the Indian territory around 10:15 pm Wednesday, a BSF official said. He said the three went back after the BSF troops posted at the Paharipur border outpost fired gunshots to stop them. A joint search operation was being conducted in the area by the BSF and the Punjab Police, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-thwarts-infiltration-bid-by-3-pak-intruders-along-ib-in-punjabs-pathankot-977239.html
22-04-2021||National||Minimising carbon footprint should be central focus in urbanising India, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said minimising carbon footprint must be the "central focus" as the country urbanises. Speaking at the 'One World One Realty' event, Puri, who oversees the housing portfolio, said the government has launched a global housing technology challenge to tap into sustainable solutions. “We are well aware of the adverse impact of climate change, minimizing the carbon footprint must remain the central focus even as we urbanise. We owe this to the health of our future generations,” Puri said at the summit. He said the housing technology challenge will come up with practical solutions to make buildings and dwellings more sustainable and added that the 'lighthouse projects' under the project will come up in six varied geoclimatic zones which can be emulated as per local conditions. The diplomat-turned-politician said India is fully committed to attaining the UN's sustainable development goals by the deadline of 2030, and also reminded that the target was adopted after the launch of dedicated urbanization programmes by the government after coming to power in 2014. Since the Narendra Modi government came to power, there have been massive investments in urbanization including on housing through the Prime Minister's Awas Yojana, sanitation through the Swachh Bharat Mission, modern cities through the SMART cities programme, he said. Ease of living has become the primary objective of policy, he said, adding the Centre unleashed one of the most ambitious, comprehensive, planned urbanization programmes undertaken anywhere in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimising-carbon-footprint-should-be-central-focus-in-urbanising-india-says-hardeep-singh-puri-977252.html
22-04-2021||National||Covid-19: PM chairs high-level meet on oxygen supply; calls for tough action against hoarding||With several states sounding the alarm over an acute shortage of oxygen, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for tough action against hoarding of oxygen and directed officials to ensure faster transportation of oxygen to states. Chairing a high-level meeting, Modi stressed the need to fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction as he reviewed the situation of oxygen supply across the country and discussed ways and means to boost its availability. In the meeting, which was attended by Cabinet Secretary, Principal Secretary to PM, Home Secretary, Health Secretary and officials from Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Ministry of Road Transport, Pharmaceuticals and NITI Aayog, the Prime Minister spoke about the need to work rapidly on multiple aspects--- increasing production of oxygen, increasing the speed of distribution and using innovative ways to provide oxygen support to health facilities. On the issue of ensuring faster transportation of oxygen to the states, it was discussed that the Indian Railways was being used for rapid and non-stop long-distance transport of tankers with the first rake reaching from Mumbai to Vizag to transport 105 MT of liquid medical oxygen. Similarly, empty oxygen tanks were also being air-lifted to oxygen suppliers to reduce one-way journey time in oxygen supply, the officials told the PM. Representatives from the medical community also spoke about the need for judicious use of oxygen and how an audit in some states had decreased oxygen demand without affecting the condition of patients. PM also stressed that the states should come down heavily on hoarding. Modi was informed that an elaborate exercise is being conducted in coordination with the states to identify their demand for oxygen and to ensure adequate supply accordingly. The PM was briefed on how oxygen supply to states was steadily increasing. Against the present demand of 6,785 MT/day of LMO from 20 states, the Government of India allocated 6,822 MT/day to these states from April 21, an official statement said. The Centre has also invoked provisions of the stringent Disaster Management Act, 2005 to order uninterrupted production and supply of the life-saving gas. In a two-page letter issued to the states, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said that there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen carrying vehicles. The order came against the backdrop of allegations by the Haryana government that oxygen meant for Haryana was "looted" by the Delhi government and the Delhi government complaining that cops from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were blocking Delhi's oxygen supply. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia went to the extent of saying that the Centre should ensure supply even if that requires taking paramilitary help. Issuing  a new directive, the Home Ministry put the onus of any violation of its order on the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the concerned district, asking the states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders. The order said that no restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to the hospitals of the state and the Union Territory in which they are located. "There shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities, without any restriction of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without any restriction. No authority shall attach the oxygen-carrying vehicles passing through the district or areas for making supplies specific to any particular district or area," it said. It also directed the states and Union Territories to strictly abide by the supply plan of medical oxygen prepared by Empowered Group-I and as revised from time-to-time. "To ensure the uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country for management of COVID-19 patients, in exercise of powers conferred under section of the DM Act, the undersigned, in the capacity as chairperson, National Executive Committee, hereby directs the state and Union Territory governments and state and Union Territory authorities to ensure the following measures within their areas of jurisdiction," the home secretary said. In the home ministry order, Bhalla said the availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important prerequisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19 and with the increasing cases, the medical oxygen supply will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states and union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-chairs-high-level-meet-on-oxygen-supply-calls-for-tough-action-against-hoarding-977254.html
22-04-2021||National||PM Modi cancels Bengal visit on April 23, says will be chairing high-level meetings on Covid-19 situation||As Covid-19 cases spiralled and health infrastructure in a number of states gasped for breath, the Central Government has been sent into a tizzy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled his proposed visit to West Bengal on Friday to address election rallies. "Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal," Modi tweeted, a remark which drew a stinging reaction from the Opposition Trinamool Congress. Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal. "MO-SHA (Modi Shah) were so busy campaigning, that the scientific taskforce on #COVID19 did not meet even ONCE during Feb-March despite a calamitous surge," said Trinamool Congress leader Derek O' Brien referring to a news report, which said India's Covid-19 Task Force did not meet in February and March this year despite a surge in Covid-19 cases. Rahul Gandhi had on April 18 announced to cancel all his election rallies in West Bengal citing the Covid-19 crisis and urged political parties to think how big a threat these rallies are to people. Trinamool Congress had also announced that Mamata Banerjee will not campaign in Kolkata anymore and has slashed time for all her election rallies in all districts.   While Congress had, citing Rahul's decision, asked Modi to do the same, BJP had initially mocked his decision with Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad saying "It's an alibi as the captain found his ship sinking". However, soon after BJP chief J P Nadda on April 19 announced to stop holding big public events in the state, flagging the need to break the chain of corona infection and hence limiting the gathering in rallies of Modi and Shah to not more than 500 persons. Opposition leaders have been sharply critical of the BJP poll rally blitzkrieg in West Bengal despite resurgent Covid-19 and were raising questions on the commitment of the ruling party to the people's lives. Modi's proposed election rallies for Saturday and Friday were clubbed together, which was supposed to be the last poll meetings of the PM in the poll-going state, where the election campaign ends on April 26. He had four election meetings scheduled tomorrow in Malda, Murshidabad, Kolkata, and Bolpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-cancels-bengal-visit-on-april-23-says-will-be-chairing-high-level-meetings-on-covid-19-situation-977260.html
22-04-2021||National||No evidence that new coronavirus variant is driving second wave, scientists say||A new lineage of the SARS-CoV-2 virus linked with high infectivity and immune escape mutation has been identified in India, but there is no evidence yet that it is driving the Covid surge either in the country or in West Bengal where it was located first, say scientists. The new lineage called B.1.618 is distinct from the B.1.617, also known as the ‘double mutant’ virus that contains two mutations, E484Q and L245R, and is believed to be behind the powerful second Covid-19 wave sweeping through India. “There is no need for alarm. Standard public health measures are needed,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the CSIR-Institute of Genomic and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in New Delhi. He described B.1.618 as a “lineage of interest” and said it is being investigated. B.1.618 is a new lineage of SARS-CoV-2 predominantly found in India and characterised by a distinct set of genetic variants including E484K, a major immune escape variant, Vinod Scaria, a researcher at CSIR-IGIB, explained in a lengthy Twitter thread earlier this week. E484K has been found in variants first identified in South Africa and Brazil, which scientists say is of particular concern as it helps the virus slip past the body's immune defenses. B.1.168 also carries the D614G mutation in the spike protein and has earlier been linked to increased infectivity. The spike protein enables the virus to infect human cells. The lineage was first isolated in India on October 25, 2020 and most recently on March 29, according to variant tracker ‘outbreak.info’ run by US-based Scripps Research. Sounding a note of caution while also trying to quell panic as India on Thursday reported 3.14 lakh new infections, scientists here stressed on the need for more research and the dogged continuance of Covid appropriate behaviour. “The new lineage is a combination of mutations that impart the properties of immune escape as well as more infectivity at individual mutation levels,” virologist Upasana Ray, from Kolkata’s CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, told PTI. “This lineage is a combination of multiple mutations -- deletions of amino acid tyrosine and histidine at positions 145 and 146 of the spike protein, mutation E484K that has been reported earlier to be contributing towards escape from immune response and D614G which was linked to increased infectivity,” she explained. However, the role of the deletion mutations is not well understood as of now, Ray said, adding that the collective role of all these mutations together is not well characterised. The initial sequences in the B.1.618 lineage were found in West Bengal. However, members of this lineage are also found in other parts of the world but do not have the full complement of variants as found in India. “The proportions of B.1.618 have been growing significantly in the recent months in the state of West Bengal, India. And along with B.1.617 forms a major lineage of SARS-CoV-2 in the state of West Bengal,” Scaria said in the Twitter thread. “There are many unknowns for this lineage at this moment including its capability to cause reinfections as well as vaccine breakthrough infections. Additional experimental data is also required to assess the efficacy of vaccines against this variant,” he said. At the moment, Scaria stressed, there is no conclusive evidence that the lineage is behind the epidemic in West Bengal. More focused epidemiological investigations will address these questions, he said. “Although many samples from West Bengal belongs to the lineage B.1.618, to connect this lineage with the rise in the cases of infections in West Bengal, more detailed sampling and investigation is required,” Ray added. West Bengal on Wednesday registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new Covid-19 cases, which took the tally in the state to 6,88,956, the health department said. The death toll also rose to 10,710 after 58 fresh fatalities were reported. Samiran Panda, head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said mutations are known to happen while viruses proliferate in number. Some of these mutants offer survival advantage to the virus while others don't. “What is important to understand from the public health perspective is that the new mutants, as well as the old circulating strains, get transmitted by the same route of transmission,” Panda told PTI. “Therefore, time tested proven prevention strategies should be strictly adhered to such as correct and consistent use of face mask, maintaining hand hygiene, maintaining physical distancing, and avoidance of mass gatherings should be adhered to,” he added. According to Panda, the transmission of these mutants will also be interrupted efficiently if these prevention measures are followed appropriately by 80 per cent or more of the people in the community. Making a distinction between lineages, strains, and variants, Agrawal said, “Technically there is only one strain here -- nCOV19 or SARS CoV-2. Lineage is in context of ancestry from the original. Variant is a broad way of saying the same thing.” Ray noted that a virus mutates continuously. Technically, when that happens, the changed form, with respect to the parent form, is called a mutant. “Based on the number and characteristics of the mutations, terms like lineages, variants and strains are used. We use the term strain when a variant displays distinct physical properties or behaves differently than the parent form,” Ray said. A strain can also be described as a variant that became dominant in the population, she added. Agarwal had earlier told PTI that in India, different areas have different variants that are dominant. For example, he said, in Punjab and surrounding areas, the B.1.1.7 UK variant is common. In Maharashtra and Gujarat, the B.1.167 variant is dominant. Similarly, in southern India, the N440K mutation is more dominant, although it does not have a variant name yet. “All variants are starting to be seen across India also. The most common strains are the normal ones. Only in few states, variants are dominant and that too different in different parts,” Agrawal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-that-new-coronavirus-variant-is-driving-second-wave-scientists-say-977265.html
22-04-2021||National||Registration for Covid vaccine on CoWIN for those above 18 to begin from April 28||Registration for the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, covering those above 18 years, will begin from April 28 on the CoWIN platform, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. “Are you 18+? On April 28, register for vaccination against Covid-19 on www.cowin.gov.in,” the minister said adding that the third phase of the vaccination drive would begin from May 1. The announcement came on a day India reported more than three lakh new cases of Covid-19, the highest number of cases in a single day with the death toll rising by 2,104 taking the total deaths to 1,84,657. According to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, the vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups comprising healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 45 years of age in government vaccination centres, which receive doses from the Government of India. Vaccine manufacturers would make an advance declaration of the price for 50% supply that would be available to state governments in the open market before May 1. However, the Covid-19 vaccines will not be available in pharmacies or chemist shops in the open market and all beneficiaries will have to register through the CoWIN platform. The policy allows for use of fully ready-to-use imported vaccine entirely other than the Government of India channel. On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 13.23 crore. Cumulatively, 13,23,30,644 vaccine doses have been administered through 19,28,118 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am, the ministry said. These include 92,19,544 healthcare workers (HCWs who have taken the first dose and 58,52,071 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,16,32,050 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 59,36,530 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,78,67,118 and 57,60,331 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively; 4,44,28,884 and 16,34,116 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/registration-for-covid-vaccine-on-cowin-for-those-above-18-to-begin-from-april-28-977270.html
22-04-2021||National||How to register for Covid-19 vaccine for those 18 and above: Everything you need to know||Registration for vaccination against Covid-19 for those aged above 18 will begin on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app from April 28. Vaccination for those above 18 will begin May 1, 2021. Regardless of government or private centre, every individual has to register on the CoWIN portal to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Here is a step-by-step guide on how to register on CoWin for your Covid-19 vaccine: Step 2:  Enter the OTP and the next step involves filling in details that include Name, Date of Birth etc. Ensure no errors at this stage.  Step 3: Next, a government Photo ID needs to be uploaded on the portal. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID, Passport, Driving License and PAN Card are some of the key documents that can be used.  Step 4: After this stage, choose the vaccination centre, it can be either a private or a government entity.  Step 5: Select the date and time for the options. Sometimes, if you can't find the required slot, check for subsequent days or choose a different vaccination centre.  Step 6: An appointment confirmation letter will be generated, carry that and a Photo ID (physical copy) to the vaccination centre at the designated time and date. Can I reschedule my appointment? There is an option to change the time slot but before the scheduled day. If you miss your appointment, you can choose another day and time by clicking on the “Reschedule” tab. When can I book my appointment for my second vaccine dose? Once you receive your first shot, there is no need to register again for the second dose. The system will schedule an appointment for you automatically on the 29th day following your first dose at the same vaccination centre.  How many people can register using a single login id? Up to four people can be registered using a single phone number but four different Photo IDs need to be uploaded. What are the other registration options? Besides self-registration, the government provides two other options: on-site registration and facilitated cohort registration. Walk-in registration is available and in the case of the other, the local officials will aid those who are unable to opt for the other two. Other things you need to know — You cannot donate blood for a month after getting a vaccine dose. — You need to follow all Covid-19 protocols such as wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and washing your hands regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-for-those-18-and-above-everything-you-need-to-know-977275.html
22-04-2021||National||Need concrete action at high speed and on large scale to combat climate change, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday announced the launch of the "India-US climate and clean energy Agenda 2030 partnership” as he attended a virtual conclave convened by American President Joe Biden. “As a climate-responsible developing country, India welcomes partners to create templates of sustainable development in India. These can also help other developing countries, who need affordable access to green finance and clean technologies,” Modi said as he joined nearly 40 other leaders at a virtual climate summit convened by Biden. “President Biden and I are launching the ‘India-US climate and clean energy Agenda 2030 partnership’. Together, we will help mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies, and enable green collaborations,” said Modi. The Prime Minister called for “concrete action” by the international community to mitigate the impact of climate change. “We need such action at a high speed, on a large scale, and with a global scope.” He also said that India was doing its part despite development challenges. He noted that India’s ambitious renewable energy target of 450 Gigawatts by 2030 showed its commitment. “Despite our development challenges, we have taken many bold steps on clean energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and biodiversity. That is why we are among the few countries whose NDCs (Nationally Determined Contributions) are 2-degree-Celsius compatible.” He said that the Government of India had also encouraged global initiatives like International Solar Alliance, LeadIT, and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-concrete-action-at-high-speed-and-on-large-scale-to-combat-climate-change-says-pm-modi-977277.html
22-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa says Covid-19 situation in state has become ‘uncontrollable’||In your evening news brief, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa says Covid-19 situation in the state has become ‘uncontrollable’; India will start receiving Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine by May-end and the US pledged to slash its greenhouse gas emissions by 50-52% from 2005 levels by 2030.  Here is the top news of April 22, 2021: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who was discharged from hospital on Thursday, six days after he tested positive for Covid-19, has convened a meeting of ministers to discuss the pandemic situation, which he said had become “uncontrollable”. Yediyurappa was undergoing treatment in hospital as he was infected with the coronavirus on April 16, the second time in nine months. Yediyurappa, 78, is likely to remain home for the next couple of days following the advice of doctors. “The situation is deteriorating with each passing day. In every house, 3-4 people are infected,” Yediyurappa said. India will start receiving Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine by end-May, its local distributor Dr. Reddy's Laboratories told Reuters on Thursday, a later than expected schedule that could slow the country's immunisation drive. "We are targeting to have the first batches imported by (fiscal) Q1, and are trying our best to have them by end-May," a Dr. Reddy’s spokesman told Reuters. "Sputnik is going to be made in India in a few months. We expect the India-made vaccine to start being available from the second quarter of the fiscal (year)." The Biden administration on Thursday pledged to slash US greenhouse gas emissions by 50 per cent-52 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030, a new target it hopes will spur other big emitter countries to raise their ambition to combat climate change. The goal, unveiled at the start of a two-day climate summit hosted by Democratic President Joe Biden, comes as the United States seeks to reclaim global leadership in the fight against global warming after former President Donald Trump withdrew the country from international efforts to cut emissions. It also marks an important milestone in Biden's broader plan to decarbonize the US economy entirely by 2050 - an agenda he says can create millions of good-paying jobs but which many Republicans say they fear will damage the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-says-covid-19-situation-in-state-has-become-uncontrollable-977288.html
22-04-2021||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court for inquiry into Nashik incident||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday for a direction to set up a judicial inquiry commission to enquire into the oxygen leak case at a Nashik hospital which claimed the lives of 24 patients. The plea by NGO 'Save Them India Foundation' asked the court to ensure registration of criminal case with regard to the incident at Zakir Hussain Municipality Hospital at Nashik on Wednesday. Besides, the petitioner also asked the court to direct each state to set up a high-powered panel to channelise and administer the distribution policies with regard to oxygen, Ramdesivir drug, allocation of beds in the hospitals, and vaccination. It claimed non-action by states in administering distribution policy for the Remdesivir drug and medical oxygen has resulted in the greater consequence in the form of illegal black market and hoarding and arbitrary pricing, making people to suffer during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-for-inquiry-into-nashik-incident-977295.html
22-04-2021||National||Rajnath speaks to Indonesian defence minister; assures support to trace missing submarine||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday spoke to his Indonesian counterpart Gen Prabowo Subianto and assured him of India's "full support" to Indonesia in tracing a missing submarine with 53 people on board. The Indian Navy has already sent a deep submergence rescue vessel (DSRV) to support the Indonesian Navy's effort to trace the submarine that went missing on Wednesday during military exercise around the Bali Strait. "Spoke to the Defence Minister of Indonesia, General Prabowo Subianto over the phone and shared my pain over the news of missing submarine Nanggala and its crew members. India is extending its full support to the ongoing Indonesian rescue efforts," Singh tweeted. Spoke to the Defence Minister of Indonesia, General Prabowo Subianto over the phone and shared my pain over the news of missing submarine Nanggala and its crew members. India is extending its full support to the ongoing Indonesian rescue efforts. Singh said India is always committed to assist its strategic partners during times of need and that Gen Subianto has acknowledged and appreciated India's support to his country. "I have already directed the @indiannavy to move its Deep Submergence Rescue Vessel (DSRV) to Indonesia. I have also tasked the Indian Air Force to see the feasibility of induction of the DSRV intervention system by air," he said. Earlier, Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said India is among a few countries globally which are capable of undertaking search and rescue of a disabled submarine through a DSRV. He said the Indian Navy's DSRV system can locate any submarine at a depth of 1,000 metres utilising its state of the art side scan sonar (SSS) and remotely operated vehicle (ROV). "After the submarine is successfully located, another sub module of DSRV- the submarine rescue vehicle (SRV) - mates with the submarine to rescue the trapped personnel. The SRV can also be used to provide emergency supplies to the submarine," he said. Under the framework of comprehensive strategic partnership between India and Indonesia, the two navies share a strong partnership of operational cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-speaks-to-indonesian-defence-minister-assures-support-to-trace-missing-submarine-977311.html
22-04-2021||National||Government permits ICMR to conduct study on using drones to deliver Covid-19 vaccine ||The Centre is now exploring the use of drones for the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines to remote locations. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday granted a conditional exemption to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for carrying out a feasibility study of the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines using drones. The ICMR will conduct the feasibility study along with IIT, Kanpur for the Covid-19 Vaccine Delivery Drone which is being developed with a Bengaluru-based startup CDSpace Robotics Pvt Ltd. Vaccine-maker Bharat Biotech is also part of the project. According to the IIT-Kanpur website, CDSpace Robotics, a company owned by IIT-K alumni Nikhil Upadhye, have already demonstrated a payload capability of 4 kg. “We plan to demonstrate that the vaccines can be transported safely to remote locations, with the vials remaining intact, over a distance of 50 kms,” Upadhye told DH. The drone will have the capacity to ferry a payload of 5 kg over an aerial distance of 50 km, he said adding that the feasibility study will be carried out at IIT, Kanpur. The ministry said it has granted “conditional exemption” from the ‘Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021’ so that it can conduct a feasibility study on using drones to deliver Covid-19 vaccine. The permission exemption is valid for a period of one year or until further orders. CDSpace Robotics had earlier demonstrated transport of blood samples over a 36 km distance from Tehri to New Tehri in Uttarakhand using drones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-permits-icmr-to-conduct-study-on-using-drones-to-deliver-covid-19-vaccine-977314.html
22-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Ambulance 'hijacked' to ferry critical patient to hospital in UP||In an incident reflecting desperation of the people amid rising cases of Covid 19 and shortage of oxygen, an ambulance, which was on way to take a critically ill patient to hospital, was allegedly 'hijacked' by the attendants of another critical patient in the state capital of Lucknow. According to the reports, the attendants of a Covid 19 positive patient had called an ambulance on Wednesday to shift the patient to another hospital after the hospital where he was admitted ran short of oxygen. The driver of the ambulance said that he was stopped by some people on Campbell Road and was forced to ferry another 'critical' patient to the hospital. ''The ambulance was surrounded by around half a dozen people....they took out the keys...they asked me to take a patient to the hospital...they said the patient needed oxygen...they threatened me with dire consequences if I did not cooperate,'' the driver said. He said that he took the patient to several hospitals but none of them admitted the patient. ''The patient died in the ambulance,'' he added. Incidentally the patient for which the ambulance had been called in the first place also died as the other ambulance took several hours to reach there, reports said. Several UP hospitals have run short of oxygen and have asked the attendants of the patients admitted there to shift them elsewhere.  Lucknow based Mayo Hospital had even put up a board outside the hospital informing the attendants that there was no oxygen at the hospital and that they shift their patients to some other hospitals. At least five Covid 19 positive patients died allegedly owing to shortage of oxygen at a hospital in UP's Aliagrh town, about 450 kilometres from here, on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ambulance-hijacked-to-ferry-critical-patient-to-hospital-in-up-977315.html
22-04-2021||National||PM Modi to hold meetings on Covid-19 situation on April 23||Amid states grappling with an oxygen supply crisis and no end in sight to the menacing spread of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with Chief Ministers of high burden states on the pandemic situation. PM Modi's meeting with state CMs comes a day after the Supreme Court sought a national plan from the Centre on supply of oxygen, essential drugs and vaccination and called the present situation on Covid-19 "alarming" and "like a national emergency." In his address to the nation on Tuesday, the Prime Minister has ruled out a national lockdown and asked even the states to treat this only as a "last resort" while underlining that the effort is to save economic activities and livelihood as well along with saving lives. A number of states have given an SOS to the Centre on oxygen supply to hospitals while Chief Ministers from Opposition parties have also raised questions on phase 3 of the vaccination drive in which the Centre has allowed states and private sector to buy vaccines from manufacturers. The meeting with Chief Ministers is expected to be a brainstorming one as differences in approach of Centre and some states have also come to fore on issues like lockdown. Before the crucial meeting with chief ministers, Modi will review the Covid-19 related situation with top officials from ministries in an internal meeting. After the meeting with the CMs, the Prime Minister will hold a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country via video conferencing. He has held a few similar meetings with pharma manufacturers earlier as well. Holding a high-level meeting on oxygen supply and availability, Modi on Thursday directed the officials to ensure that oxygen supply to various states happens in a smooth, unhindered manner and assured that various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cryogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them. Top officials,  who attended the meeting informed the PM that an elaborate exercise is being done in coordination with the states to identify their demand for oxygen and ensure adequate supply accordingly. The PM was briefed on how oxygen supply to states is steadily increasing. Against the present demand from 20 states of 6,785 MT/ day of Liquid Medical Oxygen, the Government of India has from 21st April, allocated 6,822 MT/ day to these states. It was noted that in the last few days, availability of Liquid Medical Oxygen has been increased by about 3,300 MT/ day with contributions from private and public steel plants, industries, oxygen manufacturers as well as through prohibition of supply of oxygen for non-essential industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-hold-meetings-on-covid-19-situation-on-april-23-977319.html
22-04-2021||National||Maharashtra orders inquiry against Param Bir Singh over graft charges||The Maharashtra Home Department has ordered an inquiry against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with the allegations of corruption levelled against him by an inspector, sources said on Thursday. As per the orders, Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey has been asked to probe the allegations against Singh, they said. The allegations were made by police inspector Anup Dange, who was suspended last year and reinstated in the force recently. As per Dange's claims, Singh had demanded Rs two crore from him to revoke his suspension. The inspector had written a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) about Singh's demand. Singh had, however, denied the allegations levelled by the inspector. Based on the complaint, the home department ordered an inquiry into the charges against Singh, the sources said. Maharashtra DGP was not available for his comment on the issue. This is a second inquiry that the state government has ordered against Singh. The home department had earlier asked the DGP to conduct an inquiry against Singh for alleged dereliction of duty in connection with the probe into the recovery of an explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai on February 25. Param Bir Singh, who was under flak for the handling of the case, was unceremoniously transferred from the prestigious post of Mumbai police chief on March 17. On March 20, Singh had written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that the then Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and hotels. Deshmukh later resigned as a minister after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the allegations made by Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-orders-inquiry-against-param-bir-singh-over-graft-charges-977323.html
22-04-2021||National||Kerala sees close to 27k Covid cases in biggest spike||Kerala reported 26,995 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, in the highest single day surge so far, taking the infection count to 13,22,054 and those under treatment to over 1.5 lakh. As many as 6,370 have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 11,60,472. The toll has climbed to 5,028 with 28 additional deaths,Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Ernakulam recorded the highest number of cases, accounting for 4,396 cases, followed by Kozhikode with 3,372 cases. Thrissur, Malappuram, Kottayam and Thiruvananthapuram reported over 2000 cases today,Vijayan told reporters here. As part of the second mass testing, 1,40,671 samples were collected on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, including these samples, 1,35,177 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 19.97 per cent. According to a government release, 1,47,28,177 samples have been tested so far. Of the positive cases, 69 are health workers, 275 had come from outside the state and 24,921 were infected through contact. At least 3,55,209 people are presently under observation, including 15,791 in hospitals. In Ernakulam district,25,724 people are undergoing treatment for the infection and in Kozhikode 20,554.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-sees-close-to-27k-covid-cases-in-biggest-spike-977330.html
22-04-2021||National||Calcutta HC expresses displeasure over EC’s implementation of Covid-19 protocols||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday expressed its displeasure with the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) over its enforcement of Covid-19 health protocols during the West Bengal Assembly elections. The Division Bench of Chief Justice T B N Radhakrishnan and Justice Arjit Banerjee stated that the ECI could not fulfill its duties just by issuing circulars and holding meetings on Covid-19 health norms. The Division Bench further stated that they were not satisfied with the materials presented on record stating that the ECI and its officers on ground in West Bengal had enforced the circulars. The Division Bench was hearing three Public Interest Litigation (PIL). The PILs expressed concern that the people participating in the ongoing election campaign were not adhering to Covid-19 health protocols which may lead to a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the State. The hearing was held through a video conference. “ We are not satisfied with the materials on record to state that the Election Commission of India and its officers on ground in West Bengal have enforced their circulars,” the Division Bench stated. The Division Bench stated that it was sure that the circulars issued by the ECI are “not merely advisories to be wrapped up by political parties” or those involved in the “political propaganda” or even the public at large. It also stated that the circulars of the ECI were the “route map and protocol for human behaviour” which includes political parties, their workers, the people and responsible management of officers including police working under the ECI. “The circulars of the Election Commission of India show the route map and the protocol for human behaviour, meaning thereby the behaviour of the political parties, their workers, the people at large and responsible management by the officers including the police and other forces under the command of the Election Commission of India,” the Division Bench stated. The High Court instructed the ECI to file an affidavit by Friday. “We expect learned counsel for the Election Commission of India to return to make submissions with a very short affidavit reflecting on whatever we have stated herein above,” stated the Division Bench. It listed the matter for hearing on Friday considering the urgency of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/calcutta-hc-expresses-displeasure-over-ec-s-implementation-of-covid-19-protocols-977331.html
22-04-2021||National||Indian Navy dispatches submarine rescue vessel to help Indonesian submarine||The Indian Navy dispatched its Deep Submergence Rescue Vessel (DSRV) on Thursday to assist Tentara Nasional Indonesia-Angkatan Laut (TNI AL-Indonesian Navy) in search and rescue efforts for the Indonesian submarine KRI Nanggala which was reported missing on Wednesday. The Indian Navy received an alert through the International Submarine Escape and Rescue Liaison Office (ISMERLO), regarding the missing Indonesian submarine. The submarine was reportedly exercising in a location 25 miles North of Bali with a crew of 53 personnel. “I have already directed the Indian Navy to move the DSRV to Indonesia. I have also tasked the Indian Air Force to see the feasibility of induction of the DSRV intervention system by air,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. Spoke to the Defence Minister of Indonesia, General Prabowo Subianto over the phone and shared my pain over the news of missing submarine Nanggala and its crew members. India is extending its full support to the ongoing Indonesian rescue efforts. “Spoke to the Defence Minister of Indonesia, General Prabowo Subianto, over the phone and shared my pain over the news of the missing submarine Nanggala and its crew members. India is extending its full support to the ongoing Indonesian rescue efforts. The Government of India is always committed to assist its strategic partners during the time of necessity. General Subianto has acknowledged and appreciated India’s support to Indonesia,” Singh said. The Government of India is always committed to assist its strategic partners during the times of necessity. General Subianto has acknowledged and appreciated India’s support to Indonesia. “Submarine rescue is required to be undertaken when a submarine is reported to be missing or sunk and specialised equipment is required for the underwater search to locate the disabled submarine and rescue the personnel who are trapped inside the submarine,” Indian Navy officials said. India is amongst the few countries in the world capable of undertaking the search and rescue of a disabled submarine through a DSRV. Indian Navy’s DSRV system can locate a submarine up to 1,000m-depth utilising its state of the art Side Scan Sonar (SSS) and Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV). After the submarine is successfully located, another sub-module of DSRV— the Submarine Rescue Vehicle (SRV)— mates with the submarine to rescue the trapped personnel. The SRV can also be used to provide emergency supplies to the submarine. Under the framework of comprehensive strategic partnership between India and Indonesia, the Indian and Indonesian navies share a strong partnership of operational cooperation. The two navies have been exercising regularly in the past and have developed synergy and interoperability which is considered important for the present mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-dispatches-submarine-rescue-vessel-to-help-indonesian-submarine-977333.html
22-04-2021||National||NGT's direction to Jal Shakti Ministry on groundwater extraction for swimming pools||Insisting that over-exploitation of groundwater should be prevented, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Ministry of Jal Shakti to consider the extent to which groundwater extraction can be allowed for swimming pools in water-deficit areas. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said since drinking water is the first priority, no general permission should be given to any commercial entity to draw groundwater without a proper environmental impact assessment. Hearing a plea against reckless extraction of groundwater for commercial purposes at the cost of causing a further shortage of drinking water, the NGT also directed the Ministry of Jal Shakti to ensure the proper functioning of the Central Ground Water Authority on groundwater management. "Ministry of Jal Shakti may consider the extent to which groundwater extraction can be allowed for swimming pools in water-deficit areas, as per data available with it. The applicant is at liberty to make any further representation to the ministry," the bench said. The petitioner Neha Singh mentioned the extraction of groundwater for swimming pools in over-exploited areas, in terms of groundwater, and also referred to swimming pools in the houses of film celebrities in Mumbai, based on media reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngts-direction-to-jal-shakti-ministry-on-groundwater-extraction-for-swimming-pools-977374.html
22-04-2021||National||Nadda speaks to BJP MPs from Gujarat, Rajasthan on campaign to curb Covid-19||BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday reviewed the welfare work being undertaken by its state units in Gujarat and Rajasthan to fight Covid-19. Nadda, who held a virtual meeting with party MPs from both the states, will be speaking to all parliamentarians of the organisation in the coming days. BJP MP and its chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said Nadda exhorted MPs to spearhead the drive to distribute masks and sanitisers besides promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour among people as part of the party's "apna booth, corona mukt" campaign (Our booth is free of coronavirus). He asked them to dedicate themselves to serving people to deal with this crisis while following the local guidelines, he said. Asking them to run a campaign for blood and plasma donation in coordination with the local administration, Nadda told them to help in oxygen supply to the best of their abilities. The BJP president asked the MPs to keep in touch with party workers to deal with the problems different places may be facing, a party statement added. He also told them to raise awareness about the ongoing vaccination programme so that more and more eligible people get the jab. BJP chiefs of the two state units besides party general secretaries Bhupender Yadav and Arun Singh also attended the meeting. With the Covid-19 cases surging, the BJP has launched the campaign to help people curb the infection. Nadda will be speaking to the party's MPs from all states in the coming days in a number of virtual meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-speaks-to-bjp-mps-from-gujarat-rajasthan-on-campaign-to-curb-covid-19-977382.html
22-04-2021||National||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari tests positive for Covid-19||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. He announced the news in his Twitter handle.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-tests-positive-for-covid-19-977389.html
22-04-2021||National||Now, tech to trace origins of Alphonso mango back to orchards||Relished a juicy alphonso mango? Now get to know where it was grown. A simple scan of a sticker pasted on the fruit could assure the consumer of the origins of the mango in the Konkan region and even identify the farm where it was harvested from. “Establishing traceability for original Alphonso mangoes will not only help consumers to get value for their money, but also curb product falsification and mislabelling,” Vivek Bhide, chairperson of the Konkan Alphonso Mango Producers and Sellers Cooperative Association said. Alphonso mangoes are grown in the Konkan region of Maharashtra and the variant was granted a Geographic Indicator tag in 2020. “Our solution is based on technology architecture that links data already logged by food producers and suppliers, tracks each piece of fruit based on a unique sticker,” Suniti Gupta, CEO of Innoterra Tech said. By scanning the QR code sticker on the mango, consumers will get to know how the fruit has travelled from the farm to the retailer – right from the location of the farm, the batch number, processing unit, packaging unit, shipping information and a complete timeline of these steps. Gupta said the company was working on integrating the solution with blockchain to make the supply chain data verifiable. Over 15,000 metric tonnes of mangoes are exported every year to the Middle East, UK, China and Europe, where they have to compete with similar variant of the fruit grown in Malawi in Africa which is also sold as ‘Alphonso’. Gupta said traceability was especially relevant for all GI-tagged products, as authenticity and source of origin were very important "in ensuring the right value for producers.” An Innoterra Tech statement said complete traceability of the fruit to the origin will also help the authorities curb false claims by fruit producers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-tech-to-trace-origins-of-alphonso-mango-back-to-orchards-977390.html
22-04-2021||National||Government plans scheme to increase hyperscale data centres in India by 10-fold, says IT secretary||The government is planning to come up with a scheme to incentivise investments in hyperscale data centres in the country and increase the current capacity by over 10-fold in a short period, a senior IT ministry official said on Thursday. Electronics and IT Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney said there has been a good response to production-linked incentive schemes for which application windows are open and the scheme around hyperscale data centres will be beneficial for those who manufacture high end servers. "Within the MeitY, we have prepared a policy on hyperscale data centres and also a scheme for incentivising investments in hyperscale data centres. The current scale of hyperscale data centres here in India is counted in terms of power consumed. "It comes to 200 megawatts. Our effort will be to come out with a policy and scheme that aims 10-fold growth in this in a short time span," Sawhney said at a virtual summit organised by IT hardware makers MAIT. He said the government has set up a mission for designing microprocessors and has also floated expressions of interest for setting up electronic chip plants. "MeitY has come to the market with a request for a semiconductor fab. This has already elicited some response and we will be closing this by April 30. "Based on the helpful response, we will be formulating a scheme and come out with proposals for setting up semiconductor fab in India," Sawhney said. The government has also reached out to companies for setting up display plants in the country and exploring the interests of various players in the segment, Sawhney said. "Both for foundry and display fab, there is a huge demand as we move forward over the next 4-5 years. Foundries account for only 20 per cent chips that get used in electronic manufacturing. "Even at this 20 per cent, there is a room for at least three fab foundries with capacity of something 30,000-40,000 units of 12 inch wafer per month. Similarly, there is burgeoning demand for displays," he said. The IT secretary urged industry players to focus on new products that are yet to be created with 5G and internet of things products knocking on the door. He said that every sector of the economy will need electronics. "Do not focus entirely on existing products, it is a new product segment that is going to be overwhelmingly large" Sawhney said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-plans-scheme-to-increase-hyperscale-data-centres-in-india-by-10-fold-says-it-secretary-977391.html
22-04-2021||National||Distribution of oxygen, medicine to be even: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the distribution of essential services and supplies of oxygen and medicines must be done in an even handed manner as per advice of the health authorities. "The situation in various parts of the country is grim. There seems to be a sudden surge in the number of Covid patients and mortality. Other than vaccination which is prophylactic in nature, Covid can be treated only be some drugs such as Remdesivir. Oxygen to the patients is also said to be an essential part of the treatment," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. After registering a Suo Motu case as "Distribution of Essential Supplies and Services during pandemic", the bench, also comprising Justice L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat noted that a certain amount of panic has been generated in the country. In its written order, the court asked the Union government to place before it national plan dealing with the supplies "which undoubtedly take into account relevant factors like severity, susceptibility, the number of people affected and the local availability of resources". The top court sought to know from the Union and all state governments as why uniform order should not be passed in matters of supply of oxygen; essential drugs; method and manner of vaccination; and declaration of lockdown. Among other points, it asked the Centre to respond by Friday about coordination in logistical support for inter-state and intra-state transportation and distribution of the resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/distribution-of-oxygen-medicine-to-be-even-supreme-court-977396.html
22-04-2021||National||HC tells Centre to ensure oxygen supply to Delhi hospitals||The Delhi High Court Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the national capital has turned “precarious” with many hospitals running out of oxygen as it directed the Centre to ensure the gas is supplied to the city as per the planned allocation and without any hindrances. "We all know that this country is being run by god," an anguish bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said while emphasising that all measures should be taken for removing obstructions in the transportation of oxygen. If the government wants it can do anything and can even make “heaven meet earth,” it said. The High Court directed all the authorities concerned, which are bound by the order passed under the Disaster Management Act, to ensure strict compliance of the Centre’s direction that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including medical oxygen. The bench made it clear that non-compliance of the order will be viewed seriously since it is going to result in grave loss of lives and will invite criminal action. “We also direct all the authorities concerned who are bound by the order passed under the Disaster Management Act to ensure strict compliance. “We also direct the Central Government to ensure allocation of oxygen takes place as planned and transportation of the tankers takes place unhindered,” the bench said and added that they shudder to think what will be the condition in other states. It also directed that adequate security be provided to lorries transporting oxygen so that they move without obstructions and dedicated corridors be made for transportation of oxygen to hospitals. The Centre informed that an order has been issued to all the states and union territories to ensure that no restriction shall be imposed on the movement of medical oxygen between the states. The Delhi government claimed the amount of oxygen that was to come here from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-tells-centre-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-hospitals-977397.html
22-04-2021||National Politics||Nation seeing Gandhis' shameful arrogance when everyone needs to come together: BJP||The BJP lashed out at the Congress on Wednesday over its criticism of the Centre's handling of the coronavirus pandemic, saying the country was seeing the Gandhi family's "shameful arrogance" at a time when everyone needed to come together to fight the virus. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Congress of spreading "fake news and panic" instead of being responsible in this hour of crisis. Hitting out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh said: "This man will end up becoming a big nuisance to his party also. Now, he targets one of the largest vaccine producing company. Shame on you." Santosh was reacting to Gandhi's tweet about "vaccine discrimination" by the government and the insinuation that the Serum Institute's pricing for the vaccine was a case of the Centre helping its "friends". Gandhi had also compared the government's vaccine strategy with demonetisation, which he claimed helped industrialists flourish and made common people suffer. Hitting back, Patra asked why do the Gandhis "hate" enterprising Indians so much and asked if it was because this makes people "not dependent" on the Gandhis. "Gandhis and the Congress wanted vaccinations to be opened to all and their state governments wanted to be able to procure them," Patra said. "Now, when they are allowed to do so, Rahul Gandhi is back to saying some private companies will benefit from it." Hailing the role of private sector during the crisis, the BJP leader said it was behind the country having vaccines. If the nation has COVID tests, it is because of private companies, he claimed, adding that hospitals, doctors, healthcare workers of the private sector were also going out of their way to save lives. "From oxygen to medicines, it's private companies that are helping the nation out. According to Gandhis, we should throw all of them out and seek help from Rajiv Gandhi foundation?" Patra asked. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the Centre over oxygen exports in the past year and alleged that it failed to deliver oxygen to its own despairing citizens. Santhosh accused her of peddling "false news" and creating panic. Only 4 MT of medical oxygen was exported and the rest was industrial oxygen, and now the production has reached 7000 MT, he said. Patra said the Modi government was actively coordinating with state governments for ensuring adequate supply of medical essentials, including oxygen. "Perhaps political leaders who don't give time to governance may not know, but central and state governments are in touch almost daily on matters like oxygen supply. The pharma has also ramped up its supply of medicines," he added. Patra also questioned the silence of the Gandhis about the situation in Maharashtra, by far the worst affected state in the country, and Chhattisgarh, another state which has been hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic. The Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh is the only state whose ministers have spread "falsehoods" about the COVID vaccine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nation-seeing-gandhis-shameful-arrogance-when-everyone-needs-to-come-together-bjp-977071.html
22-04-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena questions PM Modi's suggestion of keeping lockdown as last resort||The Shiv Sena on Thursday questioned the basis on which Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested states to look at lockdown as the last resort, and said despite the existing restrictions the Covid-19 cases are not coming down. A day after Modi addressed the nation, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday imposed several new lockdown-like restrictions, including a ban on inter-city and inter-district travel, and allowed only those working in the essential services to travel in local trains in Mumbai. "Several ministers in Maharashtra have suggested that the state be put under complete lockdown for at least 15 days. CM Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision on this. But, on what basis did the PM advice to avoid a lockdown?" it asked. The editorial said the Maharashtra board's Class 10 exams have been cancelled and the central government has also scrapped the CBSE Class 10 exams. The situation in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka "has gone out of control", it claimed, adding that the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has recommended a two-week lockdown in Gujarat. "The situation is not improving despite strict curbs in Maharashtra," the Marathi daily said. It was felt that the prime minister will advice citizens on how to face such a situation, the editorial said. The economy is devastated and those who survive the pandemic will "die of suffocation under the crumbling economy", it claimed. It said the PM admitted that the Covid-19 situation has worsened in the country, but stopped short of saying what should be done to end the crisis. He says the Covid-19 crisis needs to be tackled unitedly, but his concept of "unity" doesn't involve the opposition parties, the Marathi daily said. "If the prime minister had stopped his West Bengal poll rallies on time, the spread of Covid-19 could have been checked," the Marathi publication said. "Lakhs of people from different parts of the country who were in West Bengal have spread the virus in their respective states. The country has got only coronavirus from the Kumbh mela and political melas," the editorial claimed. Political leaders need to exercise self-restraint and only then they get the moral right to preach the people, it said. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 67,468 fresh coronavirus cases, taking its tally beyond the 40-lakh mark, while 568 more patients succumbed to the infection, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-questions-pm-modis-suggestion-of-keeping-lockdown-as-last-resort-977184.html
22-04-2021||National Politics||Vaccine policy discriminatory, reverse it: Sonia Gandhi to PM||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to roll back the new Covid-19 vaccine policy contending that it was arbitrary and discriminatory. “...how can the same vaccine manufactured by the same company have three different prices? There is no rationale or justification that allows for such arbitrary distinction,” Gandhi said in a letter to the Prime Minister. Gandhi was referring to differential pricing offered by Serum Institute of India to sell the Covishield vaccine at Rs 150/dose to the central government, Rs 400/dose to the state government and Rs 600/dose for private hospitals. “This means that citizens will be compelled to pay these high rates to be vaccinated. This will also bleed the finances of state governments,” she said. The Congress president wondered how the Modi government can permit such brazen profiteering from people’s misery. “At a time when medical resources are scarce, hospital beds are unavailable, oxygen supply and availability of essential medicine is dwindling rapidly, why is your Government allowing a policy that reeks of such insensitivity,” she said. Gandhi urged the government to ensure “transparent and equitable” allocation of the 50% central government quota of vaccines in line with the spirit of cooperative federalism. She accused the Centre of completely abdicating its responsibility to provide free vaccination for citizens between the age groups of 18-45 years. “This is complete abandonment of the government’s responsibility towards our youth,” Gandhi said. The Congress President said any reasonable person will agree on the benefit of a uniform price for vaccination and urged the prime minister to intervene immediately and “reverse this ill-considered decision”. “It is surprising that despite the harsh lessons of last year and the pain inflicted on our citizens, the Government continues to follow an arbitrary and discriminatory policy, which promises to exacerbate existing challenges,” she said in her letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vaccine-policy-discriminatory-reverse-it-sonia-gandhi-to-pm-977191.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||J&K govt sets up STF to terminate jobs of employees involved in 'anti-national activities'||Jammu and Kashmir administration has set up a special task force (STF) to identify and scrutinize the cases of employees involved in activities prejudicial to the security of the state for terminating them from service. An order issued by the General Administration Department reads that the STF has been constituted under the chairmanship of additional director general of police, Criminal Investigation Department to scrutinize the cases of employees suspected of activities requiring action under the proviso (C) of Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India. Under the proviso (C) of Article 311(2), the government is empowered to terminate an employee without recourse to the normal procedure if it is satisfied that his/ her retention in public service is prejudicial to the security of the State. The STF also comprises Inspector General of Police Kashmir/Jammu, representative of Home, Law department not below the rank of additional secretary, representative of Law and other concerned departments not below the rank of additional secretaries.  The STF has been empowered to compile records of such employees and refer it to the committee constituted on July 30 last year.  The committee headed by J&K Chief Secretary was set up to scrutinize and recommend cases under the proviso (C ) of Article 311(2) According to the GAD order issued this evening, the STF headed by ADGP, CID has also been empowered to engage with other members of Terror Monitoring Group(TMG) for identifying such other employees, as necessary It is worthwhile to mention that the PDP-BJP alliance in 2016 had terminated 12 employees for indulging in anti-national activities.  The employees were terminated on the charges of leading protests in their respective areas during the 2016 unrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-sets-up-stf-to-terminate-jobs-of-employees-involved-in-anti-national-activities-977062.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Former Delhi minister AK Walia succumbs to Covid-19||Senior Congress leader and former Delhi government minister AK Walia died of Covid-19 in the early hours of Thursday, party leaders said. He was 72. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar condoled the death of former MLA, saying he breathed his last at the city's Apollo Hospital. Party leaders said Walia, who represented the Laxmi Nagar constituency in the assembly for four terms, was admitted to the hospital a few days ago after testing positive for coronavirus. He passed away around 1.30 AM Thursday, they said. AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also condoled Walia's death, saying he promoted positive politics in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-delhi-minister-ak-walia-succumbs-to-covid-19-977130.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Small hospitals in Delhi grapple with limited oxygen supply||Several small hospitals in Delhi struggled to replenish oxygen supply for coronavirus patients on Thursday morning, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight.   Hospitals in the city have been grappling with a shortage of oxygen supply amid spiralling Covid-19 cases. The Delhi High Court had on Wednesday night ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it “seems human life is not important for the state”. The central government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, assured the court that it will facilitate supply of the increased allocation of 480 metric tonnes of oxygen to Delhi and the same will reach the national capital without any obstructions. However, several private hospitals complained that no help has reached them.       Officials at the 210-bed Mata Chanan Devi Hospital sent an SOS to the Delhi government as their “oxygen supplier didn't fulfil commitments”. “Around 40 patients are in ICU. We got 500 kg oxygen last night. The supplier was supposed to give more at 4 am, but they have not been picking up calls since then,” ICU Head Dr A C Shukla said. “With the Delhi government's intervention, we have got 21 D-type cylinders, but a continuous supply is needed. The situation is very serious,” he added. Dr Pankaj Solanki, who runs 50-bed Dharamveer Solanki Hospital, said the hospital is using the “back up” which will last till Thursday afternoon. Dr Solanki said he had informed officials concerned to transfer out 30 patients. “The oxygen crisis is at its worst. It is adding more pressure on the functioning. No one is able to help,” his tweet posted on Wednesday evening read.  Big hospitals said they received fresh stock overnight and more is likely to come in soon. Dr. Suresh Kumar, the medical director at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, said three tankers carrying oxygen reached the facility last night. “At 8:30 am, we have around 8 hours of oxygen left. More is coming,” he told PTI. An official at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said supply was replenished around 6 am. “The stock will last 12 hours. Supply from a private vendor is awaited,” he said. Officials at the Burari Hospital said they have “sufficient stock” till afternoon. On Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia accused the Haryana government of blocking medical oxygen supply to Delhi. The Haryana government vehemently refuted the allegations, underlining that no one in the administration had hampered anything. He had said a similar incident occurred in Uttar Pradesh a day ago and it led to a crisis in some hospitals, adding the oxygen supply had been restored now. Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28 percent -- meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive -- amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city.  Only 18 ICU beds for Covid patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 11 pm, according to government data. On Tuesday, the city had recorded 28,395 cases and 277 fatalities, both highest since the pandemic began ravaging countries. The positivity rate was 32.82 percent, highest so far. The city has reported over 1,350 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last 7 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/small-hospitals-in-delhi-grapple-with-limited-oxygen-supply-977137.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Five killed as train rams into vehicles at level crossing in UP||At least five people, including an infant, were killed and two others injured, when a speeding train rammed into the vehicles they were travelling in, at a level crossing at Hulasnagara in Uttar Pradesh's Shahajahanpur district, about 175 kilometres from Lucknow, on Thursday morning. According to the police sources, the incident occurred at around five in the morning. Sources said that there were two trucks and a motorbike on the tracks, when the gateman, identified as Jitendra Yadav, received information that 5012 down Chandigarh-Lucknow Express train was about to pass through. He tried to close the gate and got the vehicles to clear the tracks but the train arrived before it could be done. Four people were killed on the spot while one succumbed to his injuries in the hospital, sources said, adding that the condition of at least one of the injured was slated to be critical. One of the deceased was a local, who was on his way to answer nature's call. The passengers of the train were safe. The dead also included three members of a family. Eye-witnesses said that the gateman kept shouting that the train was about to arrive but drivers of the trucks and other vehicles continued to cross the level crossing. District officials said in Shahajahanpur that the engine of the train was also derailed owing to the impact of the collision, disrupting movement of trains in Lucknow-Bareilly section of Northern Railway. Rescue teams had reached the spot and efforts were on to clear the tracks, officials added. Sources said that senior railway officials had also reached the spot and were trying to ascertain if there was any laxity on the part of the gateman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-killed-as-train-rams-into-vehicles-at-level-crossing-in-up-977161.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Other states usurping oxygen meant for Delhi: Kejriwal||As Delhi reels from an oxygen shortage, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that even as the Centre has sent oxygen, the state needs more. He also added that other states were using oxygen meant to be supplied to Delhi for their states first. "Centre fixes Oxygen quota for all states. As per Delhi government's estimate, it needs 700 tonnes/day, Centre had fixed it to 378 tonnes earlier and increased it to 480 tonnes yesterday. We need more but we're thankful to them for this," he said. Kejriwal also said that the central government allots companies to supply oxygen to states. "Delhi doesn't produce oxygen, supply here is by other states. Some of these state governments had stopped the supply that was to come to Delhi from these companies. Governments said that they'll use oxygen in their states first, use Delhi's quota, too and that they'll not let trucks come to Delhi," he said. He thanked the High Court and the Centre for helping the capital in this dire situation as they ramped up efforts to make more oxygen available to the gasping UT. "Oxygen is scheduled to come from Odisha, too. So it will take some time for oxygen to reach Delhi. We are making an effort to see if we can bring oxygen from there by air route," Kejriwal added. Delhi is currently the worst-hit state by the coronavirus with many hospitals claiming they might run out of oxygen stocks in hours. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/other-states-usurping-oxygen-meant-for-delhi-kejriwal-977165.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Over 2,500 ambulance calls daily from Covid-19 patients in Delhi for past one week: Official data||Over 2,500 distress calls from Covid-19 patients were dispatched to ambulances in the national capital daily for the last one week, numbers compiled by the city government show, highlighting the severity of the ongoing wave of the pandemic. The cumulative figure of 17,924 calls in the past one week don’t include the ones made by patients to private ambulances. According to data, at least 2,560 calls from coronavirus patients were being dispatched to ambulances in the city every day for the past week as the number of cases continue to show an upward trend in Delhi. As many as 1,347 people succumbed to the virus during the period. Delhi recorded 24,638 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths due to the viral disease on Wednesday while the positivity rate stood at 31.28 per cent, meaning almost every third sample tested positive, amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2500-ambulance-calls-daily-from-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-for-past-one-week-official-data-977168.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Making efforts to airlift oxygen from Odisha: Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government is making efforts to airlift its enhanced quota of oxygen supply from Odisha, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday, as several city hospitals reported shortage of oxygen amid rising cases of coronavirus. Kejriwal thanked the Centre and the high court for their efforts towards raising Delhi's oxygen quota for treating Covid-19 patients, and said supplies have started reaching the national capital. He also urged the Central government and Haryana government to facilitate "smooth passage" to vehicles carrying medical oxygen to Delhi. A major chunk of the freshly allotted quota of oxygen to Delhi comes from Odisha, which is hundreds of kilometres away, and the Delhi government is planning to airlift it to save time at this critical juncture in the fight against coronavirus, Kejriwal said in an online media briefing. Later, the chief minister received a call from his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, assuring complete support to Delhi government in lifting oxygen. "Recd a call from Sh Naveen Patnaik ji. He has assured complete support to Delhi in facilitating lifting of Delhi's quota of oxygen from Orissa. He has put a spl officer on the job. Thank u sooo much Sir. Delhi is indeed grateful," Kejriwal tweeted. Kejriwal also spoke to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and sought his help in facilitating transport of oxygen trucks from the neighbouring state to Delhi, and claimed he assured "full support". He said Delhi had a daily quota of 378 MT of medical oxygen that has been increased to 480 MT, and thanked the Central government for it. But, he said, more supplies are needed as according to estimates Delhi needs 700 MT of oxygen daily. Delhi received its quota of oxygen as fixed by the Centre from other states, he said, but claimed, some states stopped trucks headed to the national capital. "This is not fair. This is a huge calamity and we need to fight it unitedly. If we are divided, India will not survive," Kejriwal said. He appealed to state governments to help each other and promised to provide them surplus oxygen, medicines and doctors if the Covid-19 situation came under control in Delhi.  The newly increased quota of oxygen is going to be supplied primarily from Odisha and the Delhi government is trying its best to airlift oxygen from the state to cut down on the time in its transportation, Kejriwal said. With the rise in coronavirus cases in the country, demands for oxygen cylinders, medicines and vaccination has increased and its shortage is being felt, he said.  "We, in Delhi, have also faced an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders. The Delhi government has spent a number of sleepless nights trying to arrange oxygen in hospitals and other Covid care centres to try and ensure that no patient suffers due to lack of it." The problem that has arisen is that the states in which these oxygen manufacturers are based are not allowing oxygen cylinders to come to Delhi, he claimed. "They say they want to use the oxygen in their own states. Trucks supplying oxygen are being stopped. We are thankful to the Central government and the Delhi High Court who have aided us in this situation. Trucks have slowly started reaching Delhi," he said.  "This is a collective crisis. If we decide to split ourselves into Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, West Bengal, India will not survive. We need to come together and unite as Indians and as human beings," Kejriwal appealed. He said people in these troubled times want to see and hear states helping each other and not fighting over resources. The country cannot afford to get divided into states at this point, he said, appealing state governments to come together to work and increase resources and manpower to overcome the crisis. "We need to show the world what good and efficient governance looks like. We will show the world how, despite having the largest number of coronavirus cases in the world, we were able to defeat the virus by coming together," the CM added. As per official sources, many private and Delhi government hospitals were running low of oxygen on Thursday afternoon with some having supplies to last for 3-4 hours only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/making-efforts-to-airlift-oxygen-from-odisha-arvind-kejriwal-977185.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||High demand for oximeters, oxygen concentrators in Delhi||Whether the expensive oxygen concentrator or the humble steam inhaler, people in Delhi are going all out shopping for both "prevention and cure" in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, leading to demands for these medical devices hitting the roof. With reports of hospitals gasping for oxygen and patients waiting for beds, people are seen making a beeline to chemist shops and returning home with bags full of "medical essentials", including oximeters, thermometers, oxygen cans etc. “These are not normal times. Everyone is fearful of catching the virus and will buy everything possible to keep the family members protected or if, god forbid, they test positive (for Covid-19), help in the cure. "Last year, we were buying masks, hand sanitiser and infrared thermometers. This year, thanks to the ferocious second wave, we are buying oximeters, oxygen sprays and are even considering buying the super-expensive oxygen concentrator for the family," said city-based businessman Dinesh Thappa (45). The fear is reflecting on the market also as many chemists are running out of their stocks of oximeters and oxygen concentrators and witnessing an "unprecedented hike" in the demand for steam inhalers and infrared thermometers. "Oximeters and thermometers are selling at a rate of knots. Right now, I do not have oximeters in my shop. There is a good 60-70 per cent shortage, which was not the case even last year," Gaurav Arora of the Kiran Medicos in Ramesh Nagar said. He said he has placed an order for oximeters, but it will take time for the supply to arrive. Delhi recorded 24,638 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths due to the viral disease on Wednesday while the positivity rate stood at 31.28 per cent, meaning almost every third sample tested positive, amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 18 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi as of 11 pm Wednesday, according to government data. Yatendar Kumar, who runs a pharmacy store in Pragati Vihar, also confirmed a steep rise in the demand for oximeters and steam inhalers over the last few days. There is also a huge demand for preventive care online with Snapdeal's sale of steam inhalers going up by "three times" compared to the pre-pandemic levels. "We are seeing a significant rise in orders for devices, including oximeters, thermometers and electric steam inhalers. In fact, the demand for electric steam inhalers has been high all throughout this period and is three times more than the pre-pandemic levels. "There is a four-time spike in the search for kadha, giloy and amla juice and other immunity-boosting products. However, we are also working within the limitations of various lockdowns and prioritising delivery of the orders that users have said are required urgently," a Snapdeal spokesperson told PTI. Amid reports of an oxygen shortage, the "oxygen concentrator" is drawing the attention of people, especially those from the affluent sections of the society. It is a portable medical device used for delivering oxygen to individuals with breathing-related disorders. It filters the surrounding air, compressing it to the required density, and then delivers purified medical-grade oxygen into a pulse-dose delivery system or continuous stream system to the patient. "If you have a patient who is not able to breathe properly and requires oxygen, and is unable to find space in the hospital, then a concentrator can be helpful," Dr Richa Sareen, consultant pulmonologist at the Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj here, said. "The machine is charged via electricity and is small, concentrating the oxygen of the room, thereby providing hyper oxygen. With a cylinder, one has to refill the oxygen once it empties out. However, with a concentrator, the same is not required," she added. Both Arora and Kumar said they have been getting queries on the availability of oxygen concentrators on a daily basis for the last few weeks. Arora said earlier, an oxygen concentrator used to cost around Rs 40,000-50,000 but now, with the surge in demand, the price has gone as high as Rs 1 lakh for some devices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-demand-for-oximeters-oxygen-concentrators-in-delhi-977187.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Over 1,700 doses of Covid vaccine stolen from Haryana hospital||Over 1,700 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were stolen from a government hospital in Haryana's Jind, a police official said on Thursday. The incident took place at the civil hospital in Jind on Wednesday night. A total of 1,270 doses of Covishield and 440 of Covaxin were stolen from the hospital, SHO of Civil Lines police station Rajender Singh said. "The accused did not touch any other vaccine, medicine, cash, etc. lying in the store," he said. The matter came to light when a sanitation worker found the locks of the store and deep freezer broken on Thursday morning. A health department official in Jind said there are still enough doses of Covid-19 vaccine available. By Thursday afternoon, 1,000 additional doses each of the two vaccines would be available at the civil hospital, he said, adding that 6,000 doses of Covishield would reach the hospital by the evening. The SHO said a case was registered in connection with the incident and police were investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1700-doses-of-covid-vaccine-stolen-from-haryana-hospital-977190.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||5 Covid-19 patients die at UP hospital, family members allege oxygen shortage||Five coronavirus patients died at a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh allegedly due to a shortage in oxygen supply. The incident took place at Naurangabad locality in Gandhi Park area here on Wednesday, according to police. However, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, the owner of the hospital, denied the claims and said the hospital had adequate oxygen stock. Shyam Kashyap, whose 50-year-old brother Anil was among those who died at the hospital, told media persons that hospital authorities tried to cover up the lapse by arranging 40 oxygen cylinders after the tragedy took place. "If the hospital had sufficient stock of oxygen, then why did it suddenly ask authorities for oxygen supply at 9 pm on Wednesday?" he asked. Agitated family members of the deceased persons created a ruckus at the hospital, following which senior police officials rushed to the spot and defused the tension. The hospital owner said none of the patients died due to lack of oxygen. Sharma said all the five persons were on ventilator and their death was a "mere coincidence". Meanwhile, City Magistrate Vineet Kumar said, "At around 9 pm on Wednesday, the hospital authorities called for an emergency supply of oxygen which was given by 10 pm." Kumar said the incident was being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-covid-19-patients-die-at-up-hospital-family-members-allege-oxygen-shortage-977206.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||'Governance failure in UP': Priyanka Gandhi slams Yogi govt's response to Covid-19 second wave||Alleging a governance failure in Uttar Pradesh in the face of the Covid-19 second wave, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said the Yogi Adityanath dispensation long ceased to act as a protector and support system for the people in the state and has increasingly assumed the role of an "aggressor". In an interview with PTI, the Congress general secretary in-charge for Uttar Pradesh also said the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic was simply another reflection of the UP government's "arrogant, autocratic and inhuman attitude" towards the people of the state. Her remarks came amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases in the state. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday reported a record single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases and 195 fatalities. This has pushed Uttar Pradesh's infection tally to 9,76,765 and the death toll to 10,541. Asked about the grim Covid-19 situation in the state, the Congress leader said the fundamental issue is that the government in UP has long ceased to act as a protector, facilitator and support system for the public. "It (the state government) has increasingly assumed the role of an aggressor. The handling of the Covid pandemic is simply another reflection of its arrogant, autocratic and inhuman attitude towards the people of UP," she said. The biggest failure has been in governance as there has been no planning, no preparation and no foresight whatsoever, the Congress leader alleged. "Countries all over the world faced a second wave -- what did we learn from them? How did we use the gap between the first and second wave to prepare UP for what was inevitably going to come?" she asked. The UP government's own serosurvey results showed 5 crore people were exposed to the virus which was indicative of a second wave coming, she said. "The government was advised to exponentially ramp-up testing. What happened? They reduced overall testing, switched to up to 70 per cent antigen testing and ignored their own serosurvey reports," she said, hitting out at the state government. Rather than putting every single resource into saving lives and combatting the pandemic, the UP government is still wasting time and resources on "covering up" the truth, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged. "The government has let people down. Their incompetence and lack of clarity is exacting an unprecedented human cost that no one should ever have had to pay," she said. On the alleged lack of preparation to deal with the second wave, she said, "How else can the Chief Minister and his government explain that despite having months of time between one wave and the other, no effort was made to increase UP's capacity for hospital beds, for oxygen or for the availability of Covid medication." "How else can they justify the number of hurdles they have placed before the public as it suffers through the horrors of the pandemic?" she asked. She also asked where else in the world does one need approval from the district medical officer or the district magistrate to get admission to a hospital in the middle of a devastating pandemic. "It is unheard of. How can the government justify that only 30 per cent of the testing being done in UP is RT-PCR and 70 per cent is antigen testing? Reports from across the state are coming in that private labs are being verbally instructed not to test. What kind of governance is this?" she said. The UP government has been rejecting criticism by opposition parties on its handling of the Covid-19 situation. The Congress leader had earlier accused the Uttar Pradesh government of hiding coronavirus figures and said had they been cautious from day one, people would not have witnessed such times. Earlier this week, she had slammed the "red-tapism" in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that lives were lost because Covid-19 patients needed permission from the district chief medical officers to get admission in hospitals. In a letter to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, the Congress general secretary had urged the creation of a database of available hospitals and beds so that people can seek admission directly. She had also flagged the issue of oxygen availability, saying she had been told that people need permission from the district magistrate for the hospital admission. She had called for the removal of all such rules causing difficulties for families of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/governance-failure-in-up-priyanka-gandhi-slams-yogi-govts-response-to-covid-19-second-wave-977207.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||'Situation like national emergency': SC asks Centre for national plan on oxygen, vaccines||Amid a record number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, the Supreme Court on Thursday acted Suo Motu and sought a national plan from the Centre on supply of oxygen, essential drugs and vaccination.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the present situation was "alarming" and was like a "national emergency". It issued a notice to the Centre and appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as amicus curiae to assist in the hearing. "We want to see a national plan on four issues of supply of oxygen, essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination. And, we want to keep the power to declare lockdown with the states," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court was referring to the Allahabad High Court's recent order imposing lockdown like restrictions in five cities which was stayed by it. The development comes just a day before the last working day for incumbent CJI Bobde as he is set to demit office on Friday on superannuation. As the country recorded highest ever 3.14 Lakh Covid-19 cases and over 2,104 deaths on Thursday, the top court said different High Courts taking up the matter on supply of essentials was creating confusion. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, specifically noted that High Courts of Delhi, Bombay, Allahabad, Calcutta Madhya Pradesh, and Sikkim were dealing with issues related with the Covid management, particularly crisis of oxygen supply, hospital beds and shortage of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir in hospitals.  "We as a court wish to take Suo Motu cognizance of certain issues. They (High Courts) are exercising jurisdiction in the best interest. But it is creating confusion and diversion of resources," the bench said. The top court's move was severely criticised by several senior advocates. SC Bar Association led by senior advocate Vikas Singh filed an application to oppose the move saying, "the state machineries are lacking on various aspects and High Courts are suitably dealing with the issues prevailing at local level within their territorial jurisdictions." In his remark, senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava asked, "How will one amicus collect latest facts and information from 28 states and 8 UTs to place before Supreme Court and in quickest possible time? It is frustrating."  Senior advocate and Congress MP Vivek Tankha tweeted, "SC is best suited to seek replies from the Union government on Covid Emergency 2021 including Oxygen emergency nationally. State high courts should be allowed to monitor at micro level. The Supreme Court has neither time nor details to deal with challenges facing states. HC orders enjoy public faith." The issue before the top court arose during an application by Vedanta to allow some repair work and re-start oxygen plant at the Thoothukudi which can manufacture thousand tonnes of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that the country is in dire need of oxygen. The plant has been shut since 2018 over environmental violations.  "We must be in favour of protecting human lives," he said.  Salve, who appeared for Vedanta, said that many "people are dying on daily basis. we can start in 5 to 6 days if you give a go ahead today."  Tamil Nadu counsel, however, opposed the plea for reopening of the Vedanta plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/situation-like-national-emergency-sc-asks-centre-for-national-plan-on-oxygen-vaccines-977213.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Number of beds to be increased once oxygen crisis is resolved, says Delhi health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the number of beds for coronavirus patients will be increased in large numbers once the “oxygen crisis” in the national capital is resolved. He also said around 800 ICU beds are likely to be added in central government hospitals soon. “We have also demanded that the Centre give us 7,000 beds for two weeks. So far, 2,000 beds have been given,” he told reporters. The number of beds are being increased, but Delhi has been facing a “serious problem” with regard to oxygen supply for the last three days, Jain said. The Centre increased Delhi's quota of oxygen on Wednesday (from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes). However, oxygen is also needed for new Covid centres being operationalised in Delhi, the minister said. “Beds for Covid patients will be increased in a large number once this crisis ends,” the minister said. Jain said hospitals in Delhi grappled with a shortage of oxygen the entire night. “The supply had almost finished in some hospitals. Thereafter, small quantities of oxygen were distributed among hospitals,” he said. On Thursday morning, several small hospitals in Delhi struggled to replenish oxygen supply for their patients, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight. The Delhi High Court had on Wednesday night ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing shortage of the gas in treating serious COVID-19 patients, observing it “seems human life is not important for the state”. The central government, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, assured the court that it will facilitate supply of the increased allocation of 480 metric tonnes of oxygen to Delhi and the same will reach the national capital without any obstructions. However, several private hospitals complained that no help has reached them. Officials at the 210-bed Mata Chanan Devi Hospital sent an SOS to the Delhi government as their “oxygen supplier didn't fulfil commitments”. “Around 40 patients are in ICU. We got 500 kg oxygen last night. The supplier was supposed to give more at 4 am, but they have not been picking up calls since then,” the hospital's ICU head Dr A C Shukla said. “With the Delhi government's intervention, we have got 21 D-type cylinders, but a continuous supply is needed. The situation is very serious,” he added. Dr Pankaj Solanki, who runs Dharamveer Solanki Hospital, a facility with 50 beds, said they are using the “back up” which will last till Thursday afternoon. Dr Solanki said he had informed officials concerned to transfer out 30 patients. “The oxygen crisis is at its worst. It is adding more pressure on the functioning. No one is able to help,” his tweet posted on Wednesday evening read. Dr Sanjeev Shama, chief operating officer at Delhi Heart and Lung Institute, says only three hours of oxygen was left at 12:30 pm. "The supplier provided the last refill in the morning, Now, we are on our own." Seventy-one patients are on oxygen support in the hospital, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-beds-to-be-increased-once-oxygen-crisis-is-resolved-says-delhi-health-minister-977242.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Amarnath yatra registration suspended over Covid surge||In the wake of the steep spike in Covid-19 cases across the country, including in Jammu and Kashmir, Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB)  onThursday decided to suspend the registration process for the pilgrimage. An official of the SASB said that the situation was being monitored keenly and that only the registration process has been suspended and no call had been taken regarding the Yatra as yet.  A decision vis-à-vis Amarnath Yatra 2021 will be taken by the board accordingly, the official added. The online registration process for the yatra had started on April 15, simultaneously for both the Baltal and the Chandanwari routes, through 446 designated branches of the Punjab National Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank and YES Bank all over the country. Last year, the annual yatra was cancelled due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic while in 2019 the pilgrimage was cut short following intelligence inputs on ‘terror threats’ ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. This year, expected to be the largest yatra, six lakh yatris are anticipated to pay obeisance at the 3,888-metre-high Amarnathji cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas during the 56-day-long annual pilgrimage which is scheduled to begin on June 28 and conclude on August 22, the day of Raksha Bandhan. It may be recalled that after the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) took the control of the yatra in 2001, the number of pilgrims who visited the holy cave was 1.91 lakh in the first year, followed by 1.10 lakh in 2002, 1.70 lakh in 2003, 4 lakh in 2004, 3.88 lakh in 2005, 3.47 lakh in 2006, 2.96 lakh in 2007, 5.33 lakh in 2008, 3.81 lakh in 2009, 4.55 lakh in 2010, 6.21 lakh in 2011, 6.35lakh in 2012, 3.54 lakh in 2013, 3.72 lakh in 2014, 3.52 lakh in 2015, 2.21 lakh in 2016, 2.60 lakh in 2017 and 2.85 lakh in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarnath-yatra-registration-suspended-over-covid-surge-977251.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police averts crisis, manages to restore oxygen at hospital with over 350 Covid patients||The Delhi Police averted a major crisis after it managed to restore oxygen supply to a hospital here where over 350 Covid patients are undergoing treatment, officials said on Thursday. On Wednesday night, chief engineer of Batra hospital, R K Baniwal, informed the police that the oxygen at their facility will only last for two hours and they were not sure when their supply will be restored, police said. The police immediately formed several teams and assigned different tasks to each of them, officials said. "After enquiring from the hospital and its nodal officer, it was found that one tanker was supposed to come to the hospital from Panipat and the other from Modi Nagar. However, the authorities were not able to get any update on their location," said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). The police somehow managed to contact the drivers of the tankers through the nodal officers and owners of the suppliers, the official said.  Meanwhile, a team headed by SHO K M Pur was sent to Mohan Co-operative area in Badarpur with 60 empty oxygen cylinders so that they could be filled while others teams led by SHO Madan Garhi, SHO Neb Sarai and SHO Greater Kailash were sent to escort the tankers bringing oxygen after obtaining their live locations, said the officer. The team managed to restore oxygen supply within three hours, said the police. On Thursday, shortage of oxygen was also reported at Max hospital, Saket, police said. The police found out that the oxygen tanker, which was to deliver the gas at the hospital, was on its way to the facility from UP's Kashipur. SHO Malviya Nagar along with his team took position at Apsara border and provided a green corridor with sufficient force from where the tanker was escorted to the Max hospital, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-averts-crisis-manages-to-restore-oxygen-at-hospital-with-over-350-covid-patients-977257.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records biggest single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases, 195 deaths||A record single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases and 195 fatalities pushed Uttar Pradesh's infection tally to 9,76,765 and the death toll due to the disease to 10,541, the state government said on Thursday. As many as 16,514 patients recovered from the disease in the state in a span of 24 hours, taking the total count of recoveries to 7,06,414, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said here. On Wednesday, the state registered 33,214 cases of the viral disease and 187 deaths. Uttar Pradesh now has 2,59,810 active cases of the infection, of which over two lakh are in-home isolation, Prasad said. Earlier, at a review meeting here, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to make oxygen concentrators available to districts from where demands have come and sought support of the Centre for its availability, an official statement said. The chief minister termed the death of any person in the state unfortunate, and directed the officials to give due honour to the aggrieved families and ensure cremations follow Covid-19 protocols. Adityanath further said the availability of essential medicines and oxygen was satisfactory, and asked the officials to keep an eye on the situation. "There is no shortage of tankers/cylinders but keeping in mind the changing situation, additional tankers and cylinders should be arranged, and it should be ensured that there is no black-marketing of oxygen and other medicines," he added. The process of setting up oxygen plants in private medical colleges should be done fast, the chief minister said. He directed officials to ensure transparency in allotment of beds in hospitals, and asked them to arrange transport facilities for migrant labourers and also to see that they are kept in quarantine centres for at least seven days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-34379-covid-19-cases-195-deaths-977259.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Labs shouldn't be pressured into giving test reports in max 36 hours: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said that accredited laboratories carrying out Covid-19 testing ought not to be pressured into delivering reports within 24-36 hours as this would lead to them turning away people or refuse to take more samples. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said that they have heard there was an order of the Delhi government directing the labs to give the final reports maximum within 36 hours of taking the sample or face action. The bench said such a measure was "counterproductive" and "uncalled for". It noted that apparently due to the said order of the Delhi government the number of tests being carried out has gone down since April 19. The court said there was no need to require generation of reports in 36 hours, particularly when the pandemic was at least four times larger in size than what it was last year. It said if labs start turning away people or if there is delay in sample collection, then anyone who is infected and has not got tested yet may not isolate himself or herself and could end up spreading the disease. Responding to the court's observations, Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam told the bench that no such order has been passed. The court took the submission on record and listed the matter for hearing on April 26. It was hearing a disposed of petition, related to Covid-19 tests, that the high court revived on April 19 in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases.  On April 19 and on April 20, it passed a slew of directions on oxygen supply, ramping up testing, increasing beds, shortage of medicines and wastage of vaccines. The bench said it will hear arguments on the issue of shortage of essential medicines required for treatment of Covid-19 and wastage of vaccines on April 26. It asked Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta to come with instructions on how to deal with both these issues. To prevent vaccine wastage, the court had on April 20 suggested that people between ages of 18-45 years be roped in to take the vaccine whenever a few doses are left at the end of each day. It asked the SG to take instructions from the Centre on this aspect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/labs-shouldnt-be-pressured-into-giving-test-reports-in-max-36-hours-hc-to-delhi-govt-977328.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi hospitals send out SOS calls for oxygen||Hospitals in the national capital region were on the edge with the shortage of medical oxygen for patients, which forced them to move courts, reach out to the government frantically to ensure supplies. Complaints of shortages of oxygen over social media, appeals to the Delhi government and the Centre kept pouring in throughout the day, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to step in to remove the bottlenecks in the supplies of the crucial lifesaver drug. “As I tweet, an oxygen tanker is outside the gate of Air Liquide Panipat plant at IOCL and he is not being allowed inside. Haryana police are stopping it & not letting the oxygen out of Haryana. Need urgent intervention,” Sangita Reddy, Joint Managing Director of Apollo Hospitals took to Twitter around noon. Fortis Hospital in Haryana, on Thursday evening, said that it had only 45 minutes of oxygen left and its tanker from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan was yet to reach the hospital. “We have requested doctors to discharge whoever can be discharged,” Dr Sunil Saggar, CEO of Shanti Mukand Hospital in East Delhi told ANI. Delhi government officials said nine private hospitals in the national capital had barely a few hours of oxygen supplies left, while six hospitals had exhausted their stock. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia sent an urgent communication to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, appealing to intervene and ensure supplies of oxygen to the hospitals in the national capital. The Centre had enhanced the quota of oxygen to the national capital from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes on Wednesday, but Sisodia claimed that the supplies were erratic. The Delhi Police stepped in to rescue Batra Hospital in South Delhi, which reported only two hours of oxygen late Wednesday night and oxygen tankers from Panipat in Haryana and Modi Nagar in Uttar Pradesh had not reached. The police personnel arranged for 60 empty oxygen cylinders from an industrial area in the vicinity and ensured timely supplies, while another team of officers ensured oxygen supply to Manipal Hospital in Dwarka. A green corridor was created for an oxygen tanker headed for Max Hospital, Saket, which was stuck in traffic at the Apsara Border in north Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-hospitals-send-out-sos-calls-for-oxygen-977369.html
22-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 care centre with 500 beds to be reopened in Delhi as cases spike||A Covid care centre equipped with 500 oxygen beds will be restarted in Delhi amid a surge in coronavirus cases, and border guarding force ITBP has been again entrusted to run it, officials said on Thursday. An order issued by the Union Home Ministry said the Delhi government has "sought assistance to re-operationalise" the Sardar Patel Covid care centre (SPCCC) with 500 oxygen beds, that was first created last year at the Radha Soami Beas campus located in south Delhi's Chhattarpur area. "Keeping in view the above request, it has been decided to provide adequate number of medical officers and para-medical staff to man 500 oxygenated beds at SPCCC." "ITBP is designated as a nodal force for operation of the SPCCC...ITBP may draw the required medical manpower (doctors and paramedics), if needed, from other central armed police forces (CAPFs) also," the order said. Delhi has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases. Over 24,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths were recorded on Wednesday amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city.  Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) director general S S Deswal told PTI that the force is putting together the manpower for the facility that was first operationalised in June-July last year when Covid-19 cases in Delhi were witnessing a steep rise. Official data stated that the centre was shut on February 23 and it treated 11,657 Covid patients since its opening last year. It was shut due to "continuous decline in the number of coronavirus positive cases in the National Capital Territory of Delhi vis-a-vis adequate availability of medical facilities," an official data said. Deswal said "the ITBP manpower will be in place as soon as the infrastructure at the centre is ready." "We will have sufficient doctors and staff. If need arises, we can deploy more of our doctors and medical staff to enhance beds at this centre that will be made operational with 500 beds initially," he said. A senior official added that the centre is expected to be operational in the next three days. The MHA order added that "the boarding and lodging arrangements for doctors and para-medical staff including expenses thereon will be made by the Delhi government." After the surge in coronavirus cases, the ITBP has recently activated a number of other facilities for treating its personnel, those from other police forces and CAPFs, their veterans and families. While a Covid care centre with 90 beds has been reactivated by the force at the CAPFs Referral hospital in Greater Noida, another centre with 200-beds has been started at the ITBP camp in Chhawla where the first batch of Indians and some foreigners returning from Wuhan in China were quarantined last year after the pandemic broke out. A third such facility of 50-60 beds is being run by the 90,000 personnel strong force at its composite hospital located in Chandigarh. The ITBP, that was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression, is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 Kms long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-care-centre-with-500-beds-to-be-reopened-in-delhi-as-cases-spike-977376.html
22-04-2021||Oasis||Why do we eat?||All of us eat to live in order to survive because if we stop eating, we would die. Hence to avoid this fate, we all eat good food and drink enough water. However, nowadays there has been a new prevalent fashion of ‘live to eat’ that’s getting rampant in society. This new concept has nothing to do with our biological survival. Those who indulge in this, do it because of some other reason outside of simply staying alive. In short, eating to live is a biological understanding whereas, living to eat is a psychological, social, and emotional disorder that needs urgent attention because emotional and disordered eating can wreak havoc on our mental, emotional, and physical health if left unaddressed. Not to mention, the massive amount of time and energy it takes up, leaving one much less able to focus on what really matters in his/her life. For most of us, emotional eating has become a habit of comfort – in other words, it’s a behaviour induced by certain cues like situations, feelings, people, commercials, etc. Scientific studies done over the years reveal that animals and people that were more stressed ended up eating more. In general, most of us consider emotional eating as a food addiction, just like we consider shopping, gambling, and other behaviours as addictions.  There is no doubt that these behaviours can sometimes seem to take on a life of their own and make you feel like you’re just going along for a scary ride.  Using food from time to time as a reward, or to celebrate isn’t necessarily a bad thing. But, when eating becomes our primary emotional coping mechanism and when our first impulse is to open the refrigerator whenever we get upset, angry, lonely, stressed, exhausted, or bored, we get stuck in an unhealthy cycle where the real feeling or problem is never addressed. Remember! Emotional hunger can’t be filled with food. Eating may feel good in weak moments, but the feelings that triggered the eating would be still hiding within. So, it’s better to target those hidden feelings rather than turning to unnecessary and extra eating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/why-do-we-eat-977034.html
22-04-2021||Opinion||How a Covid-19 spike is sucking the oxygen out of India||By Andy Mukherjee Nationalistic pride may swell chests, but to fill lungs you need air. Someone should tell that to the Indian government. The country that boasted of being the world’s pharmacy in March discovers a month later that not only are “Made in India” vaccines in short supply but also that it didn’t have enough oxygen in hospitals to deal with a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that has made it the second-worst hit country, after the US. New Delhi floated a tender last October, eight months into the pandemic, to set up oxygen plants in district hospitals. But an investigation by the website Scroll.in showed that in some instances the vendor that won the contracts never showed up to fulfil them. In other cases, hospitals didn’t provide the needed land, or state administrations didn’t come up with the copper wiring and electricity connections. Sheer apathy railroaded a 2 billion rupee ($27 million) project. Not a good look for a country that wants to spend $1.5 trillion on infrastructure in five years. The result is that hundreds of millions of people risk not having access to a basic, life-saving element as an overwrought bureaucracy struggles to cope with nearly 300,000 new daily cases, which modelers believe to be a highly underreported figure. Meanwhile, the country’s overall medical oxygen requirement has shot up by more than 9 million cubic meters, according to an interactive Covid-19 Oxygen Needs Tracker.  In my home state alone, more than 230 million people have been put in greater danger than they needed to be. If Uttar Pradesh were a country, it would be the world’s fifth most-populous. For many among my family, friends and acquaintances, the risk of running out of breath is real. After an interminable wait for an oxygenated hospital bed, Vinay Srivastava, a 65-year-old journalist and coronavirus patient in the state capital, Lucknow, took to social media Friday to plead for help. By that time, his blood oxygen level had fallen to 52 per cent. Saturation below 90 per cent is considered low. “No hospital, lab, doctor is picking up the phone,” he tweeted in Hindi. On Saturday afternoon, Srivastava put up a picture showing a finger-pulse oximeter reading of 31 per cent. Then he died. This was no isolated incident, or sadly even new. In 2017, 63 children battling neo-natal and pediatric encephalitis died in less than one week in a hospital in Gorakhpur, in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Hypoxemia, or acute shortage of oxygen, was the most likely cause.   That tragedy should have triggered an alarm over the oxygen crisis in India’s hospitals. Another one should have come from Italy’s struggle with oxygen supplies at the peak of its infections early last year. But the government missed that chance. A day after journalist Srivastava’s death, the federal health ministry said that only 33 out of a planned 162 plants had been installed, and a total of 80 will be ready by the end of next month. That’s already far too late. In Uttar Pradesh, which has so far received only one of the new onsite plants, rich and poor alike are scouring the web for answers to questions like, “What is the normal oxygen rate for the human body?” The breathlessness is by no means restricted to Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, the Delhi High Court ordered the government to urgently divert oxygen supplies from the steel and petrochemical industries after noting that some of the main Covid-19 hospitals in the national capital would run out in about four to eight hours. If the uncontrolled spread of the virus results in “extended lockdown and closures, the purpose of full production of steel and petroleum products would be of no avail, as their consumption is bound to fall in that scenario,” the judges noted. The second wave has already deflated hopes of a V-shaped economic recovery. A 10th of the gross domestic product that would have come about in the absence of the pandemic is perhaps permanently lost. To be deprived of oxygen would further affect operations such as welding, cutting, cleaning and chemical processes, according to Crisil, an affiliate of S&P Global Inc. Meanwhile, the demand side of the equation is weakening, partly because of localized social-distancing restrictions and partly because of fear. By mid-April, retail and recreation activity in Lucknow had plunged 54 per cent from the pre-virus baseline, according to Google Mobility. Its analysis of cellular phone locations shows an even grimmer picture for Mumbai, the commercial capital: Public transport use is down by 61 per cent. From rerouting industrial oxygen to running a special train for transporting it across the country, everything being done now should have been planned earlier. India reported 2,000 Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday — perhaps only a fraction of the actual fatalities. The second wave need not have been this lethal, if people could breathe a little easier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-a-covid-19-spike-is-sucking-the-oxygen-out-of-india-977218.html
22-04-2021||Opinion||PM Modi owns India’s unfolding Covid-19 disaster||By Pankaj Mishra, India’s healthcare system is buckling under the weight of the Covid-19 pandemic: The country registered more than 2,104 deaths and over 300,000 infections on Thursday alone. Videos of crowded mortuaries and funeral sites, and grief-stricken relatives outside packed hospitals, are circulating among middle-class Indians. The Lancet says India could suffer more than 2,300 deaths every day by June. As in so many of the pandemic’s worst-hit countries, this tragedy was avoidable — and is largely the fault of a boastful and incompetent government. Yet, judging by the fate of other bungling far-right politicians such as Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro, the UK’s Boris Johnson, Hungary’s Viktor Urban, and the Philippines’ Rodrigo Duterte, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi may well suffer few political consequences for his devastating missteps. Like those other leaders, Modi has spent more time diminishing the pandemic’s seriousness than combating it. In early March, even as cases in India rose alarmingly, he boasted that the country would serve as “the world’s pharmacy,” churning out vaccines for developing nations. His health minister judged India to have entered the “endgame” of the pandemic.  In a new cricket stadium named after Modi, tens of thousands of largely unmasked people turned out to watch matches between India and England last month. Many more unprotected people turned out for Modi’s recent election rallies in the state of West Bengal, and an estimated 3.5 million people have attended, with the encouragement of Modi’s Hindu nationalist colleagues, the Kumbh Mela religious festival. The result? Faced with a crushing case load and an acute shortage of vaccines, India has stopped exporting doses and is importing new jabs from Russia. Indian states are desperately fighting over the supply of something as basic as medical oxygen. The case of Donald Trump, the most prominent political casualty of the pandemic, might seem to offer a warning. Trump, too, never ceased to project an image of superhuman potency against the virus, melodramatically yanking off his mask after his own bout with Covid-19. Like Modi today, he refused to give up campaigning during some of the worst weeks of the pandemic, fulsomely congratulated himself on his response to the crisis, and blamed his political opposition and state-level leaders for any missteps. Yet, while Trump lost to Joe Biden in large part because of his callous and clueless handling of the pandemic, the margin was disturbingly narrow. Other strongmen look more likely to survive politically — and to continue to add to the toll of needless deaths. For his part, Modi not only enjoys much higher approval ratings than Trump ever did. He has also survived, already, blunders that would have wrecked any other political career: demonetization in 2016 and a botched lockdown last year that caused the biggest and most desperate internal migration witnessed in India since 1947. Modi has flourished with the help of something Trump never had and the likes of Boris Johnson only sporadically enjoys: a compliant media. Indeed, one reason why complacency about the virus spread so widely in India is that Modi personally asked owners and editors of press and television in March last year to focus on “positive” stories. Evidently, as his website put it, “it was important to tackle the spread of pessimism, negativity and rumor.” The current crisis does seem more serious than others Modi has faced. Until now, his claims — for instance, that Indian airstrikes in 2019 killed scores of terrorists in Pakistan or that withdrawing almost all currency notes in circulation punished corrupt businessmen — could never be adequately tested against reality, especially because Modi skillfully constructed each time an alternative reality with the help of loyal journalists and social media trolls. The facts of extensive death and bereavement among India’s middle classes, and shortages of hospital beds and oxygen, cannot be denied so easily; they require no external verification. Even an illusionist as masterful as Modi will find it difficult to spin them to his advantage. Still, it would be unwise to predict an early or full liberation from conceited and maladroit ideologues in India, or, for that matter, anywhere else. Johnson’s popularity, for instance, has rebounded because of the UK’s successful vaccine rollout. Leading a shambolic Tory government, Johnson has presided over the premature deaths, unprecedented in peacetime, of more than 100,000 Britons. The break-up of Britain is fast becoming a real possibility as pro-independence sentiment peaks in Scotland, and one corruption scandal after another has erupted in recent months. Yet his approval ratings are now positive again and the Tories have extended their lead over the Labour party. Johnson’s example suggests that not enough voters are ready to diagnose and punish outrageous incompetence in their leaders. The last few years have given us a grim warning that the spell cast by the demagogues of our times is profound. It is based on fear and loathing of internal and external enemies, and secured by close personal identification with and deep psychological dependence on charismatic figures. As such, it transcends all conventional political calculations, and may not be broken by even a calamitous death toll. (This Bloomberg copy was updated to add the latest Covid-19 figures)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pm-modi-owns-india-s-unfolding-covid-19-disaster-977233.html
22-04-2021||Panorama||Tourism in times of Covid-19? Spielberg’s ‘Jaws’ has lessons for Goa||As the rogue man-eating shark glides through the warm seas surrounding Amity island, the fictional setting for Steven Spielberg's 1975 cult film 'Jaws', Mayor Larry Vaughn dreams about raking in the tourism dollar. Thousands of tourists are expected on Amity island for the summer and the shark, the film's main villain, which is already believed to have killed one youngster, literally stands between a booming season and shutting down of the island for tourists on account of the obvious public threat. In a contemporary context, Amity island could well be Goa, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant could fill the boots of Larry Vaughn with ease and the villainous shark may well resemble the ominous spectre of Covid-19, which looms over the state, whose rulers have been reluctant to impose strict restrictions for fear of losing tourist footfalls in the short-term. Last week, Goa crossed its year-long high of daily Covid-19 cases, with 951 persons testing positive on Sunday. And yet, as neighbouring states have slowly begun to roll down their shutters, Sawant seems more than keen to emulate Vaughn, by allowing untested tourists to stream into Goa. At the time of writing, cars are making a beeline into Goa along borders which the state shares with Maharashtra, which along with Delhi, has been emerging as the buzzing epicentre of Covid, regularly reporting more than 50,000 cases every day. Its only other neighbour, Karnataka, has also reported cases in five-figures every day. But the Goa government has not been willing to set up even a semblance of mechanism for testing inbound tourists arriving from these Covid-19 hotspots (Sawant on Wednesday announced a night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am. Casinos in Goa, along with hotels, have however been allowed to continue operations the post 10 pm deadline). Sawant has two unusual explanations to justify his reluctance. One is the logistical nightmare of setting up extensive testing infrastructure at the state's borders. The second explanation has goofy overtones. "Tourists alone do not spread Covid. Covid is present in the state. But people should not mix up with tourists," is Sawant's unusual and rather inexplicable advice to the natives. There is a third reason behind Sawant's reluctance to impose travel restrictions on inbound tourists. It’s so obvious, that its unstated: Casinos. Opposition parties, including the Congress, as well as striking taxi drivers in Goa have dared Sawant to shut down casino operations in Goa in wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, especially after a steady stream of photos and videos of casino visitors mulling around in groups, paying little respect to Covid-19 SOPs, have been going viral on social media over the last few weeks. The six offshore and nine onshore casinos, have been the unquestionable force behind successive governments in Goa. With the mining industry shut down, the casinos represent a powerful lobby, which have defined policy in governments headed by both the Congress as well as the BJP, ever since roulette and blackjack tables started dotting the waters of the Mandovi river and in the numerous five-star resorts which dot the tourist state. After casinos were allowed to function at half capacity in November last year, following a drop in coronavirus cases, the Goa government had mooted a Rs 277.08 crore waiver to the casino industry; a move which attracted popular ire from local industry captains, who claimed that the state's micro, small and medium industries were also reeling from the pandemic shock and needed bailing out. Such acts of largesse to the casino industry have not been rare in Goa, especially in light of the fact that the casino industry has been a major cash cow for the state economy and has nurtured the campaigns and treasury kits of Goa's political parties. In the fiscal before the emergence of the pandemic, the state treasury earned Rs 411 crore from the casino industry in the form of taxes and licence fees; a number which pales before the crores of rupees which are gambled on the roulette, blackjack, baccarat tables and in slot machines every day. The same crores of rupees the casino industry stands to lose if the state makes efforts to streamline tourist inflow. The industry has been able to wriggle out a lot of legroom even during the pandemic. So much so, that when 31 staffers of an offshore casino tested positive, the government notified a residential complex they were staying in as a micro containment zone, but the casino continued to function despite the large number of cases reported amongst its work force. For Sawant, the choice is not an easy one, especially with the state assembly elections less than a year away. While the state's finances continue to totter due to the deep economic impact of the pandemic -- and the continued shutdown of the mining industry -- political parties are finding it difficult to build a war-chest for the upcoming polls. The reluctance to put in strict testing mechanisms on the state's borders or simply turning a blind eye to the spate of parties and tourism-related events in the state's coastal belt, will certainly not arrest the rising tide of Covid-19 cases. But that is a choice Sawant has consciously made, even rejecting overtures made by the state bjp unit last week to vet tourists before they enter Goa. In many ways, Sawant has emulated Larry Vaughn, whose blind pursuit of the tourism dollar allowed the monster shark to maul eager swimmers and wreak havoc in the picture postcard island. In doing so, Vaughn disregards the advice of the film’s protagonist, state police chief Brody played by Roy Scheider, only to the island’s peril. It takes Brody's courage and a bull-headed shark hunter Quint, to finally blast the frenzied shark into pieces. ‘Jaws’ holds lessons for Goa or any tourism region facing a public crisis, if only Pramod Sawant would stop playing Russian roulette with his own people, and take notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tourism-in-times-of-covid-19-spielberg-s-jaws-has-lessons-for-goa-977031.html
22-04-2021||Panorama||What you should know about colorectal cancer||Rapid urbanization and changing of culture has led to many diseases. Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is one such disease that can be attributed to the negative impact of changing lifestyle and food habits. Consumption of tobacco, alcohol, a diet high in processed meat and low in fiber, obesity, and low physical activity are common causes of colon cancers. Colorectal Cancer is the third most common cancer in world, with over a million new cases added every year. In India, over 50,000 new colorectal cancer cases are detected every year, and this number is rising at an alarming rate of over 20% each year! As per the Cancer Registry data of the Mumbai region which also reflects a trend across India, it is the 10th and 8th most common cancer in men and women respectively. In India, the projected number of new cases of CRC by 2025 would about 83,000 cases. This can be attributed to rapid urbanization and the adoption of sedentary lifestyles. What is colorectal cancer?  Colon is part of our digestive system. As the food keeps passing along the digestive tract, nutrients within it get absorbed. The Colon turns the liquid form of unused food into solid by absorbing water, which is expelled as feces. CRC is a disease in which cancer cells form in the tissues of the colon or the rectum. Our body has around 30 trillion cells which have pre-programmed rules governed by our genes about how to behave. In simple words,  cancer cells defy all these rules and multiply fast invade nearby structures of our body, and can spread to a distant location within the body in late stages to form a new tumour. Generally, this is seen in a population above 45 years of age, with complaints of changes in bowel habits like a repeated history of constipation or diarrhoea, bloating, the passage of blood or mucus in the stool, unexplained weight loss, easily fatigued, pain or swelling in the abdomen or drop in Hemoglobin levels, during routine investigations. Persons with a strong family history of CRC may have these features in their twenties even. In around 20% of the cases, patients first present with advanced disease with bowel obstruction and have to undergo emergency surgery. Compared to other digestive cancers, CRC relatively has a far better prognosis, still, early diagnosis is of utmost importance. Lack of awareness about the significance of these symptoms, seeking late help from the doctor, ignorance about own family history of cancer, remote access to certain diagnostic modalities and health expertise in rural areas are the main reasons for its late diagnosis. Very often it could be a sign or symptom, such as a change in stool colour to red or black, which should be immediately consulted. At times, bleeding from the rectum is assumed to be due to common ailments like Piles by the patient, and even treatment from quacks is sought until late stages of cancer. It is of crucial importance to know who in our relations has had what disease at what age, and the exact relationship, as it helps in risk stratification and recommendation for screening for CRC. Among the multiple screening methods, the most important is recommending a Colonoscopy at the age of at least 45, for the average-risk population. Patients having a family history of CRC or those showing sign/ symptoms as mentioned above should seek early colonoscopy after discussion with your doctor. The frequency of repeat colonoscopy will be decided in accordance with the patient’s age, family history and findings of the first colonoscopy.  Lifestyle modification can be an important adjunct to screening. Avoiding risk factors and adopting certain protective measures can be of great help. Avoid smoking and alcohol consumption which are carcinogenic. Studies also suggest that avoiding high-calorie foods, red and processed meat also reduce the risk of CRC, perform regular physical exercise with moderate intensity, and maintain healthy body weight to minimize the chances of CRC. One should eat a diet having vegetables, fruits and whole grains which are high in fibre. High fibre diet not only reduces the risk of CRC but also heart diseases (The writer is Consultant Surgical Oncologist at a network of hospitals in Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-you-should-know-about-colorectal-cancer-977035.html
22-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Wordless treasure||We retain some objects not for their utility value, but because of our love for the persons who gifted them to us. I have always been a connoisseur of pens and collecting them has been my hobby. I have perhaps, brought, or been gifted with all sorts of pens-fountain pens, ballpoint pens, micro-tipped, roller, gel, et al, that have been manufactured so far. At present, I may be in possession of hardly a couple of usable ball pens. I don't know where all the rest have gone. There is, however, one fountain pen that I have retained very fondly. This pen was gifted to me by my late grandfather when I secured the first rank in a university exam in 1974. This was a prestigious pen manufactured by an internationally reputed pen manufacturing company. These pens were supposed to last a lifetime. I was certainly glad about this new possession. Immediately, after getting possession of the famous pen, I filled it with ink by alternately pressing and releasing the capillary attached to the barrel of the pen. I then set upon the task of running the nib on a white paper, hoping how nice the letters and words would appear on the paper with my beautiful handwriting. The famous pen refused to write a single word. I tried to make the pen write on the subsequent days also but to no avail. Had this happened with any other pen, I would not have hesitated to throw it away in a trice. When I met my grandfather the next time, he eagerly inquired about the pen he had gifted. My grandfather was a person known for his moral rectitude and would never hesitate to tell the truth however bitter it might be. While informing my grandfather that the pen he gifted was an excellent one, I added in sotto voce "except that it does not write".  My grandfather, Mr K.R.Karanth, was a well-known advocate and a politician of impeccable character. He was about 6 feet tall and had an athletic build. His external imposing appearance was matched by impeccable qualities like punctuality, honesty, clamour for truth and commitment to whatever he undertook. On occasions when he drove the car himself it would be a dream come true for the cops-of witnessing a driver who meticulously followed all the traffic rules. It is now 47 years since the pen was gifted to me and 41 years since my grandfather bade adieu to this world, yet I have retained the pen with me, though I have not written a word with it. And, whenever I see the pen, it reminds me of my grandfather's sterling qualities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/wordless-treasure-977037.html
22-04-2021||Second Edit||Act on begging mafia||A study by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) provides disturbing insights into the plight of children who are pushed into begging in Bengaluru. The study, which was done on the orders of the Karnataka High Court, provides details of some 720 children who are begging in various parts of the city. Around 534 of them are reported to have been forced into begging. The human trafficking network and the beggar mafia play a huge role in forcing children into begging and an investigation of these would help us trace many missing children, the KSLSA study says. We see dozens of children begging at traffic lights or outside temples. Many of us respond to them by yelling at them to go away. Some of us fork out a few rupees to allay our conscience and make these children go away. Rarely do we think deeply about what is forcing these children to beg. Where have they come from and where do they go? Have they voluntarily entered the begging ‘business’? And what happens to the money we give them? Many of the children we see begging in public places are victims of their circumstances. Poverty, deprivation and homelessness are likely to have driven them to begging for food and money. Particularly pathetic is the condition of children who are tied to the begging mafia. Children are sometimes stolen from their parents and homes and sold into the trafficking trade. Some land up in brothels and others on our streets. What they earn goes to their handlers, the begging mafia. Particularly disturbing is the plight of children who are deliberately maimed and then sent to beg. Such children are expected to ‘earn’ more as they evoke more sympathy from people. If they don’t bring in enough income for the kingpin, the child is further maimed. The begging mafia is a powerful one with strong links to the trafficking network and the police; the latter provide them with protection as they get a percentage of the daily pickings. The KSLSA study has drawn attention to instances of police investigating cases of traffickers selling children to the begging mafia. This is worrying. Government action is necessary to break this nexus between the mafia and the police. But people too can act to make begging less profitable to the kingpins. Instead of giving beggar children money, which goes to their handlers, we could give them food and medicines, shelter and a safe environment. Rather than chase beggar children away, we should provide them with sustained institutional support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/act-on-begging-mafia-977028.html
22-04-2021||South||Kerala's Thrissur Pooram begins adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols||Kerala's famous Thrissur Pooram began here on Thursday adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols after tusker Ernakulam Sivakumar, holding the idol of Neythilakavu Bhagavathy, opened the southern gate of ancient Vadakkunnathan Temple. In view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, only a very limited number of people were allowed to attend the ritual known as 'Pooram Vilambaram' (festival proclamation), marking the beginning of the Thrissur Pooram. Earlier, the state government had decided to organise the Pooram celebrations to be held on April 23 without people's participation. Paramekkavu and Thiruvambady Devaswoms-- the two major organisers of Pooram festival-- agreed to organise the festival without spectators. The entry is restricted only to those who are associated with the pooram rituals. Officials said the passes are issued only to those participants who have produced either RT-PCR negative certificates secured in 72 hours or certificates of taking two doses of vaccination against the Covid. Although Paramekkavu Devaswom decided to scale down the pooram celebrations to be held on April 23, they will parade 15 elephants for the festival and organise famous Ilanjithara Melam, an assembly of percussion performance artistes held under Ilanji tree at the courtyard of the Vadakkunnathan Temple. Thiruvambady Devswom said they will hold mere rituals as part of pooram and only one elephant will be paraded from their side, considering the spread of Covid-19 in the district. Last year also, the Pooram festival was held in a low key manner amid Covid-19 lockdown curbs with just a handful of people and inevitable rituals inside the Vadakkunnathan temple. Thrissur Pooram, an annual event held at the sprawling Thekkinkadu Maidan in Thrissur city on the pooram asterism in the Malayalam month of Medam, is known for the parade of richly caparisoned jumbos, performance of traditional music ensembles, fireworks and a sea of cheering people. The festival is a gathering of Pooram and jumbo lovers around the globe who could be seen dancing to the rhythm of percussion instruments. The two-centuries-old Thrissur Pooram had its origin in 1798, through a royal edict of the then Raja Rama Varma, popularly known as Shakthan Thampuran, a powerful ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Cochin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-thrissur-pooram-begins-adhering-to-strict-covid-19-protocols-977246.html
22-04-2021||South||104-year-old woman becomes oldest to get vaccinated against Covid-19 in Kerala||At a time when many youngsters are expressing concerns over the side effects of the Covid-19 vaccines, a 104-year-old woman in Kerala voluntarily turned up to get vaccinated against the virus. A resident of Angamali in the suburbs of Kochi, Annam showed up during the vaccination drive at a government taluk hospital on Wednesday. Annam, a mother of seven, grandmother of 14 and great grandmother of 22, who has witnessed many an epidemic in her lifetime, is considered to be the senior-most person to get vaccinated in Kerala so far. A team of senior doctors led by medical superintendent Dr. Nazeema Najeeb appreciated her for voluntarily getting vaccinated. Before leaving the hospital, Annam also appealed to everybody to get vaccinated and hailed the efforts made by the authorities to fight the pandemic. A total of 55.09 lakh people or about 15% of Kerala's population have so far taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines. As many as 8.37 lakh have also been administered the second dose. The vaccination drive in many parts of the state was hit on Thursday owing to shortage of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/104-year-old-woman-becomes-oldest-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-kerala-977268.html
22-04-2021||South||'#VaccineChallenge' in Kerala, Rs 26 lakh received in CMDRF in a day||A '#VaccineChallenge' in the social media challenging those receiving free Covid vaccines in Kerala to donate the vaccine cost to the Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund is receiving response with around Rs. 26 lakh being received as contribution in hardly 24 hours time. A total of 1035 persons who took up the challenge made the contributions so far. It was as a mark of protest against the Centre's new Covid vaccine policy and in support of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's assurance that vaccines will be provided free of cost to all that the '#VaccineChallenge' got triggered in the social media by Wednesday evening. Vijayan said on Thursday evening that so far Rs. 26 lakh was received in the CMDRF on this account. "This is the strength of Kerala. The state could overcome all crisis with the unity of the people," said Vijayan. The vaccine challenge came close on the heels of Vijayan raising serious concerns over the Centre's new vaccine policy maintaining that the states are not in a financial position to bear the cost of vaccines and hence the centre should ensure free vaccine supply to the states. While the challenge was that those receiving the free vaccine dose may contribute Rs. 400 per vaccine, the cost fixed by Serum Institute of India for Covishield, to the CMDRF, many had even contributed a higher amount to the CMDRF in this connection. Many had also shared the certificate of the contribution they made to CMDRF and challenging others. Many taking part in the '#VaccineChallenge' are protesting against the Centre's vaccine policy as well as backing Pinarayi Vijayan's stand. There were also allegations that the Centre was trying to help the private sector by allowing private sector in the field.  Writer Deepa Nishant, who was among those who accepted the challenge, said in her post that the natural calamities had reminded us that heavy rain can wash away all that one had amassed. But the state had overcome all such difficult situations. Hence this crisis situation could be also overcome by standing together. Getting vaccinated oneself would not make one safe. All need to be vaccinated, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaccinechallenge-in-kerala-rs-26-lakh-received-in-cmdrf-in-a-day-977305.html
22-04-2021||South||Complaints galore as EVMs 'safe' at Tamil Nadu counting centres||Twenty-five days is a long time, especially for political parties in Tamil Nadu who are waiting for the EVMs to be opened to end the suspense on who gets to rule the state for the next five years. EVMs that were used on April 6 during the single-phase polling to all 234 constituencies are stored at “strongrooms” in 78 centres in 37 districts. Unwilling to take chances, the cadre of political parties, especially those from the DMK and the AIADMK alliance, have deployed people in turns to “protect” the EVMs. The cadres keep round-the-clock vigil at the counting centres, mostly government and private colleges, to ensure there is no “foul play.” Reports from various parts of Tamil Nadu say every counting centre is “manned” by the cadres round the clock. At any given point in time, at least 15 to 20 people from various political parties are at each centre. Even as Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo takes pain to explain every now and then that the EVMs are “safe” and that the “strongrooms” are sealed, complaints of “suspicious movement” at the centres have not stopped. While DMK President M K Stalin took to Twitter last week to allege movement of the well-equipped bus and “mobile toilets” inside some of the premises where the EVMs are stored, the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) petitioned Returning Officers in two constituencies seeking clarity on “installation of Wi-Fi devices” next to the strongrooms. VCK general secretary and Villupuram MP D Ravikumar told DH that the party candidate in Cheyyur constituency detected Wi-Fi connectivity very close to the strongroom and asked the authorities to explain the need for installing new devices. In Vaanur, another constituency where VCK is contesting, Ravikumar alleged that three persons claiming to be representatives from BSNL came to install Wi-Fi devices. “We raised the issues with returning officers, and they were sorted out. We do not understand why such things keep happening,” he said. The counting of votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/complaints-galore-as-evms-safe-at-tamil-nadu-counting-centres-977307.html
22-04-2021||South||Kerala government calls for all party meet to discuss Covid-19 spike||With Kerala witnessing a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, the State government on Thursday decided to call an all party meeting on April 26. The meeting will be onlineand held at 1030 am, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. Kerala reported 26,995 new cases today, in the biggest single day surge so far, taking the total infection count to 13,22,054 and those under treatment to over 1.5 lakh. As many as 6,370 have been cured of the disease, pushing the total recoveries to 11,60,472. The toll has climbed to 5,028 with 28 additional deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-calls-for-all-party-meet-to-discuss-covid-19-spike-977320.html
22-04-2021||South||Free vaccines for all in Tamil Nadu as state sees 12,652 new Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 vaccine for those between 18 and 45 years of age in Tamil Nadu will be administered free of cost by the state government from May 1 at vaccination camps, even as the state recorded its single biggest spike by reporting 12,652 fresh cases on Thursday. After a review meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, the government said achieving 60% herd immunity was the goal, and announced a comprehensive plan to carry out vaccination for those above the age of 18 and under 45. A statement issued after the meeting said the vaccine will be administered free of cost at all government-owned facilities and camps to be organised by the state. The statement said construction workers, migrant workers, retail traders, those working in the market, employees of transport corporations, government staff, teachers, and auto drivers will be vaccinated on a priority basis. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had in October last year announced that the vaccines will be administered free of cost. Thursday's statement said vaccination camps will be organised across the state from May 1 to ensure all are vaccinated. It also said the number of RT-PCR tests being conducted will be increased as part of the efforts to detect the infection and contain the spread of the virus. The state has been testing over 1.10 lakh samples at 263 laboratories run by the state government and private hospitals. On Thursday, the state recorded 12,652 fresh cases, taking the number of active cases to 89,428. As many as 59 persons lost their lives to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the death toll to 13,317. The government also said there was no shortage of oxygen for the treatment of patients as it maintained that enough supply of oxygen is available in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-vaccines-for-all-in-tamil-nadu-as-state-sees-12652-new-covid-19-cases-977336.html
22-04-2021||South||No shortage of ventilators, oxygen: Tamil Nadu government tells Madras High Court||The Madras High Court was on Thursday informed by the Tamil Nadu government that the state had sufficient stocks of oxygen and Remdesivir vaccines and that the 'assigment' of life-saving gas to neighbouring states will not affect its position. There was no shortage of Remdesivir vaccine, used in Covid-19 treatment, ventilators or oxygen cylinders in the state, Advocate General Vijay Narayan told the first bench of the Madras High Court, which took up the matter on its own. The AG was responding to a query from the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, which took note of newspaper reports of shortage of Remdesivir and ventilators and that oxygen was being diverted to other states. The AG told the judges that about 31,000 doses of Remdesivir vaccine were available in government hospitals. The private hospitals may face shortage. If they ask, the same would be supplied to them at concessional rates, he said. As many as 550 MTs of oxygen was being produced in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry per day and there were 1,167 MTs of it available against the demand of 250 MTs. The assignment of oxygen to Andhra and Telangana would not affect the comfortable position of manufacture and supply of the material in Tamil Nadu, he added. As regards ventilators, the AG said 9,600 machines were available with the government. Of them, 5,887 were allotted to the state-run hospitals. The private hospitals were in possession of about 6,000 ventilators and of them only 3,000 were being put to use, he pointed out. Even though there were a total of 84,621 coronavirus patients, all of them do not require ventilators or oxygen, he said adding that there was no shortage of beds, oxygen or ventilators. He also pointed to the bench that similar cases have been filed in six other High Courts in the country and arrangements are underway to transfer them all to the Supreme Court. Satisfied, the bench replied that there was nothing wrong in diverting additional/excess oxygen cylinders to the needy in other states. It, however, advised the state government to be more vigilant and enforce the Covid-19 protocols vigorously on May 2, when the counting of votes, polled in the April 6 Assembly elections, would take place and subsequent festivities like Ramzan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-shortage-of-ventilators-oxygen-tamil-nadu-government-tells-madras-high-court-977357.html
22-04-2021||South||Political parties and activists oppose Sterlite's plea to produce oxygen||Sterlite Copper's request to reopen its now closed down smelter in Thoothukudi to produce oxygen at its two oxygen manufacturing units in its massive premises has activists and political parties up in arms yet again. MDMK chief Vaiko, who had argued against reopening of the plant before the Supreme Court after it was closed down by Tamil Nadu government in 2011, warned against any move to allow the company to get access to its plant located on the outskirts of Thoothukudi. “There is no need for additional production of oxygen as the government of India says there is no shortage of oxygen. It has been mentioned that the problem is only in transportation of oxygen from one place to another on time. Since there is no shortage, Sterlite should not be allowed access to the plant,” Vaiko said in a statement. Nityanand Jayaraman, one of the environmental activist who was at the forefront of the anti-Sterlite agitation, said the Vedanta-owned company was attempting at a back-door entry to get access to its plants. Sterlite Copper wrote to Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan promising to produce 1,000 tons of oxygen a day and also moved the Supreme Court. “It is one thing to divert industrial oxygen from well-running, licensed plants. It is quite another to entertain a petition from an environmental offender to permit reopening and access of a facility sealed for violating safety/environmental norms. Allowing Vedanta to reopen its Thoothukudi smelter would be akin to allowing Union Carbide to reopen the Bhopal plant on some pretext or other,” he said. Jayaraman said the Thoothukudi smelter is currently under lock-and-seal and in custody of District Collector. “Maintenance is the state’s responsibility. If there is demonstrated need for O2, Govt of TN can meet it by contracting personnel to operate plant. Vedanta cant be allowed back-door entry, bypassing its pending appeal in SC. This is Disaster Capitalism at its sinister worst,” he said. Sterlite Copper was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018 following months of protests by locals and activists which was overturned by the National Green Tribunal the same year. The state government approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the NGT order. The apex court stayed the order of the NGT and allowed Sterlite Copper to approach the Madras High Court, which upheld the government order. The case is now in the Supreme Court with Sterlite Copper challenging the Madras High Court verdict. The company's plea to access to the plant for maintenance purpose has not been entertained by the court so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-parties-and-activists-oppose-sterlites-plea-to-produce-oxygen-977373.html
22-04-2021||South||Woman accused in Kerala solar scam arrested in cheating case||Saritha S Nair, the prime accused in a solar power project scam in Kerala, was arrested by the police again in connection with a cheating case. The cheating cases involving Saritha came to light several years ago and she later raised sexual abuse allegations against many in the then government, including then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. Saritha was involved in many cases pertaining to the solar scam and she was out on bail. According to police sources, the fresh arrest of Saritha pertained to cheating a Kozhikode-based industrialist of Rs. 42 lakh by promising investment in a solar power project. She failed to appear before court for hearing despite several notices and hence a warrant was issued. Saritha was also allegedly involved in a recent job scam by collecting huge amounts from job seekers offering jobs in government institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-accused-in-kerala-solar-scam-arrested-in-cheating-case-977393.html
22-04-2021||South||Kerala initiating Covid-19 vaccine purchase; fresh cases at nearly 27,000||Kerala government has initiated steps for purchasing Covid-19 vaccines directly from manufacturers as the uncertainty over the vaccine supply from the Centre continued and Covid-19 cases kept reaching new highs with 26,995 fresh cases on Thursday. The total number of active cases in the state crossed the 1.5 lakh mark and reached 1,56,226. The test positivity rate increased to 19.97 percent. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that top government officials were directed to initiate talks with vaccine manufacturers. The state was still expecting a positive response from the Centre to its demand for free vaccine supply. But the state would require vaccines in large quantities as around 1.65 crore people are there in 18 to 45 age group. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister has convened an all party meeting to discuss the steps as well as a meeting with private hospital owners in the wake of complaints that some hospitals are charging exorbitantly from Covid patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-initiating-covid-19-vaccine-purchase-fresh-cases-at-nearly-27000-977402.html
22-04-2021||State||Missed first semester exam? VTU offers second chance||In a relief to the state's engineering students, who were wary about attending the first semester offline exams in the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases, the university on Wednesday announced that students will be given another chance to appear for the exams and they will still be considered as freshers. Fearing Covid-19 infection, several students had raised concerns over attending offline exams and demanded online examinations. But the state government had earlier rejected their request. However, on Wednesday, the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) announced that the students who miss out on the exams now can appear for the exams during the second-semester exam.  "Due to unavoidable circumstances arising out of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, if any student misses the examinations in the first semester, they will be allowed to join the second semester and will be permitted to take the missed examinations during the second-semester exams and it will be considered the students' first attempt," explained a statement from VTU. However, this exemption will be provided only for BE regular students.  Meanwhile, the university said that for the exams for two subjects that were already held, the students' attendance was around 98%. "Any delay in completing examinations further will harm the academic schedule and future career of the students as there is already a four months' delay currently. Hence, the students are informed to take the examinations with all seriousness and adhere to all the precautions and SOPs circulated by the university," the statement said. Further, the affiliated colleges have been directed to make separate arrangements  for students who are found symptomatic due to Covid infection. "It is clarified that this exemption applies only in case of Covid related issues," clarified one of the senior officials of VTU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/missed-first-semester-exam-vtu-offers-second-chance-977060.html
22-04-2021||State||Varsities told to vaccinate students above 18 yrs from May 1||The state-run universities and higher education institutions have been asked to take all necessary measures to vaccinate everyone above 18 years fromMay 1. In a video conference with vice chancellors of various universities and higher education minister, the governor and chancellor of state universities Vajubahi Vala on Wednesday directed the varsity heads to constitute committees to monitor vaccination. “The universities must educate students and through them their parents and the society about the second wave of Covid-19. The universities must convince every student above 18 years to get vaccinated,” said the Governor. The state higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan advised the university authorities to monitor even a mild cough, cold and fever among students and staff. “In case of cold, cough or fever, they should undergo Covid-19 test and if the results come positive then they should take the medication immediately as per the doctors advice,” said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/varsities-told-to-vaccinate-students-above-18-yrs-from-may-1-977116.html
22-04-2021||State||K-SET postponed for second time||The University of Mysore (UoM), the nodal agency for conducting the Karnataka State Eligibility Test for assistant professorship, has postponed the examination for the second time. A communication by KSET convener H Rajashekar said that the examination scheduled for April 25 had been cancelled due to weekend lockdown and the next dates will be announced shortly on website: (http://kset.uni-mysore.ac.in). This is for the second time, UoM has cancelled the examination. Earlier, the varsity had scheduled it for April 11, which was postponed to April 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/k-set-postponed-for-second-time-977121.html
22-04-2021||State||Farmers’ suicide: HC tells govt to decide on aid to kin||The High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to take a policy decision to extend the benefits to the families of farmers who have taken loans from private money lenders and ended lives by suicide. The bench directed the state government to report compliance within eight weeks. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, gave this direction after going through the response submitted by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar. The bench noted that the chief secretary has not complied with what was recorded in thelast order. The court had noted that prima facie, excluding the farmers who have taken loans from money lenders from the ambit of compensation scheme violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India.  The chief secretary has been asked to place the observations made by the court before the appropriate authority in the government which is empowered to take a policy decision. The PIL is filed by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha. The petitioner claimed that more than 20,000 farmers ended their lives by suicide in Karnataka in the past two decades. The next hearing is fixed for June 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-suicide-hc-tells-govt-to-decide-on-aid-to-kin-977139.html
22-04-2021||State||Pandemic situation in Karnataka uncontrollable, says Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who was discharged from hospital on Thursday, six days after he tested positive for Covid-19, has convened a meeting of ministers to discuss the pandemic situation, which he said had become “uncontrollable”. Yediyurappa was undergoing treatment in hospital as he was infected with the coronavirus on April 16, the second time in nine months. “I’m doing alright. I’ve called a meeting of ministers at 4 pm at home,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “Directions are being issued on what they need to do in the districts. I’ve been in constant touch with my chief secretary P Ravi Kumar, the law minister and others on the situation,” he said. Yediyurappa, 78, is likely to remain home for the next couple of days following the advice of doctors. “The situation is deteriorating with each passing day. In every house, 3-4 people are infected,” Yediyurappa said. “I request people with folded hands: Don’t step out of your homes unnecessarily. This is deteriorating the situation and we’ve reached a stage where things have become uncontrollable,” he said, and stressed on the importance of wearing masks, sanitizing and keeping physical distance. “There’s no other way to stop Covid.” The government had taken strict measures already, he said, referring to the weekend curfew. “Don’t make the police take action. I request citizens to cooperate.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pandemic-situation-in-karnataka-uncontrollable-says-yediyurappa-977177.html
22-04-2021||State||Karnataka facing Remdesivir shortage, no dearth of oxygen, says Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday said that the state was facing a shortage of Remdesivir, claiming that the drug was in demand owing to publicity. The minister added that there was no dearth for oxygen in the state. Talking to reporters here, Sudhakar said that only eight to nine companies produce the drug and that all the companies had closed production between November 2020 and March 2021. The minister said that steroid was more important than Remdesivir and added that the World Health Organization has taken the drug off the list. Sudhakar, however, said that the state government will supply Remdesivir as per the demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-facing-remdesivir-shortage-no-dearth-of-oxygen-says-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-977215.html
22-04-2021||State||Police take measures for effective implementation of night curfew in Mysuru||With night curfew is in place, city police and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) have taken strict measures for effective implementation. While the police are asking the vendors to down the shutters by 9 pm, MCC authorities are taking out awareness drive. On day one of the curfew, the police are seen asking the street vendors to close business. Police also warned the vendors of evicting them if they fail to abide by the norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-take-measures-for-effective-implementation-of-night-curfew-in-mysuru-977263.html
22-04-2021||State||Karnataka traders caught unaware as police enforce ‘actual’ guidelines||The government was forced to clarify on Thursday that all commercial establishments other than those permitted should be closed during all days of the week as per the latest Covid-19 guidelines.  According to the guidelines, ration shops (PDS), shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder are permitted. Also, wholesale vegetable/fruit/flower markets are permitted to operate from open spaces or playgrounds adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.  Restaurants, eateries, standalone liquor shops and bars are permitted for takeaways only.  Barber shops, salons and beauty parlours are allowed “with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour” and guidelines issued by the Health department.  All shops and establishments dealing with construction materials, food processing and related industries, cold storage and warehousing services arepermitted. Delivery of items through e-commerce, banks, insurance offices, ATMs, capital and debt market services are allowed.  All other shops, commercial and private establishments shall remain closed, according to the guidelines. This includes theatres, malls, clubs and other establishments that are not permitted in the guidelines. During night curfew and weekend curfew, home delivery services will be allowed. On weekends, restaurants will be allowed to undertake home deliveries only. The clarification was issued owing to confusion on what was permitted and not on weekdays. Businessmen complained of lack of clarity after the police shuttered shops citing the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-traders-caught-unaware-as-police-enforce-actual-guidelines-977334.html
22-04-2021||State||Preparatory exams for II PU cancelled||The ongoing preparatory examinations for II PU students have been cancelled.  The department of pre-university education issued a circular on Thursday, saying that the colleges have to give preparatory question papers for students to practise at home and must not conduct any exams. This follows directions to stop conducting offline classes. However, the practical examinations for II PU students scheduled to be held from April 28 to May 18 will be conducted as per schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/preparatory-exams-for-ii-pu-cancelled-977337.html
22-04-2021||State||Medical students to be on Covid duty: Sudhakar||Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday said that the state government has decided to utilise the services of medical students to manage the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters here, Sudhakar said he has directed the principal secretary to the medical education department to postpone the examination of final year and postgraduate courses in medicine for two months. House surgeons and final year MBBS students will be deputed on Covid duty and a decision was taken as per the advice of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he said. 'Remdesivir not life-saver Sudhakar said Remdesivir is not a life-saving drug. "The medicine is in demand, due to publicity. Remdesivir is not in the list, released by World Health Organisation (WHO). Steroids are more effective and Dexamethasone, which costs only 50 paise, is effective. However, as there is a demand for Remdesivir, the government will supply it," he said. He said that there is a shortage of Remdesivir as only eight or nine companies produce it. The companies had stopped the production from November 2020 to March 2021, as there was no demand for the medicine as Covid cases were less, he added. 'No shortage of oxygen' Sudhakar said there is no shortage of oxygen and there are 30,000 oxygenated beds in Karnataka. The oxygen problem in Bengaluru is resolved with an additional 40 metric tonnes of oxygen and 5,500 jumbo oxygen cylinders, he said. 'Criminal case for fake Covid certificate' He warned that criminal cases will be filed against the persons issuing fake Covid-19 reports. According to reports, one of the laboratories in Bengaluru has issued a fake certificate. "I have instructed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner to take immediate action against the laboratory." However, the minister denied any fake certificate racket and said not to attach importance to the matter as it would hurt the Covid warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/medical-students-to-be-on-covid-duty-sudhakar-977339.html
22-04-2021||State||Publish daily status of Remdesivir availability, Karnataka HC tells government||The High Court on Thursday directed the state government to every day publish the quantity of Remdesivir medicine available with various stockists and drug stores with their contact numbers. A special bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar was perusing a representation filed by S Shivakumar, president of Karnataka State Association of the Management of Nursing and Allied Health Science Institutions. In the representation, Shivakumar, who is also the managing partner of a hospital, alleged that Remdesivir was being sold in the black market in the state. The bench directed the government to nominate officials and NGOs to frequently visit places of business of stockists/drug stores, to keep a vigil on black-marketing and shortage in supply. “We, therefore, direct the government to publish every day the quantity of Remdesivir medicine available with various stockists/drug stores in the state. Wide publicity should be given, including real-time updates every 12 hours. The details of the stockists/drug store addresses and contact numbers shall also be provided,” the bench said. The court directed the government to evolve a policy so that hospitals do not compel asymptomatic patients to produce RT-PCR negative test reports before admission. “There are large queues outside the laboratories and even senior citizens and pregnant women are forced to stand in the queue. One of the reasons why pregnant women are standing in the queue is that they are not admitted unless they produce an RT-PCR negative report,” the bench said. On the crematorium crisis, especially in Bengaluru city, the court directed the government to consider creating additional facilities in cities where there are a large number of Covid-19 patients. One of the petitioners, AICCTU, said that out of the 13 crematoriums in Bengaluru, only seven are made available. The counsel said that while according to the technical advisory committee and other experts, the second wave may reach the peak by the first or second week of May, the assessment of the availability of beds, medicines and oxygen will have to becarried out. “In terms of the memo filed by AICCTU, figures of beds available in the city of Bengaluru have been set out. If the figures are correct, the situation is alarming. AAG (Additional Advocate General) will take instructions on this aspect and submit a report tomorrow,” the bench said, adjourning the matter to Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/publish-daily-status-of-remdesivir-availability-karnataka-hc-tells-government-977342.html
22-04-2021||State||RGUHS launches online Covid-19 awareness programme||To create awareness and to address the many issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has launched "online training and education for Covid-19 awareness." The programme is scheduled twice a week (Thursday and Friday), with one to two sessions of 45 minutes duration.  During the programme, there will be a 30-minute discussion with an audience of 1000-10,000 people, comprising healthcare professionals, teaching faculty of all health science institutions, postgraduate and undergraduate students, government, private practitioners and the public. The first programme was held on Thursday. As explained by the university officials, the programmes will have specialists from the medical field. On day one, Dr B L Shashi Bhushan, a member of the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee, spoke about judicious use of injection Remdesivir and oxygen.  "Target saturation for Covid-19 patients should be 94-96%, and in case of patients with COPD/chronic lung diseases, it should be around 92%. Excess use of oxygen above the target saturation will lead to oxygen toxicity and can cause lung fibrosis," said Dr Bhushan. The first day of the programme was attended virtually by 550 individuals. "We request everyone to make use of this programme which will be very helpful for healthcare professionals, frontline workers, students and the general public," said Dr Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor of RGUHS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rguhs-launches-online-covid-19-awareness-programme-977346.html
22-04-2021||State||Karnataka yet to decide on funding vaccination for 18-45 age group||The State government is in a fix on whether to fund the vaccination of people between the age of 18 years and 45 years, come May 1, or pass the cost on to the people of Karnataka, even as seven States have already declared free vaccination for this age group: Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Sikkim and Bihar. Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, on being questioned about the State's plan to fund vaccination said he had to discuss with the Chief Minister as the State exchequer has to shell out a significant amount to fund the same. "Within 48 hours, post consultation with him, we will come up with a concrete plan on how to go about it," he said. It is estimated that around 1.66 crore people in the State are above 45 years of aged according to a press note by the state health department issued on March 31. As per the 2019 general elections voters' list, there are 5,10,69,354 people above the age of 18, who have a voters' id. Hence, the State has the task of coming up with a vaccination plan for the remaining 3.44 crore people between the age of 18 and 44, each of whom have to be provided with two doses of the vaccine, which is around 6.88 crore doses of the vaccine. While private hospitals can pay Rs. 600 per dose to Serum Institute of India for procuring vaccine vials, the State government has to shell out Rs. 400 per dose of Covishield. On being question about the existing vaccine stock Sudhakar said, "Out of 89 lakh vaccine doses so far supplied to us, we have utilised 82 lakh doses, and are left with seven lakh doses, which the central government will replenish periodically." Out of 89 lakh vaccine doses so far received by the State, 78,85,000 are Covishield and 10,16,000 are Covaxin doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-yet-to-decide-on-funding-vaccination-for-18-45-age-group-977348.html
22-04-2021||State||Hailstorm wreaks havoc on crops in central and old Mysuru districts||Hailstorm, accompanied by heavy rain and strong winds, lashed old Mysuru region and central districts on Thursday, causing widespread damage to crops. Horticulture crops on vast tract of land were damaged in the hailstorm that lashed Shidlaghatta taluk on Thursday evening. Large hailstones wreaked havoc on grapes and tomato crops and polyhouses at Gowdanahalli, Ammagarahalli and surrounding areas in the taluk. Farmer Bachegowda alone is said to have incurred losses to the tune of Rs 26 lakh. Heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, has damaged mango crop in parts of Ramanagara district, including Magadi, Channapatna and Kanakapur taluks. The unseasonal rain since Wednesday night has left farmers in distress in Hassan district. Incessant showers have left the farmland inundated in Sakaleshpur, Arasikere and Channarayapatna taluks. Shravanabelagola town has recorded a healthy 7.3 cm of rain in the last 24 hours. Gandasi registered 6.1 cm while Hosuru saw 4.3 cm of rain.Parts of Chitradurga district, including the town, witnessed sharp showers on Thursday evening. Tree fall incidents have been reported in parts of the district. Bengaluru, northern part in particular, experienced thundershowers on Thursday afternoon. The 30-minute spell left many low-lying areas and roads flooded. Parts of Gadag and Vijayapura districts witnessed heavy rain, along with thunder activity on Thursday. Rain played spoilsport for the traders at Dambal shandy. Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu district also received sharp showers in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hailstorm-wreaks-havoc-on-crops-in-central-and-old-mysuru-districts-977349.html
22-04-2021||State||Transport strike: Karnataka HC to hold special sitting on April 26||The High Court of Karnataka will hold a special sitting on April 26 on several issues of the employees of the state-owned public transport corporations and also on a batch of PILs regarding the strike that was called off on Wednesday. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, asked the state government to respond to the suggestion for mediation by a retired judge. The counsel appearing for the Karnataka State Transport Employees League submitted that the strike was called off as per the observations by the court two days back. He also submitted that the demands of the employees will have to be considered. According to the counsel, more than 1,000 employees have been dismissed and another 10,000 plus have been suspended during the strike. The court observed that issues pertaining to transport employees needs to be resolved to ensure that a strike situation does not recur. The bench has asked the state government whether it is agreeable to reconsider the orders of suspension of employees. The counsel appearing for the state transport corporations said that orders of suspensions can be challenged before the prescribed authorities. The bench also clarified that investigation of the cases registered against the employees may continue. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi said that action was initiated against only around 900 employees. The AG submitted that while four registered employee unions refrained from the strike only one unregistered union had called for the strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/transport-strike-karnataka-hc-to-hold-special-sitting-on-april-26-977351.html
22-04-2021||State||Deccan Herald Picture Puzzle winners||The DH Picture Puzzle contest concluded on April 1 with an overwhelming response from the readers. Prajwal V R, a final year engineering student from Bengaluru who won the Picture Puzzle contest, expressed joy on winning the bumper prize and was rewarded with a One Plus Pro Phone.   He said, “Reading Deccan Herald every morning is my daily routine. The theme of the DH Picture Puzzle contest was unique every day and I really appreciate that almost all the pictures chosen were from Karnataka. I solved the puzzles in the most rudimentary method: Cutting them into parts and rearranging them in place. This proved to be an entertaining task. It was made easier with help from my mom. It was a stress-buster in this pandemic time." Prajwal was selected by a lucky draw from the maximum number of correct entries from the overall contest duration. During the contest, seven winners per day, selected from all correct entries by a lucky draw will receive an Amazon voucher worth Rs 500 shortly. The daily winners have been contacted individually and the winner details can be found at bit.ly/DHPuzzleWinners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deccan-herald-picture-puzzle-winners-977353.html
22-04-2021||State||Private bus operators steered Karnataka government through RTC stir, now seek return favour||Private bus operators who responded to the government's request for running buses during the 15-day RTC workers' strike have demanded that the authorities return the favour, to help the pandemic-hit sector. From tax exemption to liberal permit regime, private operators have requested the government for a new set of measures to help them survive the pandemic. They noted that the government relaxed stringent rules to save itself from trouble during the strike and can do the same now to help private operators. For decades, the Transport department and the state road transport corporations (SRTCs) have engaged in turf war with the private players. Officials had been alleging that the illegal operation of private buses caused losses to the SRTCs. Rules were passed barring private buses from coming near RTC bus stations. Radhakrishna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Tourist Vehicle Operators Association, said ever since the lockdown was imposed during the first wave of the pandemic, private vehicle operators have been facing a huge financial crisis. Noting that over 12,000 buses were surrendered to avoid the huge tax, Holla said the government had made a positive gesture in allowing such vehicles to be plied during the strike. "What we are seeking is tax exemption. The government has extended the time for paying tax from April 15 to 30. But the huge drop in earnings owing to Covid cases has made it difficult to pay the taxes," he said. Owners of buses with stage carriage permits pay tax of Rs 45,000 per quarter, while the same for those with contract carriage permit is fixed up to Rs 1.3 lakh. The all India permit holders pay Rs 1.38 lakh per quarter. For maxicabs and other vehicles of similar size, the tax is about Rs 18,000 per year. Bus associations are also hoping for a liberal permit regime, which will change the very nature of public transport in Karnataka. "Similar to Tamil Nadu, Karnataka can allocate half of the bus operations to the private sector by ending the monopoly over roads given to SRTCs. The SRTC operations should be limited to 50% to create a level playing field," K T Rajashekhar, president of Karnataka Bus Owners Association, said. He said the demand has been pending from the 1980s. "Allowing private players will help the government earn more taxes. In the long run, it is going to create a healthy competition and provide for a transportation facility which will contribute to the growth of the state," he added. Officials told DH that a liberal policy may not be feasible in Karnataka. "The government is aware of the situation. However, no discussion on such big changes have taken place as of now. A meeting will be held in the next few days on helping the private players," an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-bus-operators-steered-karnataka-government-through-rtc-stir-now-seek-return-favour-977358.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks Centre to enhance oxygen allotment||Amid concern over shortage of oxygen during the spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka government has requested the Centre to fill the lacunae, State Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Wednesday. He said the state may require 1,500 metric tonnes of oxygen every day. "The Chief Minister has requested the Centre to provide 1,500 metric tonnes everyday. I have appealed to the Central Ministers also to provide additional oxygen and we are hopeful of a positive response," Sudhakar said. Noting that 300 tonnes of oxygen have been allotted per day, he said, "Since cases are increasing, we may need 500 to 600 metric tonnes of oxygen by this month-end and 1,500 metric tonnes by the end of next month." Meanwhile, the State reported another biggest single day spike of 23,558 new cases of Covid-19, and 116 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 12,22,202 and the death toll to 13,762. The total number of active cases stood at 1,76,188. Stating that there is anxiety among the people to get hospitalised soon after they are tested positive, the Health Minister said 95 per cent of positive cases do not require hospitalisation, and they can be isolated at their homes and treated. "Our doctors are visiting the patients in home-quarantine, and rendering the consultation. Information regarding dos and donts will be circulated," he was quoted as saying in a press release. Patients with mild symptoms can be isolated at alternative arrangements at step-down hospitals developed at hotels or at Covid-19 care centres, he further said. It would be difficult to provide treatment to the severely affected people if mild symptomatic patients are admitted to hospital. Sharing details about beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, Sudhakar said private Medical colleges in Bengaluru have reserved 4,000 beds, government medical colleges have reserved 1,000 beds. The government hospitals have reserved 1,409 beds and the private ones 7,442.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-centre-to-enhance-oxygen-allotment-977015.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No end in sight for Karnataka's oxygen crunch||After days of denial, the government spoke of efforts to scale up oxygen generation, but it may be too little, too late. Although the government announced on Tuesday that JSW Steel would supply 400 tonnes of oxygen per day, company sources said that there are two caveats: First, the supplied quantity will be between 350 and 400 tonnes and secondly, it is not exclusive to Karnataka as long as the Centre doesn’t approve a request in this regard by the state government.  “JSW Steel has assured the state government that it can provide oxygen by the end of April, provided it gets the directions from the Centre. According to the current allocation policy, the entire quantity is not supplied to just one state, but is distributed among all southern states,” JSW sources clarified. This means that the state will have to do with the current oxygen stock for at least a week more, with no guarantee that more oxygen will be releasedafterwards. Already, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (Phana) said the city is actually getting only 100 tonnes of oxygen a day. The severe shortage prompted Minister of Health Dr K Sudhakar to announce on Wednesday that all small hospitals with less than 30 beds would be relieved of Covid-19 duties. “These hospitals generally lack oxygen storage capabilities and with the ongoing shortage, they are imperilling patients,” he said. “The removal of these small hospitals would omit about 100 to 200 beds from the Covid bed network. But we accept the decision as it is for the greater good,” added Phana president, Dr H M Prasanna. Just how much oxygen does Bengaluru Urban need? The municipal Chief Commissioner, Gaurav Gupta said that before the pandemic, medical oxygen requirements were only about 50 tonnes a day. It has increased by five times. Oxygen is a traded commodity but we never thought much about it until it started to run low,” he said. Request by Karnataka Commerce and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told DH that the shortage is primarily in Bengaluru as of now. He said currently, about 600 of the 812 tonnes being produced daily by seven major manufacturers in Karnataka was being supplied across the state. However, there is a requirement of around 1,239.17 tonnes of oxygen in the next few days considering a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases. As the entire quantity of oxygen manufactured in the state is not made available to the state’s requirements as per the current allocation policy, our chief secretary has written to the central government for diverting all the quantity manufactured in the state for use across the hospitals within the state,” Shettar said. “I have also told all the companies, including JSW Steel, manufacturing oxygen to supply their quantity to Karnataka alone,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-end-in-sight-for-karnatakas-oxygen-crunch-977055.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In times of pandemic, this cricketer-turned-neta plays Good Samaritan||Karnataka-born B V Srinivas is among the few politicians winning laurels on social media for managing a Covid-19 helpline that has helped thousands of people. Until now, the Youth Congress president and his team have responded to about 20,000 distress calls. His twitter handle is acting as the primary helpline for SOS requests. From getting people tested for Covid-19 to finding beds in hospitals and convincing recovered patients to donate plasma, Srinivas’ team has been engaged in crisis response. The helpline that he is leading has about 1,000 volunteers coordinating across India, Srinivas tells DH. One of the most challenging tasks has been to seek plasma donation, Srinivas says. His team sat down with several recently-recovered patients, convincing them to donate plasma. “This was a challenging task as people are scared to go back to a hospital to donate after having just recovered,” he says. However, the efforts that are recognised today were built over a period of one year, he points out. “We have been working consistently from the initial lockdown in March 2020,” he says. The Congress leader was once an aspiring cricketer and his entry into politics itself was circumstantial. An alumnus of National College in Basavanagudi, Srinivas hails from Shivamogga. He represented Karnataka in under-16 and under-19 cricket. While training during his pre-university days, an accident on his college grounds left him indisposed. “A ball hit my eye and my retina was injured. It took me a full year to recover from it. Back then, the competition in cricket was fierce and owing to this accident, I was unable to get back on track in time,” Srinivas recalls. However, he started actively engaging himself with the Congress-affiliated student body NSUI. “I was among the ardent admirers of H Narasimhaiah. I was influenced by him and the Gandhian thought to join politics,” he says. From NSUI, he joined the Indian Youth Congress and contested the IYC elections for the post of state president in 2008. However, he was unable to win the polls. Nonetheless, he continued his association with the youth wing and became its national secretary in 2014. Last year, he became the IYC president. However, Srinivas wishes to clarify that his Covid-19 relief efforts are distinct from politics. “I perceive our efforts as a response to the global pandemic. I do not wish to link it with politics.” People in distress can reach out to Srinivas and his team on his personal number: +91-9945400666.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-times-of-pandemic-this-cricketer-turned-neta-plays-good-samaritan-977118.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Oxygen units under PM-CARES yet to start operations in Karnataka||None of the six Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants sanctioned to hospitals in Karnataka under the PM-CARES fund is operational yet, despite the hue and cry over the shortage being faced by Covid-19 patients. The Health and Family Welfare Department said that the plants will be operational by the end of the month, even as activists decried the delay despite warnings of a second wave. According to the Department, 40 more oxygen units will come up in the state in the next three months as the state planned to ramp up facilities. “The required equipment for installing the plants have already arrived and will be operational at the end of the month,” said a response by Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar’s office to DH, on the status of PSA oxygen plants in Karnataka. The six plants with 100 litres per minute (lpm) capacity were sanctioned under PM-CARES to government hospitals in Pavagad (Tumakuru district), Shikaripur (Shivamogga), Mudhol (Bagalkot), Yellapur (Uttara Kannada), Chincholi (Kalaburagi) and Shorapur (Yadgir). Deepak C N, general secretary of Karnataka Rashtra Samithi, said that the delay in installing the plants reflected the sad state of affairs over handling the pandemic. “The central government should have sanctioned more, considering the second wave. Yet, even the ones sanctioned are not utilised,” he said, accusing the government of lacking concern for the health of the people. Months after the first wave of Covid-19, tenders for 162 PSA plants for different hospitals in the country were invited in October last year by the Centre. Additional PSA plants were also announced earlier in April. 40 new units Sudhakar’s office said that of the 40 new oxygen units proposed, 10 will be of 500 lpm capacity each, while 30 will be of 390 lpm capacity each. The state has ramped up its oxygen storage capacity from 12 kilo litres last year. Now, Karnataka has 18 storage tanks of 6 kilo litres each, two tanks of 2 kilo litre capacity and seven tanks of one kilo litre capacity each. A recent tweet by the Union Ministry of Health ran contrary to the statement by the state Health and Family Department regarding the status of PSA oxygen plants set up under PM-CARES fund. The Centre had claimed that 33 of the 162 plants sanctioned were operational, which included “2 each in Bihar, Karnataka and Telangana”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/oxygen-units-under-pm-cares-yet-to-start-operations-in-karnataka-977128.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks Centre for 1,500 tonnes of oxygen, one lakh vials of Remdesivir||Karnataka has asked the Centre to supply 1,500 metric tonnes of oxygen and one lakh vials of Remdesivir in view of the growing Covid cases in the state. "We have estimated that in the next one month, we may require 1,500 metric tonnes of oxygen. In this regard, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has written to Union Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal," state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters here on Thursday. He said he too has written to the Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan for supply of oxygen. Sudhakar said the state government had a meeting with the major oxygen generators in the state. Of them, JSW Steel is the largest one. "We had a meeting with Sajjan Jindal and he has assured us to supply as much oxygen required in the state," Sudhakar said. The Minister said after the meeting JSW steel supplied 40 metric tonnes in the last two days required for Bengaluru. Besides this, the State has demanded additional supply of Remdesivir injections, which is crucial for Covid treatment. According to him, the state has ordered 70,000 vials of Remdesivir injection, of which 20,000 had arrived while the remaining would be supplied in the coming days. "We have already ordered 70,000 vials of Remdesivir. This besides we have put forth the demand for one lakh Remdesivir vials for which we have written to the Centre," he added. To a question as to why the state did not stock enough oxygen beforehand, the Minister said when the cases had reduced, there was no such demand and hence there was no point in storing it. Now that the cases have gone up the meetings took place to meet the requirement. The minister's statement came as the demand for oxygen and Remdesivir injection grew in view of the alarming rise of Covid cases, leading to their blackmarketing as well. The government cracked the whip and arrested a few who were blackmarketing Remdesivir injection. However, the shortage persisted. There, however, is no crackdown on the blackmarketing of oxygen cylinders in the state. The grim situation could be assessed from the fact that on Wednesday alone, the state reported 23,558 fresh Covid cases and 116 deaths while the active cases in the state has gone up to 1.76 lakh. The active cases comprised 904 patients in the ICU. Bengaluru Urban district alone contributed more than 70 per cent of the cases and fatalities, prompting Sudhakar to call Bengaluru the epicentre of Covid in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-centre-for-1500-tonnes-of-oxygen-one-lakh-vials-of-remdesivir-977189.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sixteen-year old boy to head Shiroor mutt||Three years after the death of Shiroor mutt chief Swami Lakshmivara Teertha, a 16-year old boy has been named as his successor by Sode mutt seer Sri Vishwavallabha Teertha. Shiroor mutt is one of the 'Ashta' (eight) mutts of Udupi. Lakshmivara Teertha died on July 19, 2018, without naming a successor. Vishwavallabha Teertha, seer of Sode mutt, the 'Dwandva' Mutt of Shiroor, has been handling the mutt's activities. As per custom, the 'dwandva' mutt seer is authorised to name the successor. At a press meet in Udupi on Wednesday, the Sode seer introduced Aniruddha Saralatthaya, a class X student, who will be the next head of the Shiroor mutt. Vishwavallabha Teertha said the parents of Aniruddha have themselves taught him the Vedas. Aniruddha, who has been interested in religious activities right from his childhood, is also familiar with the rituals and traditional celebrations of the mutt, he said. Aniruddha expressed his wish to become a seer at the Shiroor mutt to his parents. His father Uday Kumar Saralatthaya and mother Srividya took their son's intentions seriously and went through his horoscope. After spiritual contemplation, they came to know that their son is destined to become a seer. The Saratthalya family belongs to Nidle village in Dharmashala of Dakshina Kannada district. Vishwavallabha Teertha said when he verified the background, character, knowledge, enthusiasm in spirituality and horoscope of Aniruddha, he could know that Aniruddha is suitable in all senses for the position of pontiff of Shiroor mutt. The 'Sanyasa Deekshe' and coronation ceremony of the new seer will be held for four days from May 11 to 14. The 'Deekshe' ritual will be held on May 13 and the coronation will be held between 12.35 PM and 12.50 PM on May 14, he said. On the opposition from some quarters against appointing a minor as the mutt chief, Viswavallabha Teertha said 'Bala Sanyas' is the legacy of 'Ashta mutts' of Udupi. "I have discussed the matter with the seers of other mutts and no one raised any objection," he said. "This is what Lord Sri Vittala of Shiroor mutt wants and I have asked Aniruddha to completely devote himself to the daily pooja of Lord Sri Krishna," Viswavallabha Teertha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sixteen-year-old-boy-to-head-shiroor-mutt-977214.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Additional allocation of 25,000 Remdesivir vials for Karnataka, says Sadananda Gowda||After reviewing the availability of antiviral drug Remdesivir in Karnataka, it has been decided that allocation of 25,000 vials will be made over and above the allocation made for the state up to April 30, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Thursday. Earlier on Wednesday, Gowda had said the government's decision to waive off customs duty on Remdesivir, used in the treatment of Covid-19, would help in augmenting the supply of the medicine in the wake of soaring coronavirus cases in the country. "Reviewed situation of availability of #Remdesivir in State of Karnataka upon request of State Govt. It has been decided that an additional allocation of 25000 vials will be made over an above allocation made for Karnataka upto April 30, 2021," Gowda tweeted. In another tweet, the minister said the process of allocation of Remdesivir to states is a dynamic process, and enhanced allocation will be made as its production is likely to double in the coming days. Gowda also urged the doctors to prescribe alternative medicines to ease pressure on the demand for the critical drug. "Remdesivir is only an investigational drug and other alternatives for treatment of  #COVID in emergency cases are also available in the market. Doctors are requested to prescribe alternatives to ease pressure on demand for #Remdesivir," Gowda tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/additional-allocation-of-25000-remdesivir-vials-for-karnataka-says-sadananda-gowda-977317.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to order 1 crore doses of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has approved the purchase of one crore doses of the Covishield vaccine at a cost of Rs 400 crore, his office said Thursday.  This will be the first phase of the purchase, according to the Chief Minister’s Office. “This will be used for vaccination of persons between 18 and 44 years,” it said.  Till date, Karnataka has vaccinated 76.41 lakh people aged above 45 years.  Yediyurappa’s decision to purchase Covishield, the Oxford–AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine made locally by the Serum Institute of India, comes after the Centre liberalized the vaccination drive in the third phase to allow states, private hospitals and industries to get doses directly from manufacturers.  The third phase of vaccination, which covers all people above 18 years of age, begins May 1.  Some BJP-ruled states have announced providing vaccines for free to all adults. Karnataka is yet to take a call on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-order-1-crore-doses-of-covishield-covid-19-vaccine-977318.html
22-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Want to help? Join Karnataka's Covid-19 volunteer network||The government on Thursday reactivated its network of nonprofits and volunteer groups to help citizens deal with the second Covid-19 wave.  As part of this, the government has invited citizens to enrol as volunteers in the effort managed by senior IAS officer Uma Mahadevan. She was picked by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to lead the government’s effort to liaise with the private sector during the pandemic last year.  “We have a network of 200 large nonprofits. Shortly, we’re getting details of NGOs in districts also, as the existing network is present in and around Bengaluru,” Uma, the panchayat raj secretary, told DH.  “The sudden surge (in Covid-19 cases) has taken everybody off guard,” she said. “If we create a hyper-local list, that will come in handy in helping people. That's how we build community.” By putting together a list of volunteers, Uma said, the government will coordinate requests for help, with offers of help. “We have received requests for volunteers to work at the government’s oxygen call centre,” she pointed out. “On vaccinations, for example, there might be senior citizens living alone and someone may volunteer to help them out. All these needs are evolving,” she said. Apparently, volunteers are already coming forward to cook free meals for those affected by the pandemic.  The government has opened an online application form, asking interested citizens to enrol for on-ground or remote volunteering work.  “For on-ground work, we want people to be generally in good health and already vaccinated,” Uma said.  Last year, overwhelmed by the response from civil society groups and nonprofits, the government came up with a portal called 'Sankalpa' to coordinate relief efforts during the pandemic. “Last year, we were able to achieve a lot of work on the ground in terms of improving health infrastructure and relief efforts,” the officer said.  Citizens interested in volunteering for Covid-19 can register at bit.ly/GoKVolunteer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/want-to-help-join-karnatakas-covid-19-volunteer-network-977388.html
22-04-2021||West||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray stays away from total lockdown after PM Modi's directive||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked states to use lockdown as last resort, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government tweaked the restrictions in Maharashtra to reduce the presence of people in streets and public transport. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government stayed away from a total lockdown because of stiff opposition by BJP and resistance of the business community. The new set of guidelines were announced on Wednesday night, a day after the weekly Cabinet meeting in which ministers stressed the need for total lockdown and left the final decision for Thackeray. According to the notification issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, government offices - central, state and local authorities - will work with 15 per cent attendance except those in emergency services directly connected to the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Other offices notified earlier will work with 15 per cent of the total of five whichever is higher. Only government personnel and those in emergency services would be allowed to use local trains, metro and mono services in the Mumbai metropolitan region. All those engaged in medical services - doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab technicians, clinical staff will be issued passes on basis of identity cards. Any person needing medical treatment or specially-abled persons can travel in trains. Municipal and state transport buses will operate at 50 per cent of capacity and no standing passengers. Marriage ceremonies have to be conducted only as a single event in a single hall not extending beyond two hours with a maximum of 25 people in attendance. Violation will attract a fine of Rs 50,000. For inter-city and inter-district travel by long-distance trains and buses, the local railway/state transport authorities will ensure screening. All passengers alighting will be stamped for 14 days of home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-stays-away-from-total-lockdown-after-pm-modis-directive-977061.html
22-04-2021||West||Why Covid-19 patients who come in private vehicles are denied admission in hospitals, Gujarat HC asks govt||The Gujarat High Court has asked the state government to respond to complaints regarding criteria for picking up patients by emergency ambulance service, 108, and denying admission in designated coronavirus hospitals to those patients, however critical they are, who are brought in private vehicles. The court has ordered the government to respond by April 26. The division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice Bhargav Karia have sought these details in an order passed on Tuesday which was made public on Wednesday late in the night. The bench has sought details of registration of patients through the 108 service, the time taken to pick up the patients after registering the call and other modalities. The order stated, "there are some complaints that seriousness of the patient is not a criterion for giving preference and it is only on the basis of first come first serve basis that under the present dispensation of 108 Ambulance, the patients are picked up." Asking response from the government the order mentions that "only through ambulance 108, patients are admitted in the designated hospitals and further that 108 ambulance picks up patients only from home/residence but not from any Nursing Home or hospital if the patient is otherwise admitted and later turns into a Covid-19 patient." It said that "Patients being brought in private cars howsoever critical they may be, are not admitted by the designated hospitals even though beds are available." As a matter of fact, there have been instances where patients went to these designated hospitals for treatment but were not registered as covid-19 patients. These questions are based on complaints the bench has received. As a matter of fact, there have been complaints by many people who were denied beds after reaching hospitals directly. In one case at least, a patient was even denied a Covid-19 death certificate. Meanwhile, Gujarat added 12,553 new positive cases on Wednesday while 125 more patients passed away due to the infection in 24 hours. The total number of cases rose to over 4,40,731 cases while the death toll reached 5,740. Surat topped with 29 deaths, followed by 23 in Ahmedabad, 12 each in Vadodara and Rajkot, eight in Jamnagar and 6 in Bhavnagar. In terms of the number of positive cases, Ahmedabad reported 4,821 cases, the highest in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-covid-19-patients-who-come-in-private-vehicles-are-denied-admission-in-hospitals-gujarat-hc-asks-govt-977063.html
22-04-2021||West||Maharashtra issues fresh Covid-19 restrictions: What's allowed, what's not||In order to combat the Covid crisis in Maharashtra, the worst affected by the pandemic in India, the Uddhav Thackeray-government has imposed fresh restrictions to "Break the chain" beginning 8 pm, April 22 until 7 am, May 1. People in the state are advised to not step out unless in case of a medical emergency Wondering what is allowed and what is not? These questions might have you covered. Will offices and essential/emergency services be open? Government offices (state/central/local authority) will operate with 15% attendance. Head of Departments from Mumbai’s Mantralaya and Central government offices can seek higher attendance from the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority CEO. In other government offices, the Head of Departments can apply for to the local Disaster Management Authority. All other offices (under section 5 of the April 13 'Break The Chain' order) can operate with either 15% of their staff or 5 people – whichever is more. Offices under section 2 of the April 13 order, that support essential services, must operate with no more than 50% of their staff. Those involved in on-ground delivery of essentials should also be restricted, but can operate with 100% of their workforce if required. However, those involved in Covid-19 emergency services can operate unrestricted Can I buy food items, groceries, milk from shops? Grocery shops and all types of food shops will be open. Are veterinary services open? Can I buy pet food? Veterinary services, pet food stores, and animal shelters fall under the essential category and will be operational. Are marriage ceremonies permitted? Are there any specific rules, if yes? Yes, marriages are allowed, but with no more than 25 people and not beyond 2 hours. It has to be a one-day affair in a single hall, and attendees must strictly adhere to Covid-19 norms, the violation of which would be liable for a fine of R. 50,000. Defaulting marriage halls are liable to be shut down as long as the pandemic persists. Will bars, restraurants be open? Can I order from Zomato and other food delivery apps? Bars and restaurants will remain closed. Only home delivery from restaurants will be permitted. You can order food from delivery services like Zomato. Can I go to shopping malls or cinema halls? Recreational activities such as going to the mall or cinema halls and amusement parks are not allowed. These places will be closed. Salons and spas will remain closed too. Is private passenger transport allowed? Yes, excluding buses, they can be used for only emergency travel. Other than the driver, it should not carry more than 50% of its capacity, and movement has to be within the city or residence of the travellers. Inter-district/ inter-city travel will only be allowed for emergencies such as medical needs, funerals or severe sickness of family members. Flouters of norms are liable to be fined Rs. 10,000. Private buses can operate with no more than 50% capacity, without standing travellers.  Can I avail private buses for inter-city/district travel? Yes, private buses can operate inter-city/district subject to the following guidelines: There can not be more than 2 stops in a city. The bus service operator needs to inform the same and their schedule to the local DMA who can make changes. If the local DMA decides to conduct RAT tests at the point of arrival, passengers will have to bear the costs for the same. After arriving, all passengers will be stamped on the hand for 14 days of home quarantine by the operator. Only the local Disaster Management Authority can deem this rule unnecessary. Thermal scanners must be used. If anyone with exhibits symptoms, they will be shifted to Covid-19 care centres or hospitals. Defaulting operators can be fined Rs.10,000 by the DMA and repeat violations will lead to revoking of their license as long as the pandemic persists. Will public transport be available during this lockdown? What about local trains? Yes. Local trains, metro/mono rails, barring long-distance trains will be open, however, these can only be used by the following people: 1. State, Central, local Government personnel. Passes will be given upon proving valid government-issued ID.2, All medical personnel. Passes will be given upon proving valid ID issued by the concerned organisation.3. Anyone requiring medical treatment.4. Persons with disabilities and their attendants.5. Government buses can ply with no more than 50% capacity and no standing passengers. What if you need to travel inter-city/district by long-distance trains? Inter-city/district travel by trains are permitted. Local railway/ MRTCS officers may screen passengers upon arrival. They will also be stamped for 14 days of home-quarantine. In this case too, the local DMA can deem this rule unnecessary. The DMA can also ask passengers to undergo RAT tests, the costs of which they have to bear. Thermal scanners will be used and those exhibiting symptoms will be shifted to Covid-19 care centres or hospitals. Word of caution!  The pandemic is in a critical stage following a new wave and a shortage of live-saving oxygen, medicines, and hospital beds. Stay home and keep your loved ones safe whilst following Covid-19 norms. Prevention is the best approach. We will tide over this if everyone does their bit, we urge you to take care of yourself and those around you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-issues-fresh-covid-19-restrictions-whats-allowed-whats-not-977099.html
22-04-2021||West||Exams postponed, public not allowed on streets: All you need to know about Goa night curfew||The Goa government announced a 10-day night curfew in the state effective from Wednesday in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Here's all you need to know about the curfew: 1. The curfew will be enforced from 10 pm to 6 am every day from April 21 till April 30. 2. Casinos, bars, restaurants, river cruises, water parks, entertainment parks, cinema theatres, gyms and parlours will operate only at 50 per cent capacity. 3. Petrol pumps, pharmacies and other essential services will remain open during curfew hours. 4. During the curfew, only commercial vehicles transporting essential goods will be allowed to ply. 5. The upcoming 10th and 12th standard examinations of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education have been postponed. 6. Schools and colleges will be closed, except for holding online examinations. 7. Temples, mosques and churches have been barred from organising mass gatherings, but they can continue performing rituals with limited people. 8. Wedding functions cannot have more than 50 guests and only up to 20 people can attend funerals. 9. Public will not be allowed to come out on the roads during the curfew. 10. Upcoming elections to five municipal councils will be held as per schedule and with Covid-19 protocols in place. 11. There is no ban on industries and other economic activities. 12. After taking into account the number of cases, the district administration will declare micro-containment zones. With PTI and DHNS inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/exams-postponed-public-not-allowed-on-streets-all-you-need-to-know-about-goa-night-curfew-977131.html
22-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: FIR registered in Nashik hospital tragedy||Police registered an FIR against unidentified persons on Thursday in connection with the death of 22 Covid-19 patients at a hospital in Nashik following the disruption of oxygen supply, an official said. The incident occurred on Wednesday afternoon when the oxygen supply to patients stopped suddenly because of a malfunction in the main storage at Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital, run by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). An FIR was registered in the early hours of Thursday at the Bhadrakali police station in Maharashtra's Nashik city against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code Section 304-A (causing death by negligence), the official said. A total of 157 patients were undergoing treatment in the 150-bed Covid-19 hospital when the incident occurred, the NMC had said. The deceased, including 10 women, were in the age group of 33 to 74 years, it said. The disruption of medical oxygen supply was caused by leakage from a storage plant, officials earlier said. They said the incident occurred when oxygen was being filled in one of the tanks from a tanker, which disturbed the supply to the patients who were on ventilators as well as to those dependent on oxygen for breathing. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced a probe into the incident by a seven-member committee and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh would be provided to the families of each victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fir-registered-in-nashik-hospital-tragedy-977135.html
22-04-2021||West||Oxygen tank that leaked in Nashik was activated just 3 weeks ago||The tank from which liquid oxygen leaked at a civic-run hospital in Nashik, killing 22 COVID-19 patients, was operationalised just 21 days before the incident, an official said on Thursday. The incident occurred on Wednesday afternoon when the patients, who were either on ventilator or oxygen support, suffocated to death after their oxygen supply stopped suddenly because of a malfunction in the main storage at Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital in Maharashtra's Nashik city. The police registered an FIR on Thursday against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) following a complaint by a senior inspector of Bhadrakali police station, Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey said. "The oxygen tank, having a storage capacity of 13 KL, was operationalised on March 31," another police official said quoting information provided by the hospital's superintendent. White fumes engulfed the area after the leakage, said the official who was present at the spot. He said the police also got to know that the oxygen tank belonged to (Vadodara-based) Inoxcva company and was taken on rent for 10 years from Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation (a Japanese company which supplies industrial gases like oxygen and nitrogen to a wide range of industries). Patients were being provided oxygen from the round white-coloured tank, installed in the hospital premises, via a pipeline, he said. According to the official, the leakage occurred when oxygen was being filled into the tank from a tanker. He said the oxygen leakage started around 12.20 pm. An employee managing the tanker present at the spot and the hospital administration staff tried to stop the leakage. Later, the hospital administration called an engineer who rectified the malfunctioning and the leakage was stopped between 1.45 pm and 2 pm, the official said. "The patients died due to disruption of the oxygen supply following leakage from the tank," he said. It happened because of "negligence and carelessness" on part of some people who were yet to be identified, he said. Accordingly, an FIR has been registered against unidentified persons, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/oxygen-tank-that-leaked-in-nashik-was-activated-just-3-weeks-ago-977212.html
22-04-2021||West||Maharashtra allocated 50% of daily Remdesivir requirement, says Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the state is being allocated 26,000 Remdesivir injections per day by the Centre as against the requirement of 50,000 vials of the anti-Covid-19 drug. Talking to reporters, Tope said he will write to the Centre to increase the allocation of Remdesivir to Maharashtra, the worst Covid-19-hit state in the country. "The state government's daily requirement is 50,000 Remdesivir injections, but the Centre's allocation is 26,000 injections per day. This is for the next 10 days, which is very serious as timely use of the injections to treat co- morbid and serious Covid-19 patients can save lives," he said. Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre last week banned its export till the situation improves. "I will send a letter to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday to increase the allocation of the key anti-viral drug to Maharashtra," the minister said. Tope and state Food and Drug Administration minister Rajendra Shingane few days ago had assured that the supply of Remdesivir will increase from April 21. On Wednesday, the state reported 67,468 fresh coronavirus cases, taking its tally beyond the 40-lakh mark, while 568 more patients succumbed to the infection, as per the health department. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday came down heavily on the Maharashtra government for its "extremely callous" behaviour towards the issue of procuring and allocating Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients and said the authorities are shirking their responsibilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-allocated-50-of-daily-remdesivir-requirement-says-rajesh-tope-977223.html
22-04-2021||West||Support Maharashtra instead of doing politics: Congress to Fadnavis||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday asked Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to set aside political differences and support the state in its efforts to tackle the "alarming" Covid-19 situation. The need of the hour is to see how lives of citizens can be saved by providing them (Covid-19 patients) Remdesivir and oxygen, Patole, whose party shares power in the state with the Shiv Sena and NCP, said in a statement. "Instead of co-ordinating with the central government to ensure the state gets adequate medical aid, Fadnavis and other BJP leaders in the state only want to work to put the state government into trouble," he alleged. Patole said instead of "behaving irresponsibly", Fadnavis and other state BJP leaders should be the "voice of Maharashtra" at the Centre. He asked Fadnavis to set aside political differences and show his commitment towards the state. The Congress leader said Covid-19 is a "national calamity" and still Maharashtra had to struggle to procure medicines and medical equipment from the Centre. Maharashtra needs 50,000 Remdesivir injections daily and the Centre has allocated only 26,000 vials per day. "Such bias is not good," Patole said. "Fadnavis should become the voice of Marathi people in Delhi. If Fadnavis and other BJP leaders can show haste in getting a Remdesivir black-marketeer released from police station, they should show similar urgencyin saving people's lives," the Congress leader said. Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre last week banned its export till the situation improves. The Mumbai police on Saturday questioned an executive of a pharmaceutical company following information that a large number of Remdesivir vials were going to be flown abroad by air cargo, despite a ban on the export of the drug. On learning that the pharma firm official was being quizzed, Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Pravin Darekar had rushed to the police station on Saturday night. "Amid the pandemic, the Centre was exporting Remdesivir and oxygen to other countries. Instead of paying attention to constructive suggestions of Congress leaders, the BJP mocked them," Patole alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/support-maharashtra-instead-of-doing-politics-congress-to-fadnavis-977253.html
22-04-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 67,013 new Covid-19 cases, 568 deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 67,013 new coronavirus cases, slightly less than the day before, taking its case tally to 40,94,840. As many as 568 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 62,479, said a health department official. On April 18, Maharashtra had reported its highest daily rise in infections so far with 68,631 new cases, followed by 67,468 on Wednesday. On April 17 it had reported 67,123 cases. Of 568 fatalities, 309 occurred in the last 48 hours and 158 last week, while remaining had taken place in the period before the last week, the official said. In good news, 62,298 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, raising the number of recovered cases to 33,30,747. The number of active cases increased to 6,99,858. State capital Mumbai recorded 7,367 new cases and 75 fatalities, taking its case tally to 6,09,080 and death toll to 12,583. With 2,81,506 new tests, the number of samples examined for coronavirus in Maharashtra went up to 2,48,95,986, the official said. Currently 39,71,917 people are in home quarantine, while 29,014 people are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 81.34 per cent, while the fatality rate is 1.53 per cent. The state's positivity rate is 16.45 per cent, as per the health department. The Mumbai division, including Mumbai and satellite towns, recorded 17,195 new cases and 127 deaths, taking the count of cases to 12,69,529 and toll to 22,184. After Mumbai, the Raigad district in the same division reported 29 deaths, the official said. The Nashik division reported 10,468 new infections including 3,160 in Nashik city, 2,509 in the rest of the district and 2,450 in Ahmednagar district. Out of 86 Covid-19 deaths in the Nashiik division, 20 were from Nashik, 16 in Ahmednagar district and 14 in Ahmednagar city while 18 in Jalgaon district. The Pune division saw 13,219 new infections, including 4,657 in Pune city, 2,731 in Pune district and 2,519 in neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad industrial townships. Out of 42 deaths in the division, Satara district and Solapur city reported 17 and 14, respectively. The Kolhapur division added 2,421 cases, while Aurangabad division reported 2,780 new infections and 38 deaths of which 17 were from Parbhani district alone. The Latur division reported 4,239 cases along with 102 deaths. Of deaths, 34 were from Nanded district, 13 from Nanded city, 24 from Osmanabad district, 15 from Latur district and 11 from Beed district. Latur city reported five deaths. The caseload of Akola division increased by 4,183 with 60 deaths of which Yavatmal district contributed 37. The Nagpur division registered 12,508 new cases of Covid-19, including 5,440 in Nagpur city and 2,636 in Nagpur district. The division also reported 90 deaths of which 55 were from Nagpur city and 18 from Nagpur district. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Total cases 40,94,840, new cases 67,013, death toll 62,479, recoveries 33,30,747, active cases 6,99,858, people tested so far 2,48,95,986.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-67013-new-covid-19-cases-568-deaths-977325.html
22-04-2021||West||Second Covid-19 wave akin to World War III, says Gujarat task force member||The "second wave" of Covid-19 that is sweeping India is akin to a "third world war" and it can be won by developing herd immunity in the masses through vaccination drive, said a member of the Gujarat government's task force on the pandemic on Thursday. The task force member, Dr V N Shah, also defended Gujarat government's stand of not imposing a full lockdown to break the chain of viral transmission in the state, which has been witnessing a surge in cases. "This is the third World War. We are fighting against coronavirus. We can defeat this virus only by joining hands and understanding this disease properly," Shah, a well-known diabetologist, said at a press conference in Gandhinagar. At the press meet, Shah was accompanied by other members of the task force and senior state government officials, including principal secretary (health and family welfare) Jayanti Ravi. "The Centre has now allowed people above the age of 18 to get vaccinated (from May 1). It is important to bring in herd immunity. "Many treatment protocols changed (after outbreak last year), because we did not know what would work. But ultimately, answer is vaccination. It will help us to develop herd immunity," he said. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), 'herd immunity' is the indirect protection from an infectious disease that happens when a population is immune either through vaccination or immunity developed through previous infection. Shah defended the state government's stand of not imposing a total lockdown to bring down Covid-19 cases, saying it will prove disastrous for the poor. "A lockdown is not in favour of the poor and lower middle class people. Moreover, the government imposed the lockdown last year because we did not know what we were fighting against. "But now, we know how to give a fight. Thus, the government has done the right thing this time by not imposing a lockdown," Shah added. During the press briefing, Ravi informed about the change in treatment protocol for coronavirus patients with mild symptoms. After studying protocols of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) other states, the Gujarat government has now added Ivermectin and Favipiravir tablets in the treatment protocol, Ravi said. She said even the WHO has now said there is no evidence to prove Remdesivir, considered to be a key drug for Covid-19 patients and whose demand has shot up dramatically in the country, is effective in treating coronavirus. Dr R K Patel, another senior member of the task force on Covid-19, urged people to wear face masks, saying it is more effective than the vaccine. "Masks, particularly surgical ones, are more effective than vaccines. Masks will give you 100 per cent result. You should wear it even when you are at home," Patel said. Timely detection of coronavirus is the key to recover from the infection, he said. "Early diagnosis is the key for recovery. If you have mild symptoms, just stay home and start medications without waiting for RT-PCR test result," suggested Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/second-covid-19-wave-akin-to-world-war-iii-says-gujarat-task-force-member-977332.html
22-04-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to form committee for purchase vaccines internationally ||Amid uncertainties over availability and delivery of vaccines coupled with opening up of the Covid-19 vaccine for all above the age of 18 from 1 May, the Maharashtra government is contemplating forming a committee to scout for vaccines internationally. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray faces a gargantuan task of vaccinating 12 crore people of the state, which is worst-affected by the viral pandemic and accounts for India's lion's share of the positive cases and deaths.  As of now, people above the age of 45 are covered under the inoculation drive – and so far 1.32 crore people have been vaccinated – even as the state faces enormous vaccine shortage and fund crunch. From 1 May, the eligibility bracket would be around 8.5 crore – and the state is expecting a massive rush at vaccination centres. The decision of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing and supplying the Covishield vaccine, to fix the price of vaccine at Rs 400 for state governments and Rs 600 private hospitals – as against Rs 150 for the Centre has not gone down well in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Thackeray had also held a video conference meeting with SII CEO Adar Poonawalla. Maharashtra government officials are also in touch with the top brass of Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech that is rolling out the Covaxin. “We have discussed in the Cabinet about a proposal to set up a committee to look for vaccines wherever it is available, nationally or internationally, however, no final decision has been taken,” state’s Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik of the NCP said. Meanwhile, state’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that SII has conveyed to the state that it would not be able to deliver consignment directly till 24 May, as it has a prior commitment with the Centre. Tope said that the government is making efforts to import stocks from Sputnik V, Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. “There would not be any dearth of funds and we would use development funds to procure stock..the question is of availability,” he said. Meanwhile, state Congress President Nana Patole said Maharashtra as well has undertaken a massive vaccination drive. “But due to the strict restrictions imposed currently, eligible commoners are facing some difficulty in reaching the vaccination centre to take the dose. People are finding it difficult in rural areas because of the additional issue of vaccination centres being less in number and being at longer distances. There will be vaccination for all 18+ from 1 May. There will be the danger of Corona spread due to the crowds at the vaccination centres,” said Patole.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-form-committee-for-purchase-vaccines-internationally-977343.html
22-04-2021||West||Wait for ambulance, hospital and crematorium a common sight in Gujarat||Ahmedabad resident Ameesh Patel's 69-year-old mother Bharati Mahesh Patel was undergoing treatment at a private hospital where she got infected with coronavirus about 10 days ago. The private hospital discharged her immediately asking her to get admitted to a Covid-19-designated hospital. Ameesh's efforts to secure a bed in the hospital didn't yield a positive result. With the help of his friends, he was able to secure a few medicines like Remdesivir and started home treatment. On April 19, his mother's oxygen level saturated dangerously and he dialled emergency ambulance service 108. "The wait hour was over 24 hours. The ambulance reached the next day on April 20 at 12 pm. It got stuck outside the civil hospital as there were several ambulances already in the line waiting to admit the patients they were carrying. Nearly three hours passed while waiting and my mother's condition kept deteriorating. Someone realised this and broke the line to take her inside the hospital. It was too late. She had died in the van itself," Patel told DH. His ordeal didn't stop as he had to wait for over six hours to get his mother's body. He said that by 9.30 pm, a hearse carrying another dead body along with his mother took him to a crematorium at Thaltej. "Even in the crematorium, there was a waiting list and our turn would have come after 13 to 14 hours. We went to another one in Vasna where after waiting for three to four hours, we could cremate her," Patel said, adding, "I just don't know how to react to the events that unfolded. I couldn't get a hospital bed for my mother. It was my fate perhaps, can't complain to anyone, even the government". Patel's ordeal has become common in most of the parts of Gujarat as the number of active cases nears a lakh in the state. With rising daily counts, reports of patients lining up outside hospitals for getting admitted, long queues at crematoriums for last rites, a massive shortage of oxygen and medicines like Remdesivir have become a "routine struggle".  Patients are forced to wait for hours for the 108 services to take them to Covid-19-designated hospitals as they are not getting admitted on their own. This has resulted in chaos, with relatives making frantic calls for securing a bed, tagging social media influencers for procuring drugs and oxygen after failing in their attempts to get help from the government channels. Based on such incidents, the high court has sought answers from the government as to why patients are picked up "only through ambulance 108." The Vijay Rupani-led BJP government is being criticised for not taking quick decisions early when it had time. The state also didn't follow the advice of the Centre team which had asked it in March to increase RT-PCR testing. Gasping for oxygen The pandemic has hit the state hard with active cases reaching over 92,000 by Thursday evening. The state has been seeing record high number of cases. On Thursday, it reported 13,105 new cases and 137 deaths, the highest since the onset of the pandemic. On April 18th, the government had claimed that it wanted to make 1 lakh beds available by the end of the month. On April 18, the state government told the high court that "Total oxygen production in the state is quantified at 1,100 metric tons. 70% of the total production is reserved for hospitals and healthcare use as notified in government resolution dated 12th April. Whilst considering the ground situation and the emergent demand for oxygen in the four districts of Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara, vide notification dated 13th April 2021, the entire production of oxygen, in these four districts, estimated at 482 metric tons is being employed for hospitals and healthcare sector." Officials said, this is still not enough. On Wednesday, an office bearer of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Home Association resigned reportedly after his repeated request for more oxygen to Covid-19 private hospitals was not heeded by the government. On the same day, at least two persons were reported dead due to lack of oxygen in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat. Popat Mali, a resident of Palanpur, told reporters, "My nephew and two cousins are Covid-19 positive and critical for the past six days. The hospital doctors are asking us to arrange oxygen as they don't have it." When contacted, collector Anand Patel denied that there was any death due to oxygen scarcity. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi and Food and Drugs Control Administration Commissioner Hemant Koshia didn't respond to calls for further information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wait-for-ambulance-hospital-and-crematorium-a-common-sight-in-gujarat-977395.html
