23-04-2021||First Edit||IMD must aim for micro-level forecasts ||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) prediction of a normal monsoon this year might bring some cheer, though the impact of normal rains may be different in Covid-hit times from normal years. The met agency expects the precipitation to be "most likely’’ in the range of 96-104 % of the Long Period Average (LPA), which is the mean of the rainfall during the 1961-2010 period. The monsoon was above normal in the last two years at 110 % and 109 % of the LPA, though the IMA had predicted normal monsoons. The monsoon helped the economy last year with a strong performance by the agricultural sector, which was the only sector to perform. A normal monsoon would keep inflation in check, increase farm production, boost rural employment and incomes and create more demand. But it is yet to be seen how these factors would work if the pandemic situation gets worse and spreads to more areas including the rural hinterland.   The most important factors that decide the quantum of the monsoon are the surface temperatures in the Pacific and the Indian Ocean. The IMD has foreseen them as "neutral’’ this year. The El Nino phenomenon, which refers to the abnormal warming of the waters of the equatorial Pacific, is unlikely to be adverse. The parameters on the Indian Ocean also point to the possibility of normal rains. Therefore the IMD thinks that its forecast may not be off the mark. But, as always, the spatial distribution of the monsoon will be uneven across the country. While central and southern India are likely to get above normal rain, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar and the North-Eastern states may not receive adequate rain. Rainfall may also be below normal in some areas of North India including Delhi and Jammu Kashmir.   The IMD makes its predictions in two stages. The preliminary forecast is made in April and a more detailed one, which gives estimates of the amount of rainfall in four regions and in the months of July and August, are given in May or early June. This year there will be separate forecasts for the monsoon core zone, which most depends on the monsoon for agriculture, and for the months of June and September too. The IMD has made many technological improvements this year to reduce the margin of error. It should also try to make micro-level forecasts which will be more useful to the farmers and others. Now that there is a fair idea of the nature of monsoon this year, governments should be ready to deal with them. The fight against the pandemic will claim most attention, but that should be no reason for departments like agriculture and disaster management to lose their focus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/imd-must-aim-for-micro-level-forecasts-977455.html
23-04-2021||In Perspective||Capitalising on the drone revolution||New products or new technologies almost always begin with a torrent of scepticism. Take for example mobile phones, a solution initially considered not of much use has managed to change the way we communicate, do business, entertain ourselves, socially interact with others, and learn. Mobile phones have proven to fill gaps in governance, enhance financial inclusion, and support disaster management in developing countries. Technology has long been a driver of economic development throughout the world, and those that embrace it are able to shape it and maximise its multiplier effects. One such new solution is in the form of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) or in common parlance drones. Across industries, the potential of drones is starting to be realised. From military drones to children’s toys, drones are making a big impact. Multifarious usage of drones Wherever drones have been used, it has been a strong force multiplier. The agriculture industry continues to benefit from incorporating new and evolving technology. It has found drones to be an indispensable tool for farmers around the world. Drones are helping farmers to address several of the challenges in the industry such as increasing productivity, better crop management, improving adaptation to climate change, reducing pollution etc. Drones have been used for livestock management giving accurate data on herd counts. They have been deployed in orchards and vineyards for data on accurate counts of trees, vines, and other plants for much better yield predictions. In India, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY) mandates use of technology, drone imaging to detect fraudulent insurance claims and discrepancies. It was also used for the spraying of anti-locust pesticides earlier this year. In manufacturing and mining too, drones have been used for geospatial mapping, evaluating, monitoring, inspection, and surveillance. In some cases to drill holes and drop explosives for excavation too. UAVs have been actively used in governance – enforcement, monitoring, urban planning, transport management and traffic control. Disaster Management would be handicapped without accurate geographic information of affected areas. Searches in the night or in areas of dense foliage or under the rubble are important activities in disaster relief. In these efforts, drones are a boon. With their ability to fly tethered indefinitely, they can be used to create temporary Wi-Fi or mobile telephony hotspots to allow urgent communications in disaster-hit areas. This list of usages could go on and is not complete without highlighting the usage of drones in Covid relief measures. Regulatory muddle India has also used UAVs but has it been able to optimise its compounding effect? That has not been possible because of the regulatory bottlenecks. While there is much excitement within the emerging UAV industry it is more on account of the potential and not so much about what has been achieved. The regulations for UAVs are still a work in progress. The regulations once they are notified have a long way to go before they can be fully implemented. Large components of the implementation infrastructure are yet to see the light of the day and are without an unambiguous timeline for its full operationalisation. Much of the usage of drones has been facilitated by the Ministry of Civil Aviation by providing fast-track approvals through exemption route. Numerous organisations have received this relief and the usage was facilitated by conditional exceptions under the Aircraft Rules, 1937. While there is a need to have solutions customised for India, given its diversity of governance standards, economic development, and of geography, it should not hesitate to benefit from the experience of other countries. The unique concept of No Permission-No Take-off (NPNT) or the globally accepted No information –No Take-off (NINT) system is worth a vigorous debate. Although the rules and regulations governing UAV operations primarily lay emphasis on safety and security, it seems that they suffer from the same muddle we saw for the telecom industry in its early years - remember the CDMA versus GSM versus Wireless in Local Loop (WLL) conundrum? For India to optimise the benefits from the far-reaching advantages of drones and potentially become a global leader in the UAV industry, it needs to build systems and norms that are aligned with global best practices. The existence of conducive and consumer-friendly regulatory environment is concomitant with this ambition. India must get its act together at the earliest not only because it has been witness to the advantages brought by a new technology like mobile phones but also because drones of the future hold much greater potential. Drones of the future could support precision agriculture helping define irrigation needs; conserve electricity and prevent wanton usage of groundwater. They could also be used for personal transportation in the near future. (The writer is a public policy consultant at Chase India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/capitalising-on-the-drone-revolution-977456.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru police cracks down on shops violating Covid guidelines||City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar took a few jewellery shop owners, and other establishments to task on Friday in Mangaluru for not adhering to the guidelines of the state government. The revised guidelines from Chief Secretary P Ravikumar has ordered the closure of shops, commercial and private establishments other than those dealing with essential services. As a part of crackdown on the traders and force the shutting of shops other than that of essential services, City Police Commissioner carried out a drive in Clock Tower, Hampankatta, Ambedkar Circle, Falnir and Kankanady areas on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, the City Police Commissioner said that cases will be booked against those who violated the guidelines. “People and business establishment owners should behave responsibly. It is a natural tendency for the people to visit and buy when jewellery shops are open. Already appeal and advises were given to the traders. When they fail to adhere to the guidelines, the police have no option other than to book cases against them.” The Commissioner also handed over roses to a few people who were found strictly adhering to the guidelines on various streets in the city. The commissioner had even boarded a few city buses to ensure that the guidelines of wearing masks are strictly followed by the passengers, conductors and drivers. Several shops dealing in electronic goods, mobile and mobile accessories, ready-made garments, jewellery were closed down by the police and Mangaluru City Corporation teams across Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-cracks-down-on-shops-violating-covid-guidelines-977577.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid patient escapes from hospital, seeks divine intervention for recovery||A video clip of a woman patient, escaping from the Hassan District Hospital and seeking divine intervention to save her from Covid-19, in front of a church, in Hassan, has gone viral on social media. It is alleged that the woman escaped, by dodging hospital staff, and was seen in front of a church nearby, crying inconsolably, praying to the Almighty, to cure her of Covid. "Do something to save me", she is heard saying in the video. Meanwhile, the family members and the hospital staff pacified her and took her back to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-patient-escapes-from-hospital-seeks-divine-intervention-for-recovery-977741.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||10 sandalwood smugglers from Tamil Nadu arrested||The Forest department personnel arrested 10 people, including four women, from Tamil Nadu, for allegedly smuggling sandalwood logs near Bharachukki falls, Kollegal taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Thursday night. The accused are from Hosuru taluk, Krishnagiri district in Tamil Nadu. According to officials, the miscreants had identified the sandalwood trees, grown at the foot of Bharachukki falls, 10 days ago. They had felled the trees and were trying to smuggle the sandalwood to Bengaluru when they were nabbed. Acting on a tip-off, a team, led by Deputy Conservator of Forest V Yedukondalu and ACF Vanitha, took part in the operation and arrested them. In all, 24 kg of sandalwood logs, 30 kg of 'makaliberu', the implements used to fell the trees, four mobile phones and two batteries were seized. Covid positive When the accused were subject to Covid tests, a precautionary measure, two of them tested positive. This has caused anxiety among the team that conducted the raid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-sandalwood-smugglers-from-tamil-nadu-arrested-977751.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rs 5.08 lakh bribe money seized from car in Karnataka||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths on Thursday seized a 'bribe' money of Rs 5.08 lakh in Karnataka's Bagalkot, said to have been collected by various offices of the Health department. The cash in question was being transported in a car driven by Mahantesh Virupakshappa Nidasanur, a first division assistant at the office of the district health officer. Following a tip-off, the ACB team, led Sameerullah, intercepted the car and seized the cash, along with a register pertaining to the travelling allowance bills of the Health department staff. The ACB police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rs-508-lakh-bribe-money-seized-from-car-in-karnataka-977779.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Fee for Covid vaccine amounts to daylight robbery: KPCC president||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) women’s wing president Pushpa Amarnath said, the fee charged for Covid-19 vaccination, for those in the age group of 18 to 45 years, amounts to daylight robbery by the government. Addressing media persons, here, on Friday, she said, the vaccination should be administered free of cost, to all eligible citizens. “Sending free consignments of the vaccine to foreign nations, but charging a fee for our own citizens smacks of double standards. Looks like there is a scam in the vaccine too,” she said. “Soaps, sanitisers and masks should be distributed free of cost in fair price shops, under the public distribution system, to protect the health of the people, amid the Covid crisis. At least these items should have been exempted from Goods and Services Tax (GST). However, the government is burdening the people by imposing GST on all life-saving drugs and materials like vaccine and oxygen,” Pushpa said. She held Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar responsible for the aggravated Covid situation. She alleged they flouted all Covid norms, against the advice of experts, during the campaign of byelections at Belagavi, Maski and Basavakalyana. “After much damage was done, they have imposed restrictions,” she added. “Now, the restrictions will not only kill the people due to Covid, but also due to hunger. The measures have been taken without any preparation. Women are pledging their ‘mangalasutra’ to perform the cremation of their husband. The governments, which have failed to save the lives of the people, should at least, give them a good cremation. Government should initiate severe action against those fleecing Covid victims,” Pushpa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/fee-for-covid-vaccine-amounts-to-daylight-robbery-kpcc-president-977752.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ministers inactive, conspiracy to oust BSY: KPCC spokesman||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesman M Lakshmana said, all ministers in the state have become inactive, despite a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths, and there is a conspiracy in the BJP itself, to oust Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Addressing a media conference, on Friday, he said, the State government has utterly failed in handling the Covid crisis. “Under the guise of imposing strict rules, to check the spread of Covid infection, the government is changing the guidelines too frequently, creating confusion among the people. If the government cannot govern, let it step down. President’s rule would be a better option. A team, within the BJP, is trying to project that Yediyurappa is a failure. Due to factionalism in the BJP, the people are suffering,” he said. “The government itself has stated that Rs 6,800 crore is spent for tackling Covid, in the past one year. It should give the details of the expenditure, in a transparent way. It is a shame that the Governor chaired a meeting to tackle the Covid situation, despite having an elected government. Where are BJP organising general secretary B L Santhosh, general secretary C T Ravi and Union ministers D V Sadananda Gowda and Pralhad Joshi? Nobody is there to support Yediyurappa,” said Lakshmana. He warned of exposing the ill-deeds of Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and his coterie in the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). Mentioning the legal notice from Dr Ashwath Narayan for his earlier allegations in the Higher Education department, Lakshmana said, he will not step back, even if 100 such notices are served on him. “District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar seems to be shameless. His government itself nullified an order issued by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. But, Somashekar still defends the order of the DC,” he said. District (city) president R Murthy, secretary Shivanna, Girish and Mahesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ministers-inactive-conspiracy-to-oust-bsy-kpcc-spokesman-977755.html
23-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY inefficient, Modi no headmaster, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday dubbed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as “inefficient” while attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for appearing on television “repeatedly without any purpose.” Siddaramaiah’s criticism was timed for Modi’s video conference with chief ministers of states where the Covid-19 situation is worrisome.  “CM has conceded that the situation has gone out of hands. The people of Karnataka will have to ask PM Narendra Modi now for solutions. How will Modi resolve Covid-19 crisis with such an inefficient CM?” Siddaramaiah asked.  According to the Congress leader, Bengaluru had 7,621 hospital beds - government and private - for Covid-19, of which 6,124 were occupied and 1,487 were available. “But more than 15,000 positive cases are being registered everyday. Has CM explained this reality to the PM?” Siddaramaiah asked. On the same lines, Siddaramaiah said 65% ordinary beds, 96% high-dependency unit beds, 98% ICU beds and 97% ventilator beds were occupied. “And more than 15,000 patients are lining up in front of hospitals everyday. What should they do?” he asked.  He further accused Modi of increasing exports of oxygen when there was a shortage of oxygen. “Mr PM Narendra Modi, the virus will not vanish if you repeatedly appear on television without any purpose. Also, you are not a headmaster to teach lessons to CMs. First, show your responsibility by fulfilling the requests placed by state governments,” Siddaramaiah said.  The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader also shot off a letter to all his party legislators asking them to help citizens during the second Covid-19 wave with hospitalisation, oxygen, medicines, ambulances and other requirements.  Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar said he would hold talks with small businesses early next week following the government’s decision to close ‘non-essential’ shops till May 4 as per the Covid-19 guidelines. Shivakumar also demanded the government to provide Rs 25,000 aid to every household that suffered from unemployment due to the pandemic.  Taking a jibe at the government’s handling of the pandemic, Shivakumar said, “Should we call this second wave as the Yediyurappa wave or the Modi wave?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-inefficient-modi-no-headmaster-says-siddaramaiah-977810.html
23-04-2021||Main Article||Lessons from nature||We are stardust brought to life, then empowered by the universe to figure itself out—and we have only just begun,” said the famous astrophysicist Niel DeGrasse Tyson. We are not only a part of nature but also made from nature. This leads us to think: if we are made out of nature, why not draw inspiration for the inevitable climate apocalypse from nature itself? What did this Earth Day mean to us? One of the best ways to celebrate Earth Day and rejoice this beautiful planet is to draw lessons from it and make it a part of our daily existence, lest we have to learn these lessons the hard way. The Climate crisis is probably the greatest threat to humanity thus far, with the capability to devastate civilisations and wipe out entire species. Naturalist Sir David Attenborough reaffirmed this too. If we are to avert this, our best chance is to learn from Earth itself. Balance is the first inspiration we could draw from. Mother nature is great at creating balanced ecosystems. In ecology, all natural systems are in a state of equilibrium and disturbing even a single element can disrupt other connected systems. Nature even has a way to self-regulate any imbalances that are caused over time. Are human-made systems balanced? In our greed for more, we have fuelled excessive consumption and have gone off the balance. Do our economic progress indicators factor in balance? Does GDP specify how much growth a nation achieved without disturbing the ecological balance? Shouldn’t our climate action efforts focus on restoring balance? Equally critical is the lesson of resilience. The come-back of nature and biodiversity during the pandemic lockdowns gave ample evidence of nature’s resilience. The resurgence of flora and fauna, including dolphins, flamingos and kangaroos to name a few, was witnessed in almost every corner of the world during this phase. How can we emulate nature’s ability to bounce back and develop systems that are resilient? A skyscraper in Dubai is no different than the one in Singapore or New York. Not so in nature. Adaptation is yet another strong inspiration that can be drawn from nature. In nature, adaptation is integral to survival. But most of the human-made systems refuse to adapt. Nature hails coexistence and celebrates diversity. In a forest ecosystem, the same water body serves a goat as well as a leopard. It serves all kinds of animals and trees that coexist. The whole notion of human v/s nature is misleading. There is no ‘v/s’ here. Humans are a part of nature and therefore must learn to coexist in harmony with nature and all its life forms. Creativity is embedded in every facet of nature. Only creativity can help us extract ourselves out of the mess we have created. Climate crisis is a complex and dynamic interplay of challenges and therefore calls for creative solutions. Incremental innovation won’t help much. We need radically creative solutions that factor in the complexity and change dynamics of an interconnected world, be it a breakthrough innovation in energy, or water or transportation. Whatever it is has to be game-changing and done fast. Living in harmony Humanity has shown how effective it is at generating and building mountains of waste. On the contrary, in nature, there is no concept of waste. A byproduct of one system feeds another system and so on. For instance, organic waste produced by animals serves as the manure for flora and that produced by plants serves as food for animals. So is the case with oxygen. Can we humans, too, eliminate the concept of waste and imbibe zero-waste value-chains across systems and sectors? India produces more than 1.50 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of solid waste per day, of which more than 50% ends up in landfills. It is high time we start reimagining waste as a resource. This leads us to the wonderful notion of circular loops that we see demonstrated in nature. There is something about circularity and in nature, almost everything is circular – be it the water cycle, food cycle, nitrogen cycle or carbon cycle. There is an underlying deep insight out there. Circular loops are sustainable. As we notice, there is a lot of talk about inclusion all over the globe. We need not look far. In nature, everyone has a role to play. Even the tiniest speck has a role to play and there is no discrimination whatsoever. We don’t need to be reminded how powerful a virus can be. Isn’t that one of the most effective concepts to demonstrate the power of an inclusive world where everyone is empowered to play their role? Whether we pause to notice or not, a flower is blooming, a butterfly is emerging, a cloud is bursting. Evolution is as old as the genesis of life itself. Everything is evolving, changing and becoming. The most profound lesson to draw is probably that of nature’s self-sufficient yet selfless attribute. Mother nature is always telling us to be self-sufficient, yet selfless. What would that mean for human systems? Can we as individuals or organisations, build self-sufficient systems that won’t necessarily feed our own self-centred interests? Even our Vedic concept of ‘pancha mahabhoota’ or five elements of nature advocate the idea that these elements come together to form a human being. If only we humans begin to see the interconnectedness around us and devise solutions keeping nature’s inspirations in mind, the celebration of Earth Day on April 22, will gain a whole new meaning and help us live harmoniously with the planet. (Chauhan is the Global Director, Planet & Climate, Ashoka and Raghavendra is the SVP of Safe Water Network)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/lessons-from-nature-977474.html
23-04-2021||Mysuru||PIL to be filed against PM, Karnataka CM, officials for Covid-19 deaths||President of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Badagalapura Nagendra said that public interest litigation (PIL) would be filed before the Karnataka High Court, against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the officials as defendants, regarding the death of Covid victims. Addressing a media conference, he said, “It is the responsibility of the government to protect the lives of not only the people but animals and birds and also to protect all elements, including water and earth. Thus, the PIL will be against people’s representatives, executive and the officials.” “When we see the plight of the Covid victims, especially family members of the deceased, we get a doubt, if there is a government in India. If there is a government, the doubt is, whether it is run by human beings. It is confirmed that the government cannot save the lives of Covid patients. At least, their cremation should be done properly,” Nagendra said. He said, “Vacant apartments and government lands should be used to accommodate and treat Covid patients. The government should immediately declare a health emergency and initiate steps to save the lives of Covid patients.” “Prime Minister Modi should announce how much was received in the PM Cares Fund and what share of the fund is distributed among the states, in his next ‘Mann Ki Baat’. Covid vaccine should be administered to all, free of cost. Rs 10,000 per month should be paid to all poor families, including farmers. The government should intervene and buy vegetables, whose prices have plunged to all time low,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/pil-to-be-filed-against-pm-karnataka-cm-officials-for-covid-19-deaths-977740.html
23-04-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru reports 645 new Covid-19 cases||Mysuru district reported 645 new Covid cases on Friday. With this, the total has increased to 65,456. There are 5,027 active cases in the district. Four deaths were reported in a day, taking the death toll to 1,140. Hassan reported eight deaths on Friday. The positive cases were 244 and the total positive is 34,050. There are 3,163 active cases and 519 deaths reported so far. Chamarajanagar district reported 245 cases, taking the total to 8,757. There are 1,129 active cases. With two deaths reported on the day, the death toll stands at 121.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-reports-645-new-covid-19-cases-977743.html
23-04-2021||Mysuru||Free oxygen cylinders for Covid patients in Mysuru||A Mysuru-based organisation is distributing free oxygen cylinders to needy Covid-19 patients. In the wake of the second wave of Covid, the availability of oxygen cylinders is a major challenge. Many hospitals are finding it difficult to provide oxygen to the patients. “To help Covid patients, battling low oxygen saturation levels and respiratory infections, United Vision Welfare and Charitable Trust, NR Mohalla, Mysuru, is providing free oxygen cylinders. A group of 13 friends started this initiative and have already provided oxygen cylinders to around 98 patients, last year,” said Mohamed Asadulla, one of the members. “The trust commenced the free service again, from Friday. A person in need of a cylinder should deposit Rs 5,000 as surety, which is refundable. The trust supplies free oxygen cylinders till the patient recovers, Those in need of oxygen cylinders can contact: 79759 89229 or 98453 91775,” said Mohamed Asadulla. The other members of the trust are: Anees Mahmood Khan Ghori, Noor Ahmed Khan, M Rafeeq Khan Ghori, Gulnar Parveen, Abdul Majid Khan, Mohammed Usman, Syed Shah Ahmed Nadeem, Shabeena Jabeen, Syed Siddiq Ahmed, Mohammed Shameer, Mohammed Ameen, and H A Ibrath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/free-oxygen-cylinders-for-covid-patients-in-mysuru-977744.html
23-04-2021||Mysuru||IMD predicts moderate rainfall this week in Mysuru||Heavy rain, accompanied by thunder and lightning, lashed parts of Mysuru city and surrounding areas around midnight on Thursday, bringing respite from the heat. Though the whole day was sultry, it started pouring a little after midnight and continued for more than an hour, on Thursday. Meanwhile, the city remained overcast on Friday also. Several taluks in Mandya and Hassan districts also received heavy rain on Thursday night, uprooting trees and damaging houses. According to the forecast of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), 20 mm rainfall is expected on April 24 (Saturday). Besides, moderate rainfall may be expected from April 24 to 28 in Mysuru district. While the maximum day temperature is expected to be 33 to 34 degree Celsius, night temperature is likely to hover around 20 and 21 degree Celsius, for the next five days. According to the Extended Range Forecast (ERF), above normal rainfall is expected in Mysuru district from April 23 to May 5. The weather prediction is almost the same for Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts, with just a slight variation in the temperature levels. Normal monsoon There is good news for farmers, as the IMD has predicted normal monsoon rainfall this year. According to a press release from the IMD, 98% normal rainfall is expected from June to September this year. The farmers may plan agriculture activities as there will be normal rains this year. According to the scientists of Organic Farm Research Station in Naganahalli, the farmers may take up land preparation and ready the land for pre-monsoon sowing. Besides, they should purchase seeds only from authorised dealers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/imd-predicts-moderate-rainfall-this-week-in-mysuru-977754.html
23-04-2021||National||Apollo Hospital MD seeks ambulance status for oxygen trucks||Amid hospitals crammed with patients crying out for oxygen supplies, India's largest hospital chain on Thursday asked the government to tag oxygen tanks as ambulances and enable quick green corridor movement across states. As India recorded the world's highest daily tally of 3,14,835 new Covid-19 infections, hospitals in the national capital and other major cities complained of "dangerously low" levels of oxygen that is needed for critically ill patients. The situation has been made worse by states that house oxygen manufacturing units restricting inter-state supplies. Apollo Hospitals Group Joint Managing Director Sangita Reddy, which has hospitals in the national capital as well as adjoining Noida, tweeted on Thursday morning about an oxygen tanker being stopped by Haryana police from entering a refilling plant at Panipat. Her tweet, which tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top ministers as well as the health ministry, seemed to have worked and the tanker was allowed inside. "As I tweet, an oxygen tanker is outside the gate of Air Liquide Panipat plant at IOCL and he is not being allowed inside Haryana Police are stopping it and not letting the oxygen out of Haryana. Need urgent intervention," she tweeted, tagging Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Railway and Commerce & Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Haryana Chief Minister and Union Health Ministry. Minutes later, she updated saying the tanker has been allowed inside. "Update: The driver has just been allowed inside and hopefully the oxygen will be sent out soon," she tweeted this time tagging just Modi, Goyal and Singh. She went on to demand a quick corridor for movement of oxygen trucks. "Further to my earlier tweet an appeal once again to the government to please tag oxygen tanks as ambulances and enable quick green corridor movement," she tweeted. Earlier in the day, she had tweeted: "While we ramp up production and redirect IND supply of #Oxygen, the URGENT factor is to allow free movement of tankers across state borders. Govt pls tag O2 tankers as AMBULANCES!! Create a green corridor 4 tanker movement with CRPF escort The situation is CRITICAL for Hospitals & Drs." The 3,14,835 new cases in India on Thursday were more than the previous one-day gain of 3,14,312, reported by the US in December. The rise has overwhelmed hospitals who have reported low oxygen stocks. The unfolding disaster led to the national capital's largest hospital chain, Max, earlier this week sought help from the Delhi High Court, which expressed "shock and dismay" over the government's neglect and directed the administration to "beg, borrow, steal" to ensure adequate oxygen supply for hospitals. Another private hospital, Saroj Super Speciality on Thursday approached the Delhi High Court to secure oxygen supplies. Over the past one month, the Covid-19 outbreak in India has exploded. As cases worldwide reach new weekly records, 40 per cent of the infections are coming from India. The country has surpassed 1.56 crore total infections, second most after the United States. The death toll has also begun to climb precipitously. Government data showed 2,104 deaths, and an average of more than 1,300 people dying of the virus every day for the past week. That is less than at the worst points of the pandemic in the US or Brazil, but it is a steep increase from just two months ago, when fewer than 100 people in India were dying daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apollo-hospital-md-seeks-ambulance-status-for-oxygen-trucks-977411.html
23-04-2021||National||Give country solution, not hollow speeches: Rahul Gandhi to govt on Covid-19 situation||The crisis in the country is not just due to coronavirus but also because of "anti-people" policies of the central government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday, and called for a solution instead of hollow speeches. He attacked the government, alleging it had brought destruction and had turned the middle-class into the poor. The Congress has been targeting the government over its management of the Covid-19 situation in the country. "I am quarantined at home and sad news is constantly coming in. The crisis in India is not just due to Corona, but due to the anti-people policies of the central government. Don't give false celebrations and hollow speeches, give the country a solution," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. In another tweet, he said, "The poor are not just a number – they are living people and hundreds of helpless families. Crushing the middle-class and turning them poor, the BJP government has shown how destruction can be done." Gandhi also cited a media report claiming that India has been added to the list of countries having collective poverty after a span of 45 years. The Congress leader tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week. He reported mild symptoms and has been quarantined at home. Gandhi also took to Instagram, saying he has hope and faith that the people of the country will defeat the virus by working together. "One day we will hug again. I have hope and faith in the human spirit, in the Indian spirit. We will heal. We will defeat this virus and we will do it by working together," he said. "I want to thank all our healthcare workers & front line workers for their sacrifice & continued dedication, and the hundreds and thousands of Indian citizens going above and beyond to help their fellow countrymen. Each one of you gives us hope," Gandhi added. India registered over 3.14 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking its infection tally to 1,59,30,965.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-country-solution-not-hollow-speeches-rahul-gandhi-to-govt-on-covid-19-situation-977415.html
23-04-2021||National||Bombay HC asks Centre, Maharashtra to file replies on Covid-19 management||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the Maharashtra government to file their respective replies by May 4 on the management of available resources, including hospital beds, Remdesivir drug, vaccines and oxygen, to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The HC conducted a day-long hearing on several issues related to the management of such resources and during the proceedings, the Maharashtra government told the court about steps taken by it to tackle the rising cases of Covid-19 and provide treatment to patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni said no person in the state should be denied a Covid-19 test on account of the lack of a valid doctor's prescription for the same. It also heard a bunch of public interest litigations seeking directions pertaining to shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen supply and urged for monitoring of black-marketing and profiteering allegedly taking place during procurement and distribution of Covid-19 drugs. During the hearing, Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, told HC that the state was conducting Covid-19 tests, making available hospital beds, maximising oxygen production and doing all that it could, do tackle the rising infections. Kumbhakoni said Maharashtra was producing 1,200 metric tonnes (MT) of medical grade oxygen daily and importing liquid oxygen from other states to meet the daily demand of 1,500 MT of the life-saving gas used to treat critical coronavirus patients. He said Maharashtra, the worst Covid-19-affected state in the country, was using almost 100 per cent of available oxygen for treatment of patients and leaving just minimum amount of the gas for pharma and other allied industries. Kumbhakoni, however, said in the coming weeks, the state would need around 2,000 MT of oxygen daily and require the Centre's assistance in procuring oxygen then. "We have limited number of tankers to import liquid oxygen currently. We have also ruled out possibility of air lifting liquid oxygen. "We are using RoRo (roll onroll off) trains to transport cryogenic tankers," Kumbhakoni said. The AG told the bench that Maharashtra had received 2,69,000 units of Remdesivir, a key Covid-19 drug which is in high demand, from the Union government. The BMC's counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhre, said municipal hospitals in Mumbai had adequate stock of Remdesivir injections to last for the next few days. Kumbhakoni observed that citizens required to be informed that Remdesivir was not a "magic drug" and that it was to be taken only upon a doctor's prescription. At this, the HC said the Centre and the state government must issue an advisory for citizens on availability and use of Remdesivir. The court said there had to be a portal for availability of essential Covid-19 drugs. "You should realise this is emergency situation. The situation is getting grim with each passing day," it said. Referring to news reports from last year which said that people needed to be cautious about the Covid-19 spread till June, the bench said, "Had we not lowered our guards at least till 30th of June, 2021, this situation would not have been there." The HC asked the state government about steps being taken to decongest prisons to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among inmates and jail staff. The bench said the prison authorities must seek the relevant magistrate court's order on a case to case basis for shifting inmates from one prison to another. It directed magistrates to decide within 48 hours, on applications made by the prison authorities to shift undertrials from crowded jails. The HC noted that as per the state's data, despite the coronavirus-inducted lockdown, crime rate in Maharashtra had gone up in 2020. However, crimes like "dacoity, robbery, theft, rape, cheating, molestation and kidnapping had gone down drastically", it observed. The HC directed the state government to consider the suggestions made by the Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences on decongesting prisons. The bench said it will pass a detailed order covering all relevant issues by Thursday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-asks-centre-maharashtra-to-file-replies-on-covid-19-management-977422.html
23-04-2021||National||International travel under 'Air Bubble' shrinks further||Faced with a serious pandemic second wave, the already restricted international travel under the ‘Air Bubble’ flights has shrunk further.  Air India on Wednesday cancelled 13 flights between London, Delhi and Bengaluru, even as more countries imposed restrictions on India travel.  The record spike in Covid-19 cases in the country had forced the United Kingdom to include India to its ‘red list’. This list restricts the entry of passengers, except permanent residents, UK and Irish nationals from entering the country.  In a tweet on Wednesday, Air India announced that flights between India and the UK were cancelled from April 24 to 30. Passengers were told that updates on rescheduling, refunds and waivers would be informed shortly.  Of the cancelled flights, the service AI131/AI178 operates in the Mumbai–London–Bengaluru route. The AI177/AI130 Bengaluru-London-Mumbai service originates from the Kempegowda International Airport. AI131/AI130 Mumbai–London-Mumbai and AI161/AI162 Delhi–London–Delhi are the other Air India flights linked to the UK.  Besides the UK, the United States, New Zealand and Hong Kong have also issued fresh travel advisories for their citizens, urging them to avoid any travel to and from India.  It is anticipated that more countries will follow suit as there is no sign of the cases abating. This is likely to trigger more cancellations of Air Bubble flights to these countries.  Since the global spread of the Covid-19 did not permit a quick return to normal scheduled services, India had entered into Air Bubble arrangements with multiple countries. The bubble allows any two countries to restart commercial flights in a limited way. Currently, India has travel bubbles with 27 countries worldwide, including the US, the UK, Germany, France, Russia, Canada, the Netherlands, Japan, Ukraine, Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, Seychelles, Afghanistan, Iraq, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Uzbekistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-travel-under-air-bubble-shrinks-further-977439.html
23-04-2021||National||Protocol for psychological rehabilitation of Covid patients to be released on April 23||Realising the importance and need of psychological care along with the physical treatment for Covid-19 patients, three premier institutions of the country have come together to develop a protocol for their psychosocial rehabilitation. The release of the protocol is scheduled to take place on Friday. The three eminent institutions are -- the Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN), an autonomous body of the Ministry of Ayush, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru and the Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana (S-VYASA), the Ayush ministry said in a statement. Yoga and naturopathy systems have shown effectiveness in facilitating the recovery of Covid-19 patients. Simple breathing exercises and "pranayama" have been seen to enhance the SPO2 levels in symptomatic patients and those with respiratory distress, the ministry said. Preliminary reports from studies conducted by the CCRYN also validate these findings. The current protocol is a collaborative effort to address these symptoms and the psychological sequelae of Covid-19 patients. The release of the protocol is scheduled to take place on Friday. This will be followed by an online workshop for BNYS practitioners, in which they will be trained in the protocol. The workshop will also address the enhanced burden on the healthcare workforce in our country from the perspective of the naturopathy sector.   "The healthcare institutions in parts of our country have been overwhelmed by the sheer burden of Covid-19 cases. It has reportedly become a challenge under these circumstances to pay attention to every individual patient," the ministry said. According to reports, the accompanying psychological distress in Covid-19 patients are often ignored and not managed. There have also been reports of anxiety and acute depression, leading to suicides in Covid care hospitals, the statement said. Many of the patients, according to inputs coming in from different countries, have had to contend with isolation anxiety and distress due to the fear of worsening of the symptoms. Complications like respiratory distress, hypoxia, fatigue and insomnia and other symptoms have also been observed. The online workshop will help impart knowledge about the epidemiology of Covid-19, the course of the disease, screening for distress and psychological sequelae, management of distress and psychological sequelae using yoga and naturopathy approaches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protocol-for-psychological-rehabilitation-of-covid-patients-to-be-released-on-april-23-977443.html
23-04-2021||National||State govts free to procure Covid-19 vaccine from manufacturers: Centre||State governments are free to procure anti-coronavirus vaccine doses from vaccine manufacturers as per the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The ministry said this while refuting some some media reports that suggested the Serum Institute of India (SII) has contracted all its production till May 25, 2021 to the Centre, and therefore, till that date the state governments will not be able to procure vaccine from SII. "These media reports are based on incorrect facts and are without any basis," the ministry said. In order to expand and liberalise the countrywide vaccination drive, the Union Government on April 19 announced the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy which would come into effect from May 1. A key feature of the strategy is that the "vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Government of India and would be free to supply remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the other than Government of India channel," the ministry said. The state governments are free to purchase the vaccine doses from vaccine manufacturers, it said. "Therefore, it is very clear that every month out of the total CDL cleared doses available with any vaccine manufacturer, 50 per cent doses would be available for other than Government of India channels," it said. From May 1, the present system of private Covid-19 vaccination centres receiving doses from the government and charging up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist, the ministry already had said. According to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, Covid-19 vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups comprising healthcare workers, frontline workers and population above 45 years of age in government Covid vaccination centres which receive doses from Government of India. Vaccine manufacturers would make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to state governments in the open market before May 1. Based on this price, states, private hospitals, industrial establishments may procure vaccine doses from manufacturers. Private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of Covid-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked for other than Government of India channel. The price charged for vaccination by private hospitals would be monitored, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-govts-free-to-procure-covid-19-vaccine-from-manufacturers-centre-977444.html
23-04-2021||National||Over 13.5 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India||The total number of vaccinations against Covid-19 has crossed 13.5 crore in the country with more than 30 lakh vaccine doses administered on Thursday till 8 pm, the health ministry said. The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stood at 13,53,46,729, according to a provisional report compiled at 8 pm. The beneficiaries include 92,41,384 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose, 59,03,368 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,17,27,708 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 60,73,622 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,55,10,426 and 18,91,160 beneficiaries in the 45-60 age group have taken the first and the second dose respectively, while 4,85,01,906 and 64,97,155 people aged above 60 have been administered the first and the second dose. A total of 30,16,085 vaccine doses were given on Thursday (till 8 pm), the 97th day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive. The beneficiaries included 18,33,828 who were vaccinated for the first dose and 11,82,257 who received the second dose, the ministry said, adding that the final report for the day would be compiled by late night. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with HCWs getting inoculated. The vaccination of FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those above 60 years of age and people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The vaccination of all citizens aged above 45 started from April 1. On Monday, the government decided to expand the vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-135-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-977446.html
23-04-2021||National||DH Toon | SC raps Modi government over Covid-19 management, demands 'national plan'||Amid a record number of Covid-19 cases and deaths, the Supreme Court on Thursday acted Suo Motu and sought a national plan from the Centre on supply of oxygen, essential drugs and vaccination. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the present situation was "alarming" and was like a "national emergency".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sc-raps-modi-government-over-covid-19-management-demands-national-plan-977481.html
23-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 23||India surpassed 1.5 crore coronavirus infections amid the unprecedented spike in daily Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past few weeks. The country continues to be the second-worst hit nation in the world after the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala. The number of active cases has breached the 21-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months as governments stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic, which has left over 30 lakh people dead globally. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,62,63,695 as of April 23, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,86,920 as of April 23, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged: 1,36,48,159 Total Vaccination: 13,54,78,420 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-23-977489.html
23-04-2021||National||India's Covid-19 meltdown exposes new front in digital divide||As India's daily coronavirus cases set global records, people desperately searching for hospital beds and oxygen cylinders are finding help on social media. But for others like Ruby Yadav, who has never heard of Twitter, time and hope is running out. Travelling by rickshaw, Yadav and her mother - who is seriously ill with Covid-19 - have been turned away by nearly a dozen public hospitals in Lucknow this week as the country's health system crumbles. "I'm losing hope. We know what will happen next, but I can't bear to watch my mother collapse like this," Yadav, 21, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone on Thursday. India reported more than 300,000 coronavirus cases within 24 hours on Thursday, marking the world's highest daily tally and taking the country's total cases to nearly 16 million. Shortages of ambulances, hospital beds, drugs and oxygen supplies are crippling healthcare in much of the country of 1.3 billion, prompting people to post appeals on Twitter in a desperate bid to get help for seriously ill loved ones. People in need and those with information or resources are sharing telephone numbers of volunteers, vendors who have oxygen cylinders or drugs, and details of which medical facility can take patients using hashtags like #COVIDSOS. Many people are creating Twitter accounts to seek help from those in positions of power, officials manning helpline numbers said, but hundreds of millions of mainly poorer Indians do not have access to a smartphone or use social media. "We've tried every helpline provided by the government and the only reply we're getting is there are no beds available. I don't know what Twitter is and didn't think of asking for help on social media," said Yadav, holding back tears. Among the more than 500 million Indians who do use smartphones, WhatsApp, YouTube and Facebook are among the most widely used platforms, according to government data. Twitter, which lawmakers, charities and political party helplines are using to share information and answer pleas for help, has only 17.5 million users in India, data shows. For the vast majority of Indians struggling to get help, repeatedly calling inundated phone lines or carrying patients to emergency wards in person is the only option - highlighting the impact of the country's digital divide. World outside Twitter In eastern Jharkhand state, children's rights activist Baidnath Kumar has been frantically sharing information on WhatsApp and fielding appeals for help from local residents, but as the crisis deepens he said being online could prove decisive. "Access to anything - beds, oxygen, medicines, doctors - is becoming more and more difficult," Kumar said. "One needs to know someone or appeal on social media for a quick response. But how many people can do that? It doesn't work." Members of poor, marginalised communities are most at risk of missing out on information and support circulated via social media. Mona Baghmare, 21, a member of the Gond tribal group, launched a support network for indigenous women living in settlements in the central city of Bhopal as coronavirus cases spiked this month. "Most of these women exist in a world outside Twitter and social media, which have become lifelines for many in need now," Baghmare said. "While we're also fundraising on Twitter with the help of friends who have accounts, the ground support is only through meetings, passing on information and phone calls. It's a slower process, but it's the only one we have." In the economic hub of Mumbai, state legislator Zeeshan Siddiqui spent his time recovering from Covid-19 responding to hundreds of tweets and Twitter messages from people frantically seeking medicine and hospital care for sick relatives. Their pleas prompted him to revive an emergency helpline that he had set up last year, deploying staff to circulate the number on Twitter and WhatsApp. "We're getting about 80 calls a day," said helpline operator and volunteer Abid Ahmad Shaikh. "We've divided ourselves into teams - one looks for beds, another for oxygen cylinders and another for intensive care units and so on." Siddiqui said requests for help spread quickly on Twitter - more so if a verified profile tweets or retweets pleas tagging the right people. A quarter of the calls to the helpline are from people who do not have smartphones, he added. In a Mumbai suburb, Chinmay Gode, an information technology engineer and youth president from the Aam Aadmi Party, said the helpline he manages has seen call volumes increase at least 15-fold over the last 10 days. "There are many people who don't use smartphones but there are others who are voluntarily taking down details of those in need and bringing them to us," Gode said. "You may not be on Twitter but you need to know someone who can amplify," he said. But for thousands of people struggling to access potentially life-saving care, that is not an option. "No help has arrived yet," said Yadav. "My mother is losing time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-meltdown-exposes-new-front-in-digital-divide-977506.html
23-04-2021||National||India reports over 3.32 lakh Covid-19 cases, record 2,263 deaths||India added a record over 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases in a single day taking the country's tally to 1,62,63,695, while active cases crossed the 24-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,86,920 with a record 2,263 new fatalities. The country recorded a single day rise of 3,32,730 new cases, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases increased to 24,28,616 comprising 14.93 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.92 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,36, 48,159, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.15 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,44,45,653 samples have been tested up to April 22 with 17,40,550 samples being tested on Thursday. The 2,263 new fatalities include 568 from Maharashtra, 306 from Delhi, 207 from Chhattisgarh, 195 from Uttar Pradesh, 137 from Gujarat, 123 from Karnataka and 106 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,86,920 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 62,479 from Maharashtra, 13,885 from Karnataka, 13,317 from Tamil Nadu, 13,193 from Delhi, 10,766 from West Bengal, 10,541 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,189 from Punjab and 7,541 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-332-lakh-covid-19-cases-record-2263-deaths-977514.html
23-04-2021||National||Rapid vaccination, preventive strategies can thwart second Covid-19 wave: SBI report||Rapid vaccination coupled with strict preventive strategies would be able to thwart the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, according to a report by the State Bank of India (SBI), the public-sector banking and financial services giant. The report prepared by SBI's Economic Research Department states that in India, 15% of the population can be fully vaccinated and 84% can get their first shot by December 2021. Experiences of other countries show infections stabilise after 15% of the population receive a second dose, the report said. The national peak may come two weeks after Maharashtra peak, according to the report prepared by Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser, SBI. The Spanish Flu in 1918 showed more deaths in later waves, thus vaccination is must to avoid larger fatalities later. Injection to infection ratio shows that India made rapid improvement this year but it is still below Israel, Chile and the United Kingdom, the report said. “Almost 900 million people at least have received one dose of Covid-19 vaccine worldwide. However, top 15 countries accounted for 84% of total vaccination, indicating huge unevenness. Only 2.6% of the population is fully vaccinated in the world, and in India, only 1.2% of the population is fully vaccinated till now,” the report points out. The vaccination rollout is also being increased – both by Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “Taking these into account, we believe a total of 1,132 million doses can be given by December, in which 15% of the population can be fully vaccinated and 84% can get their first shot,” the report states. The SBI model suggests that the estimated peak time is 96 days from 15 February, indicating the peak happening in the 3rd week of May. The report points out that Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra achieved peaks before the national peak in the first wave. “Now new cases in Maharashtra seem to be stabilising but the share of cases in total of various other states (Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat) has increased in the current second wave and these are showing an increase in daily new cases. So, if other states also implement strict actions and control the spread, then national peak may come within 2 weeks after Maharashtra peak,” the report said. Certain states like Rajasthan, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh have lower percentages of their population above 45 years and have already given vaccine shots to a larger percentage of population above 45 years. However, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal have a higher percentage of population above 45 years and have inoculated less proportion of those above 45 years. Also, the state-wise performance in case of vaccination is quite uneven. Our “Vaccine Hesitancy Index” calculated as doses administered per 100 available shows that all N-E states and in states like Goa, Jharkhand, Assam, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh there is a vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rapid-vaccination-preventive-strategies-can-thwart-second-covid-19-wave-sbi-report-977524.html
23-04-2021||National||Maharashtra hospital fire: Rahul Gandhi asks state govt to provide all assistance to families of victims||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the Covid-19 patients who died in a blaze at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar district, and appealed to the state government to provide all necessary assistance to them. The fire broke out in the ICU on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar shortly after 3 am, an official said. Firefighters extinguished the blaze at 5.20 am, he added. "Tragic news has been received from Vijay Vallabh Covid centre in Virar about the death of patients due to a fire. My deepest condolences to the families of the victims," Gandhi said on Telegram. "I appeal to the State Govt and Congress workers to provide all necessary assistance," the former Congress chief said. The Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena have a coalition government in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-hospital-fire-rahul-gandhi-asks-state-govt-to-provide-all-assistance-to-families-of-victims-977527.html
23-04-2021||National||Cost of vaccinating Indians between 18 and 45 is 0.36% of GDP: Report||The total cost to be borne by central and state exchequers will be Rs 67,193 crore, of which 0.24% of the GDP will be borne by states (Rs 46,323 crore) and the Centre will bear 0.12% of GDP (Rs 20,870 crore), according to the report. The total size of the population that will be eligible for vaccination stands at over 84 crore out of a 133 crore total population. Under the new vaccine policy, from May 1, there will be two channels that supply the vaccine — 50 per cent will be from the Centre and the other 50 per cent will be available in the open market. State governments and private hospitals can procure vaccines directly from manufacturers in the second group. Rs 5,090 crore was already spent to procure 214 million doses of both vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin. The remaining doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, 1.5 billion doses would cost Rs 62,210 crore. This amounts to just 0.36% of India's GDP. Bihar is most likely to face the maximum impact when it comes to footing the bill for vaccines. Vaccination of all adults would cost Bihar 0.60% of its gross state domestic product (GSDP), followed by Uttar Pradesh (0.47%) and Jharkhand (0.37%). Expenditure on vaccines is expected to be recurring at antibodies from the vaccines are expected to last between 12 and 18 months. However, several states such as Kerala, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have announced that they will bear the cost of vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cost-of-vaccinating-indians-between-18-and-45-is-036-of-gdp-report-977533.html
23-04-2021||National||Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine expected to be imported to India by July||Johnson & Johnson's single-shot Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be imported to India for "fill and finish" by June or July, reported news agency ANI. Speaking to the agency, Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, said, "The Johnson & Johnson vaccines are expected to be imported to India by June-July 2021. Johnson & Johnson is working closely with Biological E to facilitate the ongoing tech transfer to India." The Centre had announced that it would fast-track emergency approvals for Covid-19 vaccines authorised by Western countries and Japan. The country has urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson to provide it with vaccines. While Pfizer said it was talking to the government, J&J has sought approval to do a small local trial but has not made any plans to sell it. India recorded the world's highest daily tally of coronavirus cases for a second day in a row on Friday with 332,730 new cases, while daily deaths from Covid-19 also jumped by a record. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/johnson-johnson-covid-19-vaccine-expected-to-be-imported-to-india-by-july-977537.html
23-04-2021||National||Case on Covid-19 management: SC allows Harsh Salve to be recused as amicus curiae||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw himself as amicus curiae, in a Suo Motu matter related to supplies of essentials in Covid-19 pandemic, as a group of the senior advocates opposed his nomination a day before. The court, however, took strong objection of some senior advocates "imputing motives" to it for a decision to act suo motu to ensure supply of oxygen, essential drugs and vaccines across the country in view of grim situation. "Senior advocates are destroying this institution. Even before the order was passed, motives were imputed that we were going to stop the high court. Is this the way senior advocates behave," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked as a group of counsel appeared to oppose the top court's move. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was very critical of the top court's decision of Thursday, contended a perception was created that the apex court would transfer to itself all pending Covid-19-related matters from various High Courts. "We never said a word and did not stop the high court. We asked the Centre to go to HC and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about," the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, asked. Salve, for his part, said, it is the most sensitive case this court will look into. "I don't want this case to be decided under a shadow that I knew CJI from school and college days. Allegations have been made or there is conflict of interest," he said. Salve has appeared for Vedanta which sought a permission to reopen its Sterlite plant at Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu for production of oxygen. He said in the wake of the allegations against him, he would not want any aspersion on such an important hearing. "We were also pained at reading what some senior advocates had to say. But everyone is entitled to their own opinion. In future, we will have to look for someone as amicus who we don't know," the CJI said. The CJI also pointed out to appoint him as amicus curiae was a collective decision of the bench. It was the last working day for CJI Bobde. He is retiring on Friday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the CJI deserved a loving farewell and senior advocates should not make statements on perception. The court posted the suo motu matter registered as "Distribution of Essential Supplies and Services during pandemic" for consideration on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-on-covid-19-management-sc-allows-harsh-salve-to-be-recused-as-amicus-curiae-977545.html
23-04-2021||National||Delhi, 9 states account for 75% of new Covid-19 cases: Health Ministry||Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan reported 75.01 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. India added a record 3,32,730 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, taking the country's infection tally to 1,62,63,695, according to the ministry data updated on Friday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 67,013. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 34,254 fresh infections, while Kerala reported 26,995 new cases, the ministry said. India's active case count has reached 24,28,616 and now comprises 14.93 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 1,37,188 cases was recorded in the total active Covid-19 cases in a day. Five states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala -- cumulatively account for 59.12 per cent of India's total active cases. Delhi and 11 states -- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar and West Bengal -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,36,48,159 with 1,93,279 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.15 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 2,263 coronavirus-related deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Delhi and nine states account for 81.79 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (568). Delhi follows with 306 daily deaths, the ministry said. On the other hand, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 13.54 crore as part of the world's largest vaccination drive. Cumulatively, 13,54,78,420 vaccine doses have been administered through 19,38,184 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am, the ministry said. These include 92,42,364 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 59,04,739 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,17,31,959 FLWs who have received the first dose and 60,77,260 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the second dose. Besides, 4,85,34,810 and 65,21,662 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 4,55,64,330 and 19,01,296 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have been administered the first and second dose, respectively. Eight states --Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala -- account for 59.08 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given so far in the country, the ministry stated. Over 31 lakh vaccine doses were administered in a span of 24 hours, it said. As on day-97 of the vaccination drive (22nd April, 2021), 31,47,782 vaccine doses were given. A total of 19,25,873 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 28,683 sessions for first dose on Thursday and 12,21,909 beneficiaries received second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-9-states-account-for-75-of-new-covid-19-cases-health-ministry-977551.html
23-04-2021||National||Hospitals facing acute shortage of oxygen despite strict govt orders: Apollo Hospital MD Sangita Reddy||Hospitals are suffering from acute shortage of oxygen despite strict government orders to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen, Apollo Hospitals Joint Managing Director Sangita Reddy said on Friday. She was responding to a tweet from rival Max Healthcare which said that Max Smart Hospital and Max Hospital Saket were left with less than one hour's oxygen supplies. "Hospitals continue to gasp for breath despite govt orders being issued. Its now becoming an hourly challenge for many hospitals. every minute of delay on commitments made can cost lives!! ," Reddy tweeted tagging union ministers, Delhi Chief Minister and other state ministers. Earlier Max Healthacre tweeted: "SOS - Less than an hour's Oxygen supplies at Max Smart Hospital & Max Hospital Saket. Awaiting promised fresh supplies from INOX since 1 am. over 700 patients admitted, need immediate assistance." Centre has directed states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders and said the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the district concerned will be held responsible if there is any violation of its order. On Thursday, Reddy had asked the government to tag oxygen tanks as ambulances and enable quick green corridor movement across states. As India continued to record a huge number of new Covid-19 infections, hospitals in the national capital and other major cities complained of 'dangerously low' levels of oxygen that is needed for critically ill patients. The situation has been made worse by states that house oxygen manufacturing units restricting inter-state supplies. Reddy on Thursday had tweeted about an oxygen tanker being stopped by Haryana police from entering a refilling plant at Panipat. Her tweet, which tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top ministers as well as the health ministry, seemed to have worked and the tanker was allowed inside. Earlier in the day, she had tweeted: 'While we ramp up production and redirect IND supply of #Oxygen, the URGENT factor is to allow free movement of tankers across state borders. Govt pls tag O2 tankers as AMBULANCES!! Create a green corridor 4 tanker movement with CRPF escort The situation is CRITICAL for Hospitals & Drs.' India on Friday reported 3,32,730 fresh Covid-19 new cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day tally any country reported ever since the pandemic began last year. Meanwhile, 2,263 more people succumbed to the infection, taking the nationwide toll to 1,86,920, according to the data provided by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday morning. Over the past one month, the Covid-19 outbreak in India has exploded. As cases worldwide reach new weekly records, 40 per cent of the infections are coming from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hospitals-facing-acute-shortage-of-oxygen-despite-strict-govt-orders-apollo-hospital-md-sangita-reddy-977553.html
23-04-2021||National||When to seek hospitalisation if Covid-19 positive||As healthcare infrastructure struggles to keep up with a steady stream of Covid patients, doctors are advising patients to not worry if the RT-PCR test comes back positive and not demand hospital admission when not necessary. Several hospitals across the country have been running out of beds due to a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 patients seeking medical admission, resulting in the death of several critical patients unable to receive treatment. According to Dr CS Pramesh, director of Tata Memorial Hospital, most Covid-19 positive patients can be treated at home. A video message posted by @/MyGovIndia gives more details. Here are the key takeaways from the video Keep monitoring Oximeters can be used thrice a day to check the oxygen saturation rate. If these results are normal, there is no reason to go to the hospital, the expert said. Covid-positive patients must monitor their fever and oxygen level in addition to taking proper diet, plenty of fluid, yoga, and pranayam, the video said. So what helps and what should you do? A six-minute walk measure is recommended for the correct interpretation of the oxygen level, in which a patient must take an oxygen reading before and after six minutes of walking in their isolation rooms. This helps determine the oxygen level - a key determiner of severity of cases. When should you seek hospitalisation? Only if you have the following signs should you be hospitalised:>On the Oximeter, the baseline saturation is less than 94%.> Before and after 6 minutes of walking, the oxygen level fluctuates by 4% or more. What medicies to take? When a patient just has a fever with no other symptoms, paracetamol is all that is needed in terms of treatment. 85% of Covid patients recover without any other treatment, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-to-seek-hospitalisation-if-covid-19-positive-977554.html
23-04-2021||National||This is on you: Rahul slams govt over 'oxygen shortage, lack of ICU beds'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the central government over the shortage of oxygen and lack of ICU beds amid rising coronavirus cases. Congress has been attacking the government over its management of the Covid-19 situation in the country. "Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it's #OxygenShortage & lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths. GOI, this is on you," Gandhi said in a tweet. GOI, this is on you. According to the Health Ministry, India recorded a single-day rise of 3,32,730 Covid-19 infections and 2,263 fatalities, pushing the tally of cases to 1,62,63,695 and death toll to 1,86,920.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-is-on-you-rahul-slams-govt-over-oxygen-shortage-lack-of-icu-beds-977555.html
23-04-2021||National||Sumitra Mahajan says Om Birla should look into news of her 'death'||A popular misquote attributed to Mark Twain states: The reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated. On Friday, it was the turn of former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan (78) to announce that she is very much alive. Her 'clarification' came after Congress leader Shashi Tharoor and some media outlets Thursday night announced the demise of Mahajan. Tharoor and others deleted the tweets after BJP leaders pointed out that she was hale and hearty. "What should I do? These people carried the news without any confirmation. They should have at least confirmed with the district administration in Indore," Mahajan is heard saying in an audio clip. "The Central government and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla should take note of this," the BJP veteran says in the clip. "This became all-India news. I started getting calls from my relatives in Mumbai. My brother's daughter responded to Tharoor's tweet asking who gave him this fake news. Mahajan also wondered why some Mumbai news channels, in particular, flashed the fake news of her demise. After deleting the tweet, Tharoor had said he was relieved that Mahajan is doing fine and said he banked on "a reliable source" in putting out his tweet. The former Lok Sabha speaker's son Mandar put out a video clip Thursday night, saying his mother is perfectly fine and asked people not to believe the false news about her. Mahajan was the Lok Sabha Speaker from 2014 to 2019. She earlier represented the Indore Lok Sabha constituency in Parliament for eight terms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sumitra-mahajan-says-om-birla-should-look-into-news-of-her-death-977559.html
23-04-2021||National||Oxygen gets armed escort in India as supplies run low in Covid-19 crisis||Sirens wailing, a police convoy escorting a tanker carrying oxygen reached a hospital in India's capital just in time, to the huge relief of doctors and relatives of Covid-19 patients counting on the supply to stave off death. A dire shortage of oxygen - essential for the survival of critical Covid patients - has meant states are closely guarding their supplies and even posting armed police at production plants to ensure security. Several hospitals, including Shanti Mukand in the west of the New Delhi with 110 Covid patients, said they had almost exhausted their oxygen supplies on Thursday. The prospects for patients and their distraught families was disastrous. "The hospital came to us and told us to make our own arrangements," said Bhirendra Kumar, whose Covid-positive father was admitted 10 days ago. "We're not an oxygen company - how can we make our own arrangements?" Earlier in the day, the hospital's chief executive, Sunil Saggar, choked back tears as he described the decision to discharge some patients because the lack of oxygen meant there was nothing his hospital could do to help. At the hospital's oxygen supplier, Inox in Uttar Pradesh state about an hour from the capital, a line of a dozen trucks from cities across north India waited to fill up. Half a dozen drivers told Reuters they had been waiting for as long as three days to get their trucks filled, as surging demand from hospitals in the capital and elsewhere outstripped supply. Vakeel, who goes by one name, has been working as a driver for Inox since 1994. He said the level of demand was unprecedented. "Every hospital wants three or four times what they did before," he said. 'Learn to manage' The Inox plant has seen frequent visits from government officials and police, some wielding assault rifles, ensuring that there is no disruption of any kind to supplies. An Uttar Pradesh police officer said they had been given orders to escort trucks to waiting hospitals. Welcome though the extra security is, a supervisor at the facility said it was impossible to meet demand. "Even if we build another five plants here we won't be able to," said the supervisor, who declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the situation. Eventually, a truck left the plant, reaching the New Delhi hospital late on Thursday evening. A relieved crowd of doctors and relatives who had gathered outside to wait for the truck's arrival headed back in. "Some things in life are difficult," hospital chief Saggar said as the needle on the hospital's storage tank ticked back up from close to zero. "You have to learn to manage." But the reprieve is only temporary. "Every day is like this now," Saggar said. In less than 24 hours, the hospital will have to do it all over again, as the needle sinks back towards empty with new supplies, hopefully, on the way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-gets-armed-escort-in-india-as-supplies-run-low-in-covid-19-crisis-977560.html
23-04-2021||National||PM Modi holds meeting with CMs of 10 states over Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting on Friday with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi are among those who attended the meeting. Modi will hold a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country via video conference amid concerns expressed by some states that their supply of the life-saving gas is running short with a number of hospitals sending out SOS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-holds-meeting-with-cms-of-10-states-over-covid-19-situation-977562.html
23-04-2021||National||Big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals: Kejriwal at PM's Covid meet||Raising alarm that a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Army. In a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 situation, Kejriwal requested him to direct chief ministers of all states to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to the national capital. "People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," he said during the meeting. "We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. Centre government should take over all oxygen plants through the Army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an Army escort vehicle," he said. "The oxygen supply scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha and West Bengal should either be airlifted or brought through the Oxygen express started by the Centre," he said. The chief minister also objected to different rates being charged from state governments and the Centre for the Covid-19 vaccine, and said "one nation, one rate" policy should be followed. Prime Minister Modi held a meeting on Friday with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The meeting via video conferencing comes amid a huge surge in coronavirus cases, which have now clocked a daily total of over 3 lakh in the country. Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi are among those who attended the meeting. Modi will hold a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country via video conference amid concerns expressed by some states that their supply of the life-saving gas is running short with a number of hospitals sending out SOS. Meanwhile, sources in the Centre government alleged that "Kejriwal used the entire PM-CM meet platform for playing politics". "He raised the point of airlifting oxygen, but did not know that it is already being done. He spoke about Oxygen express by Railways but Railway sources say he has not communicated anything about it to Railways. He chose to spread lies on vaccine prices despite knowing that Centre does not keep one vaccine dose with itself and shares with states only. All CMs spoke about what they are doing to improve the situation. However, Kejriwal had nothing to speak on what he is doing," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-tragedy-may-happen-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-hospitals-kejriwal-at-pms-covid-meet-977563.html
23-04-2021||National||Wonderla parks closed until further notice||Wonderla Holidays on Friday announced the closure of its Kochi and Hyderabad parks till April 29, or until further notice due to the current Covid-19 situation. "This decision was taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 and to ensure the safety of customers," the amusement theme park and resort company said in a statement. Following the government directive due to the rising Covid cases in Karnataka, Wonderla Holidays had announced the closure of its Bengaluru park till May 4, or until further notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wonderla-parks-closed-until-further-notice-977564.html
23-04-2021||National||Singapore to bar long-term pass holders, India travellers due to Covid-19 surge||All long-term pass holders and short-term visitors who have travelled to India within the last 14 days will not be allowed to enter or transit through Singapore from April 24, as the city state is on "heightened alert" against Covid-19, according to a media report. The decision will also impact people who have prior approval to enter Singapore, said Education Minister Lawrence Wong, co-chair of the multi-ministerial task force handling the pandemic, said on Thursday. In addition, people who have recently travelled to India and have not completed their 14-day stay-home notice (SHN) by 11.59pm on Thursday night will have to complete their additional seven-day SHN at a dedicated facility rather than their places of residence. This group will undergo three polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for the virus: when they arrive, on the 14th day of their SHN and before the end of their SHN. Many of the new arrivals from India work in the construction, marine and process sectors and live in the dormitories. “We know that this major move will have an impact on our construction, marine and process sectors. And many local SMEs and contractors will be badly impacted," he said at a press conference on Thursday. “The Government will be looking at providing additional support measures to help these companies,” Channel News Asia reported quoting the Minister. There is no evidence that the recent cases at the Westlite Woodlands Dormitory are linked to a new strain from India, said Wong. Explaining why Singapore has tightened its border measures, Wong said the situation in India has worsened since the start of the week. He added that the SHN period is not "100 per cent foolproof", noting that any leaks among newly arrived Indian workers could possibly introduce new strains into dormitories and result in new clusters. India reported 314,835 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the world's biggest single-day surge. The country has recorded 16 million cases and 184,657 deaths so far. A new "double-mutant" variant has also emerged in India, and is thought to be fuelling the country's second wave. Singapore's Ministry of Health also confirmed on Thursday that 17 recovered workers at Westlite Woodlands dormitory for foreign workers were found to have Covid-19, although there is no evidence that these cases were linked to India or to the new viral strain that has emerged there. Health Minister Gan Kim Yong, who with Wong co-chairs the multi-ministerial task force handling the pandemic, said, "Singapore is on heightened alert against the coronavirus, given rising case numbers and emerging virus variants around the world." The situation may escalate quickly, necessitating the tightening of measures in Singapore, he added at a virtual press conference. Viral variants - including those first detected in South Africa and Brazil - have been found in 342 imported cases, said the Health Ministry's director of medical services, Associate Professor Kenneth Mak. All the cases were isolated on arrival and no community spread has been detected. He warned that this number may increase over time as more Covid-19 cases are detected and more testing done. Gan urged Singaporeans to continue to be socially responsible and adhere to safe management measures. This applies to those who have already been vaccinated as well, he said. "The recent spate of cases has reminded us that we cannot let our guard down." "We are facing an invisible and very formidable enemy," The Straits Times quoted the Minister Wong as saying. He added that the spate of new strains detected in other countries is a worrying development. "Perhaps after this round of vaccination, we might have to continue with further rounds of vaccination," he said. "Even up to beyond this year, because we will have to confront not just the virus today, but potentially new strains of the virus that may be more infectious and virulent," he said. Singapore has detected 342 imported cases with the B117, B1351, and P1, P2, and P3 variants, said Assoc Prof Mak. The P1, P2 and P3 variants are also known as the B11281, B11282 and B11283 variants, respectively. The B1525 and B1617 strains of the virus have also been detected among imported cases into Singapore, he added. “All these cases have already been placed on stay-home notice or isolated upon arrival in Singapore, and we’ve not detected any further community spread for any of these other variants of interest.” In a separate statement on Thursday, the Health Ministry said Singapore has seen 46 imported cases of the B1617 variant, or the “double mutation” variant of the virus from India. There have also been five imported cases of the B1525 variant. Responding to questions about the new variants, Assoc Prof Mak said there is “emerging evidence” that some of the variants may have “an increased risk of breakthrough”. “But yet at the same time, for many other variants, this has not been seen.” Adding that the data for the “double mutation variant” that originated in India is still emerging, Assoc Prof Mak said Singapore is monitoring the situation closely “to see whether this would be a concern particularly for us” with travellers coming into Singapore and the risk of imported cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-to-bar-long-term-pass-holders-india-travellers-due-to-covid-19-surge-977565.html
23-04-2021||National||Covid-19: As India gasps for oxygen, warning signals since April last year||India's condition in the coronavirus pandemic remains critical as a shortage of oxygen continues to choke health systems across the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with CMs of 10 states today over the Covid-19 situation and the oxygen supply issue. The Supreme Court has also asked for a 'national plan' from the government to manage Covid-19 vaccination and ensure medicines and oxygen to people. Even as red flags keep popping up and India continues to report record daily cases, reports suggest that warning signs were seen in April and in November on the dire situation of oxygen. According to minutes of the meeting reviewed by the publication, the meeting discussed, "In the coming days India could face a shortage of oxygen supplies. To address this, CII will coordinate with Indian Gas Association and mitigate the lack of oxygen supply." This meeting was reportedly headed by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, and was attended by India’s Principal Scientific Adviser K. Vijay Raghavan, Secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade; NDMA member Kamal Kishore; and officials from various wings of the government including the Prime Minister’s Office. An official in the meeting told IE that as a response to the shortage flagged, it was decided that "DPIIT will look into the issue of Oxygen Supply".  Apart from this group, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health had also flagged the issue of availability and 'affordability' of oxygen, asking the government to ensure supply in hospitals. DH could not independently verify this report. IE also said that it could reach the DPIIT and CII on the issue. In a report titled 'The Outbreak of Pandemic Covid-19 and Its Management' submitted to Rajya Sabha in November 2020, says that the Secretary, Department of Health had informed the parliamentary committee that the use of non-invasive oxygen in Covid treatment was showing good results. "He (Health Secretary) also submitted that during pre-Covid days, the consumption of medical oxygen was almost 1,000 metric tons per day and the rest of the 6,000 metric tons of oxygen was being used in the industry. Therefore, there is a strong need to ensure that the oxygen inventory is in place and oxygen prices are controlled," the report stated. PM Modi will hold a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country via video conference amid concerns expressed by some states that their supply of the life-saving gas is running short with a number of hospitals sending out SOS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-as-india-gasps-for-oxygen-warning-signals-since-april-last-year-977566.html
23-04-2021||National||Politics at centrestage after Kejriwal kicks up row on oxygen at PM-CM Covid meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Covid-19 strategy meeting with Chief Ministers of states with highest number of coronavirus cases began on a discordant note with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal going public with his remarks in meeting in which he flagged the acute oxygen crisis in Delhi hospitals asked whether the two crore people of Delhi will not get oxygen because the capital has no oxygen plant. He also asked whether the 130 crore people of the nation do not have right to the nation's resources equally. Hitting back, the BJP called Kejriwal a "disgrace as Delhi CM" and asked "can he stoop so low"? In his intervention in the closed-door meeting, which was later televised soon after the meet was over, Kejriwal said that people are in major pain due to oxygen shortage and he requests with folded hands that the Prime Minister gives direction to Chief Ministers  to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi. As soon PM Modi realised what the Delhi CM was saying in the meeting was going to be telecast, he said, "What is happening is totally against our custom, our protocol. Any Chief Minister doing live telecast of such an inhouse meeting is no proper. We should always maintain this decorum."  Kejriwal, on his part, quickly said that he will take care of this in future  The chief minister's office (CMO) later issued a brief statement, saying "Today, the CM address was shared live because there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from central govt that the said interaction could not be shared live. There have been multiple occasions of similar interactions where matters of public importance which had no confidential information were shared live. However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that." BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra came down heavily on Kejriwal asking on Twitter " Stooping this low for petty politics?" "Makes all arrangements to televise an otherwise close door meeting..tries to score political brownie points! If only he had spent the same amount of time doing his homework! Last time the same man ..in the same meeting was yawning & laughing," Patra further said. Stooping this low for petty politics?Makes all arrangements to televise an otherwise close door meeting..tries to score political brownie points!If only he had spent the same amount of time doing his homework!Last time the same man ..in the same meeting was yawning & laughing BJP IT department chief and co-incharge for West Bengal Amit Malviya also slammed Kejriwal. "Arvind Kejriwal is a disaster. He goes to a meeting with the Prime Minister unprepared. He has no idea about things that have already been put in place to ease oxygen supply in the capital, was uninformed on vaccine prices. How will he save Delhi? He is a disgrace as Delhi’s CM," Malviya tweeted. Arvind Kejriwal is a disaster. He goes to a meeting with the Prime Minister unprepared. He has no idea about things that have already been put in place to ease oxygen supply in the capital, was uninformed on vaccine prices. How will he save Delhi? He is a disgrace as Delhi’s CM. A source in the government said, "Kejriwal's entire speech was not meant for any solution but for playing politics and evading responsibility. All chief ministers spoke about what they are doing to improve the situation but he had nothing to say on what he is doing." "He (Kejriwal) raised the point of airlifting oxygen, but did not know that it is already being done. He spoke about oxygen express by the railways but railway officials say that he has not communicated anything about it to the ministry," the source added. Earlier alleging that BJP-ruled states Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are blocking the oxygen supply to Delhi, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had on Thursday gone to the extent of saying that Centre should deploy even paramilitary forces if required to ensure oxygen supply to Delhi. In the PM meeting, Kejriwal demanded Centre should take over all oxygen plants through Army and every truck should be accompanied by Army escort vehicles. "We fear some massive tragedy may happen due to lack of oxygen for patients. Despite being the Chief Minister of Delhi, I find myself helpless in such a scenario. If any big mishap happens, I will not be able to forgive myself, " Kejriwal said, batting for a national plan to deal with the situation. He also demanded that the state governments should get Covid-19 vaccines at similar rates on which the central government is procuring them. During the meeting, Kejriwal said that the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Army and requested Modi to direct chief ministers of all states to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to the national capital. "Every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an Army escort vehicle. The oxygen supply scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha and West Bengal should either be airlifted or brought through the Oxygen express started by the Centre," he said Another Opposition Chief Minister, Mamata Banerjee also got into a row with the BJP over the all-important Covid strategy meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi with CMs of states with the highest Covid caseloads. Banerjee, addressing a press conference in Durgapur in West Bengal alleged that she had not been invited to the prime minister's meeting. "Had I been invited, I would have definitely attended. But I have heard that the ten states with the maximum number of Covid cases have been called for the meeting. The BJP hit back, raising questions on the commitment of Banerjee to the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. "Everyone knows Mamata Banerjee’ poor commitment to manage Covid pandemic in Bengal. She hasn’t attended a single PM-CM meeting called in the recent past to work a common plan citing her campaign schedule. Even though she has failed WB, today’s meeting was only for high burden States," BJP IT department head and co-incharge for West Bengal polls Amit Malviya said. Like Kejriwal, who raised the issue of obstruction in oxygen supply to Delhi, Banerjee, too, alleged that Bengal's oxygen supply was diverted to BJP ruled state UP and asked "where will get oxygen from" arguing that the supply chain is being maintained in BJP-ruled states. Latching on to Banerjee's remark that the oxygen produced for Bengal should be kept for Bengal, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra suggested a wage between Banerjee and Kejriwal and tweeted "So sister Mamata has said no to brother Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia (Delhi Dy CM) is only attacking Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (both BJP ruled)." The chief minister also objected to different rates being charged from state governments and the Centre for the Covid-19 vaccine, and said "one nation, one rate" policy should be followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/politics-at-centrestage-after-kejriwal-kicks-up-row-on-oxygen-at-pm-cm-covid-meet-977567.html
23-04-2021||National||Send 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, ensure supply of Remdesivir: Tamil Nadu to Centre||With the number of people testing positive for the novel coronavirus increasing every day, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has dashed off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to ensure the supply of 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccines “well in advance” to ensure that the vaccination drive does not get affected. In the letter, Palaniswami also brought to Modi's attention to prioritising supplies by individual manufacturers to certain states and restricting Remdesivir sales only within the state where the drug is being produced, saying such a move would be “very damaging” to the availability of such valuable drugs in places of need. The state has vaccinated over 50 lakh persons above the age of 45 years since January 16 when the drive began across India. The state continues to receive supplies from Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech, the two companies that manufacture vaccines in the country, but the government wants the consignment to reach well in advance. “With the vaccination gaining pace, I would request that an assured supply of at least ten days consumption of vaccine, of about 20 lakh doses, may be supplied well in advance to ensure that vaccination drive in the individual sites are not affected and persons coming for second dose are assured of vaccination on the date and in the site they report,” Palaniswami told Modi in the letter. He also said it notice that directions are being issued by national and certain state regulators, prioritising supplies by individual manufacturers to certain states and restricting Remdesivir sales only within the state where the drug is being produced. “This would be very damaging to the availability of such valuable life saving drugs in places of need. At this stage, any restrictive orders by individual states should be strictly barred to ensure easy accessibility of Remdesivir. I urge the Government of India to take up this issue with such states where the companies have their production facilities located,” he said. The state government currently has 31,000 Remdesivir vials and is expecting more supplies in the coming days. As the drug is in shortage in the market, the state government has also been supplying Remdesivir to private hospitals on a case-to-case basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/send-20-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-ensure-supply-of-remdesivir-tamil-nadu-to-centre-977572.html
23-04-2021||National||India's Covid-19 crisis: What is to blame?||India is reeling from a new coronavirus surge, stretching hospitals to the limit with dire shortages of beds, oxygen and drugs. With more than 2,000 people dying daily, let us look at the reasons for the vicious new wave and why the health care system is overwhelmed. While the pandemic raged elsewhere at the start of 2021, in India daily infections slid to under 9,000 with fewer than 80 deaths. This raised hopes that India, despite having some of the planet's most densely populated cities, had somehow escaped the worst. Blood surveys suggested that a hefty proportion of the population might have antibodies and that India might have achieved "herd immunity". Other possible factors cited were India's young population and that greater exposure to other pathogens increased resistance to the virus. But possibly because of a new variant, cases took off again in March. This month alone India has recorded more than four million new infections. As cases started falling in October and November, the central government and state authorities allowed most activity to return to near-normal levels. Bollywood productions resumed, lavish weddings returned and spectators watched India thrash England at cricket in Chennai at the huge new Narendra Modi stadium. Tens of thousands of farmers took part in demonstrations against new agriculture laws and people thronged religious festivals such as Durga Puja and Dussehra. The biggest was the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, which between January and this week was attended by upwards of 25 million Hindu pilgrims. Masks and social distancing were largely forgotten, as they were at election rallies in several states. One in Kolkata saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi address an estimated 800,000 people. But authorities also failed to use the time to beef up India's chronically underfunded health care system and hospitals' stocks of medicines and oxygen facilities. In early 2021 production of remdesivir was "negligible or nil" after firms were left with unwanted stockpiles, some of which expired and were destroyed, the Indian Express daily reported. "Government had asked us to reduce manufacturing because Covid-19 cases were reducing and there was no demand," DJ Zawar, managing director of Kamla Life Science, told the paper. "One solution to this crisis was to create a stockpile of antiviral drugs when cases were low, but that did not happen," said Raman Gaikwad, an infectious diseases specialist at Sahyadri Hospital in Pune. Experts have long warned that India, in common with other poor countries, has a severe lack of medical oxygen, which is vital for treating serious Covid cases. According to news website Scroll, it took until October for the government to float tenders to build oxygen units on site at 150 district hospitals. Most still aren't up and running. In Punjab, 290 new ventilators are lying in a warehouse, the Tribune daily reported. Hospitals have not ordered them, in part because staff weren't trained to operate them. At the same time in a show of generosity and "vaccine diplomacy", India was exporting tens of millions of AstraZeneca shots made domestically by the Serum Institute. But once cases started surging, New Delhi froze exports -- including to the Covax inoculation initiative for poorer countries -- to prioritise India. So far India has administered some 130 million shots and from May 1 all adults will be eligible even though stocks have been running low in some areas. Serum, meanwhile, is warning that production will be badly affected unless the United States lifts export controls on raw materials needed to make the vaccines. "I think a premature declaration of victory lulled the population into a false sense of complacency," Ramanan Laxminarayan from the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economic and Policy told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-crisis-what-is-to-blame-977573.html
23-04-2021||National||Virar hospital staff asleep when fire broke out, say kin||Relatives of some of the victims, who died in a fire at a hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar district early on Friday, alleged that the staffers of the facility were asleep when the blaze broke out and there was nobody to help the patients come out of the ICU. They also alleged that the hospital did not fulfil the basic fire safety requirements. Thirteen Covid-19 patients died in the fire at the intensive care unit (ICU) ward located on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar in the early hours of Friday. After the incident, angry and distraught family members of the patients gathered outside the hospital. "All this is hospital administration's mistake. Its staff members were asleep when the fire broke out. There was not a single employee inside the ICU to help the patients come out," a relative of one of the deceased alleged. The hospital does not have basic fire safety equipment, like sufficient number of fire extinguishers, a family member of another patient said. "Then why did they start the hospital at all?" he asked. A woman, who is a doctor by profession, lost her mother in the blaze. Talking to reporters, she said that the fire could have put off with the help of fire extinguisher, but nothing was done. "I lost my mother, who was recovering from the ailment. She could have been saved if the fire safety norms were followed," she said. "I had personally brought my mother to the hospital in an ambulance for better treatment. Now where should I find my mother," she said sobbing. She said that when she went upstairs after the incident, she saw some blackened bodies lying there. Another victim's relative sought strong action against the hospital. "Whoever is guilty should be punished," the relative said. Outside the hospital, relatives of the victims were seen crying over the loss of their loved ones. Heavy police force was deployed there following the incident. Police and the civic staff helped the families in shifting some patients, who required oxygen and ventilators, to another hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virar-hospital-staff-asleep-when-fire-broke-out-say-kin-977581.html
23-04-2021||National||India's Covid graph may peak at 33-35 lakh active cases by May 15: IIT scientists||The ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India may peak between May 11-15 with 33-35 lakh total ‘active’ cases and decline steeply by the end of May, according to a mathematical module devised by IIT scientists. On Friday, India saw a single-day rise of 3,32,730 (3.32 lakh) Covid-19 infections and 2,263 fatalities with 24,28,616 (24.28 lakh) active cases.   In predicting that the active cases would go up by about 10 lakh by mid-May before sliding, scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur and Hyderabad applied the ‘Susceptible, Undetected, Tested (positive), and Removed Approach’ (SUTRA) model.   The scientists also said Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana may see a high of new cases by April 25-30, while Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh might already have reached their peak in new cases. “We have found that there is a reasonable chance that the active cases in India could peak sometime between May 11-15 with 33-35 lakh cases. It is a sharp slope, but on the way down, it would likely be equally sharp, coming down very fast and by end of May may see a dramatic reduction,”  Manindra Agrawal, professor at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT-Kanpur, told PTI. The scientists in the as yet unpublished study said there are several novel features in the SUTRA model. Whereas previous papers divided the patient population into asymptomatic and Infected, the new model also accounts for the fact that some fraction of asymptomatic patients could also be detected due to contact tracing and other such protocols. Earlier this month, the mathematical modelling approach predicted that active infections in the country would peak by April 15 but this didn't come true.   “The parameters in our model for the current phase are continuously drifting. So it is hard to get their value right,” said Agrawal.   “Even a little bit of change each day causes the peak numbers to change by several thousand,” he explained. The IIT Kanpur professor added that the SUTRA model’s prediction of the new peak is sensitive to the daily new infections data.   Agrawal noted that the model uses three main parameters to predict the course of the pandemic.   “The first is called beta, or contact rate, which measures how many people an infected person infects per day. It is related to the R0 value, which is the number of people an infected person spreads the virus to over the course of their infection,” Agrawal explained.   The other two parameters are ‘reach’, which is a measure of the exposure level of the population to the pandemic, and ‘epsilon’ which is the ratio of detected and undetected cases. There are other mathematical modules as well. Independent calculations by Gautam Menon and his team at Ashoka University in Haryana have predicted that the peak of the ongoing wave of infections could be between mid-April and mid-May.   Menon also cautioned that such projections of Covid-19 cases should really be trusted only in the short term.   “Any excessively precise prediction, of a peak within just a five-day window would ignore the many uncertainties associated with the inputs to any such calculation,” Menon, who was not involved in the modelling, had told PTI earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-graph-may-peak-at-33-35-lakh-active-cases-by-may-15-iit-scientists-977584.html
23-04-2021||National||IAF flies empty oxygen containers to West Bengal, Odisha||The Indian Air Force on Friday pressed into service its heavy-lift aircraft to ferry empty oxygen tankers to filling points across the country even as hospitals in the national capital sent frantic SOS messages for steady supplies. IAF’s C-17 ad Il-76 aircraft flew three cryogenic oxygen containers from the Hindan Air Base to Panagarh in West Bengal Thursday night, while similar missions were launched from Hyderabad to Odisha. Once recharged, the oxygen containers would be ferried by train or by road to their respective destinations. According to experts, ferrying liquid oxygen-filled containers on board an aircraft is dangerous, given the highly inflammable nature of the gas. The aircraft is ferrying empty containers only to save the time taken for the one-way journey. Oxygen containers from DRDO in Bengaluru too have been sent to the national capital which is facing an acute shortage of medical oxygen as it deals with the worst outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides oxygen containers, the IAF also transported a Covid-19 testing laboratory set up to Leh as the newly carved out union territory of Ladakh was reporting a surge in new cases. The government has already pressed into service Oxygen Express trains to ferry oxygen from Odisha which has large industrial units that can convert industrial oxygen to medical oxygen. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had also spoken to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and assured him of facilitating lifting of the national capital’s quota of oxygen from the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-flies-empty-oxygen-containers-to-west-bengal-odisha-977592.html
23-04-2021||National||Covid-19: French President Emmanuel Macron offers to support India||As India battles a massive spike in coronavirus cases amid oxygen shortage, French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday said France is ready to provide its support to the country to deal with the situation. "I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no-one. We stand ready to provide our support," Macron said. His message was posted on Twitter by French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain. India is struggling with a second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The country recorded a one-day tally of 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases and 2,263 more fatalities, according to official data released on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-french-president-emmanuel-macron-offers-to-support-india-977596.html
23-04-2021||National||Even record death toll may hide extent of India's Covid-19 crisis||By Upmanyu Trivedi and Sudhi Ranjan Sen Bodies piling up at crematoriums and burial grounds across India are sparking concerns that the death toll from a ferocious new Covid-19 wave may be much higher than official records, underplaying the scale of a resurgence that is overwhelming the country’s medical system. Several cities across the South Asian nation have reported  shocking details of bodies, wrapped in protective gear and identified by hospitals as virus-related deaths, lined up outside crematoriums for hours. Accounts collated by Bloomberg from relatives of the dead and workers and eyewitnesses at crematoriums in at least five cities indicate that the real number of Covid fatalities could be significantly higher than the deaths being reported by local government health departments. On Thursday, India blew past the global record of daily new infections and on Friday it reported an even higher 332,730 new cases. With more than 16 million cases in total, it is the second-worst affected nation in the world, lagging only the US But while the US caseload is twice as high, its death toll is three times what India has reported. The surge in Asia’s third-largest economy puts at risk not only its fragile economic recovery but also the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Deaths in India have always been counted poorly, even before the pandemic struck. The vast majority of deaths, especially in rural villages, take place at home and routinely go unregistered. For others the cause of death listed is often anodyne -- old age or heart attack -- leading experts to estimate that only between 20 per cent-30 per cent of all deaths in India are properly medically certified. News reports from across India suggest that a combination of poor testing and a health system that is inundated by the crush of those sickened by the virus has meant that counting Covid deaths accurately remains a struggle even a year into the health crisis. Not capturing death data accurately “creates the misconception that media is showcasing anecdotal cases and the overall situation is under control,” said Himanshu Sikka, the chief strategy officer, health at IPE Global, a development consulting firm. “This damages future preparations and measures needed for a possible third wave.” In Lucknow, the capital city of India’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, the official number of Covid deaths between April 11 to April 16 stood at 145. However, just two of the city’s main crematoriums reported more than 430 or three times as many cremations under Covid-19 protocol in that period, according to eyewitnesses and workers, who asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized to speak to reporters. This doesn’t account for burials or funerals at other smaller cremation grounds in the city. When a Lucknow resident, who asked not to be named, reached one of the main crematoriums with the body of a family friend on Monday morning he was told they could set up the funeral pyre anywhere they could find space. Even so, it took over three hours to find a spot that was far away enough to tolerate the heat emanating from the other burning bodies. He was not allowed to use the electric furnace set aside for virus deaths because the dead man didn’t have a report showing he’d tested positive for the virus even though he had a doctor’s prescription for Covid-19 treatment. No relatives could attend the funeral as they had all tested positive and were under home isolation. After the patient died in a city hospital, the staff wrapped the body in the protective kits used for Covid-19 deaths. The majority of the nearly 50 bodies the Lucknow citizen saw arriving in the four hours he spent at the crematorium were wrapped the same way but were not cremated in the virus-only electric furnace, he said. That likely meant their deaths weren’t attributed to Covid. In the industrial city of Surat, located in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat, the head of a trust that runs crematoriums said at least 100 bodies have been brought in each day for the last 10 days, wrapped in the Covid-mandated protective covering. Surat’s municipal body on April 19 reported only 28 virus deaths. “Structures within the furnace, like the metal frames and the chimney, are melting and falling apart,” Kamlesh Sailor said. “Repairing it and keeping it going is a challenge, but we have no other way, bodies will have to be disposed of as quickly as possible.” “The figure of deaths is dynamic, difficult to reconcile from plain reading,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary of the Uttar Pradesh government. “No one is trying to hide Covid-19 deaths. Some of the deaths in Lucknow which are included as deaths because of Covid-19 are actually normal deaths which would have been counted wrongly.” There was no immediate comment from the spokesperson of the Gujarat government. Sanjeev Gupta, a freelance photojournalist in the central city of Bhopal, said he has consistently witnessed 80 to 120 bodies being cremated each day last week at just one of the city’s three cremation centers set aside for Covid cases. The official virus death numbers for the district were below 10 each day. According to news reports, the state government said the deaths were “suspected Covid” but couldn’t be confirmed because of a shortage of testing kits and lab facilities. As infections have spiraled hospitals across the country have reported shortages of beds, medical oxygen and crucial drugs. On Friday one of New Delhi’s premier hospitals, Sir Ganga Ram, said it had less than 2 hours worth of medical oxygen putting at least 60 critically ill Covid-19 patients at risk. Counting Struggles The speed with which the pandemic swept across the world meant that even in countries with sophisticated health systems, mortality was difficult to accurately assess, especially in the early days. Patients with heart disease, diabetes, cancer and other chronic conditions are at greater risk of dying from Covid-19. Some governments, including Russia, had last year attributed the cause of deaths in some of these patients to the pre-existing condition, raising doubts about the veracity of official mortality data. Tens of thousands of probable Covid-19 deaths in the US weren’t captured by official statistics between March and May 2020, a study in July found. India’s federal Health Ministry did not respond to an email seeking comment. Even without accurate figures, the deadly impact of India’s second wave is hard to miss. Four pages of the local language Sandesh newspaper in Rajkot, another Gujarat city, were covered with obituaries on Wednesday. A month ago, they took up only a quarter of a page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/even-record-death-toll-may-hide-extent-of-indias-covid-19-crisis-977606.html
23-04-2021||National||PM asks states to set up high-level coordination panel to transport oxygen to hospitals||Chairing a key meeting on Covid-19 situation with Chief Ministers of 11 states and Union Territories that reported the maximum number of cases recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. This Coordination Committee should ensure that as soon as there is allotment of oxygen from the Centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately. The PM said that every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, meant for any state, is stopped or stranded. The PM called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power and urged states to coordinate with one another to fulfil the requirements of medicines and oxygen. PM Modi also urged the administration to inform people continuously so they do not indulge in panic buying. He asked states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. With a number of states pressing the panic button on oxygen supply, PM Modi said there is a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply and all the concerned departments and ministries of the government are also working together. Industrial oxygen has also been diverted to meet immediate requirements. He said the Centre is working on all possible options to reduce the travel time and turnaround time of oxygen tankers. For this, Railways has started Oxygen Express. Air Force has pitched in to transport Empty Oxygen tankers to reduce travel time. "If we work as one nation, there will not be any scarcity of resources," Modi said in the meeting which was his third meeting with CMs in the last 5 weeks. Noting that the virus is affecting several states as well as Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities at once, Modi said India succeeded in the first way due to united effort and strategy, reiterating the need to work the same way. He assured of Centre’s full support to all the states. He added that the Ministry of Health is also in touch with the states and is monitoring the situation closely and issuing necessary advice to the states from time to time. He stressed the need for widespread testing, and said that the vaccination programme should not slow down in this situation. PM Modi said along with all measures for the treatment of the patients, hospital safety is also very important. Expressing grief on recent incidents of oxygen leakage and fire at hospitals in Maharashtra, PM Modi said the administrative staff of the hospital needs to be made aware about safety protocols. Earlier, a presentation was given by NITI member health VK Paul, which highlighted the preparations being done to counter the new surge of infections. The presentation elaborated on the roadmap for ramping up medical facilities and targeted treatment of patients. Paul briefed everyone about boosting medical infrastructure, teams and supplies, clinical management, containment, vaccination and community engagement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-asks-states-to-set-up-high-level-coordination-panel-to-transport-oxygen-to-hospitals-977608.html
23-04-2021||National||Zydus Cadila gets nod to repurpose Hepatitis C drug for Covid-19||Pharma major Cadila Healthcare Ltd received approval from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to use a Hepatitis C drug as a treatment for Covid-19, the drugmaker said on Friday. More to follow||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadila-gets-nod-to-repurpose-hepatitis-c-drug-for-covid-19-977612.html
23-04-2021||National||SC raps lawyers for unfair criticism over Covid-19 case, says it destroys institution||The Supreme Court Friday expressed deep anguish over its criticism by some lawyers for “something which was not part of its order” in the suo motu case related to framing of national policy on the Covid-19 pandemic and said “this is how institution is being destroyed”. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who is demitting office as the 47th CJI, lamented imputation of motive by some senior bar members while allowing senior advocate Harish Salve to withdraw as an amicus curiae from the case after he said that he did not want it to be decided under the shadow that he was friends with Justice Bobde from “school and college days”. The bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, took note on Thursday of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. “You (SCBA President) have read the order. Is there any intention to transfer the case... Even before reading the order there was criticism about something which was not there in order. This is how institution is being destroyed,” the bench told senior advocate and SCBA President Vikas Singh. At the outset of the proceedings conducted via video conferencing, the bench observed it did not stop high courts from hearing cases related to Covid-19 management in the country. “We never said a word and did not stop the high courts. We asked the Centre to go to the high courts and report to them. What kind of perception are you talking about? Talk about these proceedings,” the bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave. “You have imputed motives to us without reading the order,” a visibly irked bench told Dave. “Entire country thought that you will transfer,” Dave replied. Did the order say so, the bench asked and fixed the case for hearing on April 27 as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time for filing the Centre’s response to the notice issued on Thursday. At the outset, Salve, appointed as the amicus to assist the bench in the case, urged the bench to allow him to withdraw from the case in view of “unfair” statements of some senior lawyers. “We are also pained at reading what some senior lawyers have to say on Salve's appointment as amicus in the matter,” the bench said, adding that it was a "collective decision" of all the judges at the bench. Terming the case to be very “sensitive” and “important”, Salve said, “I do not want that the case be decided in this shadow on the ground that I knew the CJI from school and college. These kinds of allegations have been made.” Salve referred to bitter language used by some lawyers on his appointment as the amicus and said, “I do not want any side show. The language of the narrative now is very different”. CJI Bobde, on his last day at the bench, said, “We will honour your sentiments. The only thing is that now, we will have to start looking for some amicus curiae who we do not know in future. Unfortunately, I do not have any future in judiciary now. "We were also pained at reading what some senior advocates have to say. But everyone is entitled to their own opinion”. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta requested Salve not to withdraw from the case as the amicus on the ground that no one should succumb to such pressure tactics. “We are not in a position to malign each other. I saw on digital media literally abusing...a counsel should not succumb to such tactics. Salve should reconsider,” the law officer said. “My lord (the CJI) is retiring today. He deserves a loving farewell,” Mehta said. Earlier on Thursday, the bench took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases and mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs. Observing that oxygen to patients infected with the virus is said to be an “essential part” of treatment, it had said it seemed that a certain amount of “panic” has been generated due to which people have approached several high courts seeking reliefs related to the prevailing situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-raps-lawyers-for-unfair-criticism-over-covid-19-case-says-it-destroys-institution-977614.html
23-04-2021||National||S A Bobde ends his Chief Justice duties 'satisfied', feels he did his best||Outgoing Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Friday said he would leave with happiness, and fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour and a great commitment to the cause of justice not only from my colleagues but also from the Bar. Sitting on the bench on his last working day, Chief Justice said, “I did my best. I don’t know how it came across, but I am happy about what I could do.”  He added, “I hand over the baton to Justice N V Ramana who, I am certain, will very ably lead the court.” Justice Ramana would over as the Chief Justice of India on April 24. Recalling his experience of virtual hearing, CJI Bobde said, “There are many disadvantages of hearings through video-conferencing but that was the need of the hour. But hearing you (lawyers’) in virtual mode, made me feel like taking a tour of your chambers without physically visiting them.”  The court began taking up cases in March 2020 through virtual mode after the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. As lawyers appeared virtually before the court, he said he saw hills behind a few; painting and sculptures behind some others; and also, guns and pistols in the background of some lawyers.  Chief Justice, sharing bench with CJI-designate Ramana and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, "this last hearing has evoked mixed feelings." "I have been on the ceremonial bench before, but these feelings are too mixed to allow me to say anything clearly. There are too many things to say," he said. He, however, added, “But, I must say that I leave this court with happiness, and with fond memories. Attorney General KK Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association Vikas Singh and president of the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association Shivaji M Jadhav were present during the proceedings.   Venugopal commended Chief Justice Bobde for rising to occasion and seamlessly allowing virtual hearing when the pandemic struck India. Mehta said Justice Bobde was a decent human being with a rare and amazing sense of humour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-a-bobde-ends-his-chief-justice-duties-satisfied-feels-he-did-his-best-977618.html
23-04-2021||National||This website records slum lives, evictions to tackle housing crisis||A new website that records the lives and evictions of slum dwellers in Delhi will help address the chronic shortage in affordable and adequate housing across the country, urban experts said on Friday. The Missing Basti Project, launched earlier this month by a collective of researchers, compiles data from analysts and human rights groups, and is open to inputs from anyone. To date, it has recorded nearly 300 mass evictions in the Indian capital over the last three decades, including during the coronavirus pandemic, uprooting tens of thousands of people. With no official data on evictions in India, the website will be critical to gauge the extent of homelessness and inadequate housing, said Gautam Bhan, a researcher at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements in Delhi. "Many people in Delhi don't even know the extent to which the city has been structured by evictions. So to even start to think and act differently, we need a record and evidence of an exclusionary urbanisation," said Bhan, who backs the project. "The website is both an archive against forgetting, and the foundation from which we can ask questions about the simplistic narratives of urban growth and transformation that hide trade-offs such as evictions," he added. Nearly 15 million people in India live under the threat of displacement, according to the Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN) that compiles an annual record of evictions. In 2019 alone, more than 107,000 people were forcibly removed from their homes, HLRN data showed. Last year, at least 20,000 people were evicted between March 16 and July 31, despite court orders that banned such actions during lockdowns to contain Covid-19. "Evictions during the pandemic were harder to record and prevent because of various restrictions," said Vanessa Peter, a researcher at the ‎Information and Resource Centre for Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC), who provides inputs to HLRN. "The homeless and those living in slums are largely invisible and excluded. The data gaps makes it harder to understand eviction patterns and to devise policy interventions," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Across India, tens of thousands of migrants leave their villages to seek better prospects in urban areas every day, with many ending up in overcrowded slums because they cannot afford the high rents in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai. About 65 million people live in India's slums according to 2011 census data, which activists say is a low estimate. With a push to modernise Indian cities, many of these slums and other informal settlements are routinely demolished to make way for office blocks and high-rise residential towers. The Missing Basti Project draws inspiration from initiatives such as the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project in the United States and the Livingmaps Network in London, said Swati Janu, founder of non-profit the Social Design Collaborative, who is helping compile the data. "Maps can be violent tools. Authorities forcibly remove people who are not on their maps, so it is important for us to create counter-narratives, and put people on the map and help them assert their right to the city," Janu said. Featuring stories of neighbourhoods and of people who have been removed from their homes, as well as legal wins and policy guidelines, the project aims to also spark discussions on affordable housing and inclusive development, she added. "It is important to understand the history of our big cities - which might be places of growth and opportunity on one hand, but which have been built on inequality and unjust planning mechanisms on the other," Janu said. "Only then can we come up with better and more inclusive models."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-website-records-slum-lives-evictions-to-tackle-housing-crisis-977623.html
23-04-2021||National||China in touch with India to help combat Covid-19 spike, offer of help comes from NGO in Pakistan too||Beijing is in touch with New Delhi and has offered any assistance the Government of India may need to deal with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Chinese Government said on Friday. Pakistan’s well-known humanitarian organization, Edhi Foundation, too offered to send 50 of its ambulances to India to help transport the Covid-19 patients to the hospitals. “As a neighbouring friend, we sympathise with you greatly and during this strenuous time, we would like to extend our help in the form of fleet of 50 ambulances along with our services to assist you in addressing, and further circumventing, the current health conditions,” Faisal Edhi, the director of the Edhi Foundation, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Faisal is the son of the founder of the organization late Abdul Sattar Edhi. France also offered help to India to deal with the second Covid-19 wave. So did the European Union. China expressed its condolences over the surge in the Covid-19 fatalities in India. “The Chinese Government and people firmly support the Indian Government and people in fighting the epidemic, and are willing to provide support and assistance in accordance with the needs of India,” Zhao Lijian, the spokesperson of the communist country’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in Beijing. Beijing is “maintaining communication” with New Delhi. “China believes that people and government of India people will be able to overcome the epidemic at an early date,” he said. “I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of the Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no-one. We stand ready to provide our support,” French President Emmanuel Macron stated. The fight against the virus is a common fight. “The #EU (European Union) stands in solidarity with Indian people amidst resurgent #COVID19 pandemic. The fight against the virus is a common fight,” Charles Michel, President of the European Council, tweeted. He also promised to discuss the EU’s support and cooperation to India on May 8, when he would join Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a virtual summit. Appreciated the support offered by EU on Covid challenges currently faced by India. Confident that EU will help strengthen our capabilities at this critical juncture. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on lauded the EU for offering support to India to deal with the second Covid-19 wave. “Appreciated the support offered by  EU on Covid challenges currently faced by India. Confident that EU will help strengthen our capabilities at this critical juncture,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-in-touch-with-india-to-help-combat-covid-19-spike-offer-of-help-comes-from-ngo-in-pakistan-too-977624.html
23-04-2021||National||SC intervention in Covid-19 management uncalled for, says Congress||The Congress on Friday hit out at the Supreme Court's intervention in the Modi government’s Covid-19 management  by saying it was “totally uncalled for”. “Unfortunately, it is wrong, wrong and wrong,” Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters in a virtual press conference, adding that the apex court was ill-equipped to deal with local issues. “It is wrong because the SC has not done, and perhaps because of its apex nature, could not have done what diverse High Courts have done, especially what the Delhi HC did at 9 pm to give some relief to the oxygen-starved common man of Delhi,” Singhvi said. Singhvi also objected to the appointment of senior counsel Harish Salve as the amicus curiae for the suo motu case related to the distribution of essential supplies and services, including oxygen and drugs, during the Covid-19 pandemic. He contended that Salve was a “non-resident Indian” and has appeared on behalf of a company seeking to re-open its plant shut down on orders of the Supreme Court for green violations. On Thursday, the Supreme Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the Covid-19 situation in the country and sought a national plan from the Centre on issues ranging from supply of oxygen and essential medicines required to treat Covid-19. Singhvi said it is wrong because the SC should not have "virtually paralysed" the ongoing action in the country giving a healing touch to local problems at the local level at the 11th hour, with one day's notice, and on the very last day of the incumbent CJI's term of office. “It is wrong because it is not suo motu ameliorative but a reaction to palliative High Court orders. It is wrong because decentralisation not over centralisation – judicial, administrative and societal – is the need of the hour,” Singhvi said. He said the High Courts were efficiently upholding the citizens' right to life and holding the government accountable in a more nuanced way – on a case-to-case basis. “Then what is the need to prevent them from discharging their duties,” the Congress spokesman said. Singhvi said the interference may have the “unintended effect of legitimation of the utter failure of the central government on all fronts in its anti-Covid policies and actions". “It, in fact, enhances the closed and incestuous circle of the Central government or connected/affiliated persona and seeks to find a solution from amongst those responsible for the crisis in the first place,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-intervention-in-covid-19-management-uncalled-for-says-congress-977626.html
23-04-2021||National||Railways, Air Force will help transport oxygen tankers faster, says PM Narendra Modi||Amid several states flagging scarcity of medical oxygen in the Covid-19 fight, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Railways and Air Force are being deployed to reduce the transportation time for oxygen tankers and all state government need to work together to meet requirements of life-saving gas and medicines. Chairing a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories which have reported the maximum number of cases recently, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power. He said the biggest basis of India's success during the first wave of the pandemic was our united efforts and united strategy and reiterated that we will have to address this challenge in the same way. He assured the Centre's full support to all the states and in this fight. On oxygen supply, PM Modi took note of the points raised by the states and said there is a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply, according to a statement issued by his office. He urged all states to work together and coordinate with one another to fulfil requirements relating to medicines and oxygen. He also asked the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. Modi said every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded. He urged the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. This Coordination Committee should ensure that as soon as there is an allotment of oxygen from the centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately, he added. Modi said the central government is working on all possible options to reduce the travel time and turnaround time of oxygen tankers. For this, Railways has started Oxygen Express. Empty Oxygen tankers are also being transported by the Air Force to reduce one way travel time. He said along with all measures for the treatment of the patients, hospital safety is also very important. Expressing grief on recent incidents of oxygen leakage and fire at hospitals, Modi said the administrative staff of the hospital needs to be made more aware of the safety protocols. He also urged the administration to continuously make people aware so that they do not indulge in panic buying. He said that with united efforts, we will be able to stop this second wave of pandemic across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-air-force-will-help-transport-oxygen-tankers-faster-says-pm-narendra-modi-977633.html
23-04-2021||National||India closer to building world's biggest nuclear plant: EDF||French energy group EDF took Friday a key step towards helping to build the world's biggest nuclear power plant in India, a project blocked for years by nuclear events and local opposition. The company said it had filed a binding offer to supply engineering studies and equipment to build six, third-generation EPR reactors in Jaitapur, western India. Once finished, the facility would provide 10 gigawatts (GW) of electricity, roughly enough for 70 million households. Construction is expected to take 15 years, but the site should be able to start generating electricity before its completion. Finalisation of the contract was expected "in the coming months", an EDF statement said. EDF, which is in exclusive talks with Indian officials, would not build the power plant itself, but would provide the nuclear reactors in a deal that includes US partner GE Steam Power. The state-owned PSU Nuclear Power Corporation of India controls the national nuclear energy sector, and the EDF offer was submitted to the country's nuclear operator NPCIL. Although no financial details have been released, the contract is estimated to be worth in the tens of billions of euros (dollars). It faced opposition however from local inhabitants since the idea was first floated around 20 years ago, and was delayed after the 2011 nuclear disaster in Fukushima, Japan. The far-right Shiv Sena party, which is powerful in Maharashtra state where Jaitapur is located, campaigned against the plan, though it has become less vocal recently. EDF estimates the project will create around 25,000 local jobs during the construction phase, and around 2,700 permanent jobs. Earthquake risks and the potential impact on local fishing have been cited as key issues. But Xavier Ursat, head of EDF's nuclear division, told AFP that the company estimates that the site's "geological conditions are excellent and fully comparable to what we find in a country such as France." India already has several agreements for exchange of nuclear technologies and expertise with countries like US, France, Russia and Japan. Russia -- India's traditional ally -- supplies nuclear fuel and has built reactors in the country, for example. At present, there are 22 functioning nuclear reactors in India, most of them pressurized heavy water reactors, providing about three percent of the country's power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-closer-to-building-worlds-biggest-nuclear-plant-edf-977641.html
23-04-2021||National||States must jointly negotiate uniform Covid-19 vaccine price with manufacturers, says Chidambaram||Terming the Centre's decision to allow multiple prices for vaccines "discriminatory", senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday suggested states to jointly form a price negotiation committee to work out a uniform rate with the manufacturers. Chidambaram also accused the central government of having abdicated its responsibility and surrendering to corporate profiteering. "The central government's decision to allow multiple prices for vaccines is discriminatory and regressive. States must unanimously reject the decision. "The best way forward is for the state governments to jointly form a Price Negotiation Committee and offer to negotiate a uniform price with the two vaccine manufacturers," the Congress leader said in a series of tweets. The best way forward is for the State governments to jointly form a Price Negotiation Committee and offer to negotiate a uniform price with the two vaccine manufacturers He said the joint purchasing power of the state governments would force the manufacturers to agree to a uniform price. "States must take the initiative. The central government has abdicated its responsibility and surrendered to corporate profiteering," Chidambaram added. The Centre announced on Monday that everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible for Covis-19 vaccination from May 1, while private hospitals and states will be able to buy the shots from manufacturers. It also said vaccine manufacturers would be free to supply 50 per cent of the doses to the state governments and in the open market for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1. Serum Institute of India announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-must-jointly-negotiate-uniform-covid-19-vaccine-price-with-manufacturers-says-chidambaram-977643.html
23-04-2021||National||Centre resumes free food grains for poor scheme as Covid-19 rages||The Centre on Friday announced it would provide free wheat and rice to the poor for May and June as they battle the vagaries brought on by the second wave of the Covid-19. Nearly 80 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act will be given five kilograms of food grains per person per month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY). The PMGKAY was introduced last year for three months after the government announced a lockdown to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The scheme was later extended till November. The free food grains will be over and above the monthly entitlement under the NFSA. About 80 lakh tonne of food grains will be required to meet the demand for two months. The initiative will cost the exchequer over Rs 26,000 crore, including the expenditure involved in interstate transportation of food grains. Governments of Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, and Kerala had demanded re-introduction of the PMGKAY scheme as the second wave of Covid-19 assumed gigantic proportions. Under the PMGKAY last year, over 200 lakh tonne of free food grains were provided amounting to a fiscal outgo of over Rs 75,000 crore, covering 80.96 crore NFSA beneficiaries. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Trinamool Congress leader Saugata Ray, CPI MP Binoy Viswam, and CPI-M MP Elamaram Kareem had also asked the Centre to re-start the PMGKAY scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-resumes-free-food-grains-for-poor-scheme-as-covid-19-rages-977648.html
23-04-2021||National||Virar hospital fire: Agitated relatives gherao ministers, hospital CEO||Tempers ran high as agitated relatives of the 13 patients who lost their lives in the fire incident at a Covid-19 hospital in Maharashtra's Virar gheraod ministers, officials and hospital staff seeking answers for the death of their dear ones. Some of them claimed that the air conditioner was faulty and the administration of Virar's Vallabh Hospital and Medical Research Centre was aware of it. Besides, they also said that the hospital staff was sleeping when the fire broke out and that the patients could not be evacuated in time. “There were some problems in the air conditioner yesterday…I also saw some repair work being done,” said an employee of the hospital.  “They set up some fans on a temporary basis,” she added. Several relatives complained to Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde about the hospital administration and their attitude towards the patients.  “The government has ordered a probe and the guilty will not be spared,” he said, pacifying the agitated mob. The patients' kin also sought answers from Palghar Collector Dr Manik Gursal and Vasai-Virar Municipal Commissioner Gangatharan D. “My sister, Shama Mhatre, was admitted at the hospital. The fire took place in the wee hours and I was informed at 7.30 am in the morning about her death,” Dr Ravi Tandel said as he broke down. Even as Dr Dilip Shah, the CEO of the hospital, was speaking to the mediapersons, an agitated mob gheroed him and sought answers. “The hospital is responsible for the death of innocent people,” said an agitated relative as security was beefed up. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 1 lakh for treatment of those injured in the fire. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has declared Rs 2 lakh compensation for next of kin of deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virar-hospital-fire-agitated-relatives-gherao-ministers-hospital-ceo-977670.html
23-04-2021||National||India to import 23 mobile oxygen-generation plants from Germany||Battling shortages of medical oxygen, India is now importing mobile oxygen generation plants and containers from Germany for deployment at the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. The AFMS has decided to import 23 mobile oxygen generation plants that will reach India within a week. “Twenty-three mobile oxygen generation plants are being airlifted from Germany that will be deployed in AFMS hospitals catering to the Covid-19 patients,” a defence ministry spokesperson said. Each plant has a capacity to produce 40 litres of oxygen per minute and 2,400 litres an hour and it can cater to 20-25 patients round-the-clock. The advantage of these plants is that they are easily portable, he said. In another important decision, the Ministry of Defence is giving extension to Short Service Commissioned Doctors in AFMS till December 31, 2021 to tide over the current surge in medical services. “This will augment the strength of AFMS by 238 more doctors,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-import-23-mobile-oxygen-generation-plants-from-germany-977673.html
23-04-2021||National||No response from Centre to demand for uniform vaccine rate: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday that there has been no firm response from the Centre to the demand for uniform pricing of coronavirus vaccines. He also said that the Serum Institute of India has informed that it can provide Covishield vaccine to the state only after May 24 as the Centre has booked all the production till that date. Tope was speaking to reporters after participating in a virtual meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the states worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic. "All the major states have demanded `one nation-one rate' for vaccine, but received no firm response from the centre," he said. "We have examples of Israel or the UK where vaccination was carried out at a large scale. If the rates are reduced, we could buy more vaccines," Tope said. "If the demand is not met, the state will take responsibility of people under the poverty line only while others as well as corporates will have to take the vaccine on their own," said the health minister. Opposition parties have questioned why the SII's Covishield vaccine was procured by the Centre at Rs 150 per dose but the states will have to shell out Rs 400 apiece. The Centre has asked the states to vaccinate those in the 18-44 age group, and Maharashtra has around five crore people in this category so it would need more than 10 crore doses, Tope further said. "The state finance department will have to study the burden of vaccine cost and take decision," he added. He also said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke with Adar Poonawalla of the Serum Institute which is producing Covishield about its availability. Poonawalla informed that production till May 24 has been already booked by the Centre for its vaccination drive covering those above 45 years of age. "He can supply vaccine only after May 24. We will also talk to Bharat Biotech (makers of Covaxin)," the minister said. Maharashtra has 4,000 vaccination centres and enough trained manpower, but "the only problem is with the actual supply of vaccine which is limited", he said. The state can inoculate eight lakh people on a daily basis but at present only three lakh people are getting the jab, Tope said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-response-from-centre-to-demand-for-uniform-vaccine-rate-tope-977686.html
23-04-2021||National||Double and triple mutants of coronavirus one and the same; vaccines effective on it: Scientist||The double and triple mutant strains detected in India are one and the same variant of the coronavirus, and the available vaccines are effective on it, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics Director Soumitra Das said on Friday. Speaking at a webinar on 'Genome Sequencing of SARS-CoV-19', Das said double mutant and triple mutant terms are "colloquial" and both refer to the same variant -- B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus. "Double and triple mutants are one and the same. Double and triple mutants are over-lapping terms and have been used differentially in different context," he said. The National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani is an institute under the Department of Biotechnology and is one of the 10 laboratories across the country involved in the genome sequencing of the coronavirus. In fact, these variants harbour 15 lineage defining mutations. B.1.617, initially termed double mutant, has three new spike protein mutations, he said. Two mutations -- E484Q and L452R -- are in the area important for antibody-based neutralisation.   "Initially we were signifying two mutations which are important for escape (the vaccine escape and antibody escape). That is why it is called the double mutant,” he said. But this mutant or variant also has another mutation which is called P681R. That mutation allows the virus to enter the cell little better. "If you now take both the context, the escape variant, plus the entry or infectivity, then it is a triple mutant, but if you only consider about a new variant or escape variant, then it is a double mutant. If you take double and triple mutants, (they) are over-lapping and are one and the same,” Das added. There is apprehension among experts that the new variant could also increase infection rates and easily surpass immune defences. “Variants found in India are not really escaping our vaccinated sera,” Das said, suggesting that the available vaccines are effective on them. He said that to avoid confusion, a uniform nomenclature for the variants should be used as recommended by the WHO. Noted virologist Shaheed Jameel referred to the study done by Cellular and Molecular Biology, another lab involved in the sequencing of the coronavirus genomes, saying preliminary results have shown that Covishield vaccine protects against the B.1.617 variant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/double-and-triple-mutants-of-coronavirus-one-and-the-same-vaccines-effective-on-it-scientist-977691.html
23-04-2021||National||When Justice Bobde wanted actor Shah Rukh Khan to mediate in Ayodhya case||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde wanted to rope in actor Shah Rukh Khan to play the role of a mediator to resolve the protracted Ayodhya issue. This was disclosed by Supreme Court Bar Association President Vikas Singh on Friday during his speech at a virtual ceremony held to bid farewell to the 47th CJI. Singh said that it was Justice Bobde who had insisted for an amicable settlement of the matter and he wanted to take the help of popular actor Khan but it could not finally materialise. Justice Bobde demitted the office of the CJI after 43 years in the legal profession. He rose to occupy the highest judicial seat from a lawyer in Nagpur after being judge of the Bombay High Court and the Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. He was elevated to the top court on April 12, 2013 and assumed the office of CJI on November 17, 2019. Justice Bobde's 17-month-long tenure as CJI was marred by the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic which forced the Supreme Court to switch to the virtual mode of hearing to take up cases since March 2020. Justice Bobde, in his stint as head of the Collegium of five senior most judges, could not make a single recommendation for appointment of judges in the top court, though there are at present five vacancies. Some attributed this to the lack of consensus on elevation of Tripura High Court Chief Justice Akil Kureshi. However, the Collegium made recommendation for appointment of over 240 judges in various High Courts. Justice Bobde was criticised by some senior advocates for failing to act on time when hundreds of migrants returned on foot on imposition of nationwide lockdown in March 2020. He was part of the five-judge Constitution bench which unanimously delivered Ayodhya case verdict in favour of temple. During his tenure, he always preferred to appoint experts' panel to resolve intricate legal matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-justice-bobde-wanted-actor-shah-rukh-khan-to-mediate-in-ayodhya-case-977707.html
23-04-2021||National||Railways receives more requests to operate Oxygen Express||With the demand for medical oxygen increasing due to spike in Covid-19 cases, he Ministry of Railways on Friday said states including Andhra Pradesh,Madhya Pradesh, and Delhi have requested them to operate 'Oxygen Express' for transport liquid medical oxygen. Delhi will receive oxygen from Rourkela, while Andhra Pradesh to welcome oxygen from Odisha, Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma told reporters here. The request from Delhi came minutes after a meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers of states having high Covid-19 caseloads, including the national capital. In the leaked video of PM review meeting, Delhi CM requested to operate Oxygen Express for which the PM said already such train is under operation. Kerijiwal came under atack from the BJP saying he came to the meeting without preparation. Sources in the Railway Ministry said though the Railways has anounced operating of Oxygen Express on April 15 itself and asked the states to submit demand, there was no request came feom Delhi Government on transporting oxygen through trains. The Delhi Government request came on Thursday afternoon and the Railways informed them that they are ready to operate such trains and ask the state government to arrange tankers. We have requested the states to arrange maximum number of oxygen tankers to ferry them through railway flat wagons. Each tanker of ''Oxygen Express'' trains can carry around 16 tonnes of medical oxygen. adding these trains travel at a speed of around 65 kmph, he said. Sharma said the ''Oxygen Express'' train headed for Uttar Pradesh will reach Lucknow on Saturday, and the one for Maharashtra will reach Nashik, from where oxygen will be distrubuted to different cities. Also, the Railways will not levy any surcharges and will provide five hours free cargo-handling time. Goods and Services Tax will be levied. Two people, including the driver, can get on the trucks (with second-class tickets) carrying the oxygen. Transportation of oxygen through trains is faster over long distances. Trains can run 24 hours a day but a truck needs to take halts etc, an official said. To facilitate loading and unloading of tankers, a ramp is required which the Railways has constructed in record time, Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-receives-more-requests-to-operate-oxygen-express-977715.html
23-04-2021||National||Shortage of oxygen becomes fresh bone of contention between Mamata and Centre||Shortage of oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients has become a fresh bone of contention between the Centre and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Banerjee alleged that the Centre was allotting oxygen produced by plants in Bengal to other states, jeopardizing the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Bengal. Addressing a virtual press conference on Friday, the Chief Minister accused the Centre of having a “ step-motherly attitude” for Bengal with regard to oxygen supply. “SAIL used to supply oxygen to us. But the Centre is diverting the supply to Uttar Pradesh. Why this step-motherly attitude towards Bengal? We have written to the Centre urging it not to divert oxygen supply meant for Bengal to other states,” said Mamata. Later in the day, the West Bengal government stated in a release that on April 21, the Union Health Ministry allotted 200 metric tonnes of oxygen from different plants to outside the State. “As per current patient load and rising trend of the infections, it is expected that the consumption level in West Bengal will radically rise to 400 metric tonnes per day in the next couple of weeks. Hence present allocation of liquid oxygen to outside West Bengal will jeopardise the medical treatment of Covid patients in the State,” stated the release. It further stated that the state government requested the Centre on April 22 to consider the need of West Bengal and not to divert medical oxygen available in the state to elsewhere. Lashing out at the Centre, the Chief Minister said that Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on March 7said that Covid-19 was on its way out from the country but the present situation clearly showed that the Centre was clueless about the issue. “The Centre did not even bother to implement the recommendation of the World Health Organization on boosting stock of oxygen,” said Banerjee. She said that the state government earlier had 15,000 oxygen cylinders in stock and has recently acquired 5,000 more from the industrial sector. “We will soon increase the stock even further,” said Mamata. Referring to the Election Commission’s (EC) order banning rallies and processions in Bengal for the remaining two phases of the Assembly elections, the Chief Minister alleged that it was issued late evening on Thursday perhaps keeping in mind the Prime Minister’s programs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shortage-of-oxygen-becomes-fresh-bone-of-contention-between-mamata-and-centre-977722.html
23-04-2021||National||Access to justice now depends on access to technology: CJI Bobde||Outgoing Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde, credited with ensuring Supreme Court's quick transition to technology during the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, referred to new kind of "equality and inequality" in virtual hearings, saying now "access to justice depends on access to technology". In his farewell address at the virtual function organised by Supreme Court Bar Association, the 47th CJI said the performance of India's top court was "among the best" in the world during the Covid-19 pandemic as it was not closed even for a day due to the deadly virus.   He said the pandemic required the Supreme Court to learn new things about communications, and it was decided that the video conferencing was the way forward. “We have got used to it and it is here to stay in certain cases. I have flagged certain intractable problems of virtual hearing and one of them is the new kind of equality, inequality which is created.  “I don't wish to dwell much on it, except to say that equality, inequality that already existed has been augmented by the fact that VCs have become technology dependent and your access to justice depends on your access to technology,” he said. Addressing the young lawyers, who are disheartened by the evident events of the pandemic, Justice Bobde said, “Don't lose hope. Carry on. Things will change.” He pointed out that the circumstances are such that we can acquire all the devices and technologies necessary.  Talking about the importance of the artificial intelligence (AI), Justice Bobde said: “If we won't become familiar with the AI, we will find ourselves at a great disadvantage. It is with that spirit that AI has been resorted to. “This is warning i would like to issue in adoption of artificial intelligence as I think its futile to ignore it,” he said, adding that “if we don't adopt it we will be at great disadvantage.” Speaking on the occasion, Attorney General K K Venugopal batted for the fixed tenure of CJIs for three to four years, saying by the time people get to know the head of the judiciary, he "disappears". “I had said that it is a very sad day that even before we spent enough time with a CJI there is a new CJI. That is why I have been suggesting that CJI should be there for 3 to 4 years," he said. “Father of Justice D Y Chandrachud (also a judge in the Supreme Court currently) served for seven years as CJI," he said, adding that increasing the tenure for the CJI is in the hands of the collegium". Senior advocate and SCBA President Vikas Singh also spoke at the occasion. Earlier during the day, Justice Bobde said that he was leaving the Supreme Court with happiness, goodwill and very fond memories and the satisfaction of having done his best. Justice Bobde, who decided several key cases during his tenure, including the historic Ayodhya verdict, was administered oath as the 47th CJI in November 2019 and is retiring today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/access-to-justice-now-depends-on-access-to-technology-cji-bobde-977730.html
23-04-2021||National||Supply vaccine to states at Centre's rates, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister tells PM Modi||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make Covid-19 vaccines available to states at the same rate at which the Centre was receiving its stock. He also demanded a vaccine supply timetable from the Centre so that the state could chalk out an effective drive to cover eligible people as quickly as possible. Baghel was speaking at a meeting held by the PM virtually with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The Chattisgarh CM said the way oxygen-producing states are providing their post-need additional oxygen to other states on priority, manufacturers of Redmisivir and other life-saving medicines should also start supplying the same to the other states on priority basis, and the Centre must issue guidelines in this matter. An official release said Baghel also requested the PM to provide permission for production and use of industrial oxygen in Chhattisgarh, as such a move will not only save the economy from getting adversely affected but will also protect thousands of families associated with these industries from an employment crisis. Licenses have been issued to eight units for oxygen production in the state, where 29 units are currently manufacturing the vital gas, he said. Nearly 18 per cent of the state's population has been given the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19, and 90 per cent health care workers, 84 per cent of frontline workers and 69 per cent of people in the 45 plus age group had been vaccinated, the CM informed the prime minister in the meeting. Stringent measures were in place to curb black- marketing of medicines, and MP and MLA funds were being used to provide health infrastructure, the release quoted him as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supply-vaccine-to-states-at-centres-rates-chhattisgarh-chief-minister-tells-pm-modi-977732.html
23-04-2021||National||Defence ministry grants emergency financial powers to military medical officials||The defence ministry on Friday sanctioned emergency financial powers of Rs 5 crore to the director general of medical services of the three services to make procurement to boost medical infrastructure in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. According to an official order, emergency powers for procurement worth Rs 5 crore were delegated to major general-rank medical officers, while brigadier-rank medical officials will have the powers to make purchases worth Rs 2 crore. The formal order came four days after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced granting emergency financial powers to the three services and other defence agencies to make necessary procurement to enhance medical infrastructure in view of the pandemic. The emergency powers have been delegated up to September 30 with a provision for their revision and extension. "This is a proactive measure taken by the defence ministry to enable the armed forces' medical services to provide medical services to the personnel of the armed forces as well as to aid the civil administration," an official said. At a virtual meeting on Monday, Singh asked the defence public sector undertakings, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Ordnance Factory Board to work on a war footing to provide oxygen cylinders and extra beds to various state governments at the earliest, besides extending all required help. It was decided that the Army would offer treatment to the civilians in its medical facilities, wherever possible, and would even get in touch with the top leadership of the states to understand their requirements. India is struggling with a second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The country recorded a single-day rise of 3.32 lakh coronavirus cases and 2,263 fatalities, according to official data released on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-grants-emergency-financial-powers-to-military-medical-officials-977786.html
23-04-2021||National||25 new manufacturing sites approved for Remdesivir production||The Centre has approved 25 new manufacturing sites for Remdesivir's production have been approved since April 12th. “Production capacity is now ramped up to 90 lakhs vials per month, earlier it was 40 lakhs vials/month. Very soon, 3 lakh vial/day will be produced . Monitoring  is being done on daily basis. We would not leave any stone unturned to supply Remdesivir,"   Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Minister for State for Chemical Fetilizer tweeted. The government is taking all steps to increase the production of drugs, he said. The government has already banned the export of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, to meet the domestic demand. Seven Indian companies are producing Injection Remdesivir under a voluntary licensing agreement with M/s. Gilead Sciences, USA. Remdesivir is only an investigational drug and other alternatives for the treatment of #COVID in emergency cases are also available in the market. Doctors are requested to prescribe alternatives to ease pressure on demand for #Remdevivir, Union Fertilizer Minister D V Sadananda Gowda tweeted earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-new-manufacturing-sites-approved-for-remdesivir-production-977799.html
23-04-2021||National||PM asks oxygen manufacturers to utilise production potential to meet demand||Faced with the rising demand for oxygen from hospitals across the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked oxygen manufacturers to utilise the full potential of the industry to meet the demand for oxygen in the coming days. Chairing a meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers across the country via video conferencing, Modi said this is time not only to deal with the challenges but also to provide solutions in a very short time and stressed the need to maintain good coordination between the government and the oxygen producers. He said that there is a need to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders as well as upgrade the logistic facilities for the transportation of oxygen. He urged the industry to utilize tankers meant to transport other gases for oxygen supply. He also thanked the industry for diverting industrial oxygen to meet medical requirements in the country and appreciated the oxygen producers for increasing their production in the last few weeks. The meeting was attended by RIL CMD  Mukesh Ambani, SAIL Chairperson Soma Mandal, Sajjan Jindal of JSW,  Narendran of Tata Steel, Naveen Jindal of JSPL, Dilip Oommen of AMNS,  M Bannerjee of LINDE, Sidharth Jain of Inox, Noriyo Shibuya, MD of Air Water Jamshedpur, Rajesh Kumar Saraf of National Oxygen Ltd and Saket Tiku, President of All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers Association. The Home Ministry has written to States/ UTs, to direct District Collectors/ Deputy Commissioners to list all the plants situated in their district, in which different types of oxygen are generated, along with the installed capacity. They should also take action to revive those plants which are lying closed. These efforts will ensure ready availability of oxygen at the district level, besides the supply of medical oxygen from usual channels. Home Minister Amit Shah also separately reviewed the situation and directed measures to augment the supply of oxygen for medical purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-asks-oxygen-manufacturers-to-utilise-production-potential-to-meet-demand-977812.html
23-04-2021||National||Future defence requirements, new systems be evaluated for energy efficiency: Army Vice Chief||Energy efficiency of defence systems and field formations can help reduce the number of troops that are required to support the soldiers serving on the frontline, said Vice Army Chief Lt Gen C P Mohanty on Friday. "It is imperative that all future force requirements and new systems being inducted in the Indian Army are evaluated for their energy efficiency," he said at a webinar organised by think tank CENJOWS.   The Army needs to aim for energy efficiency through renewable sources, replacing its legacy transport fleet, advance its thermal and power military technologies, and explore wireless transmission of energy at forward areas, Mohanty noted. He said energy efficiency can act as a force multiplier. "This (energy efficiency) will also have a critical impact on making us resource surplus by reducing our long-term energy costs and thus enhancing our fiscal envelope for modernisations and capability enhancement," he noted.  The Army must also look at developing and diffusion of modelling, simulation and other analytical wargaming tools, he said. This should be done to reduce dependence on energy heavy firing practices, mass movement, war manoeuvre and joint exercises with troops, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-defence-requirements-new-systems-be-evaluated-for-energy-efficiency-army-vice-chief-977817.html
23-04-2021||National||Prepare list of oxygen plants, revive closed units to augment supply: MHA to states||The Centre on Friday directed all states to prepare a list of oxygen producers in their respective jurisdiction and asked them to take steps for the revival of closed units to augment supply to meet the increased demand amid a surge in Covid-19 infections. In a letter to states, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also said that instances of vehicles carrying oxygen being stopped still continued and directed them to ensure uninterrupted supply and transport of the essential public health commodity. With a view to make available additional tankers for movement of oxygen, the home ministry is coordinating lifting of high capacity tankers from abroad, including Singapore and the UAE, by Indian Air Force transport planes. Union Home Minister Amit Shah Friday reviewed the coronavirus situation in the country and suggested various measures to augment the supply of oxygen for medical purposes, according to an official statement. A home ministry expert group is also optimising and rationalising the allocation of oxygen to various states and union territories keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen, the statement said. In a separate letter, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla told Chief Secretaries that oxygen generating plants are available in many districts of the country, not necessarily for medical purposes and these facilities can be used for supplying oxygen to local hospitals. "I would like to request you to have all such facilities mapped immediately. For this, District Collectors or Deputy Commissioners should be asked to list all the plants in which different types of oxygen is generated, including the ones that can be bottled in cylinders, along with the installed capacity," he said. Bhalla said in case some of the plants are closed, those should also be listed and necessary action should be taken for their revival. He said these efforts will ensure easy availability of oxygen at the district level, besides supply of medical oxygen from usual channels. "I would also like to strongly advise that keeping in view the supply constraints, oxygen allocation to various districts and cities need to be rationalised, keeping in view the number of active cases," he said. The home secretary also urged the states to take immediate actions on the above suggestions and send an action taken report, followed by a status report urgently to the MHA. In the first letter, the home secretary said an order has already been issued on free movement of oxygen between the states and not to impose restriction on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies to the hospitals of the state or union territory in which they are located. "However, instances have been reported in some districts from different States and UTs, wherein oxygen carrying vehicles have been stopped. Such instances are not only in violations of the aforesaid MHA Order but also inhibits the timely supply of medical oxygen to the allocated State and UT, and in turn affect treatment of COVID- 19 patients," Bhalla said, asking the states to ensure the timely delivery of oxygen to their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prepare-list-of-oxygen-plants-revive-closed-units-to-augment-supply-mha-to-states-977824.html
23-04-2021||National Politics||BJP responsible for collapse of health system: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday alleged that officials engaged in the Covid-19 control room in Lucknow were neither meeting people in distress nor attending their calls, and asked the chief minister why action is not being taken against such personnel. "Everyday the chief minister is making statements about acting sternly against lax officers but in the state capital Lucknow, officers are neither meeting people nor picking their calls. There is no one to hear harried people's grievances. Why action is not being taken against them," Yadav said in a statement here. He alleged that the government machinery was non-functional in Uttar Pradesh and people are dying due to Covid-19. "In this situation, some people are engaging in black marketing of medicines, oxygen cylinder, ventilator and hospital beds and the administration has become a mute spectator. The (ruling) BJP is responsible for the collapse of the health system," he added. The former chief minister alleged that the BJP "is converting this 'apda' (disaster) into an 'avasar' (opportunity). Everything is available in the black market." A record single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases and 195 fatalities pushed Uttar Pradesh's infection tally to 9,76,765 and the death toll due to the disease to 10,541, the state government said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-responsible-for-collapse-of-health-system-akhilesh-yadav-977597.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Oxygen crisis: 25 Ganga Ram patients die as hospitals wait for oxygen, Kejriwal pleads for help||Twenty-five “sickest” patients at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here died on Friday as it faced oxygen shortage in the middle of the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Satendra Katoch, the Medical Director of the Hospital sent out a message about the death of 25 “sickest” patients and sought immediate intervention for restoring oxygen supplies “25 sickest patients have died in the last 24 hours. Oxygen will last another two hours. Ventilators and Bipap not working effectively. Resorting to manual ventilation in ICU and ED. Major crisis likely,” Katoch said, updating the situation at the hospital at 8:00 a.m. on Friday. He said the lives of another 60 “sickest” patients were at risk and sought urgent intervention. However, D S Rana, the Chairman of the Board, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said it would be wrong to say that deaths at the hospital were due to shortage of oxygen. “We provided oxygen to patients manually when the pressure dipped in the ICU,” Rana said adding that the hospital received 2000 cubic meters of oxygen at around 9:20 a.m. Hospitals in the national capital continued to report oxygen shortages for the fourth consecutive day with Max Healthcare, which runs a chain of hospitals in the city, complaining of short supplies. “SOS – Less than an hour's Oxygen supplies at Max Smart Hospital & Max Hospital Saket. Awaiting promised fresh supplies from INOX since 1:00 a.m. Over 700 patients admitted, need immediate assistance,” Max Healthcare said on Twitter. Bram Healthcare and Batra Hospital moved the Delhi High Court seeking steady supplies of oxygen. “Hospitals continue to gasp for breath despite government orders being issued. It is now becoming an hourly challenge for many hospitals,” Sangita Reddy, Joint Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals, said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal raised the issue of shortage of oxygen during a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with chief ministers of states that have reported higher number active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-crisis-25-ganga-ram-patients-die-as-hospitals-wait-for-oxygen-kejriwal-pleads-for-help-977512.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Ensure uniformity in price of Covid-19 vaccines: Mayawati to Centre||BSP supremo Mayawati on Friday demanded that the Centre formulate a national policy to ensure uniformity in prices of Covid-19 vaccines. The Centre should also ensure supply of oxygen to hospitals, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. "The price of Covid-19 vaccine is not uniform and different rates have been fixed for the Centre, states and private hospitals. The Centre should intervene in this matter and formulate a national policy and implement it to bring uniformity in the vaccine prices," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "Also, in view of shortage of oxygen in big hospitals of different states and the national capital, the Centre should stop the industrial/commercial use of oxygen and ensure its supply to hospitals. We also demand that special attention is given to supply of emergency medicines," she added. The Centre on Monday announced a liberalised vaccine policy, making all adults above 18 years of age eligible for getting vaccination from May 1. The Serum Institute of India on Wednesday announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-uniformity-in-price-of-covid-19-vaccines-mayawati-to-centre-977529.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Faced with staff shortage, AIIMS discontinues contact tracing of exposed healthcare workers||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here has decided to discontinue contact tracing of exposed healthcare workers and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts amid the current Covid-19 situation that has led to insufficient resources and shortage of staff. Only symptomatic healthcare workers (HCWs) will be tested and only those testing positive will be isolated and managed as per the clinical condition.  The decisions were taken at a Covid-19 review meeting held under the chairmanship of AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria on Thursday. "In view of the current situation of Covid-19 leading to insufficient resources for contact tracing, and shortage of staff, the risk assessment and contact tracing of exposed HCW and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts should be discontinued. Only symptomatic HCW should be tested and only those testing positive be isolated and managed as per the clinical condition," the AIIMS said. It has been further decided that asymptomatic healthcare workers may be able to join work after 10 days period from the onset of symptoms provided that they are afebrile for at least last 24 hours without the use of antipyretics and symptoms (cough, shortness of breath) have improved.  Those who are asymptomatic may join work 10 days from the date of the first positive test.  Amid an alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 patients at the premier facility, Dr Naveet Wig, the head of the department of medicine at AIIMS, who is also the chairperson of the Covid-19 Task Force, on Wednesday had requested all his colleagues from other departments to provide 80 per cent of residents and 80 per cent of faculty members for Covid-19 management. Dr Wig had said that in view of an alarming rise in number of Covid-19 patients and the opening of multiple Covid-19 facilities in the hospital, the need of manpower has increased multi-fold. "To meet this demand, as directed by the director, you are requested to provide 80 per cent of your residents and 80 per cent of your faculty members for Covid-19 management," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/faced-with-staff-shortage-aiims-discontinues-contact-tracing-of-exposed-healthcare-workers-977540.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Major tragedy averted as security forces destroy IED in Pulwama||Security forces averted a tragedy by detecting and destroying an improvised explosive device (IED) in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. The IED was detected at Circle Road in south Kashmir's Pulwama district and was later destroyed by a Bomb Disposal Squad without any damage, a police official said. A major tragedy was averted, he said, adding that further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-tragedy-averted-as-security-forces-destroy-ied-in-pulwama-977570.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||In April travelers, tourists constitute 21% of total Covid cases in J&K||As Covid-19 continues to see a steep rise in Jammu and Kashmir, the percentage of travelers testing positive on arrival in the Union Territory (UT) constitute 21 per cent of total cases reported in April. 22,986 persons have tested positive for novel coronavirus in J&K from April 1 to April 22 of which 4,620 are travelers and tourists who on arrival tested positive for the viral respiratory illness, official figures reveal. Health experts say that the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and surge in the cases in J&K has coincided with the opening of the tourist spots since March. Two tourists – one from Maharashtra and another from Gujarat - have died of Covid-19 at the Chest Disease hospital of Srinagar in the past month. Both had tested negative on arrival at Srinagar Airport. The increasing cases of travelers and tourists testing positive has forced the authorities to make testing mandatory for all inbound travelers. A senior health department official said earlier there used to be testing for travelers at Srinagar Airport only, “but after we saw a trend of travelers reporting to test positive increasing, we have started testing travelers entering J&K through surface links as well.” Lakhanpur, the gateway for Jammu and Kashmir has been declared as the red zone by the government and tests are being conducted for the people entering the UT. “The passengers who travel from any hotspot area go through an RT-PCR test, while others go through Rapid Antigen Test,” the official said. On April 1, the total number of infection cases in the UT was 1,31,421 which has jumped to 1,54,407 on April 22. J&K reported its highest spike of 2204 cases on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-april-travelers-tourists-constitute-21-of-total-covid-cases-in-jk-977580.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 surge: J&K sees 450% rise in hospital admissions in April||Amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, hospitals in Jammu and Kashmir have seen a 450 per cent increase in patient admissions in the first three weeks of this month. While 192 patients were admitted across hospitals of J&K on March 31, three weeks later, the number rose to 877 - a massive 450 per cent increase. Of the 16094 active positive cases, 5.5 per cent were admitted across hospitals of the UT. In Kashmir, tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar has its admissions increased from 42 at the end of the March to 171 on April 22. The hospital has closed down admission of non-emergency cases. At Chest Diseases Hospital in Srinagar, the admissions have increased from 45 to 84 with the medical facility running out of ICU beds fast. With the new wave of Covid-19 hitting the country severely in April, J&K has also seen an expeditious doubling time of new cases. From over 500 cases in the first week of April, the cases doubled to over 1,000 in the second week and now over 2200 in the beginning of the fourth week. As per official figures, the highest single-day spike of cases in J&K was reported on Wednesday when 2,203 people tested positive for Covid-19. Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo said the government was in the process of taking all possible measures to increase oxygen beds in J&K. “We will have an increased capacity of high-flow oxygen in all districts in April itself,” he said and added J&K had increased its testing capacity and 8.3 lakh people had been tested in this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-surge-jk-sees-450-rise-in-hospital-admissions-in-april-977587.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court, district courts to continue virtual hearings till May 15 amid Covid-19 spike||In view of "alarming rise" in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, which saw over 26,000 fresh infections in last 24 hours, the Delhi High Court on Friday said the existing system of hearings via video conferencing will continue till May 15. Similar directions were issued by the high court for the District Courts which have been ordered to conduct virtual hearings only till May 15. An order issued by the office of the Delhi High Court Registrar General Manoj Jain said, "All the benches of this court shall continue to take up only extremely urgent matters filed in the year 2021, through video conferencing mode. "All the courts of Registrars and Joint Registrars (Judicial) shall also continue to take up only urgent cases of their respective courts, through video conferencing mode." The high court's office order also said that all other pending routine or non-urgent matters listed between April 26 and May 15 shall stand adjourned en bloc to dates between July 9 to July 31. On April 18, the high court had said that from April 19 onwards it will only take up "extremely urgent matters" filed this year. On April 8, it had decided that from April 9 to April 23 it will take up matters "through virtual mode only" in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases. The high court had commenced complete physical functioning from March 15 onwards. Subsequently, it had said that virtual or hybrid proceedings would be held on the request of lawyers. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year, the court was holding proceedings through video conferencing. Its functioning was restricted to urgent matters from March 16 last year. Thereafter, from March 25 last year, the functioning of the high court and district courts was further restricted and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of Covid-19. Subsequently, from September last year a few benches started holding physical courts everyday on a rotation basis. Some of them also started holding hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-district-courts-to-continue-virtual-hearings-till-may-15-amid-covid-19-spike-977589.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||'Sorry, didn't know': Thief leaves stolen Covid-19 vaccines at tea stall in Haryana||Over 1,700 doses of Covid-19 vaccine that were stolen from a government hospital in Haryana's Jind district on Wednesday night were returned hours later by the unidentified thief with a note that stated that he did not know that these were coronavirus jabs. A total of 1,270 doses of Covishield and 440 doses of Covaxin were stolen from the hospital, SHO of Civil Lines police station Rajender Singh said on Thursday. The matter came to light after a sanitation worker of the hospital found the locks of the store and deep freezer broken this morning. "The accused did not touch any other vaccine, medicine, cash, etc. in the store," Singh said. Later, a man came on a motorcycle and left the vaccines at a tea stall outside the Civil Lines police station. He told people at the stall that the package contained food for a police official at the station, the officer said. The thief also left a note in which he expressed regret over stealing the vaccines. He said that he did not know that these were COVID-19 vaccines, he added. "It is possible that he wanted to steal some other vaccine or drug and returned what he had stolen after learning that it wasn't that," Singh said. A case has been registered in connection with the incident, he said. "We have got some clues and hope to make an arrest soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sorry-didnt-know-thief-leaves-stolen-covid-19-vaccines-at-tea-stall-in-haryana-977599.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||In human gesture, Kashmiri dealers send 100 oxygen concentrators to Maharashtra||Even as the country faces acute crises of medical oxygen supplies to treat the rising number of Covid-19 patients, the people of Kashmir don’t mind giving their own share of the life-saving gas to severely-affected Maharashtra. In a heartwarming gesture, Kashmir based dealers, who had 100 oxygen concentrators in stock, sold those to an aid organization based in the financial capital of the country that too at cost much lesser than market price. The Kashmiri dealers had procured these oxygen concentrators in winter when the price of such equipment was at its lowest due to the declining Covid-19 cases. “Suppliers in Delhi who earlier offered Oxygen Concentrators, for Rs 38 to Rs 45 thousand a piece are quoting a new price : Rs 75 to Rs 85 thousand a piece and the waiting period is 2 weeks,” Mohammad Afaq Sayeed, who runs SRO Batamaloo, an organisation working for the welfare of the poor wrote on his Facebook wall. “And Kashmiri dealers who had Oxygen Concentrators in stock sold the same to Aid Organisation of Maharashtra for Rs 42 to Rs 44 thousand only. More than 100 machines sent to Maharashtra from Kashmir. Hats off. Time and again Kashmiris are proving, what compassion and care means (sic),” he added. The shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the country has led to a rush for oxygen concentrator machines. The equipment that can be kept at home is being seen as a handy life-saving device. The machine filters oxygen from the air in the room, which can be administered to the patient. As an increasing number of patients resort to home quarantine, demand for oxygen concentrators shooting through the roof.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-human-gesture-kashmiri-dealers-send-100-oxygen-concentrators-to-maharashtra-977601.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Max Hospital receives emergency oxygen supply after SOS||The Max Hospital-Saket on Friday morning sent out an SOS, saying it was left with "an hour's oxygen supply" and over 700 patients admitted. Two hours later, in a tweet, the hospital confirmed that it had received emergency supplies, which will last "last another two hours". The hospital said it had been awaiting fresh supply from oxygen manufacturer Inox since 1 am. "SOS - Less than an hour's Oxygen supplies at Max Smart Hospital & Max Hospital Saket. Awaiting promised fresh supplies from INOX since 1 am. @drharshvardhan @msisodia @PMOIndia @ArvindKejriwal @PiyushGoyal @SatyendarJain over 700 patients admitted, need immediate assistance," the hospital had tweeted at 7.43 am. According to the South Delhi DCP, a vehicle carrying oxygen reached Max Smart around 9 am and another vehicle was enroute. "Oxygen carrying vehicle has reached Max Smart. Another vehicle is enroute for Max East West. Senior Officers are monitoring the situation," the police said on Twitter. Around 9.30 am, the Max Healthcare said it was awaiting more supplies. "Update: We have received emergency supplies at Max Saket and Max Smart which will last another 2 hours. We are still awaiting more supplies," it said. Amid a serious oxygen crisis in the national capital, 25 "sickest" COVID-19 patients died at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here in the last 24 hours, officials said on Friday. Sources said "low pressure oxygen" could be the likely cause for the deaths. A central government source said the SGRH has "sufficient balance of oxygen and a tanker has reached the hospital, which will fill up the storage capacity". The tanker reached the hospital around 9.20 am. The stock can last up to five hours, depending on the consumption, an official at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said six private hospitals had exhausted their oxygen supply by Thursday evening. As patients and their family members waited outside hospitals, hoping to get a bed, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday had said beds would be increased in large numbers once the oxygen crisis was resolved. A government doctor said hospitals in Delhi are wary of admitting more patients amid a serious shortage of oxygen in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-max-hospital-receives-emergency-oxygen-supply-after-sos-977621.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Viral video 'heavily edited' to show minister in poor light: Prahlad Patel's office||A day after a video surfaced purportedly showing Union Culture Minister Prahlad Patel telling a man who sought oxygen cylinder for his ailing mother that he would get "two slaps", his office on Friday said the clip was heavily edited to portray him in bad light. Sharing the full video of the incident, a representative of the minister said Patel was only placating the man and reprimanding him for using an expletive. In the full video, the minister is seen asking the man not to use abusive language and telling him that he would get a slap if he kept on abusing. He is also seen asking the man who denied him the oxygen cylinder. While the opposition Congress has took swipes at Patel over the incident after the edited clip was shared widely, the Union minister did not react to the accusations. Patel, who is the MP from Damoh, was inspecting the district hospital there on Thursday, two days after oxygen cylinders were looted from the facility, his office said. In the video, the man is seen approaching him and saying that his mother, a Covid-19 patient, needed oxygen cylinder. She was told she would get one after 36 hours, but it is yet to be provided, the man can be heard telling the minister. The man is next seen raising a finger at Patel and using an expletive, to which the minister gestures at him to lower his finger, and said, "If you spoke in this manner, you will get two slaps (Aisa Bolega Toh Do Khayega)." The man then replies that he is ready to accept the slaps. "Tell me what to do," he is heard asking. "Calm down. Is anyone refusing you (the oxygen)," the minister asks. To this, the man is heard replying in a feeble voice that he had indeed been denied an oxygen cylinder. As the edited clip began to circulate on Thursday, MP Congress chief spokesperson K K Mishra tweeted, "Before the by-poll, each virus patient of Damoh was driven to Bhopal or Jabalpur by the cars of MP ministers and admitted to hospitals." "Now when a BJP activist was requesting for oxygen to save the life of his mother, Union Minister Prahlad Patel was talking about slapping him twice as the work is accomplished (election is over)," he said. On Tuesday night, family members of patients admitted to the Damoh district hospital forcibly took away oxygen cylinders from the facility. The hospital management had to call in police to bring the situation under control. No restrictions on movement or gatherings had been imposed in the district which had an Assembly by-election on April 17. On April 19, a curfew was imposed. On Thursday, Damoh reported 167 coronavirus cases, its highest daily rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/viral-video-heavily-edited-to-show-minister-in-poor-light-prahlad-patels-office-977636.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Oxygen tanker headed from Panipat to Sirsa goes missing, police file FIR||A tanker carrying liquid oxygen, which was travelling from Panipat to Sirsa in Haryana, has gone missing after which police have registered a case and launched investigations. Panipat police said on Friday a case has been lodged on the complaint of district drug controller. After being filled with liquid oxygen from Panipat plant on Wednesday, the truck had left for Sirsa, but it did not reach the destination, Station House Officer (SHO), Matlauda, Panipat, Manjeet Singh said. "We are investigating the matter," he said. The demand for medical oxygen has escalated due to a surge in coronavirus cases. In another incident, Haryana minister Anil Vij had on Wednesday alleged that a tanker carrying medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in hospitals, which was going from Panipat to Faridabad, was ''looted'' by the Delhi government when it was passing through their territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-tanker-headed-from-panipat-to-sirsa-goes-missing-police-file-fir-977639.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||UP records highest single-day spike of 37,238 Covid-19 cases, 196 deaths||A record single-day spike of 37,238 Covid-19 cases and 196 fatalities pushed Uttar Pradesh's infection tally to over 10 lakhs and the death toll due to the disease to 10,737, officials said here on Friday. As many as 22,566 patients recovered from the disease in the state in a span of 24 hours, taking the total count of recoveries to 7,28,980, Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal said. On Thursday, the state had recorded 34,379 new cases and 195 deaths. Uttar Pradesh presently has 2,73,653 active cases, of which over 2.18 lakh are in-home isolation, Sehgal said. The total infection tally in the state is now 10,13,370 and death toll at 10,737, he said, adding that on Thursday, 2.35 lakh samples were tested while 3.93 Covid tests have been conducted in the state so far. About the shortage of oxygen, Sehgal said a control room has been set up to monitor the situation and orders have been issued by the chief minister to install oxygen plants in all the hospitals. Besides, 1,500 oxygen concentrators have also been ordered, he said, adding that people are being advised not to pay heed to rumours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-37238-covid-19-cases-196-deaths-977640.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Oxygen shortage: Good samaritans come to rescue of Covid-19 patients across Delhi-NCR||With hospitals in the city scrambling to shore up oxygen supplies, good samaritans and social organisations across Delhi-NCR are giving a new lease of life to Covid-19 patients gasping for breath by opening "oxygen langar" for them and refilling cylinders for free. Twenty-five of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital's "sickest" Covid-19 patients died in 24 hours and the lives of 60 more hung in precarious balance, officials said on Friday as the scramble for oxygen got more increasingly more frantic in hospitals across the national capital. Inderjeet Singh Monty, president of Mayapuri Trading Association, told PTI, "We have been helping hospitals and people with free oxygen supply from this Mayapuri plant for the past five days now. Everyday over 500-600 people come here to get their oxygen cylinders refilled. Anyone in need of oxygen for a patient in their family can come and get the oxygen cylinder refilled here." Brainchild of Abhishek Gupta, the plant's owner, the noble initiative is getting all sorts of support from the administration as well as the Delhi Police, which has helped them in supplying oxygen to several West Delhi private hospitals -- and in some cases to patients' homes as well. The plant, with the refilling capacity of 1,500 oxygen cylinders per day, keeping in view the ongoing crisis is operating round-the-clock. "The whole cost of this is borne out by Abhishek Gupta. He just told us to help manage the things on ground and see that people's demands are being met smoothly. He is not bothered about money and wants to help people in whatever way he can amid the worst health crisis that the city and whole nation has seen," said Monty, who is also a member of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) . Gupta, even after several attempts, could not be reached for the comment. Also, rising up to the occasion in these challenging times is a gurudwara in Ghaziabad's Indirapuram. It has opened an "oxygen langar" for Covid-19 patients and promises to supply oxygen in its premises to patients till the time they don't find a bed for themselves in hospital. They have also launched a helpline number for the people to call and book oxygen cylinder. "We are not giving or refilling oxygen cylinders. We are asking people to come here at the Indirapuram Gurudwara along with the patient in their car and we will provide oxygen to them. "Be it two, four or 8 hours, we will provide oxygen till the time the patient is not getting a bed in the hospital," said one Gurpreet Singh, in a viral video informing people about the initiative. Delhi logged a record 306 Covid-19 deaths and 26,169 cases with a positivity rate of 36.24 per cent, highest since the pandemic began a year ago, on Thursday even as the city hospitals grappled with depleting oxygen supply for the third consecutive day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-shortage-good-samaritans-come-to-rescue-of-covid-19-patients-across-delhi-ncr-977645.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Sacrilege case probe: Sidhu accuses Amarinder of evading responsibility||Congress leader and Amritsar MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday attacked Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, accusing him of evading responsibility in the case involving the desecration of a religious text. In a tweet, the former state minister also asked if the case is not the top priority for him. Sidhu’s fresh comments have come in the wake of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing a probe report into police firing at people protesting against the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot’s Kotkapura in 2015. The HC had directed the state government to set up a new SIT to investigate the case without the then IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who resigned soon after the court order. Earlier in the month, the Amritsar legislator had demanded that the SIT probe into the case should be made public. Launching a direct attack on Amarinder Singh on Friday, who also holds the Home department portfolio, the Congress MLA asked, “Is Sacrilege case not the top priority for the Home Minister?” Is Sacrilege case not the top priority for the Home Minister ? Evading of responsibility & making only Advocate General (AG) a scapegoat means Executive Authority has No supervisory control. Who controls the AG ? Legal Team is just a pawn in this game of shifting responsibilities “Evading of responsibility & making only Advocate General (AG) a scapegoat means Executive Authority has No supervisory control. Who controls the AG? Legal Team is just a pawn in this game of shifting responsibilities,” Sidhu said in a tweet. Another senior Congress leader, Pratap Singh Bajwa, too had recently alleged that the state's advocate general and his team were unable to defend the interests of the state despite professional and efficient investigation done by the SIT. Two days ago, Sidhu had alleged that the delay in justice is the "failure of one person, who is hand-in-glove with the culprits". The Amritsar MLA, however, did not name anybody then. A month ago, Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu had met over tea, discussing the possible reinduction of the Amritsar MLA in the state cabinet. Harish Rawat, who is in-charge of Punjab affairs at the All-India Congress Committee (AICC), had been pushing for an important position for Sidhu. Last month, Sidhu also met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. The tensions between Amarinder Singh and Sidhu had come out in the open in May 2019 when the CM blamed the former cricketer for the "inept handling" of the Local Government Department, claiming it had resulted in the "poor performance" of the Congress in urban areas in the Lok Sabha polls. Sidhu was later stripped of this portfolio in a cabinet reshuffle, after which he resigned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sacrilege-case-probe-sidhu-accuses-amarinder-of-evading-responsibility-977647.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||There should be no compulsion on protesting farmers to get tested or vaccinated, says BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni||BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni has said protesting farmers should not be compelled to get themselves tested or vaccinated and if health workers tried to force them, they will not allow them to enter protest sites. A few days ago, Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij had said that the farmers sitting at Haryana's borders with Delhi will be tested and vaccinated. Sonipat, along with Gurgaon and Faridabad, is among Haryana districts which are witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases. "If they try to force us, then we will not even allow them to enter (protest sites)," said Chaduni, adding that testing or vaccination should be left to farmers' choice. A large number of farmers have been sitting in protest against the Centre's three new agri laws for months at Haryana's borders with Delhi at Singhu and Tikri. Sonipat Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Jashandeep Randhawa told reporters here that more than 1,100 farmers have been vaccinated so far. If need be, mobile teams of the health department will be pressed into service and farmers will be encouraged for vaccination, he said. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Chaduni said a farmer will get tested for Covid-19 only if he feels sick. He also said that any farmer who is willing to get vaccinated may do so, but it should not be made compulsory. The Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader was speaking after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions that is spearheading the agitation, met officials of the Haryana government on Thursday evening. Chaduni, who is a key member of the SKM, further claimed that for five months, not even one farmer has died due to coronavirus at protest sites. Meanwhile, another senior SKM leader Darshan Pal, while interacting with reporters on Thursday, said any farmer who has symptoms, will get tested for Covid-19. He said that taking a jab should be the discretion of farmers. Pal also said that farmers who are sitting at protest sites are maintaining social distancing norms and following other protocols. "People here are sitting in open air, this is not a slum, neither a bazaar, nor Kumbh Mela, nor an election rally. People are sitting maintaining social distance," he said. Pal also said that if anyone has symptoms, he will go home and get treatment. He also added many farmers have died during the protest so far due to various reasons, but post-mortem report of none of the deceased showed anyone died due to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/there-should-be-no-compulsion-on-protesting-farmers-to-get-tested-or-vaccinated-says-bku-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-977680.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt grants Rs 5,000 ex gratia relief to registered construction workers in city||The Delhi government on Friday said it has disbursed ex gratia payments of Rs 5,000 each to construction workers registered under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board as aid. In a statement, the city government said a total of 2,10,684 construction workers will be granted the aid under this scheme. "At present, the Delhi government has disbursed Rs 52.88 crore to 1,05,750 construction workers and in the coming days, more construction workers will be granted this ex-gratia relief," it said. Food distribution centres have also been set up across schools and construction sites of the city to cater to and fulfil the needs of all daily wage, migrant and construction workers, the government said. "Approximately 7,000 food packets have already been distributed in these food distribution centres as of Thursday evening," it said. A helpline for construction, daily wage and migrant workers is also being set up which, the government said, will be active in the next two-three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-grants-rs-5000-ex-gratia-relief-to-registered-construction-workers-in-city-977689.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||J&K sees 1,937 fresh Covid-19 cases, record 19 deaths||he total number of Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir surged to 1,56,344 on Friday as 1,937 more people tested positive for the disease while the death toll climbed to 2,111 with a record daily jump of 19 fatalities, officials said. The fresh cases include 152 travellers, they said. While 1,091 new cases were reported from the Kashmir division, 846 were from the Jammu division of the union territory, the officials said. Jammu district recorded the highest number of fresh cases at 525, followed by 501 in Srinagar and 156 in Budgam. The number of active cases in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 16,993. So far, 1,37,240 coronavirus patients have recovered from the infection, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-sees-1937-fresh-covid-19-cases-record-19-deaths-977709.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Health system collapses in UP as hospitals run out of oxygen, beds following surge in Covid 19 cases ||As Covid 19 cases continued to set new records, the hospitals in Uttar Pradesh have run out of oxygen and ICU beds resulting in deaths of serious patients without even receiving treatment. Many big hospitals in the state capital of Lucknow and other towns in the state have put up boards informing the attendants that they have run out oxygen and asked them to shift the patients elsewhere. Many others have been refusing to admit the patients citing unavailability of ICU beds and oxygen. The crematoria in the state capital as well as in the other big towns in the state have been witnessing large numbers of cremations. In Lucknow new platforms had to be constructed for the pyres. A local grave digger said that he had been digging six graves per day for the past few weeks. ''Earlier I used to dig only one grave daily,'' he said. In fact such was the rush of bodies at the main Bhainsakund crematorium in the city that the authorities had to erect a tin wall around it to prevent the people from seeing the burning pyres. UP reported over 37 thousand cases of Covid 19 in the past 24-hours, the highest one day surge, taking the total number of active cases in the state to over 2.5 lakh. As many as 199 people died from Coronavirus infection in the state in the same period. So far over ten thousand people have died from the infection in the state. Lucknow was the worst affected in the state with 5682 cases of Covid 19 in the past 24-hours.  Heart-wrenching videos of attendants of patients crying outside the hospitals after being told that they did not have oxygen nor the bed have filled social media.  ''The hospital says that it does not have oxygen....it has refused to admit my husband....his oxygen level has been going down,'' said a woman, whose husband was gasping for breath in an ambulance, outside a hospital in Lucknow. The health officials said that an Oxygen train was its way to Lucknow from Bokaro. The train is likely to arrive here on Saturday. UP CM Yogi Adityanath, deputy CM Dinesh Sharma and several state ministers and legislators were either in home isolation or in the hospitals after being infected with the virus. While Adityanath claimed that there was no paucity of oxygen or beds in the state, the opposition leaders sought to corner the BJP government over its alleged failure to handle the situation. ''BJP bothers only about elections not about the lives of the people,'' said Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/health-system-collapses-in-up-as-hospitals-run-out-of-oxygen-beds-following-surge-in-covid-19-cases-977712.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||UK Covid-19 variant driving Delhi surge: NCDC||The surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital could be attributed to the UK variant of the SARS-COV-2 virus as genome sequencing of samples detected 400 cases of the strain. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control, presented the findings at a webinar on ‘Genome Sequencing of the SARS-COV-19’ organised by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Besides 400 cases of the UK strain, scientists also found 76 cases of the Indian double mutant in the national capital. Scientists had carried out genome sequencing of 3,208 samples in the national capital. Singh said the UK variant of the coronavirus was found in 28% of samples in the second week of March, while it had risen to 50% of samples collected in the last week of March. “If we try to co-relate, the surge we are observing in Delhi, it directly co-relates to the type of variant which we are observing," he said. “There are scenarios which we are observing. In Punjab... we found that the UK variant was the primary variant. In Maharashtra, B.1.617 (double mutant) variant in proportions over 50% in many cities,” Singh said. Singh said 15,133 samples have been sequenced by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) set up in December last year to mount genomic surveillance after the UK, South African and Brazilian variants of the virus were reported. Initially, the INSACOG carried out genome sequencing on all positive cases reported in the testing of international passengers arriving at airports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uk-covid-19-variant-driving-delhi-surge-ncdc-977723.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||J&K preps for vaccination of people in 18-45 age group||The Jammu and Kashmir government is preparing for the vaccination of about 65 lakh people in the 18-45 age group from next month, a senior official said on Friday and directed authorities to strictly enforce precautionary measures against Covid-19 to contain the surge in infections. Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam reviewed the public health response to the pandemic and asked the administration to remain alert and tighten the implementation of existing control measures and SOPs to reverse the upward trend. Considering the recent surge in Covid-19 infections, the chief secretary impressed upon the officers to strictly implement the strategy of testing, vaccination, strict control in containment zones and promotion of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour among masses to prevent a further surge in the cases. Informing that certain districts are showing very high positivity rate, the chief secretary asked the respective district administrations to ramp up testing in the identified target clusters and prioritise vaccination of the eligible population groups. It was stated that 20-30 per cent of the new positive cases are travellers who are being tested at the entry point itself and prevented from mingling with the general population. It was informed that in the initial phases of Covid-19 vaccination, 75 per cent of health workers, 78 per cent of frontline workers, and 38 per cent of citizens above 45 years of age, totalling 15,25,604 people, have been vaccinated in Jammu and Kashmir with no reported case of any adversity. The next phase of the vaccination for the 18-45 age group will cover approximately 65 lakh people, they said. To effectively deliver the vaccines at the grass-root level, the chief secretary sought greater coordination between the frontline workers of various departments including health, social welfare, school education, rural development, and housing and urban development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-preps-for-vaccination-of-people-in-18-45-age-group-977792.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||Approach nodal officer for oxygen: Delhi HC tells hospitals||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked hospitals and nursing homes to approach the nodal officer of the AAP government first to meet the requirement of medical oxygen to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients. “We would expect all hospitals in the NCT of Delhi to approach the nodal officer Mr Udit Prakash and such other officers... in the first instance for the purpose of meeting their requirement of oxygen,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The bench said if the requirements are not met even after contacting the nodal officer, the hospitals shall contact senior advocate Rahul Mehra and lawyer Satyakam, before approaching the court. The court was hearing two separate pleas by two private hospitals which sought immediate supply of oxygen. During the hearing, the bench noted that an assurance was given to it by the Centre that 480 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen would be supplied to Delhi daily, but the same has "not fructified" mainly for the reason that some of the suppliers are located in West Bengal and Odisha. "Whatever was allocated should be there," the court observed. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court that a virtual control room, set up in 2020 to communicate with the nodal officers of the states and monitor the situation, has been strengthened by adding more senior officers. The bench also asked the Delhi Chief Secretary to examine the entire allocation plan for oxygen and make a suggestion and place it before the Centre and the committee without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/approach-nodal-officer-for-oxygen-delhi-hc-tells-hospitals-977802.html
23-04-2021||North and Central||J&K records 1,937 Covid positive cases, 19 deaths||The Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir continue to show a steep rise as 1,937 fresh positive cases and 19 deaths were reported on Friday.  Active positive cases continue to increase and the recovery rate is decreasing with each passing day.   Among 1,937 fresh cases, 1,091 were from Kashmir and 846 are from Jammu division. The officials said that the total number of active cases in Jammu and Kashmir are 16,993 including 9,881 from the Kashmir division and 7,112 from Jammu division. With 1,019 more recoveries, the tally of total recoveries in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 1,37,240 which is 87.78% of the total cases. “Cases tested positive in J&K include 590 from Srinagar, 198 from Baramulla, 68 from Budgam, 62 from Pulwama, 54 from Kupwara,105 from Anantnag, 13 from Bandipora, 23 from Ganderbal, 32 from Kulgam and 23 from Shopian in Kashmir division while as 789 from Jammu division include 469 from Jammu, 68 from Udhampur, 45 from Rajouri, 27 from Doda, 31 from Kathua, 31 from Samba,  15 from Kishtwar, 13 from Poonch, 38 from Ramban and 51 from Reasi," officials disclosed. As per the daily information bulletin, 17,19,384 persons in Jammu and Kashmir are under observation while 77679 persons have been kept under home quarantine besides that 16993 persons are in isolation. According to the bulletin, 14,97,141 persons have completed surveillance period and 1,25,460 persons are under home surveillance besides that so far results of 69,61,115 samples are available. Out of 69,61,115 the number of samples tested negative stands at 6804771 while as 1,56,344 have tested positive, among them 16,993 persons are active, 1,37,240 persons have recovered and 2,111 persons have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-records-1937-covid-positive-cases-19-deaths-977807.html
23-04-2021||Opinion||Why the profit motive can’t defeat the Covid pandemic in India||By Anjani Trivedi, India has never been prepared for a public health emergency of the scale of Covid-19. No country has. But the government’s dislocated priorities have left the nation particularly vulnerable. It is now running short of basic infrastructure including oxygen tanks, ventilators, antiviral medication and hospital beds, with hundreds of thousands of new infections being recorded every day. On Thursday, the country added 314,835 cases, the highest daily tally in the world since the pandemic began. Public health spending was dismally low to begin with, at just close to 1% of India’s gross domestic product. The country ranks 179th out 189 when it comes to prioritisation of healthcare in the government budget. It spends as much as donor-dependent nations like Sierra Leone on a per capita basis. The country’s medical facilities are so inadequate that overall hospitalisation rates for the sick are among the lowest in the world: 3% to 4%, compared to an average 8% to 9% in middle income countries and even higher elsewhere. The country has never quite focussed on its public healthcare infrastructure — which is perpetually on the brink, making its apparent success holding down infection numbers last year remarkable. But the country is having no such luck with the enormous numbers emerging right now. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has encouraged the growth of private hospitals by providing them with land and tax exemptions, creating a healthcare market expected to be worth $133 billion by 2022. Most Indians now depend on private sector medical facilities. The problem, of course, is that the financial burden ends up being shouldered by households: India’s health-related, out-of-pocket expenses are some of the highest in the world, and continue to rise. A significant amount of the government’s health budget is spent on subsidies for private service providers, which does little to build out the country’s medical infrastructure needs or further its healthcare goals. Private hospitals are built to make money without outwardly committing to outcomes like lowering mortality rates or disease. Fundamental health infrastructure doesn’t even make it onto the political agenda. The public investment necessary to effect change has limited returns for ambitious politicians over the short-term. The Modi government enables this abdication of responsibility. The country’s latest economic survey noted that “better health infrastructure is no guarantee that a country would be able to deal better with devastating pandemics like Covid-19” because the next one could be different. As an example, the government will probably point to Brazil. The Latin American nation has been posting tens of thousands of new cases a day and has one of the highest virus-related death numbers in the world. Its population is around the same as that of India’s largest state; and the country spends over 16 times the amount India does on a per capita basis on health care. Yet its medical system is overwhelmed.  But that’s exactly why India should be worried now. If India falters, its failure will be many times the disaster in Brazil. So here we are, a year on from the beginning of the pandemic. Countless infected people in India have been denied a chance to recover because the government hasn’t built a system that will get them the medical supplies they need. A country of 1.4 billion people needs a system to support their most basic need: survival. The idea that a private health system focussed on profit could adequately attend to almost 18% of the world is ludicrous. A real healthcare apparatus would’ve ensured the populace understood risks, remained vigilant and received care.  Instead, overwhelmed hospitals have just hours of oxygen supplies available, antiviral medications are hard to find and intensive care units are close to capacity. Ad hoc measures may well help India slowly make its way out but it won’t guarantee things stay that way. Just as they didn’t when the country thought it had miraculously fought off the virus. India’s paltry public healthcare spending isn’t guided by holistic, national-level priorities. Spending varies by state and each ends up funding far more than the central government does, leading to unequal outcomes for people in different regions. The differences have become political as federal and provincial governments do battle over who is responsible for specific needs. All this means India isn’t set up to survive the Covid-19 waves that are bound to follow as they have elsewhere in the world. Blame who or what you want, the reality is India needs to assess how prepared it is for future surges. The Modi administration will have to do far more than just invoke unity, as the prime minister did in his Tuesday night national address. Negligence – individual to bureaucratic — is being blamed for the latest wave. That is true. It’ll be even truer if India doesn't start to go back to the basics of building out its healthcare infrastructure. It’s pointless being the pharmacy of the world when you can’t heal your own people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-the-profit-motive-can-t-defeat-the-covid-pandemic-in-india-977593.html
23-04-2021||Panorama||A roof over their heads: The complex challenges of urban housing||This time last year, disturbing images of migrants making their way to villages inundated the internet. Pictures of thousands of men, women and children covering kilometres on foot amidst a global pandemic left the country wondering what was more dangerous for the migrants — a virus or living in the city. The long-existing problem of shortage of affordable formal housing in India has pushed 40% of people to move to overcrowded informal and unauthorised colonies and slums. Slum-dwellers live in congested and insecure localities, in constant danger of eviction and displacement. Over 65 million people live in urban slums or informal settlements with poor living conditions, inadequate access to safe water and sanitation, overcrowding and insecure residential status. Research conducted by Prindex suggests that one out of every four Indians is scared of losing their home. Security of land tenure and stable access to housing have the potential to unlock massive economic and social value for India’s poorest. Addressing ‘housing poverty’ in India can be a simultaneous weapon against many other developmental issues — better physical safety and public health, sanitation, livelihoods, dignified living and human development. Affordable housing has emerged as a priority in the urban development sector in the aftermath of the pandemic. Even as master planners and city administrators design for the post-pandemic world, social entrepreneurs are taking on the challenge to make our cities more equal. Bandhu is a social enterprise that aims to make the process of urbanisation more equitable and sustainable. It does so by maximising transparency in the rural-to-urban migration decisions and thus, empowering the otherwise vulnerable migrant workers. India Migration Now (IMN) utilises its niche expertise in migration research and policy along with its extensive network of government and private sector, including non-profit partners, to develop insights and solutions for low-income migrant households in India. Entrepreneurs, nonprofits, philanthropists and policy-makers need to collectively develop meaningful interventions for the economically and socially disadvantaged. We witnessed a strong rise in such intentional collaborations last year. In 2012, the housing sector fell short by 18.78 million units, which is expected to increase to 20 million by 2022. Of this, 95% belong to low-income households (earning less than Rs 2 lakh per annum). The scarcity of low-cost housing in the country forces the economically weaker sections to rent in slums and unauthorised colonies. Innovations in housing fabrication holds a potential solution here. For example, ‘Pop-up Housing’ is one social venture which is trying to make housing affordable for economically weaker sections. Their recyclable homes built using self assemble-able prefabricated material use underutilised space and can last up to 30 years and cost under Rs 50,000. Technology for tenure security In rural India, there are 54 million landless households whose opportunities are limited to daily wage labour, in the absence of access to land as a means of sustainable livelihood.  We also have a large population of vulnerable and marginal communities at the risk of losing their land rights because of lack of education, poor understanding of land systems and difficulty in accessing legal aid. Waatavaran, a non-profit organisation, is leveraging technology to secure land claims. Through GIS-based land-mapping and satellite imagery, Waatavaran is working with tribal households and other traditional forest-dwelling communities to help them claim legal rights on forest lands in accordance with the Forest Rights laws which recognise forest-dwellers as both: the real users and custodians of forests. Land-related disputes contribute to two-third of all pending cases in the courts, with an average timeline of about 20 years to resolve the cases. Women’s ability to claim and secure inheritance and land ownership is still amongst one of the most challenging issues. In the absence of proper land records and formal ownerships, small and marginal farmers fail to access entitlements such as farm input subsidies and crop insurance and other welfare schemes. Geospatial and cadastral technology to develop detailed and real-time maps, empowered communities and local partnerships have the potential for long-term sustainable solutions. Project Pioneer — a collaboration between Omidyar Network India and The/Nudge Foundation — nurtures innovation in land inclusivity by providing seed grants, mentorship and ecosystem support to social entrepreneurs and also facilitates high-quality research through the Research Innovation Program for think-tanks and researchers working in this underserved problem area. Solutions for housing poverty Some of the most promising opportunities to solve housing poverty in India are: Provision of titling and tenure security; Legal aid, awareness, and dispute resolution; Innovations for affordable housing; Access to welfare schemes and financial services; Open data solutions connecting the government, private-entities and the vulnerable societal sections; and a more focused cultural and economic push for property rights of women and facilitation rights of vulnerable populations/ tribals. Social entrepreneurs taking on the ‘housing and property inclusivity’ challenges of the country need special support, given the complex nature of the sector, legislations and bureaucratic differences in various regions of the country. There is an urgent need for innovations and public-private partnerships to make leapfrog improvements in the living conditions and security of the vulnerable. Secured property and land rights form the basis for physical safety, livelihoods, poverty alleviation and social dignity. The security of a safe home has the potential to unlock massive economic and social value for the most vulnerable populations of India. (The writer is the CEO of The Nudge Centre for Social Innovation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-roof-over-their-heads-the-complex-challenges-of-urban-housing-977459.html
23-04-2021||Panorama||Learning to pray differently during Covid-19 pandemic||Covid-19, the global pandemic seems to be unabated at the moment.  Presently it is said to be more infectious and many children are getting sick with the contagion. Whole families are down with its debilitating symptoms. Sickness and the gloom that follows illness, has cast a shadow on the happiness and wellbeing of our yesteryear lives.  In the midst of these challenging times we have gone down on our knees seeking the Almighty’s mercy.  Ceaseless prayers are on our lips. Petitions for the end of the pandemic are constantly whispered.  “Please bring back the old times,” we plead to a kind God. We seek divine intervention so that the pandemic would magically and miraculously go away.  Yet, have we stopped to ponder and pray for the right favors from God during these unusual times?    Instead of imploring for the virus to disappear into thin air, perhaps we should ask for the virtues of strength and fortitude to shoulder the additional responsibilities that this pandemic demands of us. To merely pray for the pandemic to end is not enough.  We need to do our bit for this calamity to pass.   Practices such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, abiding by all the safety protocols that the government has put in place, postponing unnecessary travel, curbing superfluous social get-togethers and getting vaccinated are just some of the few life-style changes that are needed to curtail the contagion. Our prayers should then be aimed at seeking God’s grace so that we could rise up to the fresh demands of being responsible citizens and face graciously the burdens brought by Covid-19.  It is therefore high-time that we learnt to pray differently in this situation. Let us pray for wisdom; let us pray for patience; let us pray for resilience; let us pray for submission to obey the laws of the land; let us pray for brotherly kindness; and above all let us pray that we develop a benevolent spirit that will go beyond I-me-myself and consider the millions who will be losing their battle to Covid-19 because of our collective irresponsible behaviour. Certainly in learning to pray differently we will find that our prayers have already been answered and the end to the pandemic could then be sooner than later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/learning-to-pray-differently-during-covid-19-pandemic-977460.html
23-04-2021||Panorama||Recognising the rights of pregnant people||Lately, the long-overdue amendments to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971 were passed by Parliament. Nearly, five decades ago, the MTP Act was enacted as an exception to the IPC provision (S.312-316) which criminalises abortion. However, the MTP Act has become obsolete and archaic. The Parliament initiated an amendment, to keep up with the medical advancements. However the MTP Amendment Act, 2020 fell foul of the constitutional framework concerning advance reproductive choices, privacy and gender inclusivity.  The MTP (Amendment) Act, 2020  has broadened the ambit of the persons who can access abortion facility by obliterating the distinction of married and unmarried woman. The amendment has increased the gestational limit from, hitherto, 12 weeks to 20 weeks within which the foetus can be aborted on one doctor’s advice. The upper gestational limit has also been increased from, hitherto, 20 weeks to 24 weeks on two doctor’s advice. However, the limits have been increased only for women in certain categories- contraceptive failure or rape victims. In case a foetal anomaly has been diagnosed by the Medical Board constituted under the amendment, the upper gestational limit would not be applicable. It penalises the dissemination of any information related to the woman whose pregnancy has been terminated. The penalising provision can have a chilling effect on abortion services.  The amendment poses several disturbing threats to gender inclusivity, right to privacy and exercise of autonomy. The amendment endorses a progressive view by replacing the term ‘husband’ with ‘partner’ and ‘married woman’ with ‘woman’. However, this alteration still reflects heteronormative bias as it excludes other categories of pregnant persons such as transgenders, intersex and gender-diverse individuals. This amendment also excludes other marginalised communities, such as single mothers and sex workers, from claiming the ground of contraceptive failure as it requires relational or partnership factor.      The Supreme Court has developed a robust jurisprudence on reproductive rights. In KS Puttaswamy v UOI, the court reads into reproductive choices and right ‘not’ to procreate as important facets of the right to dignity, privacy and bodily autonomy under Article 21. However, the doctor-centric approach adopted in the amendment seems to have allowed abortion not as a legitimate choice but as a need. For instance, the requirement of third-party authorisation from medical boards and courts, in the amendment, depicts the lack of any scope for the exercise of decisional autonomy by the pregnant person. Not only does it violate the right to privacy but also violates the right to life and dignity by compelling a person to continue pregnancy without their will. The courts rely on the recommendations of the Medical Board, whose opinions are often based more on subjective bias than medical factors.   These requirements of medical opinion, authorisation and time frame restrictions prevent the effective exercise of the right to abortion which is a fundamental right under Article 21 as per Suchitra Srivastav v Chandigarh Administration. It shall be the pregnant person’s right which shall take precedence over the foetus’s rights as the latter is entitled to human rights only upon birth. Thus, the ultimate right of autonomy over the body shall lie with the person concerned and no third party should have any say in the manner such right is exercised. The amendment allows for breach of confidentiality in case the information is demanded by ‘any person authorised by law’. Contrary to the spirit of the right to privacy as a fundamental right held in KS Puttaswamy v UOI, such disclosure compromises the safety and privacy of the pregnant person.  The recent amendment to MTP Act, 1971 has failed to synchronise with the Supreme Court’s pronouncement on gender inclusivity, reproductive justice and privacy. To foster inclusivity, the Act must replace ‘woman’ with ‘pregnant persons’ and should also expand contraceptive failure as a ground available to all, irrespective of the status of their partnership. Thus, the amendment must also recognise abortion on demand as long as the person’s life is not at risk. The confidentiality clause gives leeway to the person authorised by the law to access the information about the pregnant person which violates privacy. To maintain that legitimate interest behind this move, the amendment must mandate disclosure only upon obtaining an order from a competent court of law.  (The writers are students of National Law School of India University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/recognising-the-rights-of-pregnant-people-977461.html
23-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Nosing around||I have always had an acute sense of smell. This can be both a blessing and a curse. My wife refers to my nose as the "police naayi"— a local detective dog. I can tell if milk has boiled over in the morning or if a patient who promised to stop smoking has surreptitiously sneaked out for a cigarette before visiting me. I will know if the asafoetida has been overdone in the sambar simmering in the kitchen or if my wife is wearing her mother’s silk saree. The lingering smell of naphthalene balls from untouched suitcases is a clear clue. The nose is central to the face and has a prominent role in many works of literature. As children, we were entertained by the story of a marionette, called Pinocchio, whose nose grew longer every time he said a lie. Rudolph surfaces every Christmas with his only claim to fame being a red nose. Saleem Sinai, the protagonist of Salman Rushdie’s Midnight’s Children, is equipped with a blocked sense of smell that somehow grants him telepathic powers. Cyrano de Bergerac justified his monstrosity by saying “A large nose is the mark of a witty, courteous, affable, generous and liberal man.“  “Nosology” has popped up in literature quite often and many writers have created a malleable symbol of power with this little lump on our faces. Though the nose can be funny, or even absurd, beauty is often judged and scored by the nose. A Grecian nose or an aquiline nose could be markers of beauty while a button nose could be considered cute. And those who are not blessed genetically with a ‘perfect’ nose, sometimes opt for the surgeon’s nose-job to improve on nature. An inquisitive neighbour was traditionally referred to as a Nosy Parker, but social media has taken over this role. Everyone is shooting incriminating videos of their friends, strangers and politicians and poking their nose into other people’s business. But everyone is beginning to smell something fishy about the way the internet seems to know everything about our lives. Big Brother has been obviously nosing around in our personal data. In recent months a loss of smell has been taken as a cardinal sign of the dreaded virus. And the return of those wonderful odours that we take for granted mark the onset of good health once again. The pungent fragrance of eucalyptus oil in a headache balm or the soothing familiar smell of sandalwood from a soap— these can be the harbingers of good health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/nosing-around-977463.html
23-04-2021||Second Edit||Ensure medical aid to non-Covid patients||While there is no denying that those who have contracted Covid-19 should be provided with the best possible medical aid, non-Covid patients cannot be left in the lurch at the same time. With the pandemic disrupting the healthcare system, patients with cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes and other ailments have failed to receive timely medical attention.  While the lockdown delayed non-emergency procedures, the diversion of doctors towards Covid-related duties further compounded matters. Now, Victoria Hospital, the biggest government facility in Bengaluru has been converted into an exclusive Covid centre, with no access to patients with other disorders.  Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, a member of Karnataka expert committee on Covid-19 is on record that many non-Covid patients succumbed to their illnesses because they could not get the required care at hospitals. It is indeed inhuman to sacrifice a non-Covid life to save a Covid patient. All lives are equally important and a person suffering from any ailment should have the same access to medical attention and care as a Covid patient. One way to end this discrimination would be to designate some hospitals as exclusive non-Covid facilities.  All this, once again, boils down to the total lack of preparedness by the state government, though experts had warned of a second wave much in advance. In the interim, the health department failed to strengthen the manpower or ramp up the number of beds and ICU facilities. This, according to the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors has led to a situation where non-Covid beds are “snatched” for Covid patients. The panic associated with the pandemic has also led to a clogging of medical facilities by patients who do not need hospitalisation. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy himself could not get a bed at a prominent private hospital. Health Minister K Sudhakar has clarified that 95% of those testing positive do not need hospitalisation and people with mild and moderate symptoms can be treated at temporary facilities such as hotels. Besides, according to Union Health Ministry statistics, Covid has a very high recovery rate and a low death rate of about 1.3%, much lower than other diseases. Another factor contributing to the over-crowding of hospitals is the discontinuation of supply of medical kits to those under self-isolation, failure to deploy doctors on home visits, non-availability of sound medical advice due to the inefficiency of call centre and above all, unnecessary anxiety. The government should tie-up these loose ends, which will not only free beds and reduce the pressure on hospitals but also ensure that non-Covid patients are not left to fend for themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ensure-medical-aid-to-non-covid-patients-977454.html
23-04-2021||South||Don't allow Sterlite plant to be opened in any form: Protesters to Govt||Anti-Sterlite protesters and activists on Friday told the Tamil Nadu government that they are opposed to Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper getting access to its massive copper smelter in Thoothukudi even if it was just for producing oxygen at its oxygen manufacturing plants. At a closed door meeting chaired by Thoothukudi District Collector K Senthil Raj on Friday morning, activists and locals vehemently opposed reopening of the plant. The meeting came hours before the Supreme Court heard Vedanta's plea seeking access to its oxygen plants inside the massive smelter to produce oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients. A few people who were present at the meeting supported Sterlite Copper's plea and opined that the company can be allowed access to its plant for producing oxygen. However, they were shouted down by people opposed to Sterlite, eye-witnesses said, adding that a few pro-Sterlite locals were manhandled while they were leaving the Collectorate. Majority of the people who participated in the consultative meeting opposed Sterlite Copper's plea accusing the Vedanta owned company of attempting a “back-door entry” using a “national crisis” as an excuse. At one point, the anti-Sterlite activists and people told the collector that they will not even allow the state government to run the oxygen plant let alone Sterlite Copper. “We certainly feel Sterlite Copper's plea before the Supreme Court is not about producing oxygen. It is just a move by the company to make a back-door entry into the facility. Sterlite is known for acting with impunity and we expressed our vehement opposition to the company getting access to the plant in any manner,” Prof Fathima Babu, the first to move courts against Sterlite Copper, told DH. The district collector said most of the voices at the stakeholders' meeting was against Sterlite Copper getting access to the plant even if it was just for producing oxygen. “The question of reopening Sterlite Copper does not arise as it was the government's decision to close it. The question that was put before the stakeholders on Friday was whether we can allow oxygen plants to be opened for production of oxygen. Most of the people who attended were against any such move,” he told DH over the phone. Sterlite is a repeat offender and this has been “accepted” by various courts including the Supreme Court, while maintaining that the country is not “oxygen deficient,” Prof Fathima Babu claimed. “We will not let Sterlite Copper function from Thoothukudi yet again. We do not want their oxygen. It is the same company that spoiled the air we breathe here, and now they want to produce oxygen. This must be a joke,” a woman who participated in the meeting said. Sterlite Copper was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018 following months of protests by locals and activists which was overturned by the National Green Tribunal the same year. The state government approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the NGT order. The apex court stayed the order of the NGT and allowed Sterlite Copper to approach the Madras High Court, which upheld the government order. The case is now in the Supreme Court with Sterlite Copper challenging the Madras High Court verdict. The company's plea to access the plant for maintenance purposes has not been entertained by the court so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-allow-sterlite-plant-to-be-opened-in-any-form-protesters-to-govt-977619.html
23-04-2021||South||Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients should avoid rushing to big hospitals: Greater Chennai Corporation chief||If people who test positive for Covid-19 are in case asymptomatic, they should avoid rushing immediately to big hospitals, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner, G Prakash appealed to the public here on Friday. When all positive people with no symptoms crowded big state-run facilities, it became hard for doctors to pay complete attention to patients who are in serious condition battling severe symptoms, he said. Doctors were left with no time to concentrate on those who are serious and crowding deprived immediate, quality medical care to those who needed it the most, he said. Hence, immediately rushing to large hospitals should be avoided, he told reporters here. Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (Madras Medical College), Kilpauk, Stanley, Omandurar and ESIC are the five medical college hospitals in Chennai in the government sector. Those with severe symptoms could visit such big hospitals and people with no symptoms could isolate themselves in their homes, the senior civic body official said. About 80 to 85 per cent people who test positive for coronavirus here do not have routine symptoms including fever and there was no need to panic just because someone has tested positive for the virus, the top official said. People with mild symptoms could visit one of the twelve screening centres in the city and they shall be assisted by Corporation health officials, he said. In such centres, after examining patients and running requisite diagnostic tests, doctors would on need basis refer people to Covid care centres where they shall be under medical observation. Out of 3,700 people who tested positive on Thursday, about 1,200 people were brought to screening centres and the rest were either sent to state-run or private hospitals. Categorising and screening Covid-19 patients and avoiding immediately sending all positive people to hospitals would help reduce burden on doctors and also aid them focus on those who needed immediate attention, he said. Private hospitals have also been directed by the government to allot 50 per cent beds for Covid-19 patients and admit only those who are in serious condition. Others, people with no symptoms and those with mild symptoms should either be home-quarantined or sent to Covid care centres following screening. Over the next about 30 days, Covid-19 cases are likely to increase and a 'peak' is expected by end-May, Prakash said quoting opinions of experts and bodies like the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-should-avoid-rushing-to-big-hospitals-greater-chennai-corporation-chief-977664.html
23-04-2021||South||SC dissatisfied with Tamil Nadu govt's stand against reopening Vedanta to produce oxygen||The Supreme Court on Friday expressed its gross dissatisfaction with the Tamil Nadu government’s stand that the Vedanta cannot reopen its plant at Thoothukudi to produce oxygen, due to potential law and order problem. “When people are dying, Tamil Nadu cannot say it cannot open because of law and order issue. It is not about Vedanta or any other company. State government can’t make such an argument," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said if Vedanta cannot be allowed to run the plant, then the Tamil Nadu government should take it over for oxygen production amid the Covid-19 crisis. Senior Advocate C S Vaidyanathan, appearing for the Tamil Nadu government, submitted that reopening of the plant could lead to law and order problems since the locals have opposed it. “There was a shooting incident which killed 13 people. District administration will find it difficult to handle," he said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, supported the reopening of the Vedanta plant to meet the medical oxygen shortage. "The country is in dire need of oxygen. Different states need it, law and order cannot be an excuse," he said. The court asked the Tamil Nadu government to file an affidavit by Monday to a plea filed by Vedanta. It also suggested the Tamil Nadu government take over the plant to produce medical oxygen. “Why don't you fulfil your responsibility in manufacturing oxygen? Just because you have a problem with Vedanta you will not manufacture oxygen. What kind of argument is this,” the bench asked. A counsel, however, pointed out Tamil Nadu is not manufacturing oxygen because it is a surplus state. To this, the court said other states were in need of oxygen and resources of the country should be distributed equally, as per directive principle of state policy under the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-dissatisfied-with-tamil-nadu-govts-stand-against-reopening-vedanta-to-produce-oxygen-977688.html
23-04-2021||South||Kerala's Covid-19 test positivity rate crosses 20%-mark||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Kerala has further escalated beyond the 20 per cent-mark to 21.78 per cent in Kerala. With 28,447 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on Friday, the total number of active cases reached 1,78,983. Kochi is facing a highly alarming situation with most of the state's fresh cases being reported from the city. Strict restrictions will be put in place in the state this Saturday and Sunday as part of Covid containment measures. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that an all-party meeting to be held on Monday would decide on further steps to be taken to curb the spread of Covid-19. He urged all people to try to remain in their houses for the next two days. Vijayan also said that the Prime Minister was informed of the state's needs, especially the free supply of vaccines. The state was however going ahead with the steps to procure vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-test-positivity-rate-crosses-20-mark-977699.html
23-04-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to 18-45-year-olds; night curfew to be imposed||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to provide free Covid-19 vaccines for all the people between 18 and 45 years of age, joining a group of states like Assam, Bihar, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh. A night curfew would be imposed in the state from Saturday starting 10 pm to 5 am, to control the surging Covid-19 cases. Andhra Pradesh has reported 11,766 new cases – the highest ever daily addition since the onset of the Covid-19 cases in the state on 12 March 2020. With the record addition, the state has crossed the 10-lakh mark in total cases. AP has till Friday logged 10,09,228 Covid-19 cases. Rs 1600 crore for free vaccines As per the Centre's latest revision in its Covid-19 vaccination strategy, all of the adult population above 18 years is made eligible for vaccination from May 1. However, the 18-45 years group is not entitled to free vaccines in the government centres where those above 45 years, apart from the healthcare and front line workers are being given the free doses. On Friday, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy chaired a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state, where several decisions to mitigate the pandemic's severity were taken. “Our government, which is giving paramount importance to vaccination in its strategy to stop the Covid-19 spread, has decided to give free vaccines to all those between 18 and 45 years age,” health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas told reporters in Amaravati after the meeting. The decision incurring an expense of about Rs 1,600 crore would benefit over two crore people out of a total population of 5.34 crore in the state. The minster said that the government has also decided to increase the number of tests, control the exorbitant prices charged by the diagnostic centres and hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-18-45-year-olds-night-curfew-to-be-imposed-977725.html
23-04-2021||South||Thrissur sees scaled-down pooram procession||Thrissur Pooram, a major temple festival of Kerala that used to draw thousands of tourists apart from devotees, was held in a comparatively deserted Thekkinkadu ground premises of the Vadakkunnathan temple in Thrissur city on Friday. Owing to the Covid-19 second wave, the government was forced to impose a ban on public participation in the pooram. Last year's pooram was also limited to just rituals in view of the Covid-19 situation. This time the events like parading of elephants, 'Kudamattam' (exchange of decorative umbrellas) and percussion performance on Friday were scaled down to the minimum. Only 16 elephants took part in the pooram and only those associated with conducting the events were allowed to enter the premises. All were also mandated to undergo Covid-19 test before participation. The Thrissur Pooram events began on Thursday with the 'Pooram Vilambaram' (festival proclamation) and will culminate with fireworks on the early hours of Saturday. Heavy police deployment was enacted in the city to prevent public gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thrissur-sees-scaled-down-pooram-procession-977731.html
23-04-2021||South||Kerala politician takes up ambulance driver's role to ferry Covid-19 patients, kin||With a shortage of ambulances and reluctance of private vehicles to carry Covid-19 patients and their family members, a local politician in a remote village in Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram has taken up the role of a driver. Rafeekh A R, who is an advocate by profession and a ward member of the Andoorkonam grama panchayat in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram, took up the role of an ambulance driver after he came across the difficulties being faced by virus-infected families to reach the testing camp. A mass testing camp was initiated in Thiruvelloor area, which Rafeekh represents, after it was declared a containment zone due to a large number of positive cases. Rafeekh, who is also chairman of the health standing committee of the panchayat, took it upon himself the drivers job after he came to know that families of Covid-infected patients, who do not have a vehicle, were unable to visit the testing camp. Most families in the region are economically backward and do not own a vehicle. Rafeekh told DH that while other vehicle owners were reluctant to carry families of Covid-19 patients due to fear of getting infected, private ambulances were demanding an exorbitant price of Rs 1,000 per person citing risk factors and cost for disinfecting the vehicle after carrying each family. "Though the panchayat had recently got back their ambulance after the maintenance work, there is no driver to run it. The contract appointment of the driver could not take place owing to the election code of conduct," Rafeekh said. The 32-year-old leader said he followed all the Covid-19 protocols while driving the ambulance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-politician-takes-up-ambulance-drivers-role-to-ferry-covid-19-patients-kin-977735.html
23-04-2021||South||Telangana airlifts empty oxygen tankers to Odisha; after KCR, KTR too tests Covid-19 positive||The Telangana government has airlifted eight oxygen tanks using Indian Air Force cargo carriers to bring back oxygen from the plants in Odisha for use in Covid-19 treatment in the state. The procedure of loading empty oxygen tanks into two C-17 air crafts at the Begumpet airport was supervised by Telangana Health Minister Etela Rajender and the state chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday. “As per the instructions of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, eight tankers were airlifted to the liquid oxygen plants in Odisha. This would save the three day journey by road and thus helps in resolving the oxygen shortage problem in the state to a great extent. This is the first instance when oxygen tankers have been airlifted,” a government press release said. However, Etela added that “there is no oxygen shortage in the government hospitals while one or two private hospitals might be facing some scarcity.” A day earlier, Etela charged the Narendra Modi government of being discriminatory in allocation of Covid-19 vaccines, drugs like Remdesivir and even the medical oxygen. KTR tests positive After chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, his son KT Rama Rao has tested positive for Covid-19. On Friday, Telangana's IT, industries, municipal administration minister revealed on Twitter that he is in home isolation, with mild symptoms. CM Rao, who tested positive earlier this week, is resting at his farm house in Erravelli, about 65 km north of Hyderabad. On Wednesday, the CM underwent a few examinations like CT scan, blood tests at a corporate hospital in the city. The state health department has recorded 6,206 new cases from the 1,05,602 samples tested on Thursday. Over a thousand of these positive cases are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. There are 52,726 active cases in the state now. Reschedule municipal polls: Congress With cases climbing up every day in Telangana, the Congress has approached Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan seeking the suspension of Warangal, Khammam corporation and five other municipality polls in the present Covid-19 situation. “There is a severe shortage of oxygen and vaccines in the state. The daily Covid-19 death numbers in Telangana state are reaching new record highs each day. The Supreme Court of India says the present situation is a “National Emergency”. But the Telangana government asks for continuance of the municipal elections and the State Election Commission dutifully follows the directions. The SEC is endangering the lives of lakhs of voters in the two municipal corporations and five municipalities,” Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Uttam Kumar Reddy wrote to the Governor on Friday. The local polls are scheduled to be held on 30 April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-airlifts-empty-oxygen-tankers-to-odisha-after-kcr-ktr-too-tests-covid-19-positive-977736.html
23-04-2021||South||Kerala #VaccineChallenge contribution reaches Rs 2 crore||The Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund received contributions amounting to around Rs 2 crore over the last two days after a Covid-19 vaccine challenge was initiated on social media. According to sources, around Rs 50 lakh was received till Thursday night and on Friday nearly Rs 1.5 crore was received. The CPM had also hailed the campaign that was reportedly launched by pro-CPM cyber groups backing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's assurance to provide free vaccines to all and flaying the Centre's vaccine policy. While the challenge was that those receiving the free vaccine from the government may contribute Rs 400 per dose to the CMDRF, many are contributing higher amounts. Meanwhile, the Left Democratic Front has called for a protest against the Centre's vaccine policy on April 28. The protest will see party workers and supporters staying in front of their houses raising placards against the Centre's policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-vaccinechallenge-contribution-reaches-rs-2-crore-977778.html
23-04-2021||State||Karnataka releases Rs 571 crore for Covid-19 fight||The Karnataka government on Thursday ordered the release of Rs 571 crore towards Covid-19 containment and management measures amid the raging pandemic. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will get Rs 305 crore. "This money is tied to procurement of Covid-19 equipment, payment of salaries to contract staff, quarantine facilities, management of community halls being used during the pandemic and RT-PCR testing," he said. All other districts have been given Rs 266 crore, including Bengaluru Urban, for Covid-19 measures. “Kalaburagi, for example, has been given Rs 50 crore. Chamarajnagar Rs 10 crore, Davangere Rs 10 crore, Shivamogga Rs 10 crore, Tumakuru Rs 10 crore, Bengaluru Rural Rs 15 crore and Bengaluru Urban Rs 15 crore,” Ashoka said. These funds have been released through the Revenue Department's disaster management wing. Joint inspections Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that eight deputy commissioners of police will team up with as many BBMP zonal commissioners to inspect Bengaluru hospitals and make sure they give half their beds to the government for Covid-19 treatment. "Last time, we got 11,000 beds. Till now, there are 7,000 beds and we need to get another 4,000 beds. Hospitals are citing reasons such as ongoing treatment. DCPs and zonal commissioners will visit hospitals and check on the beds. Also, they will help hospitals with crowd management," Bommai said, adding that the government's priority was to secure beds with oxygen. According to BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, the government expected to get the remaining 4,000 beds by the end of the week. "This would address the immediate need of the city," he said. The joint inspections will be carried out over the next couple of days. On enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines during the weekend curfew, Bommai said police will follow the same protocols as last year such as barricading roads, closing flyovers and regulating the entry of people into the city. "We’ve also ordered the seizure of vehicles," he said. "Also, we will talk to owners of convention halls and choultries for their cooperation in making sure Covid norms aren’t violated," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-releases-rs-571-crore-for-covid-19-fight-977472.html
23-04-2021||State||Gulbarga MLA Basavaraj Mattimud tests Covid-19 positive||Gulbarga rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimud on Friday said that he had tested positive for Covid-19. ಕೊರೋನಾ ಪರೀಕ್ಷೆ ಮಾಡಿದ್ದು, ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಬಂದಿದೆ. ವೈದ್ಯರ ಸಲಹೆಯಂತೆ ಚಿಕಿತ್ಸೆ ಪಡೆಯುತ್ತಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ಇತ್ತೀಚೆಗೆ ನನ್ನ ಸಂಪರ್ಕಕ್ಕೆ ಬಂದವರು... Taking to Facebook to announce the news, the MLA said, "I have contracted Covid and am receiving treatment on the advise of the doctors. Those who have come in contact with me should undergo Covid-19 test. Public should wear mask and maintain social distance."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gulbarga-mla-basavaraj-mattimud-tests-covid-19-positive-977607.html
23-04-2021||State||PhD awarded to KSPCB officer Sabike Noobia||Sabike Noobia, Deputy Environmental Officer, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), has been awarded a PhD degree in Civil Engineering Science by Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, for her thesis ‘Development of Sensors for Measurement of BOD, Selected Heavy Metals and Pesticides in Waste Water’. The research was guided by professor K S Lokesh of SJCE and H K Manomani, senior principal scientist, CFTRI. Sabike Noobia, daughter of Mir Musheer Hussain and Fariza Sultana, is working at the regional office of KSPCB, in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/phd-awarded-to-kspcb-officer-sabike-noobia-977757.html
23-04-2021||State||Partial lockdown evokes mixed response in Mysuru||Citizens of Mysuru expressed mixed reactions to the partial lockdown in force since Thursday. Lakshmi Krupa, a teacher and a resident of Vidyaranyapuram, said, “At a time when Covid vaccination is given to the people, I think lockdown or partial lockdown was not needed. Due to the lockdown, people will lose confidence in vaccination. Face masks and physical distancing with vaccination should work. Mere lockdown is not adequate." Mallikarjun, an autorickshaw driver and a resident of Vidyaranyapuram, said, “During the Lockdown, our earnings were adversely affected. After relaxing the lockdown, we were relieved to some extent. Due to partial lockdown movement of people has reduced. Hence, we get only a few passengers. The weekend curfew for two days will definitely harm our livelihood. Middle class and poor families suffer the most. The government should have taken precautionary measures earlier instead of imposing partial lockdown. It has caused inconvenience and difficulty to daily wage workers." R Srinivas Murthy, a businessman on Thyagaraja Road, defended the government’s move. “It is a good decision. The government should have implemented stringent regulations in the initial stages of the second wave. I think partial lockdown is the right step in the interest of the people. The sudden imposition impacts businesses. The effects will be long-term and need much efforts to return to normalcy,” he said. B S Srigiri, an MA student of University of Mysore, said, “It was not necessary because it will cause huge loss to the economy. We experienced it earlier too. Being a non-resident of Mysuru, I have no place to stay. Initially, food was not served in my hostel. Later, we were forced to vacate. Our families are also suffering financially. So, it is difficult to ask them for money." “Vaccines alone can’t save the lives of the people if they are not conscious about following Covid norms. The people should care for their life, their health and their family and be as safe as possible,” he added. R Shwetha, a tailor and a resident of Hootagalli, said, “The measures taken by the government are good. But, it also affects middle class families badly. From the last one year, I am not getting many customers. I have three children and paying their school fees is difficult. We have to maintain physical distance and wear masks. When we are safe and healthy, we can take care of our family." Anitha Nagesh, a factory worker and a resident of Nadanahalli, said, “The situation is already bad. The partial lockdown will affect the livelihood of common people. As bus services are affected, we are forced to stay home without work. Due to Covid-19, only half of the workers are allowed in industries. However, the government alone can’t tackle the crisis. People should be concerned about their health and support the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/partial-lockdown-evokes-mixed-response-in-mysuru-977758.html
23-04-2021||State||Don't vacate students from hostels, appeals Karnataka Education Minister||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has requested the ministers for social welfare and backward communities not to vacate students staying at the hostels run by these two departments. In a letter written to both the ministers, Suresh Kumar said, “There are students who are preparing for exams at these hostels. I request you not to force those students to vacate.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dont-vacate-students-from-hostels-appeals-karnataka-education-minister-977767.html
23-04-2021||State||II PU practical exams to be held as per schedule||The annual practical examinations of II PU will be held at the respective colleges as per the schedule, instead of the examination centres allocated earlier. According to the circular issued by the Department of Pre-university Education, principals of the colleges were told not to insist on Covid negative reports from the students for practical exams. “The colleges should check the body temperature of students instead of asking them to submit Covid negative reports,” said an official from the department. If students fail to appear for the exams due to lack of information, then the principals of the respective colleges will be held responsible.  The practical examinations will be held between April 28 to May 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-pu-practical-exams-to-be-held-as-per-schedule-977770.html
23-04-2021||State||Ventilator availability to be raised 10 times, Karnataka CM directs||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed the health department to increase the availability of ventilators by 10 times and steps have been initiated towards this, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said here on Friday. Private hospitals have been asked to establish make-shift hospitals in this regard. The minister said that there are some issues with the exaggeration of the availability of ICU beds and ventilators. He said, “In 15 days, at least 2,000 make-shift ICU beds will be ready, 800 of which will have ventilators. In Victoria hospital campus alone, 250 ICU beds will be set up and in another new building, 150-200 ICU beds will be arranged, out of which, 100 will have ventilators. Make-shift hospitals will also be set up at Bowring, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases and NIMHANS.”  “We are getting 10,000 to 20,000 vials of Remdesivir on a daily basis. The Centre has allocated additional 25,000 vials. I have also spoken to Biocon MD Kiran Mazumdar Shaw to supply 10,000 vials in 10 days and another 50,000-60,000 vials within a month. We are trying to directly procure two lakh vials from abroad. We are seeking the Centre’s approval for this,” he said. Later in the day, Sudhakar held a video conference with district health officers, heads of medical colleges, district surgeons, and other health officials of all districts, and instructed them to monitor the positivity rate.  People in home isolation can call 1912 to seek help and guidance, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ventilator-availability-to-be-raised-10-times-karnataka-cm-directs-977772.html
23-04-2021||State||Karnataka HC directs Centre, state to release funds for LSD patients||The Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the Union government and the state government to pay Rs 3 crore and Rs 2 crore respectively to Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) towards the treatment of children suffering from the rare disease ‘Lysosomal Storage Disorder’ (LSD). The court directed the governments to pay 50% of the amounts on or before May 10, 2021. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by Lysosomal Storage Disorders Society of India. It was informed to the court that there are 45 children affected by this disease. While 28 children are getting aid from the government, the cost involved in the treatment of the remaining 17 children is being taken care of by other different schemes, including corporate funding. The bench said that the petitioner is free to move an application before the vacation bench if the amount is not paid before May 10. The court also said that if any amount is transferred to IGICH at the instance of Union government or through any other means, the government can make necessary adjustments. The matter has been posted to June 18 for reporting compliance. LSD affects mostly children and they often die at a young age, many within a few months or years of birth. The only treatment for such a rare genetic disease is enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) which is expensive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-directs-centre-state-to-release-funds-for-lsd-patients-977773.html
23-04-2021||State||Karnataka HC dismisses application seeking to stay ULB polls||The Karnataka High Court on Friday dismissed an Interlocutory Application (IA) seeking directions to stay elections to 10 urban local bodies (ULBs) scheduled on April 27. The application filed by state convener of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that if elections are held it will lead to further surge of Covid-19 cases. The elections are to be held for ULBs at Ballari, Vijayapura, Ramanagara, Channapatna, Gudibande, Bhadravathi, Thirthahalli, Belur, Madikeri and Bidar. The IA was moved by Prithvi Chintapalli Reddy in the suo motu petition initiated by the court to ensure conduct of elections to ULBs in the state as per the mandatory provisions under the Constitution. The applicant stated that in view of increasing Covid-19 positive cases, holding of elections would pose risk to 10,70,401 voters. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said that as an intervener, the applicant cannot seek a drastic relief in the nature of seeking a stay on holding of elections. K N Phaneendra, senior advocate appearing for the State Election Commission (SEC), submitted that the elections were notified on March 29 and all arrangements have been made. The court noted that a number of elections to the state Assemblies have been held in the country after March 2020, including in Karnataka. “In any case, the SEC is bound to take all precautions and ensure that all Covid-19-related norms are followed during polling,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-dismisses-application-seeking-to-stay-ulb-polls-977774.html
23-04-2021||State||PIL in Karnataka HC seeking priority Covid-19 vaccines for persons with disabilities||A PIL has been filed before the Karnataka High Court seeking directions for a prioritised vaccination drive to persons with disabilities during the third phase of the drive starting from May 1. The court ordered notice to the Union government and the state government and posted the matter to April 26. The PIL is filed by Karnataka Rajya Vikalachetanara Rakshana Samithi, an organisation representing the disabled. The petitioner contended that there is a statutory requirement to prioritise facilities to the persons with disabilities. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that Section 8 of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, mandates that persons with disabilities should have equal protection and safety in situations of risk, armed conflict, humanitarian emergencies and natural disasters. This apart, Section 25 provides for free health care at the vicinity, barrier free access and priority in attendance and treatment. The petitioner has prayed for directions to ensure compulsory vaccination to all persons with disabilities and also the caregivers of persons with disabilities. The petitioner has claimed that persons with disabilities are at a greater risk of discrimination in accessing healthcare and life-saving procedures during the Covid-19.  The counsel for the petitioner also suggested that since District Disability Welfare Officers will have details about disabled persons in their jurisdiction, they can easily supervise the special camps. He also said that there is an urgency in the matter since the registration process for the third phase vaccination is commencing from April 28. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka has posted the matter to April 26 during a special sitting. Observing that the petition requires urgent consideration, the bench asked both the Union government and the state government to respond to the grievances made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pil-in-karnataka-hc-seeking-priority-covid-19-vaccines-for-persons-with-disabilities-977775.html
23-04-2021||State||Vaccines for 18-45 age group pose fiscal challenge for Karnataka govt||The stretched finances of the state government is facing another challenge as the B S Yediyurappa administration will have to procure Covid-19 vaccines directly from the companies to inoculate those in the 18-44 age group. Finance Department officials say that funds required for this purpose were not budgeted because they did not anticipate paying money for the crucial vaccine. According to estimates, the state will need around 6.5-7 crore doses for people in the 18-44 age group. Karnataka has some 3.5 crore people in this age group. Considering the price quoted by the Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes the Covishield vaccine in India, the two-dose vaccine would cost the government around Rs 2,600-2,800 crore to vaccinate the 18-44 age group, assuming that free vaccines will continue for those above 45 years, according to sources. In the first phase, the government will procure one crore Covishield doses at a cost of Rs 400 crore, at Rs 400 per dose, from the SII. Each person will receive two doses under the vaccination programme. While SII has offered the vaccine at Rs 400 per dose to state governments, it will cost Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals The government is yet to decide whether vaccines will be free. This is likely to be decided in the next Cabinet meeting scheduled April 26. At least seven states, including BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Madhya Pradesh, have announced free vaccines.  Karnataka slipped into severe financial stress in the 2020-21 fiscal due to the Covid-19 lockdown that brought economic activities to a standstill. To a question on whether the government had made allocations for vaccines in the 2021-22 Budget that Yediyurappa presented in March, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) ISN Prasad answer in the negative. “We were not told whether states should buy. Only recently has the Government of India asked states to procure,” he said. Sources said that expenses due to the surge in Covid-19 cases during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic will also have a bearing on the state’s finances. It is likely that budgeted funds will be reallocated at the cost of development works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vaccines-for-18-45-age-group-pose-fiscal-challenge-for-karnataka-govt-977776.html
23-04-2021||State||3 held for black marketing Remdesivir injection in Karnataka||The Kalaburagi police on Friday arrested three people for selling Remdesivir injection, which is in high demand due to a sharp spike in Covid-19, at exorbitant prices. The arrested have been identified as Bhimashankar Mallappa Arabol (27), a X-ray technician at Nagalekar Diagnosis and Atharva Chest Clinic and a resident of Yalavar in Jewargi taluk; Lakshmikanth Channappa Mulage (20), a resident of Ankalaga village in Afzalpur taluk and an employee of Siddaganga Medicals, and Jilani khazakhan (32), a staff nurse and a resident of Qamar Colony in the city.  “The accused had purchased Remdesivir injection from Bengaluru and Belagavi through their friends. They sold a vial for Rs 20,000 to Rs 25, 000. A total of 14 vials of Remdesivir and three mobile phones have been recovered from them,” City Police Commissioner N Sateesh Kumar said. A case has been registered with the Brahmapur police station under the Essential Commodities Act and Drugs and Cosmetic Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3-held-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-injection-in-karnataka-977783.html
23-04-2021||State||Night shift at Karnataka IT cos allowed during curfew: Industries Dept||Employees of IT and ITeS companies can work from office for their night shift operations during the night curfew and weekend lockdown, Karnataka's Industries Department said on Friday.  Bakeries and confectioneries are also permitted to operate as they come under the essential food and food processing category, according to a circular issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Commerce & Industries), Rajkumar Khatri.  The circular listed out industrial activities that are to be considered "essential" during Karnataka’s Covid-19 guidelines that will be in force till May 4.  Manufacturing units of bulk drugs, pharmaceuticals, sanitation materials, oxygen, medical devices, medical textiles and intermediaries such as surgical equipment, liquid soap, ayurvedic/homeopathic and so on are "activities of essential commodities," the circular said.  Similarly, food-related establishments that include biscuits, rice mills, oil mills, dairy products, ice plants, agro-based industries like chilli and turmeric, packaged drinking water plants are allowed.  Continuous process industries that include petroleum refineries, large steel/cement plants, sugar mills, fertilizers, tyre manufacturing plants and so on are permitted.  According to the circular, staffers who are engaged in maintenance and operations of data centres and other critical IT infrastructure are allowed to work from office. “In the case of other industries that are not exempted, essential maintenance needed for the purposes of fire safety, machine safety and worker safety shall be permitted during Sundays,” the circular said.  Warehousing and logistics activities of ecommerce companies, agro & food processing industries are also allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/night-shift-at-karnataka-it-cos-allowed-during-curfew-industries-dept-977784.html
23-04-2021||State||Scientific survey on deemed forest across Karnataka: Limbavali||Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali said that a scientific survey on the deemed forest will be conducted across Karnataka. "I have directed the forest department officials to conduct the survey and submit a detailed report. Based on the report, an affidavit will be submitted to the Supreme Court," he told media persons in Puttur on Friday. He said the survey will throw light on the extent of the deemed forest used for the construction of houses and farming. Also, which portion of the forest can be retained needs to be documented in the survey report, he noted. Earlier, in a meeting with the officials from the Mangaluru Circle, he directed the officials to submit a report on the deemed forest in Mangaluru Circle. Dakshina Kannada district has a vast forest area. Those, who have encroached upon more than three acres of land, should be evicted immediately, he said.  The minister said 624 families had agreed to relocate from the Kudremukh wildlife division. As many as 760 families are still residing inside the forest. "Efforts are on to persuade them to relocate. Those, who come out of the forest, will be given a good package," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scientific-survey-on-deemed-forest-across-karnataka-limbavali-977789.html
23-04-2021||State||Karnataka mulls import of 2 lakh Remdesivir vials||With demand shooting up for Remdesivir following the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, Karnataka is contemplating importing two lakh vials of the anti-viral drug. The state is also in touch with private manufacturers to supply Remdesivir. The state is getting 10,000 to 20,000 vials of Remdesivir on a daily basis and the Centre has allocated additional 25,000 vials, Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters here. The minister said he has spoken to Biocon executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw to supply 10,000 vials in 10 days and another 50,000-60,000 vials within a month. "We are trying to directly procure two lakh vials from abroad. We are seeking Centre's approval for this," the minister said. Further, the state is increasing steps to increase the availability of ventilators by 10 times, Sudhakar said. "In 15 days, at least 2,000 makeshift ICU beds will be ready. 800 of them will have ventilators." In Victoria hospital campus 250 ICU beds will be set up and in another new building, 150-200 ICU beds will be arranged and 100 of them will have ventilators, the minister said. He added that makeshift hospitals will also be set up at Bowring, RGICD and NIMHANS hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mulls-import-of-2-lakh-remdesivir-vials-977793.html
23-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I beg govt to make arrangements for last rites of Covid victims in dignified manner: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19, charged that the Karnataka government had “failed” to ensure proper arrangements for the last rites of patients who succumbed to the virus. “The government didn’t give beds, oxygen, ventilators, and life-saving drugs. I beg them with my hands folded and pain in my heart to ensure that the last rites are conducted with dignity,” he said in a series of tweets. The government did not give beds, oxygen, ventilator and life-saving drugs to COVID patients. I beg the government with folded hands and pain in my heart to at least make arrangements now to conduct the last rites of victims in a dignified manner.4/6 He said the government should use forest lands around Bengaluru to conduct the last rites of those dying of Covid-19. The government which "utterly failed" in providing proper medical facilities to the Covid infected persons should not delay the process of arranging for proper place to conduct their last rites, Kumaraswamy said. "Otherwise, have no doubts that people will curse the government. It is really heart wrenching to see the hardships being faced by the kin of Covid infected persons," he added. Sub-registrar offices told to go online With Covid-19 cases surging, the Stamps & Registration department has decided to accept applications for certified copies of documents only via the online Kaveri portal. According to a reminder issued by Inspector-General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps K P Mohan Raj, all employees at sub-registrar offices should wear face masks compulsorily. He also urged officials to seek applications for Encumbrance Certificates through online mode as much as possible, as a precautionary measure to avoid physical gathering of people. Karnataka on Thursday reported the biggest single-day spike of 25,795 new cases of Covid-19 and 123 related fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-beg-govt-to-make-arrangements-for-last-rites-of-covid-victims-in-dignified-manner-kumaraswamy-977548.html
23-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Sudhakar slams critics of govt's Covid management||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday hit out at those criticising the state government for the poor handling of the Covid-19 situation. "We are in this situation after giving permission to various economic activities. Is it magic to contain the spurt in cases after letting all the economic activities take place?" Sudhakar told reporters here. The minister said there was a health emergency in the country, which is not limited to Karnataka alone. Sudhakar stressed on the fact that the virus which has hit the world was new where there is genome sequencing happening. "We don't have the (authentic) reports about it (virus). We are taking some steps founded on scientific principles that too on an experimental basis, which we don't know what we are doing is right or wrong," he pointed out. He also said that there was no point in making personal comments when the issue has thrown a challenge before the medical world. "There indeed are some shortcomings which I won't deny. When a pandemic hits the society, all arrangements crumble," Sudhakar said. He said even the United States of America and Europe, which are way ahead in terms of medical science and healthcare, were rattled by the outbreak of pandemic. The Congress and the JD(S) have been criticising the government for the poor handling of Covid with cases surging in the state. The state witnessed new 25,795 cases on Thursday and 123 deaths. There are close to two lakh active cases in the state including 985 in ICUs||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sudhakar-slams-critics-of-govts-covid-management-977594.html
23-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka needs 1,471 tonnes of oxygen immediately: B S Yediyurappa tells Modi||Several healthcare facilities in Karnataka will face closure if the shortage of oxygen is not addressed, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, making it clear that the Covid-19 situation was still grim.  During his video conference with Modi, Yediyurappa asked the Centre to give Karnataka 1,471 tonnes of oxygen for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.  “The usage of oxygen is going up day by day. Yesterday alone the state used up 500 tonnes of oxygen,” Yediyurappa said, according to a statement from his office. “The Centre has supplied only 300 tonnes to the state. If the same situation continues, then several healthcare facilities will have to be closed,” he said.  Explaining the state’s oxygen requirement, Yediyurappa said Karnataka will need 1,142 tonnes after April 25 and this would go up to 1,471 tonnes after April 30. He urged PM Modi to “immediately supply” oxygen and plug the shortage.  Yediyurappa also pointed out that the state’s positivity rate had risen to 16%. “Bengaluru city is the worst-affected with high cases being reported from Tumakuru, Ballari, Mysuru, Hassan and Kalaburagi districts,” he said.  Karnataka has decided to order one crore doses of the Covishield vaccine at a cost of Rs 400 crore in the first phase. “The progress of our vaccination programme is good and 82 lakh people have inoculated thus far,” Yediyurappa said.  Karnataka urged the Centre to ensure that states are treated equally while distributing the vaccines.  According to Yediyurappa, infrastructure at government hospitals was alright now. “Steps were taken to develop infrastructure in the last six months,” he said. “We’re also getting private hospitals to give the government 50% of their beds.”  Yediyurappa told the video conference that the state government had permitted private hospitals to tie up with nearby hotels to start ‘step-down’ hospitals. “We are also thinking of starting field hospitals that have ICU facilities,” he added.  On Remdesivir, Yediyurappa said Karnataka needed two lakh doses for the next ten days, and asked PM Modi for them to be supplied to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-needs-1471-tonnes-of-oxygen-immediately-b-s-yediyurappa-tells-modi-977630.html
23-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||From The Newsroom: CM Yediyurappa requests Centre to supply nearly 1,500 tonnes of oxygen for Karnataka immediately||In your evening news brief, Yediyurappa requests Centre to supply over 1,500 tonnes of oxygen for Karnataka; Bengaluru metro rail services will be closed on Saturdays and Sundays and SpaceX launched its third crew to the International Space Station.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 23, 2021: Several healthcare facilities in Karnataka will face closure if the shortage of oxygen is not addressed, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, making it clear that the Covid-19 situation was still grim.  During his video conference with Modi, Yediyurappa asked the Centre to give Karnataka 1,471 tonnes of oxygen for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Covid-19 strategy meeting with Chief Ministers of states with the highest number of coronavirus cases began on a discordant note with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal going public with his remarks in the meeting in which he flagged the acute oxygen crisis in Delhi hospitals asked whether the two crore people of Delhi will not get oxygen because the capital has no oxygen plant. He also asked whether the 130 crore people of the nation do not have right to the nation's resources equally.   The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited on Friday said that metro rail services will be closed on Saturdays and Sundays in view of the Covid-19-induced weekend curfew imposed in Karnataka. In addition to extending the pre-existing night curfew in Karnataka (now 9 pm-6 am), the state government had on April 21 announced a weekend curfew on every weekend till May 4 to battle Covid- 19. The weekend curfew will kick in from 9 pm Friday till 6 am Monday.    SpaceX launched its third crew to the International Space Station an hour before sunrise Friday, recycling a rocket and spacecraft for the first time. The Crew-2 mission, the first involving a European, blasted off from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida at 5:49 am Eastern Time (1429 IST). Source: DHNS/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/from-the-newsroom-cm-yediyurappa-requests-centre-to-supply-nearly-1500-tonnes-of-oxygen-for-karnataka-immediately-977660.html
23-04-2021||West||Ready to touch Centre's feet for oxygen supply: Maharashtra minister||With Maharashtra facing severe shortage of medical oxygen amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the state government is even willing to touch the Centre's feet if it helps in getting the required supply of the life-saving gas. Speaking to reporters, he said, "The state government is willing to do everything to save the lives of people. We are making an extremely polite request...even ready to touch the Centre's feet to get the required quantity of the liquid medical oxygen." "The rights of oxygen distribution among the states is in the hands of the Union government. They should exercise their rights and ensure that Maharashtra gets more oxygen," he said. The Centre should ensure that oxygen-carrying tankers get a green corridor so that they can reach quickly, Tope added. "I am making this request to the Centre again and again," the minister said. The Maharashtra government, being run by the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, has been at loggerheads with the Centre over the supply of medical oxygen, Remdesivir injections and Covid-19 vaccines. The state has been alleging that the BJP-ruled Union government was giving it a step- motherly treatment. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in terms of Covid- 19 cases and deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ready-to-touch-centres-feet-for-oxygen-supply-maharashtra-minister-977426.html
23-04-2021||West||Fresh Covid-19 restrictions come into force in Maharashtra||Fresh restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions announced by the Maharashtra government to check the Covid-19 spread came into force on Thursday night. Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, is already under severe restrictions since April 14 and the fresh "lockdown-like" curbs were announced on Wednesday to break the chain of viral transmission in the state. Prohibitory orders, banning assembly of five or more people at once place, are in force till 7 am on May 1, while non-essential activities are not being allowed. Essential services, including grocery stores, are permitted to operate only between between 7 and 11 am. The new restrictions under the government's `Break- the-Chain' programme came into force at 8 pm on Thursday and will remain effective till 7 am on May 1. In the cabinet meeting this week, several ministers demanded a total lockdown for 15 days to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state worst hit by the pandemic in the country. But Chief MinisterUddhav Thackeray decided against imposing a total shutdown, apparently after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation where he said a lockdown should be the "last resort". Now, with the new curbs the government has decided to reduce presence of people on the streets and in public transport. According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, government offices - central, state and local authorities - will work with 15 per cent attendance except those in emergency services directly connected to management of the pandemic. Other offices, allowed to operate as per the existing rules, will function with 15 per cent strength or five people, whichever is more, stated the order. Only government personnel and those in emergency services would be allowed to use suburban trains, metro and mono services in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it said. All those engaged in medical services - doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab technicians and clinical staff - will be issued travel passes on basis of identity cards. However, patients needing medical treatment and specially-abled persons can travel in trains, the order said. Municipal and state transport buses will operate at 50 per cent capacity with no standing passengers. Marriage ceremonies have to be conducted as a single event in a single hall not extending beyond two hours with maximum of 25 person in attendance, the order said, adding violation will attract a fine of Rs 50,000. For inter-city and inter-district travel bylong- distance trains and buses, the local Railways/state transport authorities will ensure screening of passengers, the order said. Passengers of private buses (who are allowed to travel) will have to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days after they reach their destination. Bus operators will have to stamp the passengers' hands to indicate they are supposed to stay at home for 14 days. On Thursday, police vans made rounds of the main streets in Mumbai asking people on the loudspeaker to stay home and avoid crowding. Police have put up barricades at the entry and exit gates of suburban railway stations to prevent unauthorised people from travelling in local trains. Police personnel manned the streets to check motorists and cars for the yellow, green and red stickers which are to be used for specific purpose while moving around during the period of restrictions. On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 67,013 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 40,94,840, while 568 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fresh-covid-19-restrictions-come-into-force-in-maharashtra-977441.html
23-04-2021||West||13 dead in fire at Covid hospital ICU in Maharashtra's Virar||Maharashtra's worries compounded further on Friday after at least 13 patients died in a fire at a Covid-19 Center in Vasai Virar, Palghar district, Maharashtra. The fire broke out at 03:13 am at the Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Tirupati Nagar off the Banjara Hotel. The fire was extinguished around 5.50 am. Short-circuit is suspected to have caused the fire. The fire broke out at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the hospital. Teams of Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) were involved in the fire-fighting operations. Maharashtra government has ordered a probe into the incident. “I am reaching the spot,” said Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse, who is Palghar's guardian Minister. Bhuse confirmed 13 deaths. Local MLAs – Hitendra Thakur (Vasai) and his son Kshitij Thakur (Nalasopara) are reviewing the relief operations. The Prime Minister's Office tweeted about the "tragic" incident, offering condolences to those who lost their loved ones in the accident. "May the injured recover soon," the post read.   Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the victims and Rs 1 lakh for the injured. Similar incidents this year On April 21, there was a massive leak of oxygen at the Dr Zakir Husian Hospital in Nashik, leading to a pressure drop, claiming the lives of 24 Covid-19 patients on ventilators and oxygen beds. On March 25-26, a fire broke out at the Sunrise Hospital in Dreams Mall in Bhandup in which 11 persons died. On January 9, a fire broke out at Bhandara District Hospital in Bhandup, in which 10 new-born babies died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-dead-in-fire-at-covid-hospital-icu-in-maharashtras-virar-977495.html
23-04-2021||West||MSHRC seeks details into deaths in Vasai due to alleged lack of oxygen||Taking cognizance of deaths in Vasai because of alleged shortage of medical oxygen, the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) has sought a reply from the government in three weeks’ time. Senior BJP leader Dr Kirit Somaiya has moved the MSHRC, highlighting that 62 persons have died in the Vasai-Virar area in Palghar district in the far western suburbs of Mumbai. Human Rights Commission Registered Our Petition1272/13/30/2021/1709 According to Dr Somaiya, 62 patients have died in hospitals in areas under Vasai-Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) between April 10-13 because of lack of oxygen supplies. MSHRC Registrar Khanderao Dharne has sought replies from VVCMC Municipal Commissioner Gangatharan Devrajan and the Secretary of the Public Health Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mshrc-seeks-details-into-deaths-in-vasai-due-to-alleged-lack-of-oxygen-977511.html
23-04-2021||West||E-pass system reintroduced in Maharashtra for emergency travel during curbs||With stricter restrictions to check the Covid-19 spread coming into force in Maharashtra, the state police on Friday reintroduced the e-pass system for inter-state and inter-district travel in "extreme emergency" situations, a top police official said. Fresh restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions announced by the Maharashtra government came into force on Thursday night. The state, which has facing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, was already under severe restrictions since April 14 and the fresh "lockdown- like" curbs were announced on Wednesday. Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey said, "The e-pass system has been reintroduced from Friday and citizens should use it in case of absolute emergency." People have to apply online and submit the necessary documents and mention the reason for their extreme emergency travel. "But those who do not have access to online e-pass system, can visit the nearest police station to procure it. The personnel at the police station will help in filling the form and issue the e-pass," Pandey said. This is only meant for the personal use of citizens to facilitate their journey in emergency, he said. Earlier this month, when other restrictions came into force, top police officials had said that they had not made any provision of e-passes and added that instructions had been given to the staff to allow those in emergency to travel. "But considering the requests for emergency travel during the ongoing restrictions, the police decided to reintroduce the e-pass system to facilitate people," another official said. During the first nationwide lockdown last year, the e-pass system was introduced for all emergency and essential services, in which lakhs of passes were issued by the police. Recently, the Mumbai police have introduced the system of issuing colour-coded passes for essential services vehicles. Maharashtra on Thursday reported 67,013 new coronavirus cases, which took its overall infection tally to 40,94,840. The death toll in the state till Thursday night was 62,479.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/e-pass-system-reintroduced-in-maharashtra-for-emergency-travel-during-curbs-977526.html
23-04-2021||West||Narendra Modi approves Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for next of kin of Maharashtra hospital fire victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a blaze at a private hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar district and approved an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of the victims. Thirteen Covid-19 patients died in the blaze at the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Virar, police said. There were 90 patients in the hospital, 18 of them in the ICU, when the fire broke out after a blast in the AC unit, an official said. The dead include five women and eight men. "The fire at a Covid-19 hospital in Virar is tragic. Condolences to those who lost their loved ones. May the injured recover soon," Modi was quoted as saying by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). "PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the hospital fire in Virar, Maharashtra. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured," the PMO said in a tweet. The fire broke out in the ICU on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar shortly after 3 am, an official said. Firefighters extinguished the blaze at 5.20 am, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narendra-modi-approves-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-next-of-kin-of-maharashtra-hospital-fire-victims-977535.html
23-04-2021||West||NIA arrests cop Sunil Mane in Ambani bomb scare case||In a fresh development, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Friday arrested Inspector Sunil Mane in connection with the twin cases of planting of gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the home of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and killing of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze is the prime accused in the case. The exact role of Mane would be specified before special NIA court when the federal agency takes him to seek custodial remand. Mane is the third policeman to be arrested in the case, the others being Vaze and Assistant Police Inspector Riyazuddin Kazi. This is the fourth arrest in the case including Vaze, Naresh Gor, a cricket-bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable serving a life sentence currently on parole. Naresh Gor was also arrested. On February 25, Vaze planted a Scorpio with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Ambani. As the investigations paced up and NIA stepped in, Hiren’s dead body was found in a creek in Kalwa-Mumbra in neighbouring Thane district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-arrests-cop-sunil-mane-in-ambani-bomb-scare-case-977536.html
23-04-2021||West||Virar Hospital fire: AC was not working since Thursday, says staffer||An employee of the private hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar district, where 13 Covid-19 patients died in a fire after a blast in an air conditioning unit, said the AC system there was not working since Thursday afternoon and some repair work was going on. The fire broke out in the intensive care unit on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar in the early hours of Friday, in which five women and eight men died. There were 90 patients in the hospital, 18 of them in the ICU, when the fire broke out after a blast in the AC unit, an official has said. The hospital employee said the facility had been facing some problem with its AC system in the Covid-19 ward since Thursday afternoon. "When I went to the hospital yesterday afternoon, the air conditioner was not working in the Covid-19 ward of the hospital. I saw that some repair work was going on at that time as AC panels were removed," Supriya Deshmukh, a staffer at the hospital told a regional news channel. "Meanwhile, the hospital set up some fans as a temporary arrangement. After finishing my work and I returned home late in the evening," she said. Meanwhile, the relatives of the Covid-19 patients who died in the incident, complained about the hospital's alleged mismanagement to Shiv Sena leader and state minister Eknath Shinde, when he went to take stock of the situation. The relatives told him that the hospital was understaffed, due to which proper attention was given to the patients. Shinde told them that appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/virar-hospital-fire-ac-was-not-working-since-thursday-says-staffer-977538.html
23-04-2021||West||Virar hospital fire: Maharashtra Governor condoles death of patients||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said he was extremely saddened to know about the death of some Covid-19 patients in a fire at a private hospital in Palghar district early on Friday. Thirteen coronavirus patients died in the blaze at Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar. The fire broke out in the ICU on the second floor of the four-storeyed facility shortly after 3 am, officials said. In a message, the governor said, "I was extremely saddened to learn about the news of the death of a few coronavirus patients in the fire at the ICU of a private hospital in Virar earlier today. I convey my deepest condolences to the families of the unfortunate victims and wish speedy recovery to the injured patients." Meanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded an in-depth inquiry and strong action against the people responsible for the incident. "One more devastating incident. Deeply pained to know about the loss of lives in Virar Covid hospital ICU fire. My deepest condolences to the bereaved families. Wishing speedy recovery to injured Covid-19 patients," he tweeted. "We demand an in-depth inquiry and strong action against those responsible," the former state chief minister said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/virar-hospital-fire-maharashtra-governor-condoles-death-of-patients-977571.html
23-04-2021||West||Nonagenarian from Maharashtra defeats Covid-19 twice||At a time when the Covid-19 toll in Maharashtra is witnessing an upward trend, a 90-year- old man from Beed district has beaten the deadly infection twice and is living to tell the tale. The nonagenarian has attributed his recovery to clean habits, a healthy lifestyle and a positive attitude. Pandurang Atmaram Aglave (Adaskar), a resident of Adas, first contracted coronavirus infection in November, 2020 and managed to recover after undergoing treatment for 10 days at a government facility in Kej. Speaking to PTI about his fight against the deadly disease that has killed lakhs of people around the world, Pandurang said, "When I contracted the infection for the first time, the severity of it was less. However, the road to recovery wasn't easy the second time around. When Pandurang tested positive again earlier this month, he was admitted to a Covid-19 care centre in Lokhandi Sawargaon of Ambajogai and was discharged after five days, only to be rushed to Swami Ramanand Teerth Medical College's treatment facility, from where was discharged on April 17. "My father's high-resolution computerised tomography (HRCT) score was 18, when he got infected the second time and it took him a little longer to recover. But thankfully, He leads a disciplined lifestyle and has no comorbid conditions till now," Pandurang's son Vishnu said. Revealing the secret to beating the disease, Pandurang said, "Youngsters today are easily turning towards addictions and don't exercise to keep fit. I go for walks regularly and have lived a stress-free life, which has helped me a great deal." Even as patients kept dying of the disease in the hospital, Pandurang managed to stay positive. "I was given oxygen but I did not take any stress and concentrated on my health and diet," he added. The nonagenarian's positive attitude also had an impact on doctors and medical staff who treated him at Swami Ramanand Teerth Medical College. "There were a few patients who boosted the morale of the medical staff. Aglave was mentally strong, which helped him defeat the illness. I often spent an extra 10 minutes with him when he was undergoing treatment here," said Dr Siddhershwar Birajdar, the hospital's Covid-19 in-charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nonagenarian-from-maharashtra-defeats-covid-19-twice-977585.html
23-04-2021||West||Covid-19: BMC frames procedure to prevent oxygen-related emergencies||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) here on Friday announced that it has fixed a procedure to prevent any emergencies due to oxygen supply amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The BMC has asked all hospitals in the city and various departments of the civic administration to strictly follow the protocol, an official release stated. As per the procedure, chief engineers of the mechanical and electric departments will prepare a data sheet containing ward-wise details of all private COVID-19 hospitals, their oxygen suppliers and types of cylinders they have. The release further stated that the information will be made available to the BMC's ward controls and the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA). Hospitals will have to register their demand for oxygen at least 24 hours before or as per their agreement, whichever is the earliest, it was stated. "Hospitals will have to inform ward control rooms if the oxygen supply is not made available within 16 hours," the release stated. The procedure also contains detailed information about what needs to be done if suppliers failed to deliver oxygen well within the stipulated time, it was stated. The administration has also asked all ward offices, the public health department and hospitals to strictly follow this procedure. The move has come after the civic body encountered two oxygen-related emergencies in a week's time, when it had to arrange for cylinders for a private hospital in Ghatkopar and shift 168 COVID-19 patients from six civic hospitals due to supply issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bmc-frames-procedure-to-prevent-oxygen-related-emergencies-977637.html
23-04-2021||West||Maharashtra unprepared despite CM's November second wave talk: BJP leader||The Maharashtra government did not prepare for a second wave of coronavirus infections in the state despite Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray predicting it in November last year, senior BJP leader Madhav Bhandari said on Friday. He said the state's hospitals would not have been facing such an acute shortage in oxygen supply if the Thackeray government had started setting up oxygen manufacturing plants in November itself, Bhandari claimed. "Against the backdrop of a fall in the number of Covid-19 cases, CM Thackeray addressed the people on November 22 through Facebook live. In his address, he said even if the numbers had gone down, people should not think the danger of Covid-19 had died down, and had predicted a second wave citing the example of some western countries," Bhandari told reporters during an online interaction. The CM spoke about a second wave in February as well during another Facebook live session, Bhandari said. "His prediction about the second wave has turned out to be accurate. So the question that arises is if the state government had prior knowledge, what preparations did it take to deal with the situation," he asked. He said the state government could have used the past five months to stock up on Remdesivir, a key medicine in Covid-19 treatment, currently in short supply due to rise in cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-unprepared-despite-cms-november-second-wave-talk-bjp-leader-977658.html
23-04-2021||West||All sectors of Gujarat working unitedly to tackle Covid-19, Vijay Rupani tells PM Modi||Gujarat will tackle the Covid-19 outbreak through vaccination and strict adherence to norms in place to curb the spread of the virus, along with ramping up of health infrastructure in the state, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Rupani was speaking at a meeting held by the PM virtually with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The government machinery, the private sector and social organisations in Gujarat were working unitedly to help people, an official release quoted the CM as saying. Rupani informed PM Modi that the state had over 90,000 beds now, including 11,500 ICU beds and 51,000 oxygen beds, for corornavirus treatment against 42,000 in March 15, while tests had increased to 1.75 lakh daily, of which 70,000 were RT-PCR ones. The CM said social and religious organisations had come forward to help, and cited the example of Morbi where five Covid care centres with 630 beds have been set up by such groups for patients with mild symptoms. As directed by the Centre, Gujarat has focused on micro containment zones, and there are 30,000 such spots statewide currently, and these are being attended by 20,000 medical teams, he told the PM during the online meeting. The demand for medical oxygen had increased significantly and the state government was trying its best to meet it by strengthening the distribution system, the release said. As on Thursday. 91.51 lakh persons in the state have been given the first dose of coronavirus vaccine. while 17.07 lakh have been administered the second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-sectors-of-gujarat-working-unitedly-to-tackle-covid-19-vijay-rupani-tells-pm-modi-977685.html
23-04-2021||West||Airlift oxygen, give adequate vaccines, allow Remdesivir imports: Thackeray tells PM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday demanded additional medial oxygen for the state, adequate supply of vaccines and permission to import Remdesivir to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases. Speaking at a virtual meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he also demanded that oxygen be airlifted if possible, an official release said here. Maharashtra requires 1,550 metric tonnes of medical oxygen to treat coronavirus patients every day and about 300 to 350 metric tons is being procured from outside, he said. Instead of distant states, if the supply could be arranged from neighbouring states, it would be available early, he said, according to the release. Empty oxygen tankers should be flown back to refilling plants to save on transportation time if it was not possible to airlift oxygen, Thackeray said. State health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters later that the demand of flying back empty tankers was accepted. More than 60,000 patients in the state are on oxygen while there are 76,300 oxygen beds and over 25,000 additional oxygen beds were being arranged, the CM informed. Considering its requirement, Maharashtra should get 250 to 300 metric tons of additional oxygen, Thackeray said. Speaking on Remdesivir shortages, he said, "It is not known how effective Remdesivir is but it surely reduces the period of hospitalisation. "The state should get Remdesivir supply based on the number of patients it has," he said. Maharashtra needs 70,000vials of Remdesivir every day but is getting only 27,000, and it should be allowed to import the medicine, he said. Maharashtra has about 5 lakh doses of vaccine in stock as of now, he informed. "Maharashtra has 5.71 crore people in the 18 to44 age group. We will require 12 crore doses. Our vaccine manufacturers will not be able to produce the required doses in a short time. The corporate sector should also be given permission to purchase vaccines under their Corporate Social Responsibility obligation," he said. The Centre should provide 13,000 jumbo oxygen cylinders and 1,100 ventilators to Maharashtra, he said. Modi had said lockdown should bea last resort, but unfortunately Maharashtra had to impose strict restrictions, the chief minister said. "We are ensuring that the economic cycle is not hamperedwhile the state is in the strict lockdown," he added. He expressed confidence that Maharashtra will succeed in containing the pandemic. Services of retired doctors, nurses and medical students are being enlisted to tackle the pandemic and facilities such as tele-medicine and "tele-ICU" are being used to ensure that patients get treatment immediately, he said. He also stressed the need for study of the `double mutation' in the virus which has been found in the country to formulate the right approach to deal with the current surge in infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/airlift-oxygen-give-adequate-vaccines-allow-remdesivir-imports-thackeray-tells-pm-977697.html
23-04-2021||West||Gujarat 'beautifully' prepared to fight Covid, says Amit Shah after visiting upcoming 900-bed Covid-19 facility||The number of active Covid-19 cases crossed one lakh mark in Gujarat on Friday with the state reporting 13,804 fresh positive cases in the last 24 hours. The death toll in the state reached 6,019 as 142 infected persons passed away. These were the highest single-day counts in the state, which is reeling under acute medical infrastructure collapse. Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited a 950-bed covid-19 hospital set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) with the help of the state government. He said that the hospital will be functional from Saturday. Shah said that this hospital will have 250 ICU beds which will be opened for residents of Ahmedabad residents from tomorrow. "Today, I visited the Covid hospital with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. This is a beautiful hospital and has beautiful arrangements... this hospital, which comes under my constituency, will help the city residents and in the coming days ICU beds will be available. In this hospital, most beds have oxygen and all testing facilities right from CT scan," Shah told reporters.     He said that he held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state with government officers in which Rupani and Patel were also present. "The Gujarat government is quite beautifully prepared to face it. Perhaps, Gujarat has the highest number of oxygen beds in the country... the number of ICU beds is also quite high," Shah claimed. "However," he added, "Keeping the future in mind, with the help of Tata Trust, a second 1200-bed hospital will be set up at a helipad in Gandhinagar that will have 600 ICU beds with the assistance of DRDO." Meanwhile, incidents of shortage of oxygen, ICU beds and hours of waiting for 108 ambulance services to take patients to Covid-19-designated hospitals were reported from across the state. In Rajkot's Gondal town, three hospital managements threatened that they will have to shut hospitals for lack of oxygen. Leader of the Opposition in state assembly Paresh Dhanani tweeted that the state government failed to arrange facilities despite having time in its hand last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-beautifully-prepared-to-fight-covid-says-amit-shah-after-visiting-upcoming-900-bed-covid-19-facility-977702.html
23-04-2021||West||Alarming rise in Maharashtra's Covid-19 deaths||In an alarming trend, the daily deaths are showing a drastic zoom crossing the 700-mark and touching a record high of 773 on Friday. In the last 24 hours, the state recorded 66,836 cases and 773 deaths reaching a progressive total of 41,61,676 and 63,252, respectively. In Mumbai, 7,199 cases and 72 deaths were reported while the same in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region was 16,968 and 180 respectively. The death toll of 180 in MMR is the highest in 2021. “It’s an alarming trend, this week, the deaths have shown a drastic increase nearly on a daily basis,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, the President-elect of IMA-Maharashtra. More than 42 lakh people in the state are under quarantine. During the day, 74,045 patients were discharged taking the total recovered patients to 34,04,792.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/alarming-rise-in-maharashtras-covid-19-deaths-977733.html
23-04-2021||West||Police officer Sunil Mane arrested in Antilia-Mansukh Hiran case||In a fresh development, the National Investigation Agency on Friday arrested Inspector Sunil Mane in connection with the twin cases of planting of gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the home of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the killing of SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. Mane, who was with the  Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police and headed the Unit XI Kandivali branch, was among the list of officials, who were transferred after Hemant Nagrale took over as Commissioner of Police after shunting out of Param Bir Singh.  Mane, now attached to Modus Operandi Bureau, is the third policeman to be arrested in the case  - the others being Vaze and Assistant Police Inspector Riyazuddin Kazi. Mane was produced before the special NIA court, which remanded him to the agency's custody till 28 April. Special Public Prosecutor Prakash Shetty said that the agency want to examine the role of Mane behind the murder of Hiran. In a related development, the NIA court extended the judicial remand of Vaze and Kazi till 5 May. This is the fifth in the case - the three others being Vaze, Naresh Gor, a cricket-bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable serving life sentence currently on parole. There have been a total five arrests in the case - besides Vaze, Kazi and Mane, two others are Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed police constable serving life sentence and on parole. On February 25, Vaze planted a Scorpio with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Ambani, one of the richest businessmen of the world. As the investigations paced up and NIA stepped in, Hiran’s dead body was found in a creek in Kalwa-Mumbra in neighbouring Thane district.  It may be recalled one  "Tawde from Kandivali Crime Branch" asked Hiran to meet in the Ghodbunder Road on 4 March. Later, Hiran was found dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-officer-sunil-mane-arrested-in-antilia-mansukh-hiran-case-977787.html
