24-04-2021||Davangere||Davangere sees undeclared bandh; KSRTC buses short of passengers||Davangere, one of the major commercial hubs in the state, witnessed an undeclared bandh after 10:30 am on Saturday, in the wake of the weekend curfew imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. Medical stores, grocery and vegetable shops, milk parlors, and bakeries remained open till 10:00 am and people thronged them to purchase the essentials Except for drug stores, all other shops remained shut after 10:00 am. Police patrolled in major areas in the city and directed traders to close down the shops.  The number of passengers in KSRTC buses was less. Though conductors waited for hours together only a handful of passengers boarded the buses. Private buses stayed off the road. Davangere Tahasildar KS Girish directed traders in the APMC market to close down shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-sees-undeclared-bandh-ksrtc-buses-short-of-passengers-978023.html
24-04-2021||First Edit||Hospitals choking on oxygen shortage||India’s Covid-19 crisis is turning increasingly macabre. With daily new infections crossing the 3 lakh mark, our health infrastructure, which was always fragile, has completely collapsed. Over the past few days, we have seen disturbing images of Covid-19 patients gasping to death for want of oxygen or being turned away from hospitals due to a shortage of beds and oxygen. The situation in Delhi has been particularly dire, with many hospitals admitting that they have just enough oxygen to see patients through for a couple of hours. If the situation in the nation’s capital, Delhi, is this alarming, what can we expect in rural India or the ‘remote’ Northeast? While the number of patients pouring into hospitals is indeed a veritable tsunami, the plight of patients cannot be blamed on the rising numbers alone. It is the failure of governments at the central and state levels to anticipate, plan and prepare for another wave of infections that is to blame. The first wave peaked in September and cases declined thereafter for around six months. This means that the central and state governments had at least half a year to build up facilities to manufacture oxygen, stock medicines, etc.  Instead of focusing all its energies on ramping up health infrastructure, the Modi government was busy toppling state governments and politicking. In addition to the shortage of essential medical supplies is the flawed distribution. BJP state governments seem to have been luckier in receiving medicines and vaccines than those run by the Opposition. Over the past week, state governments have fought each other, even hijacked each other’s oxygen supplies. Is there no system in place to ensure fair, orderly and smooth distribution? Earlier this week, a leading manufacturer of medical oxygen said that the country has enough oxygen to meet current demands. Apparently, much of this oxygen is in places far away from the soaring demand and efforts are on to transport this by train. The shortage of oxygen seems to have been created, as also an artificial scarcity in medicines like remdesivir, with an eye on windfall profits. The black market in oxygen and other supplies is preventing patients from accessing these at affordable prices. The Modi government has failed India so far in tackling the second wave. It can redeem itself somewhat if it would crack down on black marketeers and ensure that supplies are available easily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/hospitals-choking-on-oxygen-shortage-977845.html
24-04-2021||In Perspective||Humans, apes and a maturation lesson||For years, we have been drawing parallels between orangutans and humans to figure out the similitudes that exist, but since most of these studies were done on a purely somatic level, the comparison still feels a little incomplete. Perhaps, a closer psychological analysis may reveal a lot more about our evolutionary relationship with these old primates. Here’s one example. In theory, male orangutans are larger and have different facial features. But if you give the troop a closer look, you would notice how one male stands out — looking stunningly unique with its extraordinary size, distinct cheek-pads and a larger throat sac. The difference is so stark that one may confuse the other males with their female counterparts. Scientists have employed various methods to dig deeper into this bizarre phenomenon but the results so far have been inconclusive. However, there was one interesting observation — orangutans physically mature only when they are entirely convinced of their overwhelming superiority. And this is precisely why the other males in the cluster — despite being the same age — remain in their juvenile form until the dominant male is beaten, bruised, or dead. Although it is rare to sight another such occurrence in the wild, it does resemble the human maturation process in a distinctly parabolic sense. Because even with humans, the presence of a dominant protective figure — be it a person, thing or circumstance — often delays the development of the adult in them. Here’s some perspective: Imagine having a funder who is constantly interested in investing in your business, or a hefty insurance backup to cover you from all possible losses. The likelihood of you repeatedly failing will be way higher than outright success. Now, imagine having little or no money to reinvest and a near-zero backup in case of an unexpected loss. The off-the-charts commitment levels and diligence you display will in all likelihood, take you to success. Perhaps, this explains why the jaw-dropping accomplishments of the poor and underprivileged making headlines doesn’t surprise us anymore. With almost no financial cushion to rely on and a toothless policy structure that undermines their efforts, these champions consistently manage to pull it off with vigour and valiance. True, not everyone succeeds in this endeavour, but it does indicate the sheer mental strength they possess to take even the most treacherous paths and yet, come out successful. For their silver-spooned counterparts, however, a departure from normalcy would prove utterly catastrophic. The 2016 Malayalam classic 'Jacobinte Swargarajyam' renders a near-perfect representation of this by explaining the story of Jerry — an aimless young man, who is suddenly forced to fill in the shoes of his father and lift the family out of an unexpected crisis. In the abrupt absence of his father, Jerry is caught completely off guard. He isn’t sure how to handle the lenders, is a novice at negotiation, and fails to impress the people he meets to spark a business deal. Much like how the death or disappearance of a dominant orangutan offers the chance for another to mature, Jacob’s absence — although undesired — presents Jerry with an opportunity to lead from the front and develop the strength and resilience he badly needs. Sadly, his inbuilt fragility fails to embrace the role. He approaches Philip, a friend of his father, to tearfully address his concern; but disappointed at Jerry’s feeble approach, Philip brutally dismisses his cry of dismay and takes him for a short ride instead, to show how thousands of industrious young men toil their way out of destitution in the buoyant streets of Dubai. Although crude, it is this piece of advice that steadily instills life into Jerry’s shot at redemption. ‘Jacobinte Swargarajyam’ was by no means a glossed up cinematic manifestation of human maturation. It was instead the true-life saga of an Indian family that went through a frightful financial crisis in Dubai for nearly half a decade. And in varying degrees, a story that we are all an integral part of. Having said that, the tale of Sajaya Kumar — a differently-abled artist from Kollam, Kerala — is a complete departure from the classic model. With his father dying at an early age and a younger sister to be taken care of, the only privilege he was left with was a pair of legs to walk. And it was with this that he pursued his passion for art and made a name for himself. Today, Sajaya is an arts teacher who actively provides services to four different schools in the state. Isn’t it ironic how a little boy born without hands now serves as a helping hand to many aspiring artists out there? For many in India, being born into deprivation is nothing new. We live in a country where over 134 million people hardly scrape through each day with an average daily earning of Rs 150 or less. Without a regular income, a roof over their head or a strong parental figure to protect them, most of these children are raised with a will of steel that, if given the right circumstance, could be used to accomplish the improbable. Maybe it’s a style worth emulating. (The writer is a qualified tax advisor, management consultant and corporate trainer, who has adjudicated several competitive events in the domain of management in India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/humans-apes-and-a-maturation-lesson-977844.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Reduce water tariff, property tax in Mangaluru’||KPCC spokesperson and corporator in Council of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) A C Vinayaraj urged the MCC to reduce water tariff, property tax under Self Assessment Scheme (SAS) and licence fee for house construction till the economy recovers from the slump caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.  “The MCC should give pro-people administration. If administration continues to burden citizens, then the Congress will take out a protest,” he warned. Addressing media persons at the DCC office in Mangaluru, he said by hiking the water tariff and property tax, the BJP administration in the MCC is following anti-people’s policy. The BJP councillors, MLAs are silent on the issue, he alleged. During the Congress regime, 24,000 litres of water was supplied for a minimum price of Rs 65. However, the BJP administration reduced it to 8,000 litres. Now 24,000 litres of water runs a bill of Rs 168 per month. In spite of demanding reduction in water tariff, no action was initiated to reduce tariff so far, he said. He accused the MCC of increasing property tax under the SAS by 15%. With the government directing the ULBs to levy tax on vacant sites, the property tax has been increased drastically. The BJP, which promised people-friendly administration during the election, is engaged in looting the common man. The licence fee for the construction of houses has been increased by three times, he charged. With the government declaring an undeclared lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, small businessmen, hotels and labourers are once again in distress, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reduce-water-tariff-property-tax-in-mangaluru-977873.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Reduce water tariff, property tax in Mangaluru: Corporator tells MCC||KPCC spokesperson and corporator in Council of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) A C Vinayaraj urged the MCC to reduce water tariff, property tax under Self Assessment Scheme (SAS) and licence fee for house construction till the economy recovers from the slump caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. He said, “The MCC should give pro-people administration. If the administration continues to burden citizens, then the Congress will take out a protest.” Addressing media persons at the DCC office in Mangaluru, he said by hiking the water tariff and property tax, the BJP administration in the MCC is following anti-people policy. The BJP councillors, MLAs are silent on the issue, he alleged. During the Congress regime, 24,000 litres of water was supplied for a minimum price of Rs 65. However, the BJP administration reduced it to 8,000 litres. Now 24,000 litres of water run a bill of Rs 168 per month. In spite of demanding a reduction in water tariff, no action was initiated to reduce tariff so far, he said. He accused the MCC of increasing property tax under the SAS by 15%. With the government directing the ULBs to levy tax on vacant sites, the property tax has been increased drastically. The BJP, which promised people-friendly administration during the election, is engaged in looting the common man. The licence fee for the construction of houses has been increased by three times, he charged. With the government declaring an undeclared lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, small businessmen, hotels and labourers are once again in distress, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reduce-water-tariff-property-tax-in-mangaluru-corporator-tells-mcc-977942.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||BEO writes letters to build confidence in SSLC students||In order to encourage and motivate students to excel in the upcoming SSLC exams, Puttur Block Education Officer (BEO) Lokesh C has written letters to them. The letter aims at instilling confidence in the students preparing to face the examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The letters will reach all 5,028 students, who will be writing their exams in June. In the letter, the BEO stated, “The SSLC is an important phase in the life of a student. It is like a panchanga for the life, to decide on what courses to be opted after school and what field to enter." “Though I too believe in a theory that marks are not the end of the world, in this competitive world, everything is measured on the marks secured by the students. Hence, students should focus on scoring well.” Further, he advised the students to study well for the sake of their careers and wellbeing. The use of TV and mobile phones should be reduced and the focus should be on securing more marks in the SSLC board exams, he added. The BEO urged the students to prepare a timetable. It is better to study early in the morning and practice writing the answers. Small notes should be prepared for each lesson. The handwriting in the answer sheets should be neat and tidy. The letter says, “The future is in your hands. You have to create your own opportunities. Hard work will open the doors to success. Let us celebrate the exam as a festival without any fear.” Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar has lauded the efforts of the BEO and personally called him to congratulate him. Improving results In order to improve the results, the department has prepared five sets of question papers in each subject for the students of Kannada and English medium schools. The soft copies were already sent to headmasters who in turn have ensured that it reaches the students in order to revise their curriculum. Further, when parents arrive in schools to collect the food grains, a set of question papers is given to the students. After making their wards write answers to the question papers, the parents get the answers corrected from teachers. A special passing package has been prepared for the below-average students to focus on passing marks. Community Centre Puttur, an organisation of Muslims, in association with the Education Department, is also visiting houses of students with religious leaders to instill confidence in them. Motivational camps were organised for the students, a month ago, by the BEO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/beo-writes-letters-to-build-confidence-in-sslc-students-977945.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 norms violation: Case filed against choultry||Mysuru City police filed case against a choultry and marriage engagement ceremony party for violating Covid-19 norms. Saraswatipuram police booked the case against Ramachandregowda, owner of Celebration Convention Centre at Nivedita Nagar and T Somu of Vijayanagar, under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act 2020, and IPC sections 188 and 269. As per the communication released by the City Police, the the engagement ceremony of V Lohit and S Dhanalakshmi S daughter of Rajeshwari was organised on Friday. Though the government allowed to attend only 50 members, more than 80 persons were gathered inside the hall, and thus the police booked cases against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-norms-violation-case-filed-against-choultry-977946.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Surathkal's Misquith Hospital shut down over medical negligence||Karnataka Private Medical Establishment (KPME) registration of Misquith Hospital in Surathkal was temporarily withheld and the hospital was forced to shut down after an inquiry confirmed medical negligence. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said a woman had undergone treatment at the hospital from March 6 to 8. The hospital had shown a negligent attitude by not conducting the Covid test on the patient. The woman later succumbed to the infection on March 18. When officials verified the documents pertaining to the treatment of the woman, the negligence came to light, DC said. Further, an Ayurveda doctor was found treating the patients with allopathic medicines. In addition, a clinic was functioning on the hospital premises without the KPMEA registration. A total of 18 patients were availing treatment in the hospital. While verifying the case sheet, the officials realised that records of nine patients had been recorded. There were four fever cases and the hospital authorities had violated Epidemic Disease Act norms. The inquiry was conducted by a team officials, including Dr Deepa Prabhu, Taluk Medical Officer Dr Sujay Kumar, Dr Rehman from Wenlock Hospital, District Ayush Officer Dr Ashfaq and KPMEA legal advisor Chandrahas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/surathkals-misquith-hospital-shut-down-over-medical-negligence-977949.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||196 grams worth Rs 9.6 lakh gold seized at Mangaluru airport||Customs officials at Mangalore international airport seized 196 grams of gold worth Rs 9.6 lakh from a passenger who arrived in the airport from Dubai. The passenger Abdul Raheem Eriyal Jafar, who hails from Kasargod, had arrived in via Air India flight IX 384. He had concealed the mercury-coated gold strips in kitchenware, gas lighters, MP3 player and earphone carried inside his check-in baggage. Praveen Kandi, Deputy Commissioner led the Customs team consisting Nagesh Kumar, Naveen Kumar, Superintendents and other officers who profiled the passenger that led to the gold seizure. It may be recalled that the officials had seized gold worth Rs 14.55 lakh on April 19 and Rs 24.44 lakh on April 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/196-grams-worth-rs-96-lakh-gold-seized-at-mangaluru-airport-977950.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi witnesses near-total weekend curfew||The weekend curfew came into effect in Belagavi district at 10 am on Saturday. Markets that had opened for the sale of essential commodities began to close from 9.30 am onwards and streets that were abuzz with vendors, shopkeepers and customers since early morning wore a deserted look as the day progressed. By 11 am, the city witnessed a near-total curfew barring movement of those involved in essential services like supplying of LPG cylinders. After the night curfew was relaxed at 6 am, City Police and District Police had made announcements that weekend curfew will come into effect by 10 am and all businesses would have to down shutters and vendors have to leave the streets. People were also warned against unnecessary loitering. Along with vegetable and milk shops, meat and fish shops too witnessed a huge influx of customers. By 9 am, most of the shops including those selling milk and provisions, were closed, while others were waiting for the customers to leave the premises to close down. Police manned prominent circles and road intersections. Barricades were installed at prominent circles and road intersections to prevent the movement of people. Police verified the credentials of those on the move even after the commencement of the weekend curfew. Those exempted were allowed to move towards their destinations and the rest were warned of consequences if they do not return to their homes. People, whose family members were admitted to the hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 and other ailments and on their way with medicines purchased from outside, faced some inconveniences. Those having necessary medical prescriptions and bills of the purchase were allowed to proceed after verification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-witnesses-near-total-weekend-curfew-977959.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru weekend curfew: Private buses remain off road||With the weekend curfew in force, a majority of the roads in Mangaluru wore a deserted look with the city private buses remaining off the road. A few of the KSRTC buses operated in the city. Though shops selling vegetables, fruits, fish, groceries remained open till 10 am, only a few customers were seen in the markets and shops. The street vendors selling vegetables outside Central Market were eagerly waiting for the customers to arrive, to sell all the vegetables they had in store. Even fish markets wore a deserted look with few fisherwomen arriving to sell the fish. A majority of the hotels remained closed, too. The busy Nanthoor, Ambedkar Circle roads too were deserted with only a few vehicles moving around. All the post offices coming under Mangaluru Postal division were shut, said Senior Superintendent of Posts Sriharsha N.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-weekend-curfew-private-buses-remain-off-road-977966.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Weekend curfew: Mysuru comes to a standstill||The city came to a standstill on Saturday after the enforcement of weekend curfew to contain the spread of Covid-19. The city witnessed a total lockdown after 10 am. People were allowed to procure essential items till 10 am. The shops, market and other essential shops closed after 10 am. However, a few essential services' vehicles were seen moving on the streets. In order to ensure effective implementation of the weekend curfew, the city police are on patrol and have also blocked ways with barricades at vantage points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/weekend-curfew-mysuru-comes-to-a-standstill-977968.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Shivamogga sees undeclared bandh||The city witnessed an undeclared bandh after 11 am on Saturday in the wake of the weekend curfew imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. People were seen thronging grocery, vegetable shops and milk parlours since morning to buy essential commodities. All shops remained shut after 10:30 am.  Additional SP H T Shekhar and police personnel visited Gandhi Bazar, Nehru Road, B H road, Vinobnagar and other commercial streets to close down shops that were opened. Police also questioned people who were out of their homes after 11 am. They slapped fines on those who did not give a valid reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-shivamogga-sees-undeclared-bandh-977971.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi enters lockdown-like state as curfew kicks in||With most of the hotels stopping takeaway service, and all grocery and vegetable sellers stopping business at 10 am, Hubballi entered a near lockdown-like situation on Saturday. In the morning hours, shops selling essential commodities made brisk business, while queues were seen in front of some hotels. Roads also had moderate traffic. The situation changed fast from 10 am onwards, and the city came to a standstill. Police patrolled across the city and made announcements asking people not to venture out unnecessarily. They also asked people at the railway station and bus stand to maintain social distancing. The wholesale vegetable market at the APMC was closed, while vegetable vendors of Sarafgatti and other market places were allowed to do business at Giranichawl ground till 10 am. After 10 am, busy junctions like Chennama Circle wore a deserted look, and only a few private passenger vehicles and auto-rickshaws were on the roads. NWKRTC suspended bus service to rural areas, but long-route, city, and BRTS buses moved with less frequency and with only a few passengers. Hospitals, medical shops, ATM centres and petrol pumps remained open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-enters-lockdown-like-state-as-curfew-kicks-in-977977.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Near-total weekend curfew seen in Kalaburagi||A weekend curfew imposed to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission was near total in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Commercial establishments, petty shops and other business establishments remained shut from the morning itself. Vehicular movements on the City roads was very less, and so was public movement. North Eastern road Transport Corporation was also operating limited buses in view of weekend curfew. The number of commuters was also less at Central Bus Stand. Permission was given to take parcel from hotels, while roadside eateries have been closed. Police was deployed across the city. Crowded areas like Super market, Kanni market and others areas wore a deserted look as all business establishments were closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/near-total-weekend-curfew-seen-in-kalaburagi-977985.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||1,652 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths in 3 Karnataka districts||Mysuru reported 536 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the tally of cases to 66,992. There are 4,922 active cases in the district. With four deaths, the number of fatalities has gone up to 1,144. Hassan reported 814 cases and three deaths. There are 3,836 active cases and the number of deaths so far is 522. Chamarajanagar district reported 275 cases taking the total to 9,032. There are 1,294 active cases. With one death reported on the day, the number of fatalities is now 122.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1652-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-in-3-karnataka-districts-978239.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Technical glitches delay vaccination in Mandya||With technical glitches in the health department server, the vaccination drive was delayed by at least two hours in Srirangapatna government hospital on Saturday. The people were made to wait for more than two hours at the hospital premises. The department’s server was down by 9.30 am and the people were made to wait till 11.30 am. The people expressed displeasure against the officials for the delay. However, the vaccination drive continued once the problem was fixed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/technical-glitches-delay-vaccination-in-mandya-978242.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Expired Remdesivir being administered, claims MLA||MLA K Suresh Gowda on Saturday alleged that the death rate had increased as the Remdesivir medicines which were expired were administered on Covid-19 patients as per the government order. “The government has allowed administering the medicines that expired in January. The death rate has increased in Nagamangala also and a few patients complained about the issue,” he said. The MLA said that the Health department officials claimed that the government had ordered to administer the old medicine for 12 months.  “The government has been claiming that there is sufficient stock of Remdesivir. But, why has the government ordered the use of expired medicine? There is a rule to use expired medicine. But, the government is flouting the norms,” the MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/expired-remdesivir-being-administered-claims-mla-978244.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 brings about a change in dance format; online mode preferred||Dance is not just a form of creative and entertainment, but also a blissful way to keep fit and healthy. Moreso at a time when people are facing Covid-19 crisis. Physical dance classes and sessions are difficult in view of the prevailing situation. Most of the dancers and dance trainers have shifted to the online mode. Pooja Joshi Igoor of Beyond Taalas said, “Dance is the best medicine for many ills. It can heal the mind and the body, give a lot of happiness to a person and keep one’s spirits high. Under prevailing conditions, we have shifted to online formats. Online dance training and sessions can’t be commercially successful. Effective training is possible only physically. Still people are engaging online due to the crisis”. She adds,”Generally, the dance scenario has become online and studios are not still getting many dance enthusiasts. We also hesitate to engage in physical classes. Financially, it has affected dance teachers. Still in view of maintaining good health of our students we are conducting online classes. We have to explore ways to keep the students engaged. We need to be innovative. Their fitness and health depends on how much time they spend practising and enjoying dance.” “Recently, I conducted an online programme involving 70 dancers to motivate them. The audience response was good and over 1,500 viewers joined online. We need to conduct such online events for the time being to engage the dancers and also to encourage them. To attract online viewers, we need to be innovative and also experiment,” Pooja said. Initially difficult Cheppudira Thulasi Kushalappa of TKC Kompany said, “Adopting to the online format was difficult initially. In a couple of months, myself and my students were comfortable in the online format of dance. They practise on the basis of my video by watching it. Then, they share their practise video for my review. I suggest some changes and corrections in choreography as well as technique which they incorporate for a complete dance experience”. “However, attendance has reduced by almost 50%, from physical format to online format. Under the prevailing situation, children attend online classes in schools and colleges. As most of the students use the mobile phones of their respective mothers, the mothers do not have their phones with them, most of the time. So, not many parents have enrolled with us, especially women. Earlier, parents who used to bring their children for the dance class would simultaneously attend elders’ dance classes,” Thulasi said. Part-timers “We had a couple of dancers who are also involved in other vocations who would be part of the events like wedding choreography. Now, as the scenario is not encouraging for physical events, we do not hire them. They would also help me in conducting dance classes. Thanks to their other vocations, their livelihood is not affected,” she said. “Initially, the students were hesitant to send their practise videos. But gradually, as they saw some of their batchmates sharing the videos, all were encouraged. Now, almost all share their practise videos. Still, competitive and team spirit that is abundant in a physical class is missing in the online format,” Thulasi said. “Hope the situation eases paving the way for conducting physical dance classes and events. Till then, we do our mite to keep our students engaged so that their fitness and health is maintained well,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-brings-about-a-change-in-dance-format-online-mode-preferred-978261.html
24-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 killed, 7 injured by lightning strikes in Karnataka||Three people were killed while four others sustained serious burns in a lightning strike at Kadakol village in the taluk on Saturday evening. While Maruti Goshalanavar (48) and Sharanappa Adavi (35) died on the spot, Kumar Madar (25) died en route to the hospital. Injured Parashuram (22), Praveen (30), Lakshman (30) and Durugappa (35) have been admitted to GIMS Hospital Gadag. At Haadugar Holemakki in Koppa taluk of Chikkamagaluru district, three women suffered burns in a lightning strike. Two women have been admitted to Jayapur government hospital while the third has been rushed to Shivamogga hospital. A buffalo was struck dead by lightning at Hiremegalagere in Arasikere taluk on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-killed-7-injured-by-lightning-strikes-in-karnataka-978287.html
24-04-2021||Main Article||Forgetting to question||The most sacred tenet of a thriving democracy is not in the conduct of elections, but in the ability of the electorate to freely and continuously ‘question’ the dispensation of the day. In mature democracies the invaluable duty of questioning is not surrendered to only the Opposition, as the government is often taken to task by members of the ruling party themselves. In the UK, the most sensitive issue of Brexit had both ‘remain’ and ‘leave’ parliamentarians, amongst the Conservative and Labour ranks, seamlessly join hands on the issue. Such visible and vocal bipartisanship is unthinkable in India. The sham of inner democracy within all political parties in India is belied with vacuous statements like ‘loyal soldier of the party’, implying no space for questioning, dissent or contrarian positions within parties. Absolute majority in Parliament after 2014 (16th/17th Lok Sabha), only after 1984 (8th Lok Sabha), has axiomatically accelerated curbs on questioning voices within Parliament, and that spirit has got extrapolated to media, society and to the overall rigour and liberality of questioning. Tellingly, India has slipped 10 ranks to 51st position in the 2021 Global Democracy Index, whereas the independent pillar of Fourth Estate has slipped to an abysmal ranking of 142 in the global Press Freedom Index (further, democracy watchdog Freedom House downgraded India from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’). The worst consequences of curbing this instinct of questioning occurs in major crises, as the convenient tact of suppressing, deflecting, whataboutery and untruths may temporarily save authorities from answering uncomfortable queries, but its long-term impact can be debilitating. The curse of 1975-77 Emergency still infects the impulse of Indian politics and, ironically, even those who were wronged by the same incident. Today, as the country reels under unprecedented pain and uncertainty with the raging pandemic, part of which is realistically beyond control, we must question those in positions of power. It is the priceless lever of questioning that ensured that the NDA government (2004) got rejected for the insensitivity of suggesting ‘India Shining’ when the nation was beset with crippling inequities. Similarly, it was the absolutely-justified questioning of corruption and inaction by the UPA regime (2014) that enabled the electorate to call a spade a spade. But by denying that critical tool of questioning in recent times, we must reflect if the citizenry has been shortchanged of knowing the hard reality of appropriate planning, responsibility and accountability is affixed onto those in positions of power. The rote bogey of ‘ill-timed criticism’ is pure political gold as it is always deployed and misused to avoid vital questions, especially when the stakes are staggering. Since Independence, all ruling political classes have resorted to misplaced emotions like national security, morale of Indian soldiers or playing into Pakistani/Chinese hands to drown critical dissonance (e.g. the recent Indo-Sino border dispute). Actually, questioning the dispensation is the most patriotic duty of the citizenry to ensure that the dispensation thinks through all its actions and decisions and can course-correct, if found guilty of mismanagement. The volubility of the Opposition (even for political one-upmanship) is a collateral trifle that must be encouraged, as opposed to imminent consequences of not being allowed to oppose. The ensuing pandemic catastrophe begs the question: did the government and its elements consistently ensure science over gimmicks over the past one year? Did we slap punitive action onto those who professed to have a ‘cure’ and then changed the goalpost to ‘immunity booster’, whilst invoking Ayurveda and nationalism? Did the most dominant faces of the dispensation (those responsible for the law and order machinery) unflinchingly adhere to the PPE-safety protocols or did they sit in cricket stadiums with thousands in attendance, brazenly unmasked? Why did we prioritise exporting vaccines over ensuring no shortages; if indeed it was for international diplomacy, then have we won over our neighbourhood and was it worth the shortage domestically? Is the bandied global desperation for Rs 3,000 crores by the largest vaccine manufacturer too big an amount to be funded by the government itself? Did we ensure that all religious congregations were curbed in toto and immediately before cases spiralled? The silence Why did we wait for millions to attend congregations and then request organisers to close the same? Did we allow the demonisation of certain faiths through echo chambers, be it in terms of religious events prior to the first clampdown in March last year, or in terms of societal disaffection expressed by way of farmers’ protest? Did the dispensation lead by example in campaigning in states? Did the dispensation focus disproportionately on pandemic management or was a significant portion of leadership dedicated towards electioneering? Did the leadership show the matching alacrity, discipline and sensitivity of a Angela Merkel or Jacinda Ardern, or was the electoral urgency foremost? Had we planned for the inevitable second wave in terms of medical infrastructure? Why is the reality of mishandling glossed over? Such questions were never posited in the severity demanded by the situation. With great position comes even greater responsibility. Blaming the past, citizens, China/Pakistan or the Opposition parties is inadequate and tantamount to dereliction of duty. The dispensation in times of crisis must always look beyond the lens of electoral appeal, but did it? Acquiescence, contextualising toward deflection or sheer silence when the onus is on questioning is complicity, and not ‘nationalism’. Basically, the dominant majoritarian spirit of the day has ensured that even in times of extreme crisis, the vast majority has not been able to overcome societal divisions and partisanship. Even loyal cadres could have questioned fearlessly for the benefit of the dispensation without changing their partisan preference. But armed with massaged statistics, make-believe claims and thundering bravado, the nation now stares at unimaginable pain. In such times, it is only questioning that can save the future narrative; anything short of that is blind politics, and not nationalism. (The writer is former Lt Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Islands & Puducherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/forgetting-to-question-977843.html
24-04-2021||Mysuru||Non-Covid patients find it tough to get hospital beds in Mysuru||Non-Covid patients are finding it difficult to get beds in hospitals in Mysuru as a majority of the hospitals have reserved beds for Covid-19 patients. The road accident victims had to face hardship to get beds in the city on Saturday. Ravikumar, 40 and his son Varun, 10, of Horatoravalli in H D Kote taluk, sustained injuries in a hit-and-run case and the duo had to run pillar to post to get admission in hospitals in the city. Ravikumar has injuries on his head and his son on his leg. Initially, the victims were taken to a government hospital in H D Kote where the doctors referred them to K R Hospital in Mysuru claiming there were no beds. Even in K R Hospital, the doctors denied admission claiming a shortage of beds. The victims visited several private hospitals but failed to get beds. However, the victims’ relatives got in touch with H D Kote Taluk Health Officer Dr Ravikumar who arranged a bed in K R Hospital. On condition of anonymity, a doctor at K R Hospital said that the higher officials had directed to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/non-covid-patients-find-it-tough-to-get-hospital-beds-in-mysuru-978241.html
24-04-2021||Mysuru||Weekend lockdown evokes good response in Mysuru||The weekend lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic evoked good response in Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts of Karnataka on day one on Saturday. Except for minor violations, the lockdown was largely successful. The curfew brought life to a halt barring essential services. The entry of tourists to hot spots like Chamundi Hill, Mysuru Zoo, Mysuru Palace, waterfalls, forest safari, bird sanctuaries, religious places in the region was closed. The streets, including Mysuru-Bengaluru highway, Mysuru-Ooty Highway, Mysuru-Kodagu road wore a deserted look. Educational institutions, gymnasiums, cinema halls, shopping malls, yoga centres, swimming pools, theatres among the other non-essential services, remained closed. The Covid-19 testing and vaccination drives were held. The essential goods shops were open between 6 am and 10 am. However, medical shops and outlets selling industries related to medicine and medical equipment were open. Hardly a few KSRTC buses and rickshaws provided service. In Mysuru, Deputy Commissioners of Police A N Prakashgowda and Geeta Prasanna monitored the lockdown. The officers toured the city inspecting the security. Prakashgowda said that the people appeared to be sensitive about the pandemic and many stayed indoors. The Police had blocked the ways by erecting barricades and men were deputed at vantage places.    The police seized a few vehicles in Hunsur and also imposed fines for the motorists for moving unnecessarily. In Mandya also, the lockdown was total and the police caned a few people for roaming unnecessarily. The Police allowed the movement of patients and essential services were available. The Police deputed men at vantage points and the personnel were on patrol. In Chamarajanagar and Hassan too, the lockdown was almost total. However, Chamarajanagar police registered 52 cases and Hassan Police seized more than 30 vehicles for violation of norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/weekend-lockdown-evokes-good-response-in-mysuru-978251.html
24-04-2021||National||Oxygen shortage, fire claim 39 lives in 2 hospitals||Oxygen shortage and a hospital fire claimed the lives of 39 Covid patients in New Delhi and Maharashtra on Friday.  While 25 patients at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi died on Friday for want of oxygen, in yet another pandemic-related tragedy in Maharashtra, 14 people died as a fire broke out in a Covid hospital in Virar in Palghar district, 80 km from Mumbai. "Twenty-five sickest patients have died in the past 24 hours. Oxygen will last another two hours. Ventilators and Bipap not working effectively. Resorting to manual ventilation in ICU and ED. Major crisis likely," Satendra Katoch, medical director of Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said, updating the situation at the hospital at 8 am on Friday. He said the lives of another 60 "sickest" patients were at risk and sought urgent intervention. However, D S Rana, the chairman of the board, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said it would be wrong to say that deaths at the hospital were due to a shortage of oxygen. "We provided oxygen to patients manually when the pressure dipped in the ICU," Rana said, adding that the hospital received 2,000 cubic metres of oxygen at around 9.20 am. The fire in the Maharashtra hospital broke out at 3.15 am at the ICU of the Vijay Vallabh Hospital and Medical Research Centre at Tirupati Nagar. Teams of Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVCMC) suspected that the fire was caused because of a snag in the air-conditioner. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered a probe into the incident. "While 14 died in the fire, four patients in the ICU could be saved," officials said, adding that since the power supply was cut off, the other patients have been shifted to other hospitals. More than 90 patients were undergoing treatment of whom 17 were in the ICU. Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil said that director-general of police Sanjay Pandey has been asked to conduct a thorough probe into the incident. "It is a shocking incident. The information that we have gathered is that the fire was caused by a blast in the air-conditioner. It was an accident," state Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Maharashtra Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse said those responsible for the fire would not be spared. "There would be a probe by the police, fire brigade, government committee but the priority is to give relief to people,” said Vasai MLA Hitendra Thakur. "One more devastating incident.  Deeply pained to know about loss of lives in Virar Covid Hospital ICU fire. My deepest condolences to bereaved families. Wishing speedy recovery to injured Covid-19 patients. We demand an in-depth inquiry and strong action against those responsible,” said Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-shortage-fire-claim-39-lives-in-2-hospitals-977866.html
24-04-2021||National||Invoke NSA against those black marketing Remdesivir: MP home minister||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Friday directed officials here to take action under the stringent National Security Act against those involved in the black-marketing of Remdesivir injections. Mishra chaired a meeting of officials from the Gwalior-Chambal division to review the measures for tackling the surge in Covid-19 cases in the area, official sources said. Remdesivir, a medicine used in the treatment of Covid-19, is in high demand across the country. Mishra also asked police to take stern action against those involved in spreading fake news related to the pandemic on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/invoke-nsa-against-those-black-marketing-remdesivir-mp-home-minister-977888.html
24-04-2021||National||Two BJP MLAs die of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh||Two BJP MLAs in Uttar Pradesh died of Covid-19 on Friday, party sources said here. Lucknow West MLA Suresh Kumar Srivastava (76) and Auraiya Sadar MLA Ramesh Chandra Diwakar (56) died of the viral disease in Lucknow and Meerut respectively. Srivastava died during treatment at a Lucknow hospital. He was on ventilator support for the last few days, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who is the local MP, condoled the deaths of the lawmakers, terming it as a great loss to the party. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also condoled the deaths. Diwakar was admitted to a hospital in Meerut four days ago. His condition was serious for the last two days, the sources said, adding that he died during treatment. Adityanath said the news of Diwakar's death was "sad". "May the departed soul rest in peace and the bereaved family find strength to bear the loss," he said in a tweet. भाजपा के वरिष्ठ नेता एवं विधानसभा सदस्य श्री सुरेश श्रीवास्तव जी के निधन की खबर अत्यंत दुःखद है। प्रभु श्री राम से प्रार्थना है कि पुण्यात्मा को अपने श्रीचरणों में स्थान दें व परिजनों को इस असीम दुःख से उबरने की शक्ति प्रदान करें। ॐ शांति According to the sources, Diwakar's wife has also tested positive for Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment in Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-bjp-mlas-die-of-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-977891.html
24-04-2021||National||Health Minister should resign: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should resign for the callous negligence of not taking earlier the steps that are now being taken in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases. "Despite warnings in April 2020 (by the Empowered Group) and in Oct-Nov 2020 (by the Parliamentary Committee), why did the government not take the steps it is taking since yesterday? "Is this not gross and callous negligence? Will no one be held accountable? Should not the Health Minister and the Health Secretary be asked to resign?" he asked on Twitter. if any one including the Health Minister has any conscience, he should resign forthwith The former Union minister said people are crying to get patients admitted in hospitals, pleading with doctors to examine the patients, carrying oxygen cylinders on their back while bringing the patients and hospitals are rushing to high courts seeking oxygen supply. "If anyone including the Health Minister has any conscience, he should resign forthwith," Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-should-resign-chidambaram-977895.html
24-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Cough! Gasp! State hospitals run out of oxygen||Oxygen shortage and a hospital fire claimed the lives of 39 Covid patients in New Delhi and Maharashtra on Friday.  While 25 patients at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi died on Friday for want of oxygen, in yet another pandemic-related tragedy in Maharashtra, 14 people died as a fire broke out in a Covid hospital in Virar in Palghar district, 80 km from Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-cough-gasp-state-hospitals-run-out-of-oxygen-977898.html
24-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 24||India reported 3,46,786 new Covid-19 cases and 2,624 deaths, as per the latest Union Health Ministry data on Saturday, continuing the rise in fresh infections in the country, as a shortage of oxygen and drugs continues to overwhelm health systems across states. Coronavirus in India: Active cases: 25,52,940 as of April 24, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,89,544 as of April 24, 2021  No. of people discharged: 1,38,67,997 Total Vaccination: 13,83,79,832 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tracker-state-wise-covid-19-cases-deaths-on-april-24-977916.html
24-04-2021||National||Justice N V Ramana set to take over as Chief Justice of India on Saturday||Justice N V Ramana, the senior most judge of the Supreme Court, would on Saturday take over as the 48th Chief Justice of India. President Ram Nath Kovind would administer the oath of office to Ramana in a ceremony at 11 am on April 24, on superannuation of CJI S A Bobde. The Law Ministry earlier this month issued a notification on Justice Ramana's appointment. On March 24, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde had recommended the name of Justice Ramana as his successor. Justice Ramana, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. He will retire on August 26, 2022 after a term of over 16 months. With his appointment, Justice Ramana faces several challenges, including filling up  of 411 vacancies of judges in the High Courts and six in the Supreme Court. Twenty five High Courts had sanctioned a strength of 1,080 judges. The top court at present has 28 judges including the CJI.  Justice Ramana was appointed as judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2000. He has been the acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court. He has also been the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court. In October 2020, a huge controversy had erupted as the AP CM, wrote to the CJI alleging that the state High Court was being used to "destabilise and topple his democratically elected government". The letter accused Justice Ramana of trying to control the High Court and influence cases affecting the state. The matter was however closed after in-house inquiry found no substance in the allegations. In the top court, Justice Ramana has presided over a five-judge bench which heard petitions related to revoking of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution. He also dealt with the matter related to the ban of 4G in Jammu and Kashmir and declared that access to internet was a fundamental right. He also headed a three-judge bench which dealt with legal questions arising out of the resignation of 17 rebel MLAs of Congress and JDS of Karnataka. Justice Ramana also led a bench, which ordered expediting trial in pending cases against former and sitting MPs and MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-n-v-ramana-set-to-take-over-as-chief-justice-of-india-on-saturday-977926.html
24-04-2021||National||CBI registers FIR against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in corruption case||In a major jolt to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the CBI has registered an FIR against former Maharashtra Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh, who is facing charges of corruption. CBI teams from Mumbai and New Delhi conducted searches in his bungalow in Nagpur, his official bungalow and private residence in Mumbai. Deshmukh was grilled by CBI for nearly 10 hours in Nagpur – the second prolonged grilling session in a fortnight’s time. “The CBI team had visited…I have extended full cooperation from my side…Covid-19 cases are on rise in Nagpur…I am now heading for Katol and Narkhed to inspect Covid isolation centres,” Deshmukh said. In the FIR, the CBI has said prima facie 'cognisable offence' is made out against Deshmukh and others pertaining to alleged corruption and misuse of power. “Deshmukh and some others had attempted to take undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty,” it said. The case was registered under section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act and section 120 B of the Indian Penal Code. The development has led to a war of words between the MVA and the opposition BJP. Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has alleged that Deshmukh has fixed Rs 100 crore “collection target” for Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Vaze is the main accused in the planting of an explosives-laden Scorpio SUV near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Singh moved the Supreme Court for a CBI probe against Deshmukh. However, at the directions of the apex court, he moved the Bombay High Court, which asked for a Preliminary Enquiry (PE) to look into the allegations. The Supreme Court had earlier turned down two pleas against the Bombay High Court order, which were filed by Deshmukh and Maharashtra government. Singh is currently the Commandant General of Home Guards. Deshmukh (70) is a loyalist of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and close to party’s General Secretary Praful Patel. It may be recalled that on April 14, Deshmukh was grilled by CBI for nine hours at the DRDO & Air Force guest house at Kalina. Deshmukh’s two aides  - personal assistant Kundan Shinde and personal secretary Sanjeev Palande too had been questioned by the apex agency. It has also recorded statements of Deputy Commissioner of Police Raju Bhujbal and Assistant Commissioner of Police Sanjay Patil. Vaze too has been grilled by the CBI. “It is a move to defame the government and build pressure,” said state NCP President and Water Resource Minister Jayant Patil. “The country is faced by the Covid-19 crisis…it is just to divert attention from that,” said Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, in a tweet written in Marathi, said that the Bombay High Court had directed the CBI to file a report, after ordering a PE.  “Kuch toh gadbad hai,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-registers-fir-against-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-in-corruption-case-977934.html
24-04-2021||National||India reports 3.46 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 2,624 deaths in another record single-day spike||A record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases pushed India's tally of infection to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. With a steady increase, active cases in the country reached 25,52,940 and comprise 15.37 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 83.49 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 1,38,67,997, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 last year, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of a total of 1.50 crore Covid-19 cases on April 19 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 27,61,99,222 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till April 23 with 17,53,569 of them being examined on Friday. The 2,624 new fatalities include 773 from Maharashtra, 348 from Delhi, 219 from Chhattisgarh, 196 from Uttar Pradesh, 142 from Gujarat, 190 from Karnataka, 78 from Tamil Nadu and 75 from Punjab. A total of 1,89,544 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 63,252 from Maharashtra, 14,075 from Karnataka, 13,395 from Tamil Nadu, 13,541 from Delhi, 10,825 from West Bengal, 10,737 from Uttar Pradesh, 8,264 from Punjab and 7,579 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-346-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-2624-deaths-in-another-record-single-day-spike-977939.html
24-04-2021||National||Justice N V Ramana sworn in as 48th Chief Justice of India||Justice N V Ramana, the senior most judge of the Supreme Court was sworn as the Chief Justice of India here on Saturday. President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office to Justice Ramana in a ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhawan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad along with other dignitaries attended the function. With his appointment, 63-year-old Justice Ramana, who hails from Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh, would face several challenges, including filling up of 411 vacancies of judges in the High Courts and six in the Supreme Court. Twenty five High Courts had sanctioned strength of 1080 judges. The top court at present had 28 judges including the CJI. His predecessor Justice S A Bobde, who demitted office on Friday, could not make a single appointment in the Supreme Court in his over 17-month long tenure as the CJI, apparently due to lack of consensus in the Collegium comprising five senior-most judges. Justice Ramana, who ascended to the highest seat in the judiciary as 48 th CJI after starting as a first generation lawyer, would also have to take into consideration a demand by the Bar members to take them into confidence in the decision-making process. Access to justice during the Covid-19 pandemic would be another uphill task for him as the top court had switched to virtual mode of hearing since March 2020. He had on Friday said the country was passing through testing time due to unprecedented Covid-19 situation but hoped that it would emerge stronger. "We are going through testing times as we battle the Covid wave. Lawyers, judges and court staff are all affected due to the virus. Some hard measures may be necessary to break the chain of transmission. We can defeat the pandemic together with dedication," he said on Friday at the farewell function of Justice Bobde. The Law Ministry on April 6 issued a notification on Justice Ramana's appointment as the Chief Justice of India, following a recommendation made by Justice Bobde. Justice Ramana was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. He is expected to retire on August 26, 2022 after a term of over 16 months. Justice Ramana played an active role in students politics. He did have a brief stint as a journalist before he joined the legal profession.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-n-v-ramana-sworn-in-as-48th-chief-justice-of-india-977954.html
24-04-2021||National||Param Vir Chakra recipient's son dies after hospital's 'negligence'||The second son of a Param Vir Chakra awardee died of alleged negligence in his treatment at Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital in Kanpur on Friday, his family claimed. The aggrieved family members said the hospital authorities did not conduct any Covid-19 test on Ali Hasan (61), the second son of Param Vir Chakra recipient Abdul Hamid. Meanwhile, principal of GSV Medical College R B Kamal said he has been informed about the death of PVC Hamid's son. He, however, refused to make any further comment over the issue. Saleem, Hasan's eldest son, alleged that his father died due to negligence by the doctors and hospital staff, who allegedly turned a deaf ear towards his pleas. Saleem further told reporters late on Friday night that his father was unwell for the last two-three days and admitted at LLR hospital on Wednesday (April 21) after complaining of severe cough and difficulty in breathing apart from a dip in the oxygen level. After admission on April 21, Hasan was put on oxygen support but the facility was removed just after four hours by the hospital saying his health is stable and there was no need of oxygen anymore, Saleem alleged before the media. After witnessing Hasan's deteriorating health, they approached the hospital staff and beseeched before anyone to provide him oxygen facility, but requests fell on deaf ears. The family members apprised the doctors that Hasan is the second son of 'Veer Abdul Hamid' who had received the country's highest military decoration, Param Vir Chakra, posthumously for his actions during the India-Pakistan war in 1965, but to no avail. Hasan had retired from Ordnance Equipment Factory (OEF) in Kanpur and settled here in the city. He is survived by his wife, four sons and three daughters, who are all married.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/param-vir-chakra-recipients-son-dies-after-hospitals-negligence-977957.html
24-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Hospitals in Delhi gasp for oxygen amid staggered supply||A number of hospitals in the national capital grappled with oxygen scarcity on Saturday amid a surge in coronavirus cases that has stretched the city's healthcare infrastructure to the limits. Twenty critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said. "The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock," Dr D K Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital, told PTI. He said the hospital has over 200 patients and they had only half-an-hour of oxygen was left at 10:45 am. Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area received emergency oxygen supply from the Delhi government moments after it exhausted its stock, officials said. Executive Director of the hospital, Sudhanshu Bankata, said the facility exhausted its oxygen stock around 9 am. "Just now, we received an emergency supply from the Delhi government. It will last another one-and-a-half hour. Our supplier has not been responding to calls," he said. There are around 350 patients admitted in the hospital, of which 265 are Covid-19 positive and 30 are in the ICU. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, in the heart of the national capital, which requires a minimum of 11,000 cubic metres of oxygen daily was left with 200 cubic metres when a tanker with 1.5 tonnes of oxygen arrived, officials said. "We were running oxygen at half the normal pressure. This supply of 1.5 tonnes of oxygen will may be two hours. The situation is scary," an official said. Twenty-five Covid patients in the elite hospital died in 24 hours and the lives of many more hung in precarious balance on Friday with the scramble for oxygen getting more frantic in hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs. The medical director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Suresh Kumar said the facility's oxygen stock can last up to eight hours. It is likely to be a few days before the crisis is resolved, he said. Delhi logged 24,331 fresh Covid-19 cases and a record single-day jump of 348 deaths on Friday while the positivity rate stood at 32.43 per cent, according to the latest health bulletin. The city has reported around 2,100 deaths due to the deadly virus in 11 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hospitals-in-delhi-gasp-for-oxygen-amid-staggered-supply-977969.html
24-04-2021||National||India's urban affluent hit by Covid-19 second wave after dodging first||By Dhwani Pandya and Ashutosh Joshi India’s devastating new wave of infections appears to have landed on its urban affluent, a group whose lives are usually insulated from the country’s worst economic and social crises. In Mumbai, India’s financial center, almost 600,000 households are in buildings that have been partially or completely sealed by government authorities, which indicates the coronavirus is spreading rapidly among the city’s middle and upper-middle classes. Official data show 164,000 slum households are in areas demarcated as “containment zones,” despite the poor being packed in far more tightly. “Most cases are coming from buildings and high rises and not slums,” Suresh Kakani, Mumbai’s deputy municipal commissioner, said by phone. With the so-called consuming class ravaged by the new wave, India’s growth is at risk because private consumption accounts for about 60% of India’s economy. The central bank’s consumer confidence survey is showing increasing pessimism on jobs and policy makers have said they stand ready to support growth in what is now the world’s epicenter of the pandemic. “Times are such that people are seeking help from every quarter possible,” said Ajay Bagga, a retired banker and fund manager, who is helping vet claims on social media from groups purporting to supply the Covid treatment remdesivir. “Trader chatrooms are no more exclusive to market discussions. People are sharing information on hospital beds, oxygen supplies.” The affluent cities of Mumbai and Pune account for almost 30% of Maharashtra state’s active cases while housing 14% of its population. Within Mumbai, more than 90% of all active cases at the state of the week were concentrated in high-rise buildings while only 10% came from the slums, according to an Indian Express analysis. Comparable data isn’t available for other Indian cities but similar stories abound. Bankers are turning to Twitter to seek medical help for their friends and family, tycoons are advising people to keep their masks on even in the presence of trusted folks, and citizens who, until now, enjoyed levels of privilege unthinkable for the vast majority of Indians, are pleading for hospital beds and oxygen. One reason why the second wave is hitting wealthier Indians hard is simply that they managed to avoid the first outbreak by sheltering at home when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a strict lockdown that devastated poorer communities. The first wave coursed through India’s crowded slums quickly -- serological surveys conducted mid-2020 showed about half the population in Mumbai’s slums had antibodies compared with less than 20% for the rest of the city. This might now be providing a level of protection against the second, deadlier outbreak for disadvantaged populations. Several countries have suspended flights from India or imposed travel restrictions, including Canada, Singapore, and the U.K. The U.S. is consulting with India about a surge in coronavirus cases and deaths but so far isn’t offering to share vaccines. India reported a record 346,786 new infections and 2,624 deaths on Saturday. Doctors Without Borders is restarting its emergency response amid the surging wave in Mumbai, the international medical aid group said in a statement on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-urban-affluent-hit-by-covid-19-second-wave-after-dodging-first-977972.html
24-04-2021||National||Welcome US President Joe Biden joining LeadIT climate initiative: PMO||The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on Saturday welcomed the US' decision to join the Indian-Swedish climate initiative, Leadership Group for Industry Transition (LeadIT), and said it will help meet the Paris Agreement goals. In his address to a virtual summit on climate change, US President Joe Biden said he is looking forward to working with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a new partnership to achieve climate and energy goals, making this a core pillar of bilateral cooperation. "We will be joining and a partner -- for the nations and efforts to decarbonise critical sectors across the board, including the industrial sector, where we'll join with Sweden and India, and in the Leadership Group for Industry Transition," he said. In a tweet, the White House said the United States is joining Sweden and India in LeadIT, an effort to promote low carbon pathways on the road to net-zero emissions for industries. "Working together we can build momentum for industry transition to address the climate crisis," the White House said. Following the development, the PMO India tweeted, "Welcome @POTUS joining the Leadership Group for Industry Transition, LeadIT! This Indian-Swedish climate initiative takes the lead in heavy industry transition." "It will help us meet Paris Agreement goals, strengthen competitiveness & create new sustainable jobs," it said. Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, on his official Twitter handle, said, "Welcome @POTUS joining the Leadership Group for Industry Transition, LeadIT!" This Sweden-India climate initiative takes the lead in heavy industry transition, he said. "It will help us meet Paris Agreement goals, strengthen competitiveness & create new sustainable jobs," the Swedish prime minister said. Earlier this week, India and the United States also announced a 'US-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership' to create stronger bilateral cooperation on actions in the current decade to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/welcome-us-president-joe-biden-joining-leadit-climate-initiative-pmo-977974.html
24-04-2021||National||Request L-G, CM to supply oxygen to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital urgently: Delhi BJP prez||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Saturday requested Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to supply oxygen to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, saying the situation was bad there and the patients were in a very critical state. Grappling with depleting oxygen levels, the hospital had got a tanker on Friday night to meet its requirements for the life saving-gas for its patients. More than 500 Covid-19 patients are admitted in the hospital, of which an estimated 140 require high-flow oxygen, according to the hospital officials. It got 1.5 tonnes of oxygen on Saturday morning as the supply ran low. According to officials, the facility had just 200 cubic metres of oxygen left when its stock was replenished. But that is likely to last just two hours, an official said. "Just spoke to the chairman of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital Dr D S Rana. He informed me that the situation has become worse as oxygen has finished at the hospital. I request Lt Guv, Arvind Kejriwal to provide oxygen to the hospital on an urgent basis as patients are very critical," tweeted Gupta. Twenty-five Covid patients in the elite hospital died on Friday with the scramble for oxygen getting more frantic in hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs. Sources said 'low-pressure oxygen' could be the likely cause of the deaths in the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the city's biggest and most high-profile hospitals, where the healthcare staff had to manually ventilate patients in the ICU and the emergency department. Delhi logged 24,331 fresh Covid-19 cases and a record single-day jump of 348 deaths on Friday while the positivity rate stood at 32.43 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/request-l-g-cm-to-supply-oxygen-to-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-urgently-delhi-bjp-prez-977978.html
24-04-2021||National||Govt extends deadline for making payment under Vivad Se Vishwas scheme till Jun 30||The government on Saturday extended the deadline for making payment under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas by two months till June 30 to ease hardships faced by taxpayers amid the pandemic. Also, it has extended the due date for issuance of notice for reopening of assessment by tax officers where income has escaped assessment and sending intimation of processing of Equalisation Levy till June 30. "It has also been decided that time for payment of amount payable under the Direct Tax Vivad se Vishwas Act, 2020, without an additional amount, shall be further extended to 30th June 2021," Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. The deadline for filing declaration under the scheme ended on March 31. The Vivad Se Vishwas scheme provides for settlement of disputed tax, interest, penalty or fees in relation to an assessment or reassessment order on payment of 100 per cent of the disputed tax and 25 per cent of the disputed penalty or interest or fee. The taxpayer is granted immunity from levy of interest, penalty and institution of any proceeding for prosecution for any offence under the Income-tax Act in respect of matters covered in the declaration. CBDT said it had received requests from taxpayers, tax consultants and other stakeholders to extend time barring dates in view of the severe COVID-19 pandemic raging unabated across the country. "In the light of several representations received and to address the hardship being faced by various stakeholders, the Central Government has decided to extend the time limits to June 30, 2021, in the following cases where the time limit was earlier extended to April 30, 2021, through various notifications issued under the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation) and Amendment of Certain Provisions Act, 2020," CBDT said. The scheme had netted about Rs 54,000 crore to the exchequer till early April and more is expected to come in based on the declarations already filed. The last date for making the payment has now been extended till June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-deadline-for-making-payment-under-vivad-se-vishwas-scheme-till-jun-30-977986.html
24-04-2021||National||21-yr-old Indian man in Singapore tests positive for Covid-19 despite both doses of vaccine||A 21-year-old Indian national, who had received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, is among the 36 new coronavirus cases reported in Singapore in the last 24 hours, according to a media report on Saturday. The Indian did not have any symptoms and was detected when he was tested on April 19 as part of the Health Ministry's routine testing of foreign workers, the TODAY newspaper reported. The man's pooled test result came back positive for Covid-19 and he was immediately isolated. An individual test was done on April 20 and he was confirmed to have the coronavirus on April 21, the daily reported. "His earlier tests (routine testing) — the last conducted on April 12 — were all negative for Covid-19. His serology test result (for past infection) has come back positive," said the Ministry of Health. The man had received his first dose of vaccine on March 11 and the second on April 1. The ministry said that complete vaccination against the virus may have resulted in lack of symptoms and positive serology test results. "The Covid-19 vaccine is effective in preventing symptomatic disease for the vast majority of those vaccinated, but it is possible for vaccinated individuals to get infected. Further research is required to determine if the vaccination will also prevent onward transmission of the infection,” it said. In total, 36 imported cases of Covid-19 were registered on Friday and all have been placed on 'stay-home notices' upon their arrival here. The total number of infections in Singapore now stands at 60,943. Of these, 60,613 people have fully recovered and discharged from care facilities and hospitals, including 10 patients on Friday. Thirty people have died from complications due to the disease in Singapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-yr-old-indian-man-in-singapore-tests-positive-for-covid-19-despite-both-doses-of-vaccine-977988.html
24-04-2021||National||Here is a list of Covid-19 internet resources in India||As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic continues to rage through India, several patients are struggling to find beds, oxygen and drugs. In such a time, social media and various internet resources have come to the aid of many, helping people connect with services and know more about standard operating procedures around Covid-19. Here is a list of a few resources that may come in handy. Covid-19 Relief Twitter Search for Covid-19 Covid Helpline Bangalore Covid-19 Resources||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-is-a-list-of-covid-19-internet-resources-in-india-977992.html
24-04-2021||National||Stop pandemic from hitting villages, PM Narendra Modi tells Panchayats as new wave grips India||With Covid-19 spread in the second wave taking into its ambit rural India in a big way, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday roped in the Panchayats in the management of Covid-19 and asked the local leadership to work towards complete implementation of guidelines on Covid-19 issued from time to time. Pitching for helping the poor during this pandemic, Modi said that it was our responsibility that in these difficult times, "no family should go hungry". He also referred to the Centre's decision on Friday to ensure free ration in the months of May and June that will benefit 80 crore beneficiaries. "The Centre is spending more than 26,000 crore on this scheme," Modi said, stressing that the Centre was keeping villages at the centre of all its policies and initiatives. Modi was speaking at a virtual event to launch the distribution of e-property cards under the 'SWAMITVA' scheme on the National Panchayati Raj Day in which Chief Ministers of eight states and a large number of local body representatives were also present.  As many as 4.09 lakh property owners were being given their e-property cards during the rollout of the SWAMITVA scheme. Modi appreciated the role of Panchayats in managing Covid-19 and providing local leadership to stop the coronavirus from entering the villages and spreading awareness. He reiterated the need to keep the pandemic out of rural India. Modi asked the Panchayats to ensure complete implementation of guidelines that are being issued from time to time. "This time we have a vaccine. We have to ensure that every person in the village is vaccinated and every precaution is taken," Modi said even as he acknowledged that the challenge before the country at present is bigger than last year. "I have this confidence that if someone is going to emerge victorious first in this fight against the coronavirus, it is going to be India's villages, the leadership of these villages..... The people of the villages will show the way to the country and the world," the prime minister said. Stressing on the need for precaution along with vaccination, Modi said, "right now, the mantra of the panchayats should be dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicine as well as strictness).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-pandemic-from-hitting-villages-pm-narendra-modi-tells-panchayats-as-new-wave-grips-india-978001.html
24-04-2021||National||4 cryogenic tanks for transporting oxygen being airlifted from Singapore, says MHA||Amid the grim Covid-19 situation in the country, four cryogenic tanks, to be used for the transportation of oxygen, is being airlifted from Singapore on Saturday. A Home Ministry official said the four empty tanks are being brought to India by a heavy lift transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force. A C-17 aircraft of the IAF took off from the Hindon airbase in the outskirts of Delhi for Singapore's Changi airport early on Saturday morning. After loading the tanks, the aircraft is expected to land at Panagarh air base in West Bengal this evening, another official said. On Friday, the Union Home Ministry said it was in talks for the import of high-capacity oxygen-carrying tankers from Singapore and the UAE. The move came after Union Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the coronavirus situation in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-cryogenic-tanks-for-transporting-oxygen-being-airlifted-from-singapore-says-mha-978009.html
24-04-2021||National||Sachin Tendulkar recovers from Covid-19, set to donate plasma||Former India captain Sachin Tendulkar on Saturday said he has recovered from Covid-19 and will donate plasma when he is eligible. Tendulkar, celebrating his 48th birthday on Saturday, tested positive for the virus on March 27 and had to be briefly hospitalised here as a precautionary measure. "I would like to give a message, which the doctors have told me to give. Last year, I had inaugurated a plasma donation centre and their message, if plasma is given at the right time, patients can recover faster," Tendulkar said in a video posted on his Twitter handle. Thank you everyone for your warm wishes. It's made my day special. I am very grateful indeed. "I personally, when permissible, will donate it and I have spoken to the doctors," he added. Tendulkar had been in home isolation after he was discharged from hospital on April 8. A donor should not have any symptoms of the infection for at least 14 days prior to plasma donation. The legendary right-handed batsman appealed to people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma, to help the others. "And you all, who have recovered from Covid-19, consult your doctor and when permissible, please donate blood, it can reduce a lot of problems. "We know what problems our family members, friends have, till we are unwell," added the iconic player. Usually, the donated plasma from Covid recovered patients is used for treatment of the patients who are positive for the virus. Tendulkar also thanked the doctors for keeping him in a positive frame of mind during his treatment. "...thank you so very much for your birthday wishes. It's truly made my day. Last month has been a tough month for me. I was tested positive and had to be isolated for 21 days. "Your prayers and good wishes, my family's prayers and good wishes, friends, last but not the least, all the doctors and the staff with them, they kept me in a positive frame of mind and helped me recover. A big thank you to all of you," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-tendulkar-recovers-from-covid-19-set-to-donate-plasma-978013.html
24-04-2021||National||Mumbai cop Sunil Mane suspended a day after NIA arrest||Mumbai police on Saturday suspended inspector Sunil Mane, a day after he was arrested by the NIA in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren, an official said. His suspension order was issued in the morning, the official said. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating both these cases - recovery of SUV and Hiren's murder - had arrested Mane on Friday for his alleged involvement. Mane had been transferred to the local arms section in a reshuffle of the crime branch following the arrest of assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze in Ambani security scare case. Mane was earlier in-charge of Unit-11 (Kandivali) of the Mumbai crime branch. The NIA had on Friday claimed that during the probe, it came to light that Mane was part of the conspiracy to kill Hiren. After Mane's arrest, a special NIA court in Mumbai had remanded him to the central probe agency's custody till April 28. The explosives-laden SUV was found near Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. Hiren, a Thane-based businessman, had claimed that he was in possession of the SUV, but the vehicle had been stolen before its recovery near Antilia, Ambani's multi-storey residence. Hiren's body was found in a creek in Thane on March 5. f||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-cop-sunil-mane-suspended-a-day-after-nia-arrest-978016.html
24-04-2021||National||Six dead at Amritsar hospital due to 'oxygen shortage'||Six patients died at a private hospital here on Saturday due to the shortage of oxygen, hospital authorities said. Five of the six patients were infected with Covid-19, they said. "Despite the district administration being repeatedly asked to extend help, no one turned up to do the needful," Sunil Devgan, the chairman and managing director of Neelkant hospital, alleged. "Six patients, including two women, died due to the shortage of oxygen," he said. After the death of patients, merely five oxygen cylinders were supplied to the hospital, Devgan said. Despite repeated attempts, no district official could be reached for comment. The hospital chairman claimed that three main oxygen suppliers have said that government hospitals are being prioritised in terms of oxygen supply. Heavy police force has been deployed outside the oxygen units to prevent oxygen supply to private hospitals, Devgan alleged. Of the six patients who died at the hospital on Saturday, two were from Gurdaspur, one from Tarn Taran district and the remaining three were from Amritsar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-dead-at-amritsar-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-978017.html
24-04-2021||National||Iran to bar travellers from India to prevent spread of Covid-19 variant||Iran said on Saturday that it would bar travellers from India over a Covid-19 variant to avert its spread in the already stricken country. Officials, however, did not say if any cases of the variant first identified in India in late March had been detected in Iran, the epicentre of the pandemic in the Middle East. “The Indian coronavirus is a new threat we face,” President Hassan Rouhani said in remarks broadcast on state TV. “The Indian virus is more dangerous than the English and Brazilian variants,” he added. “All the eastern provinces should make sure people infected with the virus do not cross the borders into the country,” Rouhani said. Iran's eastern provinces border with Pakistan and Afghanistan. Visitors can also travel Iran by way of the Gulf. Iran's civil aviation organisation announced on local media that all flights to and from India and Pakistan would be halted from midnight Sunday. Health Minister Saeed Namaki has asked the interior minister to “halt the direct and indirect transport of travellers from India”, Iranian media reported. Most of Iran, whose coronavirus cases have surpassed 2 million, has been under a lockdown for the past two weeks as it grapples with a fourth wave of the pandemic. The health ministry has reported a daily average of over 20,000 infections. Nearly 70,000 have died. The country's vaccination drive, meanwhile, has been slow going.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iran-to-bar-travellers-from-india-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19-variant-978024.html
24-04-2021||National||Rajnath reviews defence ministry's efforts to deal with Covid-19 crisis||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday reviewed efforts by various wings of the ministry in contributing to India's battle against a fast-spreading second wave of coronavirus. Singh carried out the review at a virtual meeting attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy among others. The three services as well as other wings of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) ministry have been extending support to various state governments and union territories in dealing with the massive surge in Covid-19 cases. "Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh is reviewing the MoD's efforts to deal with the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country," the defence minister's office tweeted. Since Friday, the Indian Air Force airlifted empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. The IAF has also been transporting essential medicines as well as equipment required by the designated Covid hospitals in various parts of the country. On Saturday, one C-17 transport aircraft of the IAF reached Changi airport in Singapore to bring high-capacity oxygen containers to boost the oxygen supply in the country. "The Indian Air Force is taking sorties to reduce the transportation time of Oxygen and other critical supplies. One C-17 has reached Changi airport in Singapore today. These containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks will help boosting the oxygen supply in the country," Singh's office said. India is struggling with a second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under acute shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-reviews-defence-ministrys-efforts-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-978027.html
24-04-2021||National||Centre waives custom duty and health cess on oxygen & related equipment||The Centre on Saturday decided to waive off basic custom duty and health cess on oxygen and oxygen-related equipment for three months in order to give a boost to its supply and thereby, address the burgeoning problem of medical oxygen crunch in hospitals across the country. In order to augment their production and availability and to meet the rising demand, it was decided to grant full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess on import of oxygen and several items related to oxygen for a period of three months with immediate effect. These are medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrator along with flow meter, regulator, connectors and tubing, vacuum pressure swing absorption (VPSA) and pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, cryogenic oxygen air separation units (ASUs) producing liquid/gaseous oxygen, oxygen canister, oxygen filling systems, oxygen storage tanks, oxygen cylinders including cryogenic cylinders and tanks, oxygen generators, ISO containers for shipping oxygen and cryogenic road transport tanks for oxygen. Parts of the above are to be used for the manufacture of equipment for production, transportation, distribution or storage of oxygen. Besides, any other device from which oxygen can be generated, ventilators (capable of functioning as high-flow devices) with nasal cannula, compressors including all accessories and tubing, humidifiers and viral filters high flow nasal cannula device with all attachments, helmets for use with non-invasive ventilation, non-invasive ventilation oronasal masks for ICU ventilators and non-invasive ventilation nasal masks for ICU ventilators have also got exemption. The meeting, which was also attended by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan along with other ministers and high officials, also decided that basic customs duty on import of Covid vaccines also be exempted with immediate effect for a period of three months. The meeting took a review of the steps taken to boost oxygen availability in the country. Stressing that there is an immediate need to augment the supply of medical grade oxygen as well as equipment required for patient care, both at home and in hospitals, Modi said all ministries and departments need to work in synergy to increase availability of oxygen and medical supplies. The PM was briefed that basic customs duty was exempted on Remdesivir and its API recently. It was suggested that import of equipment related to providing oxygen to patients needs to be expedited as this will boost availability of these items as well as make them cheaper. After the PM directed the Revenue Department to ensure seamless and quick custom clearance of such equipment, the department decided to nominate Gaurav Masaldan, Joint Secretary, Customs, as the nodal officer for issues related to customs clearance for the above mentioned items. The meeting was also attended by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, Principal Secretary to the PM P K Mishra, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, Member NITI Aayog and Secretaries of the department of Revenue, Health and DPIIT & others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-waives-custom-duty-and-health-cess-on-oxygen-related-equipment-978028.html
24-04-2021||National||Will coronavirus end in 2021? Astrologers' prediction||It has been over a year since the Covid-19 took the world by a storm, and despite the availability of vaccines, the coronavirus pandemic shows no signs of slowing down.  While people across the globe have been struggling to cope up with the situation, astrologers have made some predictions regarding the end of the pandemic. "Other critical periods to watch this year are May to the first half of July and December to January 2022. We can witness a re-emergence of old problems and even an uprise of new ones," Borsch added. On the other hand, astrologer Narasimha Rao, similar to Borsch has predicted, that this wave won't be the only wave of 2021. While he has predicted a 'diabolical increase' in the period of March 21-May 7 in India with many new cases, he has also added that there will be many deaths too.   He also predicted that the current period is not the peak. "In my astrological assessment, the terrible peak is likely to occur during 2021 May 7-15. During May 15-June 24, there may be a gradual slowdown. By around June 24, things may be pretty much under control." According to him, there is a chance of yet another wave in India and US during Dec 2021-Feb 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-coronavirus-end-in-2021-astrologers-prediction-978039.html
24-04-2021||National||Poonawala's SII defends Covid-19 vaccine pricing, says initial rates based on advance funding||Justifying the pricing offered for the Covishield vaccine, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said that the company would now have to invest in scaling up the production to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The Pune-headquartered SII has offered their vaccine at Rs 400 per dose for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals, while it has given the same for Rs 150 per dose to the Central government. “Government procurement for countrywide immunization programs in all countries including India has been at a far lower price as the volumes are very large. For instance, based on the market conditions, prices of many vaccines in the private market including our pneumococcal vaccine are sold at a higher free-economy price, whereas for the government it is almost 1/3rd of the free market price,” Poonawalla said in a press statement. According to him, the comparison done between the global prices of the vaccine with that in India was inaccurate. “Covishield is the most affordable Covid-19 vaccine available in the market today. The initial prices were kept very low globally as it was based on advance funding given by those countries for at-risk vaccine manufacturing. The initial supply price of Covishield for all government immunization programmes, including India, has been the lowest,” he said. Poonawalla said that because of the rapid spread and mutation of the coronavirus, the public remains at risk. “Identifying the uncertainty, we have to ensure sustainability as we must be able to invest in scaling up and expanding our capacity to fight the pandemic and save lives,” he said. He also said that a limited portion of SII's volume will be sold to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. “The price of the vaccine is still lower than a lot of other medical treatment and essentials required to treat Covid-19 and other life-threatening diseases. Furthermore, in the interest of public health, it is important for the market to open-up for other vaccines from across the world. This will accelerate and advance the immunization program of our country,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poonawalas-sii-defends-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-says-initial-rates-based-on-advance-funding-978044.html
24-04-2021||National||These states will be offering Covid-19 vaccines for free||As the second wave of Covid-19 ravages India, the Union government recently announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1. The Centre liberalised the vaccination drive to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure the vaccine doses directly from manufacturers. Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open markets.  Major vaccine-maker Serum Institute of India has announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. Against the backdrop of these announcements, many states have come forward to offer free vaccines to the ones falling in the 18-45 age bracket. Here are some of the states that have already made an announcement along those lines: Haryana: The Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government is the latest entrant to the list after it made an announcement on April 24 to provide free vaccines to everyone above the age of 18 in the state. It said that the registration for the drive will begin on April 28 and only those who have registered will get the vaccine. Andhra Pradesh: The southern state is also set to offer free vaccines to the said age group and said that the decision would incur an expense of about Rs 1,600 crore and would benefit over two crore people out of a total population of 5.34 crore in the state. Arunachal Pradesh: The northeastern state’s Cabinet on April 23 approving procurement of four lakh Covishield vaccine doses to be administered for free to people in the age group of 18 to 45 years, official sources said. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pema Khandu also approved an allotment of Rs 65 crore for procurement of the vaccine. Uttarakhand: Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat said on April 23 the said age group will be inoculated against Covid-19 for free and that exercise will begin in the first week of May. A population of around 50 lakh will be covered under the drive, which will cost an estimated Rs 400 crore to the state exchequer, Rawat said. Jharkhand: Chief Minister Hemant Soren on April 22 said that his government will provide Covid-19 vaccine to people above 18 years of age for free. Himachal Pradesh:  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also made a similar announcement on the same day, stating that the decision was made keeping in mind the welfare of the general public although it would be a huge burden on the exchequer. The free vaccine will be provided in government health institutions, he added.  Punjab: Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on April 22 said that the vaccine against Covid-19 would be supplied free of cost in all government healthcare facilities. Tamil Nadu: Chief Minister K Palaniswami’s govt also announced that the state would hold free Covid-19 vaccine camps, adding that the districts which were the most affected by the pandemic will be prioritised in conducting such camps. Palaniswami had made an announcement last year that the government will provide the vaccine free of cost once it was ready and beneficiaries in the earlier phases--senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities and all over 45 years of age-- have been inoculated at government hospitals at no cost. Goa: The Goa government joined the list on the same say and said that it would inoculate those between the ages of 18 to 45 against coronavirus free of cost and said that the state government will purchase 5 lakh doses from the Serum Institute of India. Bihar: The Nitish Kumar government on April 21 announced that it will provide free Covid-19 vaccination to all aged above 18, extending the facility provided to citizens of the state of other categories so far.  Free vaccination was announced by the NDA in the Bihar assembly elections in November-December last year and it is being fulfiled by the Nitish Kumar ministry. Sikkim: Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang also said that his government would inoculate the state’s citizens against Covid-19 free of cost. He added that the state government will bear the cost of the Centre doesn’t bear it. Kerala:  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the Left government would provide the vaccine against Covid-19 free of cost for everyone in the state. "Vaccines will be provided free of cost for everyone in Kerala. We don't have the habit of changing our stance like others. We had announced free vaccines in the State," Vijayan had said. Madhya Pradesh: Making an announcement along similar lines, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had said, "A detailed guidelines of the Government of India will be issued later, but the people above the age of 18 will be vaccinated for free in Madhya Pradesh.” Chhattisgarh: The  Bhupesh Baghel government said that the state will pay for the coronavirus vaccination of people over 18 years of age. "We will take all possible steps to protect the lives of our citizens," a release quoted Baghel as saying. Assam: State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the Assam government will vaccinate everyone in the 18-45 age group for free from May 1. Funds collected in Asom Arogya Nidhi account last year shall be utilised for procuring the vaccines, he said. In September last year, Sarma had informed the Assembly that a total of Rs 116.1 crore contribution from 53,534 people have been received in the account of the Asom Arogya Nidhi to support the government's efforts in handling the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh: The Yogi Adityanath government was amongst the first ones to announce free vaccination to everyone above the age of 18. Jammu and Kashmir: Covid-19 vaccination will be administered free of cost for people aged between 18-45 years in Jammu and Kashmir and the cost will be borne fully by the J&K government for which a panel will be constituted by the health department to work out the logistics. (With Agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-states-will-be-offering-covid-19-vaccines-for-free-978045.html
24-04-2021||National||Govt to allow Road-Trains for goods transport on select corridors||Aimed at revolutioning the goods transport and reduce the overall logistic costs, the government is set to allow Road-Trains on select highways. A Road-Train is a motor vehicle wherein the traction is provided by the puller, which is connected to a serial combination of trailers or semi-trailers. To pave the way for new kind of transportation, the Automotive Industry Standards Committee has amended its AIS-113 Standard to include the safety requirements of Road-Trains. The Union Ministry of Road Transport has published the draft on its web site seeking comments from stake holders. "These standards shall pave the way for a breakthrough intervention for a fast and efficient movement of goods along the long-distance freight corridors," the Ministry said in a statement. The standards have been prepared after examining European benchmarks, keeping in mind Indian operating conditions. The Automotive Industry Standards Committee comprising members from relevant Ministries, Testing Agencies and  Industry stakeholders. The amended standard AIS-113 (Code of Practice for Type Approval of Trailers / Semi-trailers of categories T2, T3 and T4 being towed by Motor Vehicles of categories N2 and N3) has been published for invitation of public comments, after which it shall be notified in due course, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-allow-road-trains-for-goods-transport-on-select-corridors-978049.html
24-04-2021||National||Manmohan Singh recuperating well from Covid-19||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is recuperating well from Covid-19 infection at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here, a Congress leader said on Saturday. "Singh is stable and is progressing well. He has had no episodes of fever," Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. The former prime minister was admitted to the premier hospital with mild fever on April 19, after he tested positive for Covid-19. Singh, 88, had taken the two doses of Covid-19 vaccine on March 4 and April 3. Surjewala said, "We want to thank all Congressmen and Congresswomen, and fellow Indians for their wishes and prayers for Dr Manmohan Singh."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-recuperating-well-from-covid-19-978050.html
24-04-2021||National||Be cautious about conspiracies by destructive, anti-Bharat forces amid 'dreadful' Covid-19 'challenge': RSS||Acknowledging the "dreadful challenge" of dealing with Covid-19 before the nation, the RSS on Saturday asked its Swayamsevaks to chip in with social, religious organisations, and trade bodies to get involved in addressing deficiencies if any, and act promptly to resolve people's problems. While asking those who are active on social media to play a positive role and maintain more restraint and remain vigilant, RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale asked people to be cautious about the possibility of conspiracies by "anti-Bharat" forces and elements which divide society. Hosabale said such elements can take advantage of this serious scenario posed by the second wave of Covid-19 and "create an atmosphere of negativity and mistrust" in the nation. He appealed for creating awareness about wearing masks, maintaining hygiene and physical distance, taking ayurvedic Kadha, inhale steam, and also a massive public awareness campaign about vaccination against Covid-19. "The dreadful challenge of the Covid pandemic has once again raised its head and the spread this time is all the more serious and severe...the situation is tough but the strength of the society is no less," the RSS leader said asking for maintaining an atmosphere of positivity, hope, and trust in society. Hosabale further said, "in order to fulfill the needs of the society, the volunteers of RSS are active in various parts of the country. RSS makes a polite request to its volunteers as well as all social and religious organisations, service organisations, trade bodies and commercial outfits to join promptly in the resolution of the problem and take all efforts to remove all sorts of deficiencies". He noted that due to the sudden worsening situation of the pandemic, people are facing a shortage of beds, oxygen, and necessary medicines. On behalf of the Sangh, he also requested all sections of the society, including the media, to contribute to maintaining an atmosphere of positivity, hope, and trust in the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-cautious-about-conspiracies-by-destructive-anti-bharat-forces-amid-dreadful-covid-19-challenge-rss-978057.html
24-04-2021||National||Germany restricts travel from 'high-risk' India||Germany will shut out all travellers arriving from India apart from its own citizens, Health Minister Jens Spahn said Saturday, as a new variant has made the South Asian country the latest coronavirus hotspot. "We're very worried about the new mutation of the virus discovered in India. So as not to endanger our vaccination programme, India travel has to be significantly limited," Spahn told the Funke newspaper group. From Monday, only German citizens will be allowed to enter the country when arriving from India, he added. As Spahn plans to designate India a "virus variant zone", travellers will have to be tested before departure for Germany and immediately enter a 14-day quarantine on arrival. Berlin had already dubbed India a "zone with particularly high risk of infection" with effect from Sunday. Germany is the latest of several countries to restrict travel from India over the new variant, following Canada, Britain and Kuwait. On Saturday, India reported a record daily number of deaths from Covid-19, while the government is struggling to provide enough oxygen to overwhelmed hospitals. A total of almost 190,000 people have died of coronavirus in India according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/germany-restricts-travel-from-high-risk-india-978062.html
24-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Centre waives custom duty, health cess on oxygen and related equipment for three months||In your evening news brief, basic customs duty, health cess has been waived off on oxygen and oxygen-related equipment for three months; Delhi High Court asks Centre about preparedness to deal with the expected Covid-19 second wave peak in mid-May; Twenty patients died overnight at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in New Delhi due to shortage of medical oxygen and Justice N V Ramana takes over as the 48th Chief Justice of India.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 24, 2021: The Centre on Saturday decided to waive off basic custom duty and health cess on oxygen and oxygen-related equipment for three months in order to give a boost to its supply and thereby, address the burgeoning problem of medical oxygen crunch in hospitals across the country.   The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre about the preparedness to deal with the expected Covid-19 second wave peak in mid-May, terming the massive rise in cases as a ‘Tsunami’, and warned it will "hang" any person who tries to obstruct oxygen supplies to hospitals in Delhi. Talking tough, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, said this during a special hearing on a holiday on the issue of mounting oxygen crisis in various hospitals in Delhi.   Twenty patients died overnight at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in New Delhi on Friday night due to shortage of medical oxygen, hospital officials said on Saturday even as India reported 3.46 lakh new cases of Covid-19. The hospital in north-west Delhi had been issuing appeals for oxygen supplies since Friday evening and was facing shortages on Saturday as well.   Justice N V Ramana, the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, took over as the 48th Chief Justice of India on Saturday. President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office to Ramana in a ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhawan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad along with other dignitaries attended the function.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-waives-custom-duty-health-cess-on-oxygen-and-related-equipment-for-three-months-978065.html
24-04-2021||National||CPI (Maoist) Deputy Commander held in Telangana||A deputy commander of the banned CPI (Maoist) operating in Chhattisgarh was arrested in Bhadradri Kothagudem district of Telangana and gelatin sticks and other explosive substances were seized from his possession, police said onSaturday. A police team on combing operation apprehended the 24-year-old Maoist in the forest near Geesarelli village of Cherla mandal on Friday. Five detonators, 20 gelatin sticks and 200 metres wire were seized from his possession, they said. The explosives were meant to be used forplanting landmines to kill police personnel, a senior police official said. The accused joined the CPI (Maoist) Party in 2011 and worked in Sukuma and Kankher districts of Chhattisgarh, Bhadradri Kothagudem District Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said. He was involved in at least seven offences, mostly exchange of fire (EoF) with security forces in Chhattisgarh, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-maoist-deputy-commander-held-in-telangana-978079.html
24-04-2021||National||Biological E. Covid-19 vaccine candidate gets nod for Phase 3 clinical trials||Homegrown vaccine maker Biological E. on Saturday said it had got approvals from India’s drug regulators to start Phase 3 clinical trials of its Covid-19 subunit vaccine candidate. “We believe that our vaccine candidate will become another effective global Covid-19 vaccine as we move forward into Phase III clinical trials,” said Mahima Datla, Managing Director, Biological E. Limited. The company had started the Phase I/II Clinical Trial of its Covid-19 Vaccine Candidate in the second week of November 2020. Its candidate includes an antigen developed by Texas Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development and in-licensed from BCM Ventures, Baylor College of Medicine’s integrated commercialization team, along with Dynavax Technologies Corporation’s advanced adjuvant CpG 1018. “We are delighted with the success of the Phase I/II clinical trials of our Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The results of these clinical trials are very positive and promising,” Datla said. The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) have provided support for the Phase I/II clinical trials and also for the upcoming Phase III trial of this vaccine candidate. Earlier this week, NITI Ayog member (health) V K Paul had said that the Biological E. vaccine could be available for use by August this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biological-e-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-gets-nod-for-phase-3-clinical-trials-978083.html
24-04-2021||National||Hockey umpire Suresh Kumar Thakur dies due to Covid-related complications||Former international umpire Suresh Kumar Thakur has died due to Covid-19-related complications, Hockey India said on Saturday. He was 51 and passed away on Friday in Mohali. Thakur had officiated in several international tournaments including the Four Nation Tournament in Hamburg (Germany) and the Azlan Shah Hockey Tournament at Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia. He also officiated in the Hockey India League in 2013 and 2014. "Suresh Kumar Thakur was a well-known umpire in the international circuit and he will be sorely missed on the hockey pitch," Hockey India President Gyanendro Ningombam said in a release. "He officiated in many international competitions and added his magic in each of the matches he umpired in. We at Hockey India extend our deepest condolences to Suresh's family members and hope that they can pass through this difficult time," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hockey-umpire-suresh-kumar-thakur-dies-due-to-covid-related-complications-978105.html
24-04-2021||National||Switzerland detects first case of Indian Covid-19 variant||A first case of the Covid-19 variant contributing to the exploding outbreak in India has been detected in Switzerland, the public health authority said Saturday. "The first case of the Indian variant of Covid-19 has been discovered in Switzerland," Switzerland's Federal Office of Public Health (BAG) said in a tweet. The virus variant was found in "a passenger who was transiting through an airport," it said. Spokesman Daniel Dauwalder told AFP in an email that the positive sample was collected in March in the northern canton of Solothurn, and that the transit passenger "had arrived from a European country". The news comes after Belgian authorities on Thursday said a group of 20 Indian nursing students who arrived from Paris had tested positive for the variant in the country. India's healthcare system is meanwhile buckling under a new wave of infections blamed in part on the new "double mutant" variant, known as B.1.617. On Saturday, India reported a record daily number of cases and deaths from Covid-19, while the government is struggling to provide enough oxygen to overwhelmed hospitals. A total of almost 190,000 people have died of coronavirus in India according to official figures. Countries have been on high alert for the variant, with several suspending flights from India. The BAG said it was discussing whether to add India to its red list of high-risk countries. People arriving from countries placed on Switzerland's red list are required to quarantine for 10 days. But Dauwalder pointed out that India already figured on a separate list held by the State Secretariat for Migration, which meant that for now, in most cases only Swiss citizens and residents were permitted to enter Switzerland after a stay in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/switzerland-detects-first-case-of-indian-covid-19-variant-978150.html
24-04-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi asks Rae Bareli DM to use remaining MPLADS funds for welfare of Covid-hit people||Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked the Rae Bareli district magistrate (DM) on Saturday to utilise the remaining amount of her MPLADS funds for the welfare of the Covid-hit people of her parliamentary constituency. She said as informed by officials, an amount of more than Rs 1.17 crore is pending in her MPLADS (Member of Parliaments Local Area Development Scheme) fund. "Currently, the Covid-19 pandemic has spread across the country, due to which a large number of people have been affected and are facing a lot of difficulties. "Hence, the above said remaining amount in my MPLADS fund may be spent on the safety and welfare of people in my constituency, Rae Bareli, and in buying other equipment required in the fight against Covid-19," Gandhi wrote in her letter to the DM. She also authorised the DM to spend the amount and said there is no need for any reconfirmation from her in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-asks-rae-bareli-dm-to-use-remaining-mplads-funds-for-welfare-of-covid-hit-people-978166.html
24-04-2021||National||Defence PSUs, OFB open hospitals for civilian Covid-19 patients||From ferrying oxygen containers, setting up special hospitals and opening up health facilities of defence public sector undertakings and Ordnance Factory Boards for all Covid-19 patients, the armed forces were pulling out all stops in the fight against the raging pandemic. Indian Air Force C-17 transport aircraft flew to Singapore on Saturday and brought back four cryogenic oxygen tanks, which are in short supply, to ferry the life-saving gas to hospitals across the country. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of top defence ministry and armed forces officers and decided to open all health facilities of defence public sector undertakings and Ordnance Factory Board to civilians for treatment of Covid-19. He said the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is adding another 250 beds by Saturday evening at its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital near the Delhi airport, taking the total number of beds at the facility to 500. Singh said a 1,000-bed hospital has already become operational in Gujarat. Singh said work is in full swing to establish a Covid-19 treatment facility in Lucknow that would become operational in the next five-six days, adding the hospitals would be run by the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) in coordination with the Uttar Pradesh government. The three services as well as other wings of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) have been extending support to various state governments and union territories in dealing with massive spike in coronavirus cases. Since Friday, the Indian Air Force airlifted empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. The Armed Forces Medical Services have deployed health professionals at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid-19 hospital in Chhattarpur in the national capital. The ministry is also planning to enlist local doctors and health professionals for the 750-bed hospital being established at Varanasi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-psus-ofb-open-hospitals-for-civilian-covid-19-patients-978182.html
24-04-2021||National||Uddhav's lockdown working? Mumbai sees sudden drop in daily Covid-19 cases||There has been a sudden drop in Covid-19 cases in the financial capital Mumbai even as cases in Maharashtra posted 67,000-plus daily cases on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 67,160 cases and 676 deaths were reported in Maharashtra, according to the Public Health Department. In Mumbai, 5,867 cases and 71 deaths were reported, according to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. During the week, Mumbai has reported 7,000-plus cases on an average daily. Maharashtra has been reporting 65,000-plus cases daily if one takes the week's average. During the day, 63,818 patients were discharged taking the total cured patients to 34,68,610. The recovery rate is around 82.02 per cent, state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhavs-lockdown-working-mumbai-sees-sudden-drop-in-daily-covid-19-cases-978211.html
24-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Parliamentary panel asked Centre in November last to augment oxygen production, cap price||Months before a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit the country, a parliamentary panel in November last year had suggested the Centre to augment hospital beds and oxygen production while flagging the "new normal" wherein patients were being turned away from hospitals due to lack of vacant beds. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health, chaired by Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav and having 16 MPs from the BJP as members, advocated that the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority also takes appropriate measures for capping the price of oxygen cylinders so that their availability as well as affordability is ensured. "The Committee also recommends the government for encouraging adequate production of oxygen for ensuring its supply as per demand in the hospitals,” according to the report submitted in Parliament in November last year. It said the total number of government hospital beds in the country was "grossly inadequate" keeping in view the rising incidence of Covid-19 cases. The panel noted that lack of hospital beds and inadequate ventilators further complicated the efficacy of the containment plan against the pandemic. "As the numbers of cases were on the rise, a frantic search for vacant hospital beds became quite harrowing. Instances of patients being turned away from overburdened hospitals due to lack of vacant beds became the new normal. The scenario of patients holding oxygen cylinder rushing from pillar to post in search of bed in AIIMS Patna is a testimony to fact that tear apart humanity," it said. Aggrieved at the poor state of healthcare system, the panel recommended the government to increase the investment in public health and take appropriate steps to decentralise healthcare services/facilities in the country. According to the report, the Health and Family Welfare secretary had informed the committee on October 16 last year that the ministry has requested the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) to fix the price of oxygen as non-invasive oxygen has been found to deliver good results. Since the hospitals are using oxygen on a large scale, its consumption is increasing. "The overall production in the country is roughly in the region of 6,900 metric ton every day. Out of 6,900 metric ton, the highest consumption of medical oxygen was reported in mid-September, in and around 24th or 25th September, when the consumption was almost 3,000 metric ton of oxygen a day," according to the report. "He (Health secretary) also submitted that during the pre-Covid days, the consumption of medical oxygen was almost 1,000 metric tons per day and the rest of the 6,000 metric tons of oxygen was being used in the industry. Therefore, there is a strong need to ensure that the oxygen inventory is in place and oxygen prices are controlled. "The committee agrees with the department that the pandemic has led to an unprecedented increase in the demand of non-invasive oxygen cylinders and instances of lack of oxygen cylinders in the hospitals had also been reported," according to the report. India is struggling with the second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-parliamentary-panel-asked-centre-in-november-last-to-augment-oxygen-production-cap-price-978217.html
24-04-2021||National||HDFC Bank deploys mobile ATMs to help people transact amid lockdowns||Largest private sector lender HDFC Bank on Saturday said it has deployed mobile automated teller machines (ATM) in 19 cities in view of the rising Covid-19 cases and lockdown-like restrictions in various parts of the country. This will help eliminate the need for the general public to move out of their locality to withdraw cash, a statement from the bank said. Customers can conduct over 15 types of transactions using the Mobile ATM, which will be operational at each location for a specific period, it said, adding the Mobile ATM will cover 3-4 stops in a day. “We hope our mobile ATM will provide a great support for people who want to avail basic financial services without having to venture far from their neighbourhood,” its group head for liability products, S Sampathkumar, said. All necessary precautions in terms of maintaining social distancing while queuing for the ATM and sanitization are being taken to ensure safety of staff and customers, the statement said. During the lockdown last year, HDFC Bank successfully deployed mobile ATMs in over 50 cities and facilitated lakhs of customers in availing cash to meet their exigencies. The cities where the vans have been deployed currently include Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Hosur, Hyderabad, Delhi, Allahabad, Dehradun, Salem, Bhubaneshwar and Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hdfc-bank-deploys-mobile-atms-to-help-people-transact-amid-lockdowns-978222.html
24-04-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin to be sold at Rs 150/dose to Centre, Rs 600 to state govts||Ahead of the third phase of the vaccination drive, Bharat Biotech on Saturday said Covaxin will cost state governments Rs 600 per dose, while private hospitals will have to pay Rs 1,200 per dose. The Hyderabad-based vaccine-maker said it would continue to sell Covaxin to the central government at Rs 150 per dose and pegged the export price at $15-20. “Bharat Biotech is honoured to develop, manufacture and supply Covaxin for India's vaccine roll out at Rs 150 per dose, which is distributed free by the government of India,” Bharat Biotech Chairman & Managing Director Krishna Ella said in a statement here. He said that more than 50 per cent of its capacities have been reserved for central government supplies. “Recovering costs is essential in the journey of innovation towards other vaccines such as Intranasal Covid-19,” Ella said. Earlier, the Serum Institute of India had fixed the price of Covishield vaccines for state governments at Rs 400 per dose and for private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. The Health Ministry said the centre would continue to buy Covishield vaccines at Rs 150 per dose. Congress leader P Chidambaram slammed the differential pricing of vaccines by the pharma companies. “The government is standing (not helplessly) and silently endorsing the blatant profiteering and exploitation by the two manufacturers. Why is the government not invoking the provision of ‘compulsory licensing’?” Chidambaram asked. The government is standing (not helplessly) and silently endorsing the blatant profiteering and exploitation by the two manufacturers Why is the government not invoking the provision of ‘compulsory licensing’? “Will those who justified the Covishield prices of Rs 400 and Rs 600 also justify the Covaxin prices of Rs 600 and Rs 1,200 announced today,” the former finance minister wondered. The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination, covering all those above 18 years of age, begins on May 1. However, the Centre would offer free vaccination to only the priority groups identified by it. These include those above 45 years of age, healthcare workers and frontline workers. Those between the 18-45 age group will have to pay for the vaccines unless the states they belong to decide to pick up the tab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-to-be-sold-at-rs-150/dose-to-centre-rs-600-to-state-govts-978264.html
24-04-2021||National||CJI swings in action, meets senior judges to take stock of of Covid-19 situation||Chief Justice of India Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana Saturday swung into action after taking oath as head of the judiciary and held consultation with six senior judges of the Supreme Court to review functioning in view of present Covid-19 situation. The 48th CJI, after being administered oath by President Ram Nath Kovind in a brief function, went to the Supreme Court premises on a Saturday, a court holiday, and held meeting to discuss apex court's functioning in view of resurgence of pandemic, sources told PTI. Besides the CJI, justices R F Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan and L Nageswara Rao took part in the meeting. The seven senior judges would meet again, they said. The apex court, since March 25, has been holding courts through video conferencing due to a nationwide lockdown and even after the restrictions were relaxed, it has decided to continue with the hearing through virtual courts. Before being driven to the Rashtrapati Bhavan for taking oath as the CJI, Justice Ramana met and took blessings of the priests of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams and the Srisailam temple of Andhra Pradesh.  Later in the day, he visited CJI's office in the apex court's premises with his family members and then held consultation with the judges. Hailing from an agriculturist family of Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, a soft-spoken Justice Ramana will have a tenure of over 16 months and will demit office on August 26 next year||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-swings-in-action-meets-senior-judges-to-take-stock-of-of-covid-19-situation-978275.html
24-04-2021||National||As Covid-19 devastates India, deaths go undercounted||India’s coronavirus second wave is rapidly sliding into a devastating crisis, with hospitals unbearably full, oxygen supplies running low, desperate people dying in line waiting to see doctors — and mounting evidence that the actual death toll is far higher than officially reported. Each day, the government reports more than 300,000 new infections, a world record, and India is now seeing more new infections than any other country by far, almost half of all new cases in a global surge. But experts say those numbers, however staggering, represent just a fraction of the real reach of the virus’ spread, which has thrown this country into emergency mode. Millions of people refuse to even step outside — their fear of catching the virus is that extreme. Accounts from around the country tell of the sick being left to gasp for air as they wait at chaotic hospitals that are running out of life-saving oxygen. The sudden surge in recent weeks, with an insidious newer variant possibly playing a role, is casting increasing doubt on India’s official Covid-19 death toll of nearly 200,000, with more than 2,000 people dying every day. Interviews from cremation grounds across the country, where the fires never stop, portray an extensive pattern of deaths far exceeding the official figures. Nervous politicians and hospital administrators may be undercounting or overlooking large numbers of dead, analysts say. And grieving families may be hiding Covid connections as well, adding to the confusion in this enormous nation of 1.4 billion. “It’s a complete massacre of data,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan who has been following India closely. “From all the modelling we’ve done, we believe the true number of deaths is two to five times what is being reported.” At one of the large cremation grounds in Ahmedabad, a city in the western Indian state of Gujarat, bright orange fires light up the night sky, burning 24 hours a day, like an industrial plant that never shuts down. Suresh Bhai, a worker there, said he had never seen such a never-ending assembly line of death. But he has not been writing down the cause of death as Covid-19 on the thin paper slips that he hands over to the mournful families, even though the number of dead is surging along with the virus. “Sickness, sickness, sickness,” Suresh said. “That’s what we write.” When asked why, he said it was what he had been instructed to do by his bosses, who did not respond to requests for comment. On Saturday, officials reported nearly 350,000 new infections, and the deaths continued to rise. At one hospital in New Delhi, the capital, doctors said 20 patients in a critical care unit had died after oxygen pressure dropped. The doctors blamed the deaths on the city’s acute oxygen shortage. Months ago, India seemed to be doing remarkably well with the pandemic. After a harsh initial lockdown early last year was eased, the country did not register the frightening case-count and death numbers that sent other big countries into crisis mode. Many officials and ordinary citizens stopped taking precautions, acting as if the worst days were over. Now, countless Indians are turning to social media to send out heartbreaking SOS messages for a hospital bed, medicine, some oxygen to breathe. Across India, mass cremations are now taking place. Sometimes dozens of fires go up at once. At the same time, India’s Covid vaccine campaign is struggling: Less than 10 per cent of Indians have gotten even one dose, despite India being the world’s leading vaccine manufacturer. India’s dire needs are already having ripple effects across the world, especially for poorer countries. It had planned to ship out millions of doses; now, given the country’s stark vaccination shortfall, exports have essentially been shut down, leaving other nations with far fewer doses than they had expected. Doctors worry that the runaway surge is being at least partly driven by the emergence of a virus variant known as the “double mutant,” B.1.617, because it contains genetic mutations found in two other difficult-to-control versions of the coronavirus. One of the mutations is present in the highly contagious variant that ripped through California earlier this year. The other mutation is similar to one found in the South African variant and believed to make the virus more resistant to vaccines. Still, scientists caution it is too early to know for sure how pernicious the new variant emerging in India really is. The result could be the worst of both worlds, faster-spreading and less controllable. This is worrying scientists around the globe, who see people starting to relax their guard in well-inoculated countries even as huge setbacks in India, Brazil and other places raise the likelihood that the coronavirus will mutate in ways that could outflank the current vaccines. In Bhopal, a large city in central India that was the site of a catastrophic gas leak in the 1980s that killed thousands, residents say the cremation grounds haven’t been as busy since that disaster. Over 13 days in mid-April, Bhopal officials reported 41 deaths related to Covid-19. But a survey by The New York Times of the city’s main Covid-19 cremation and burial grounds, where bodies were being handled under strict protocols, revealed a total of more than 1,000 deaths during the same period. “Many deaths are not getting recorded and they are increasing every day,” said Dr. G.C. Gautam, a cardiologist based in Bhopal. He said that officials were doing this because “they don’t want to create panic.” The same phenomenon appeared to be happening in Lucknow and Mirzapur — major cities in Uttar Pradesh state — and across Gujarat, where, during a similar period in mid-April, the authorities reported between 73 and 121 Covid-related deaths each day. But a detailed count compiled by one of Gujarat’s leading newspapers, Sandesh, which sent reporters to cremation and burial grounds across the state, indicated that the number was several times higher, around 610 each day. The biggest newspapers in India have seized on the discrepancies. India’s population is, on average, much younger than in most Western nations. Experts say that is the most likely reason that deaths per million in India had seemed relatively low. But the number is quickly climbing. According to excess mortality studies, Covid-19 deaths have been underestimated in many countries, including in the United States and Britain. But India is a much bigger and poorer country. And its people are spread across 28 states and several federal territories in a highly decentralized system of governance, with different states counting deaths in different ways. Even in a good year, experts say, only about one-fifth of deaths are medically investigated, meaning that the vast number of Indians die without a cause of death being certified. According to the World Health Organisation, a death should be recorded as Covid-19-related if the disease is assumed to have caused or contributed to it, even if the person had a pre-existing medical condition, such as cancer. In many places in India, that doesn’t seem to be happening. Rupal Thakkar tested positive for Covid-19 in mid-April. On April 16, she was admitted to Shalby Limited, a private hospital in her home city of Ahmedabad, but her oxygen levels suddenly dropped. The next day Thakkar, 48, died. The hospital listed her cause of death as “sudden cardiac death,” which left the Thakkar family outraged. “It was a lifetime shock,” said her younger brother, Dipan Thakkar. “Why would a private hospital connive with the government in hiding the real death numbers? It was an organised crime. It was an illegal act.” Officials at Shalby didn’t respond to requests for comment. After her situation was widely publicized in Indian newspapers, the hospital issued a second death certificate, this time including Covid-19 as a contributing cause. Some families don’t want the truth to come out, said Mukherjee of the University of Michigan. Some want to cremate loved ones outside strict Covid-19 government protocols, and so they hide the fact that their family member died from the coronavirus. Others may feel ashamed about losing a loved one, as if it were their fault. A political agenda may also be at play, experts said. States controlled by India’s governing Bharatiya Janata Party, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, may face pressure to underreport, according to some analysts. Mukherjee cited the very public scandal in 2019 when Modi’s government tried to suppress data showing a rise in the unemployment rate. When it comes to Covid data, she said, “there is tremendous pressure from the central government on the state governments for projecting progress.” Several officials from the governing party did not respond to messages seeking comment. But manipulating death numbers seems to be happening in other places, too. One example is the state of Chhattisgarh, in central India, which is run by the leading opposition party, Congress. Officials in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, home to a large steel plant, reported more than 150 Covid-19 deaths from April 15 to April 21, according to messages sent to local media that were seen by The Times. The state reported less than half that number for Durg. Chhattisgarh’s health minister, T.S. Singh Deo, denied any intentional underreporting. “We have tried to be as transparent as humanly possible,” he said. “We stand to be corrected at any point in time.” Cremations are an important part of Hindu burial rituals, seen as a way to free the soul from the body. Those working at the burning grounds said they were utterly exhausted and could never remember so many people dying in such a short span of time. In Surat, an industrial city in Gujarat, the grills used to burn bodies have been operating so relentlessly that the iron on some has actually melted. On April 14, Covid-19 crematories in Surat and another district, Gandhinagar, told The Times that they cremated 124 people, on a day when the authorities said 73 had died of Covid-19 in the entire state. In Kanpur, in Uttar Pradesh state, bodies are now being burned in some of the city’s parks; the crematories are that backed up. In Ahmedabad, at the Vadaj crematory, huge smokestacks pump out black smoke. Suresh, a clerk, sits in a tiny office, the door closed firmly shut. When reached by telephone, he said he put “beemari,” or sickness in Hindi, on all the death certificates, and he referred questions to a sanitation official who then referred questions to another official who declined to answer calls. Suresh said that his crematory handled 15 to 20 bodies of Covid-19 patients every day. As he spoke Friday, three bodies burned on separate pyres, next to a large and growing stack of freshly chopped wood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-devastates-india-deaths-go-undercounted-978298.html
24-04-2021||National||Ex-SCBA vice president succumbs to Covid-19||Former Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) vice president and senior advocate V Shekhar succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital here on Saturday. He was admitted to the Fortis Hospital in Okhla. Shekhar was currently the vice president of the Bar Association of India. Reacting to his demise, SCBA Vice President Pradeep Rai tweeted: "We will miss you Shekhar sir as our great colleague, friend and guide. This loss has created a space which can not be fulfilled." Shekhar, designated as a senior advocate in 2006, studied commerce at the graduation level and obtained his LL.B degree from the University of Delhi. After his enrolment with the Bar Council of Delhi, he started practising law in 1980. Shekhar had been continuously practising law in the Supreme Court. He was elected as a senior member of the SCBA executive committee during 2007-2008, 2008-2009 and 2011-2012, and as the vice president for 2013-2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-scba-vice-president-succumbs-to-covid-19-978312.html
24-04-2021||National Politics||Focus on healthcare instead of 'spending on PR, unnecessary projects': Rahul Gandhi to govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday urged the central government to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other health services amid the Covid-19 pandemic instead of "spending on PR and unnecessary projects". Gandhi's remarks come a day after he questioned the government's priority in going ahead with the Central Vista project in the midst of the pandemic crisis. In a tweet in Hindi on Saturday, Gandhi appealed to the Centre to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other health services instead of "spending on PR and unnecessary projects". सद्भाव से केंद्र सरकार से अपील है कि PR व अनावश्यक प्रॉजेक्ट पर खर्च करने की बजाए वैक्सीन, ऑक्सीजन व अन्य स्वास्थ्य सेवाओं पर ध्यान दें। आने वाले दिनों में ये संकट और भी गहरायेगा। इससे निबटने के लिए देश को तैयार करना होगा। वर्तमान दुर्दशा असहनीय है! "This crisis will deepen in the coming days. The country has to be prepared to deal with this. The current plight is unbearable!" the former Congress chief said. According to government data updated on Saturday morning, the Covid-19 case tally in India rose by a record 3,46,786 cases to reach 1,66,10,481, while the death toll touched 1,89,544 with 2,624 more fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/focus-on-healthcare-instead-of-spending-on-pr-unnecessary-projects-rahul-gandhi-to-govt-977958.html
24-04-2021||National Politics||Will hang anyone obstructing oxygen supply, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Saturday sought to know from the Centre about its preparedness to face the expected peak of the Covid-19 second wave in mid-May, as it described the mounting cases as a 'Tsunami'.  Following the death of patients in Delhi hospitals due to lack of oxygen, the court also warned it will "hang" any person who tried to obstruct supplies to hospitals here. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also pulled up the Delhi government for failing to arrange Cryogenic Tanks for transporting the liquid oxygen from plants at Rourkela and Kalinganagar.  The court directed the Arvind Kejriwal government to act in coordination with the sub-group formed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), in case the Cryogenic Tanks were in short supply and "make all-out efforts for it from whatever source they can be made available, and look for all possible avenues".  "We make it clear that the efforts that the Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised, and they should not leave it entirely to the central government to act in this regard," the bench said. The court also directed all oxygen suppliers to provide complete details with the Delhi government to ensure re-filling. In a special hearing on a plea by Maharaja Agrasen Hospital Charitable Trust on lack of medical oxygen, the court referred to a study by a team of scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, to point out the peak of the wave would come in mid-May. “We are calling it a wave, it is actually a Tsunami,” the court said, and asked the Centre about the preparedness in terms of infrastructure, hospitals, medical staff, medicines, vaccines and oxygen as on date for the peak. It asked the Centre and the Delhi government to submit a report by April 26, the next date of hearing, with regard to the national capital on the augmentation of the medical infrastructure -- like beds, oxygen, ventilators, medical staff and medicines -- to deal with the expected peak of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-hang-anyone-obstructing-oxygen-supply-says-delhi-high-court-977970.html
24-04-2021||National Politics||'No vaccine shortage' claim hollow, says P Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday pointed to the shortage of vaccines and warned the government of more protests if people were turned away at hospitals. Chidambaram welcomed the decision to vaccinate all above the age of 18 years from May 1. "However, we have to caution the government that this decision brings with it huge responsibilities," he tweeted. We welcomed the decision to vaccinate all above the age of 18 years. However, we have to caution the government that this decision brings with it huge responsibilities. The former minister said the first and foremost requirement was the availability of vaccines, adding that there were widespread complaints about the lack of supply of the jabs. "The government's claim that there is no shortage of vaccines is hollow and untrue," he said. "When the surge in demand happens on May 1 and more people flock to hospitals for vaccination, will there be adequate stocks of vaccines all over the country?" he asked. "If people are turned away at hospitals, there will be great resentment and protests." Chidambaram said the time to plan for May 1 started many weeks ago, wondering whether the government was prepared for it. "I am sceptical. Nevertheless, I urge the government to start preparing NOW in order to meet the much greater demand for vaccines on and after May 1," the Congress leader said. All adults will be eligible for coronavirus vaccination from May 1 after the government announced its liberalised vaccine policy. Currently, only people above 45 years of age are eligible to get the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-vaccine-shortage-claim-hollow-says-p-chidambaram-977987.html
24-04-2021||National Politics||Congress launches INC TV on Panchayati Raj Day||The Congress on Saturday launched its new digital media platform 'INC TV' on National Panchayati Raj Day to help spread its message directly to the people. A party leader alleged that various institutions in the country are under attack from the government and this is not being highlighted in the media. The INC TV will highlight news which the government does not allow to be published, so as to enable people to know what is happening in the country, AICC secretary Pranav Jha said. The Congress has been accusing the mainstream media of not showing the party's views, alleging that it is only highlighting the government's version. Launching the channel virtually on Panchayati Raj Day, an initiative of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said the digital platform will help raise the voice of the people by highlighting the problems faced by them, especially the poor and the downtrodden. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken, party treasurer Pawan Bansal and party spokesperson Pawan Khera were present during the launch. "The media is afraid of asking questions to the government and the Congress party through this initiative will help raise some of these questions," Venugopal said. He said asking questions and making the government accountable is the duty of the media. The senior party leader pointed to the large number of people dying due to "the shortage of oxygen and other life saving drugs" in the country during the coronavirus pandemic. "The Congress party believes the media should be the voice of people and the voice of their voices. INC TV is one such channel which will put forth the voice of people," he said. Maken said the media should put the government in the dock and question it, and only then will there be pressure on the dispensation to act in public welfare. "The accountability of the government and leaders is a must," he said. "Various institutions in the country are under attack from the government and this is not being highlighted in the media," party treasurer Bansal alleged. The idea behind the digital TV is to have dissemination of views and opinions of different sections of the society, especially that of the poor and oppressed classes, the party said. With the help of the platform, the party seeks to convey its message directly to people and raise issues of importance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-launches-inc-tv-on-panchayati-raj-day-978036.html
24-04-2021||National Politics||Government must be held accountable for Covid-19 deaths, says Anand Sharma||Noting that accountability of government is integral to democracy, Congress leader Anand Sharma on Saturday said the Narendra Modi dispensation must be held morally and politically accountable for the death of Covid-19 patients due to shortage of oxygen and critical medicines. He said the government must answer why it did not put an exigency plan in place before the onset of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "Accountability of government is integral to democracy. This government must be held morally and politically accountable," Sharma said on Twitter. Accountability of government is integral to democracy.This Government must be held morally and politically accountable. "Reminding again the prime minister and his colleagues that India cannot be micromanaged in a pandemic. The responsibility for the deaths of Indian citizens for shortage of oxygen and medicines lies squarely at the doorstep of the government," he said. Sharma, a former union minister, tested Covid-19 positive last week and is currently recuperating. He is currently admitted at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram and is stable. He said the unfolding tragedy of India's citizens dying for want of medicines and man-made oxygen shortage has shocked the collective conscience of the nation. "But, the apathy of the government which remains in brazen denial is unforgivable," he said. "A mindset of control, obsession for publicity and propaganda and desperation for dominance and power as a priority has destroyed India's preparedness to fight the second surge," he noted. In a federal country of 135 crore people, the centralisation of all authority and decisions to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and negating the role of the states, has resulted in an unprecedented national disaster, he said. "Why no exigency plan was put in place for the second wave? Why oxygen emergency reserve was not created? Who is responsible for rampant black marketing of life saving medicines," he asked. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,46,786 coronavirus cases that pushed India's tally of infections to 1,66,10,481, while active cases crossed the 25-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll rose to 1,89,544 with a record 2,624 more fatalities in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-must-be-held-accountable-for-covid-19-deaths-says-anand-sharma-978037.html
24-04-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: SC should've intervened during poll rallies, Kumbh Mela, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Saturday said the Covid-19 situation in the county wouldn't have worsened had the Supreme Court taken timely cognisance of election rallies in West Bengal and the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. The party's remarks come after the apex court's order asking the Centre for a national plan on oxygen supply and vaccination amid the pandemic. "It is good that the court has stepped in. However, had there been a timely intervention about election rallies and road shows of the prime minister, home minister and other leaders in West Bengal and the religious congregation in Haridwar, people wouldn't have been left to die in agony," the Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Citing the death of 25 Covid-19 patients in a hospital in Delhi due to oxygen shortage, the party asked who should be held responsible for the situation, if not the Centre. "This is the situation in the national capital. Who is responsible for this situation if not the central government?" it said, highlighting that a leading British daily had described the scenario as "India's descent to Covid hell". Had the Centre focused on tackling the second Covid-19 wave instead of the Assembly polls in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, the situation would not have deteriorated, it added. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party also condoled the loss of lives in hospital tragedies in Bhandara, Mumbai, Virar and Nashik. "Modi and his colleagues wanted to turn India into a heaven. Today, we see only crematoriums and burial grounds. There are mass funeral pyres and hospitals themselves are on fire along with the patients. Is this a hell?" it stated. Meanwhile, speaking to reporters, Sena leader and Saamana's executive editor Sanjay Raut blamed the country's top leadership for the health crisis. "Our leadership is not willing to go beyond winning elections and politics. They feel this is the ultimate success. Had the focus been on tackling the pandemic, we wouldn't be in such a situation," the Rajya Sabha member said. Referring to the scenario in Maharashtra, Raut said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was leading the battle against coronavirus from the front. "He hasn't gone anywhere to address election rallies. He is fighting, sitting in Mumbai and giving directives. Thackeray is not indulging in politics," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-sc-shouldve-intervened-during-poll-rallies-kumbh-mela-says-shiv-sena-978046.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Avalanche in Uttarakhand's Chamoli, alert issued||An avalanche occurred in an area close to the Niti valley near the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Friday. Information was received about a part of a glacier collapsing beyond Sumna Chawki near Malari in the Niti valley, Border Roads Organisation (BRO) officials, who were on their way to the spot, said. No contact has so far been established with the area due to heavy snowfall, they added. A BRO official confirmed the sliding down of a glacier in the area, where labourers are engaged in road construction work. A BRO team was rushed to the spot but there is no clue yet on the damage caused, he said. Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat tweeted about the incident, saying an alert has been issued and he is in constant touch with the BRO and the district administration for updates. जिला प्रशासन को मामले की पूरी जानकारी प्राप्त करने के निर्देश दे दिए हैं। एनटीपीसी एवं अन्य परियोजनाओं में रात के समय काम रोकने के आदेश दे दिए हैं ताकि कोई अप्रिय घटना ना होने पाये। In another tweet, Rawat said Union Home Minister Amit Shah has taken immediate cognizance of the incident and assured the state of all help. Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said he is monitoring the situation closely. "Unfortunate that a disaster has struck Reni Village of Uttarakhand owing to a glacier burst on Dhauliganga river. "I am monitoring the situation closely. CWC is on alert and a team led by a secretary level officer has taken charge of the situation," he wrote on Twitter. In February, a glacier burst killed nearly 80 people in Chamoli while many went missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avalanche-in-uttarakhands-chamoli-alert-issued-977886.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 patients die on gurneys outside Delhi hospital||Straining against his weight, Shayam Narayan's brothers haul him from a rickshaw onto a hospital gurneys in New Delhi. Only a few minutes pass before they are given the news: he is already dead. Narayan is one of the latest casualties of a second wave of the coronavirus sweeping across India. His brothers had first brought him to the hospital at 6 am on Friday. But they said staff deemed him well enough to return home. Ten hours later, his condition deteriorating, they came back. But it was too late to save him. "The system is broken," his younger brother Raj said. Narayan, who had five children, died without being admitted to the hospital, or taken to its morgue, meaning his death is unlikely to be officially counted in the city's rising toll. For the second day running, the country's overnight infection total was higher than any recorded anywhere in the world since the pandemic began last year, at 332,730. Some 2,263 died, with over 300 of those in Delhi alone -- figures that are almost certainly conservative. Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, in the northeast of India's capital, is one of many battling oxygen shortages and a lack of space. Patients die on gurneys outside, like Narayan. The medical superintendent of the hospital was not immediately available for comment. "Due to an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, all the hospitals are overburdened," a Delhi government spokesman said. "In GTB Hospital, the patients are arriving via ambulances despite the unavailability of beds. Despite this, the government is trying its best to give all patients treatment at some facility or the other." Three-day search The government hospital's 400 Covid intensive care beds are also full, according to official data. But that does not stop patients gasping for air arriving every few minutes in ambulances and autorickshaws. Half a dozen wait for hours on gurneys for admission. Others, like Narayan, die before ever being admitted. "The staff are doing their best but there is not enough oxygen," said Tushar Maurya, whose mother is being treated at the hospital. After being denied entry to the ICU, a man staggers as he tries to get back into an autorickshaw. Minutes later, he returns unconscious. Loaded onto a stretcher, his arm slams against the ICU door while a guard watches on. Another man writhes in pain in the back of an ambulance, alone, as it drives forward with the rear doors hanging open. The oxygen cylinder of a third man lying in the sun runs out, and his family rush to change it. Footage from inside the wards seen by Reuters showed some patients sitting two to a bed and barely enough floor space for others to stand. "They are like cattle in there," said one man after coming outside. Despite the lack of beds, many feel they have little choice than to turn up after being denied entry to other overburdened Covid hospitals, pleading with staff to admit their loved ones. Currently, an online dashboard indicates just 22 ICU beds are available in Delhi out of more than 4,500. "We have been roaming around for three days searching for a bed," said a man who gave his name as Irfan, whose wife sat immobile on the pavement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patients-die-on-gurneys-outside-delhi-hospital-977889.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||'Oxygen Express' train reaches Uttar Pradesh with 30,000 litres of oxygen||An Oxygen Express train carrying around 30,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen arrived here on Saturday morning as Uttar Pradesh is battling a sudden surge in coronavirus cases, an official said. The special train carrying two truckloads of medical oxygen arrived in the state capital at 6.30 am from Bokaro, Jharkhand.  "Two trucks of medical oxygen arrived in Lucknow at around 6.30 am. One of the trucks was offloaded in Varanasi late on Saturday. Each truck is of 15,000 litres capacity," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told PTI. He said both the trucks may be used for Lucknow and a decision will be taken soon. "The arrival of two trucks of medical oxygen will meet around half the demand of Lucknow for today. Lucknow will be in a better position. The second Oxygen Express departed at around 5.30 am from Lucknow for Bokaro with four tankers," Awasthi said. The railways on Wednesday had said it will run its second Oxygen Express to Uttar Pradesh after a request was received from the state government. On Sunday, the Railways had announced it will run Oxygen Express over the next few days to transport oxygen across the country. Under the initiative, empty tankers will be loaded with liquid medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-express-train-reaches-uttar-pradesh-with-30000-litres-of-oxygen-977921.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Naxals kill policeman after abducting him in Chhattisgarh||Naxals have killed a police sub-inspector they abducted in Bijapur district three days ago, an official said on Saturday. Murli Tati had come to his home at Palnar when he was abducted by Naxals on April 21, Bijapur Superintendent of Police Kamlochan Kashyap said. The Maoists dumped Murli's body near a village at Gangalur in Bijapur district, with a message alongside which claimed the policeman was "executed as decided by a people's court". At least 22 security personnel were killed in a Naxal attack in the Sukma-Bijapur area of Chhattisgarh earlier this month. Over 30 security personnel were injured in the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-kill-policeman-after-abducting-him-in-chhattisgarh-977930.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Batra Hospital receives emergency oxygen supply minutes after exhausting stock||Batra Hospital in the national capital's Tughlakabad Institutional Area received emergency oxygen supply from the Delhi government moments after it exhausted its stock, officials said on Saturday. The city has been grappling with shortage in oxygen supply amid a huge surge in coronavirus cases. Executive Director of the hospital Sudhanshu Bankata said the healthcare facility exhausted its oxygen stock around 9 am. "Just now, we received an emergency supply from the Delhi government. It will last another one-and-a-half hours. Our supplier has not been responding to calls," he said. There are around 350 patients admitted in the hospital, of which 265 are Covid-19 positive and 30 are in the ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-batra-hospital-receives-emergency-oxygen-supply-minutes-after-exhausting-stock-977953.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||20 patients die in Delhi's Jaipur Golden Hospital amid oxygen scarcity||Twenty patients died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital here on Friday night due to a shortage of medical oxygen as hospitals across the national capital issued repeated appeals for steady supplies of the lifesaver. The deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital in northwest Delhi came a day after 25 “sickest” patients died at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital due to a shortage of oxygen, which forced nurses to manually pump air to keep patients alive. According to D K Baluja, the Medical Director at the Jaipur Golden Hospital, they were to receive 3.5 tonnes of oxygen on Friday evening but the supplies could reach only around midnight. “By then 20 patients had died,” Baluja said. “Next impending oxygen crises in Jaipur Golden Hospital. Over 200 lives at stake if liquid medical oxygen is not supplied by 9:00 PM tonight,” the hospital took to Twitter on Saturday evening. Batra Hospital, Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Delhi, Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh and Max Healthcare in Gurugram issued desperate appeals for steady supplies of oxygen. The Sir Ganga Ram Hospital struggled to avoid a repeat of Friday’s tragedy and was forced to reduce the oxygen pressure for patients to ensure that the stocks last longer.The hospital requires a minimum of 11,000 cubic metres of oxygen daily but was left with just 200 cubic metres when a tanker with 1.5 tonnes of oxygen arrived at 11.35 am, officials said. “Patients are suffering. We feel sad to see people bringing their oxygen cylinders. Hospital is approaching all authorities and nodal officers but no help is coming. Hundreds of calls made, nobody picking the calls,” hospital chairperson D S Rana said. Saroj Hospital in north-west Delhi urged the kin of patients to take them to other healthcare facilities where oxygen was available. The medical director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Suresh Kumar said the facility's oxygen stock can last up to eight hours. It is likely to be a few days before the crisis is resolved, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-patients-die-in-delhis-jaipur-golden-hospital-amid-oxygen-scarcity-977955.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Death of patients in hospital: Rahul Gandhi urges Delhi govt to help families of deceased||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday condoled the death of critically ill patients at a hospital here amid a serious oxygen crisis and appealed to the Delhi government to provide all possible assistance to the families of the deceased. Twenty critically ill patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis, officials said. "The oxygen pressure has dipped as we are running out of stock," Dr D K Baluja, the medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital, said. "The news of the death of several patients due to lack of oxygen in Jaipur Golden Hospital, Delhi is extremely tragic," Gandhi said on Telegram. "My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. I appeal to the State Govt and Congress workers to provide all possible assistance to their families," the former Congress chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-of-patients-in-hospital-rahul-gandhi-urges-delhi-govt-to-help-families-of-deceased-977990.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||BSF foils drone intrusion bid by Pakistan along Jammu border ||Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday foiled a drone/UAV intrusion bid from across the border in Arnia sector of Jammu. A BSF spokesman said that despite the ceasefire agreement between Pakistan and India, its alert troops foiled drones’ intrusion bid by Pakistan along the International Border (IB) in Arnia sector. "During the early morning hours today, two drones/UAVs were observed entering from Pakistan side and immediately fired upon by vigilant BSF troops which compelled it to retreat back,” the spokesman said. He said that Pakistan Rangers have been regularly violating the International Border through drone intrusions and trying to drop arms/ammunition in Indian territory "but successfully repulsed by BSF troops on Border." "The BSF intelligence branch was receiving inputs about possible use of drones by Pakistan for ferrying arms and ammunition from Pakistan into Indian side. Accordingly, the troops are on alert and the border domination was exponentially increased,” the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-foils-drone-intrusion-bid-by-pakistan-along-jammu-border-977991.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||At least 10 killed, 38 missing in an avalanche in Uttarakhand||At least 10 workers of the Border Roads Organisation have died and 38 others are still missing in an avalanche triggered by a glacier close to the India-China border in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district late Friday night. The avalanche was reported near Sumna area where Army and ITBP have their respective posts near the India-China Border, Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said. Army officials said 384 persons from the avalanche site have been rescued and 10 bodies have been recovered so far. Kumar said the avalanche hit two Border Roads Organisation camps in the area that had 430 labourers working on road construction activity in the region. All the 291 workers in the first BRO camp have reported to the Army Post at Sumna, Kumar said adding that several workers in the second camp have not returned. Efforts are being made to revive communication networks as roads are closed due to heavy snowfall, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat said after an aerial survey of the area. Sumna, where the avalanche occurred, is approximately 25 km from Malari village and located near the confluence of Girthigad and Kiogad, two streams that originate from Dhauli Ganga. The Reni village downstream of Dhauli Ganga was the site of a massive avalanche in February that killed at least 80 people and destroyed two hydro-electric power projects. As many as 126 people are still missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-10-killed-38-missing-in-an-avalanche-in-uttarakhand-978026.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir govt designates 23 hospitals for Covid-19 patients||With Covid-19 on alarming rise, Jammu and Kashmir government on Saturday designated 23 hospitals as dedicated for treatment of c0oronavirus patients. These include 15 in Kashmir division and eight in Jammu division. In a notification, deputy director (Planning) Health and Medical Education department said that the health institutions along with their bed capacity has been designated as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. “In reference to to subject cited above. I am directed to convey approval of competent authority to notify the following health Institution along with their bed capacity as dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 treatment only in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir,” it reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-govt-designates-23-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients-978033.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Death and despair at the doors of stricken Delhi hospital||Barely breathing, Shyam Narayan arrived at the New Delhi hospital in a red rickshaw, his feet hanging over the side, but it soon became clear to his desperate family that the overwhelmed staff could not help him. He was just the latest victim of the coronavirus wave battering India, where thousands of afflicted are turning up at hospitals only to find no beds and a battle for oxygen and life-saving drugs. At Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital in northeast Delhi, Narayan and his family were part of a steady stream of ambulances, rickshaws and other vehicles bringing Covid-19 patients for treatment, waiting for beds inside already occupied by up to three people. He didn't make it that far: a stretcher carrying his lifeless body was wheeled out just a few minutes after he was taken through the doors. The Narayan family had tried all night to find an oxygen bed for him. But they were repeatedly turned away by hospitals, said brother Ram. "My brother has five children and the youngest one is so small, what will I tell his wife?" GTB has run out of beds and, like all hospitals in Delhi, is fighting to get oxygen. It has said it is doing the best it can in a crisis, and medical staff are working without days off. India's surge has seen it add around 350,000 cases and 2,600 deaths a day, and the healthcare system has been pushed to breaking point. Narayan's death at the hospital doors is common and it is unlikely to be counted in official figures -- his body was taken away without any formal admission. The security guard at the GTB door turned away patients, telling panicked relatives the wards were full. Some stayed in line, others hailed auto-rickshaws to continue the desperate hunt for a bed. Exhausted seventeen-year-old Mohan Sharma stood with his 65-year-old grandfather, giving the old man water, supporting him as he coughed and tenderly putting his oxygen mask on. His father had died of coronavirus in the same queue less than 24 hours earlier. "He was gasping for air, we removed his face mask and he was crying and saying 'save me, please save me'. "But I could do nothing. I just watched him die", said Sharma. With no time to grieve, he had to quickly move on to helping his grandfather. The family managed to find a bed for him but the grandfather was overwhelmed by the grim conditions. "There were three dead bodies next to him and he panicked and said he would not survive. So I took him outside and he's resting now," said Sharma. People who have been inside described crowded hallways, with beds and stretchers occupied by two or three people. Sharma's grandfather's oxygen cylinder was almost empty, with no guarantee that it would be replaced. He also needed to check on his mother, who was nursing a coronavirus-positive grandmother at home. "I have seen three dead bodies in six minutes," said Ravi Kumar, who managed to get his 80-year-old grandfather admitted after waiting outside the hospital all night. "Inside, there are no beds, there are just stretchers one after the other with two patients on each," he said. The previous night, Kumar's grandfather was told to leave a private hospital bed when its oxygen ran out. "This is a government failure. They didn't improve the infrastructure in the last year. If this is the condition in India's capital, then you can imagine how bad it is in the rural areas." Behind him is Irfan Salmani, whose 40-year-old sister Monisha was struggling to breath, sitting on the ground wearing a yellow sari and an oxygen mask whose tube was not attached to anything. Salmani was desperately seeking help from anyone who would listen, his phone in constant use. "I've been trying non-stop for three days, going from one hospital to the other. I've never seen anything so terrible in my life," he said. "What can I do? I've not had any food or water since morning, I've just been facing rejection after rejection." At the front of the queue, one family argued with the security guard, hoping to get a relative admitted. Behind them, a man lay in the sun with an oxygen tank that was fast running out. He was lucky: his family rushed to connect a new one, making him a rare case with a chance of surviving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-and-despair-at-the-doors-of-stricken-delhi-hospital-978042.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Punjab government imposes ban on sand mining at night||The Punjab government on Saturday imposed a ban on sand mining at night, according to a statement. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who chaired a review meeting over the issue, directed police and the Enforcement Directorate (Mining) to take strict action against those found engaged in mining operations at night. Singh asked the Mining Department to ensure that no mining is undertaken by any authorised contractor in river beds or other areas after 7.30 pm and before 5 am, according to the government release. He warned of stringent action against violators and said anyone, including officers and police personnel, found conniving in illegal sand mining operations should also be dealt with strictly. The CM, however, ordered that there should be no hindrance to smooth movement of sand and gravel during the night in view of the construction activity going on in the state. The availability of the material at affordable prices should also be ensured, he said, directing the Principal Secretary (Mining) to coordinate with authorised contractors to bring down prices of sand and gravel. During the meeting, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Minister, Water Resources, told the CM that the creation of the Enforcement Directorate for mining had helped check illegal sand mining activities. He assured the CM that sand mining operations in the state will be conducted smoothly. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said all commissioners of police and district police chiefs have been directed to take action against unscrupulous elements involved in illegal sand mining. He said that additional manpower will now be deployed to check any night sand mining operations. RN Dhoke, Additional DGP-cum-Director, Enforcement Directorate (Mining), told the CM that 70 FIRs have been registered against 93 people involved in illegal sand mining and 70 vehicles have been confiscated since the formation of the department. Drones are being used to carry out photography of illegal sand mining sites to assess the extent of excavation done and unauthorised movement of minerals has been curbed substantially, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-government-imposes-ban-on-sand-mining-at-night-978058.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal spending crores on publicity but doing nothing to augment oxygen supply in Delhi: Maken||The Congress on Saturday accused the Arvind Kejriwal government of spending crores on publicity but doing nothing in the past year to augment oxygen storage capacity and set up new plants in the national capital. Congress leader Ajay Maken said the Centre and the Delhi government can squabble later but they should at least work for public welfare and development during the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a virtual press conference, he said the Centre has informed the High Court that it has sanctioned eight pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants but only one plant has been set up. The Delhi government has not added even a single PSA plant in the past year and neither has it augmented the oxygen storage capacity in the national capital, he alleged. "The central and Delhi governments are fighting with each other. The Delhi government and the Centre can fight later over who will rule, but at least work for public welfare and development," he told reporters. "Why oxygen plants have not come up in Delhi, whereas states like Rajasthan have set up 24 out of 37 PSA units sanctioned in the past one year and seven big oxygen storage plants," he asked. "Instead of doing their bit, they are trying to put the blame on each other to divert the attention. What the Delhi government and the central government has done is criminal. They have not spent a single penny on enhancing oxygen supply and adding storage capacity in Delhi in the past year," he said, urging them to provide at least oxygen to people struggling to get it. Maken alleged that the Delhi government spent Rs 355 crore on advertisement and publicity in the last year and another Rs 467 crore has been earmarked as publicity budget for this year. With a total of Rs 822 crore being spent on advertisements and publicity on Delhi in the last two years, one can set up as many as 800 oxygen plants, adding 750 metric tonnes capacity of oxygen, but the government will not take such a step in public welfare, he alleged. "The media should put the governments in the dock and question them. Then only pressure will be built on the governments to act. The accountability of governments and leaders is a must," the former Union minister said, urging the media to highlight the truth. Maken also pointed out that the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and family welfare stated in March last year that the government should take measures to ensure oxygen supply and its pricing. He also referred to the recommendation of the empowered group set up in this regard in April 2020, highlighting the shortage of oxygen that could happen in the country due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-spending-crores-on-publicity-but-doing-nothing-to-augment-oxygen-supply-in-delhi-maken-978063.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Long queues seen outside BHEL facility in Bhopal to refill oxygen cylinders||Amid an acute shortage of medical oxygen due to a surge in coronavirus cases, vehicles and individuals are queuing up outside the BHEL's plant here to get the empty cylinders refilled with the life-saving gas. Due to the rising demand, the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited's Bhopal unit has been functioning round-the-clock to provide oxygen to citizens, an official said. According to eyewitnesses, people are queuing up in large numbers to get the oxygen cylinders refilled. "The queue of people and hospital representatives with cylinders is so long that they have to wait for 6-7 hours for their turn to come," one of the eyewitnesses said. Talking to PTI on Saturday, Bhopal BHEL's general manager (PR) Raghvendra Shukla said its oxygen plant has been operating at in its full capacity of about 5,000 cubic metres per day since over a week following the state government's request. "On April 10, we had told the state government that we can arrange only 1,800 cubic metres per day, but after the requirement increased, we have been running our plant round the clock in full capacity of more than 5,000 cubic metres per day starting April 18," he said. Oxygen in the form of gas is being given in cylinders on the recommendation of doctors and hospitals at BHEL's facility here, Shukla added. The production and supply at the BHEL plant is open round-the-clock so that people don't have to wait for long, he said. According to him, BHEL Bhopal's entire production of oxygen is being supplied for medical purposes and its industrial use has been stopped. "But recommendation of doctors is necessary as the campus has been secured by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) staff, and it is needed for entry," he said. Meanwhile, the state government said in a statement that the Centre has approved the supply of 643 metric tonnes (MT) per day oxygen supply from April 22. On Thursday, the state was supplied 463 metric tonnes of oxygen. In a bid to streamline the supply of oxygen, 2,000 oxygen concentrators have been purchased by the state government, the statement said, adding that more than 1,000 concentrators have been installed across 34 districts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-long-queues-seen-outside-bhel-facility-in-bhopal-to-refill-oxygen-cylinders-978071.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||J&K announces curfew till April 26 morning due to surge in Covid-19 cases||Amid steep rise in Covid-19 cases, Jammu and Kashmir government on Saturday announced imposition of curfew across the Union Territory from 8 pm tonight till morning of April 26. The announcement was made by the office of the Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha through its official twitter handle. It said that only essential and emergency services to be allowed while all the market and commercial institutions shall remain closed during the period. “Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8PM, 24th April (Saturday) till 6AM, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed,” Office of J&K LG tweeted. Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8PM, 24th April (Saturday) till 6AM, April 26 (Monday).Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-announces-curfew-till-april-26-morning-due-to-surge-in-covid-19-cases-978084.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||'Please help': Delhi hospitals appeal for assistance amid severe oxygen crisis||Narin Sehgal, the director of a hospital in Delhi, really don't know how to help his patients in a situation like this. Amid an unprecedented crisis over oxygen supply as the second coronavirus wave ravages the country, some "helpless" hospitals in Delhi are advising relatives to shift their patients to another facility, while several others have been left with no option but to use their backup stock. Making an urgent plea for oxygen supply, Narin Sehgal, director Sehgal Neo Hospital, Meera Bagh, said the facility had 120 Covid-19 patients out of the total 150 and oxygen was left for another two hours only. "Sixty Covid patients in my hospital are in dire need of oxygen," Sehgal said through a video message. "I really don't know how to help my patients in a situation like this," Sehgal said. "I've been asking for help from everyone, but nothing is coming through. Please help me!" The Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh, presently running on its backup oxygen supply, urged the prime minister, Delhi chief minister and other ministers for "immediate assistance". The Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, having not received oxygen refill for the past 44 hours, is now advising its patients to shift to other hospitals. "We're running low on oxygen and using our backup now. We have alerted our patients about the situation and are advising them to shift to another hospital. Things are really uncertain," Saroj Super Speciality Hospital medical director P K Bhardwaj told PTI. Bhardwaj said the hospital, which needs three metric tonnes of oxygen per day on an average, was only getting around an MT of oxygen for the past few days. Seventy patients at the hospital are currently on oxygen support. Sailing in the same boat is the Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional area. "We've run out of oxygen completely, even the backup," Batra Hospital executive director Sudhanshu Bankata told PTI. "We feel helpless; have started asking families to take patients to other healthcare facilities where oxygen is available." Bankata had warned the authorities of such a situation earlier in the day when the hospital received an emergency oxygen supply moments around 9 am. He had said the stock would "last another one-and-a-half hours" only. There are around 350 patients admitted at the hospital, out of which 265 are coronavirus positive and 30 are in the ICU. Twenty critical patients died overnight at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Delhi amid a serious oxygen crisis. The hospital, which has over 200 patients, had only half an hour of oxygen left at 10.45 am. The situation is equally worrisome at the Fortis Hospital, which is running on its back up oxygen supply, desperately waiting for the refill since morning. "Fortis Shalimar Bagh is running out of oxygen. Patients' lives are at risk," it tweeted, issuing an SOS. "We are running on backup, waiting for supplies since morning. We are currently suspending admissions. Request immediate assistance @PMOIndia @ArvindKejriwal @AmitShah @PiyushGoyal @rajnathsingh," the hospital added. The hospital said it was keeping the patients and attendants informed about the "critical situation", and trying to manage admitted patients to the best of their abilities. Elite hospitals like the Sir Ganga Ram, which got a refill of 1.5 tonnes of oxygen, said their present stock would last for two hours only. The hospital requires a minimum of 11,000 cubic metres of oxygen daily. "We were running oxygen at half the normal pressure. This supply of 1.5 tonnes of oxygen will last for may be two hours. The situation is scary," an official said. The facility had on Friday reported the death of 25 critical patients as the administration grappled with depleting oxygen supplies. It asked the government for immediate intervention and consider reducing patient intake," hospital chairperson D S Rana said. "I appeal to both the Centre and the state to help. On one hand, they increased Covid beds and on the other, they can't supply oxygen in sufficient quantity. How are we supposed to work?" Rana asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/please-help-delhi-hospitals-appeal-for-assistance-amid-severe-oxygen-crisis-978096.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||CM Kejriwal writes to his counterparts, urges them to provide oxygen to Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged his counterparts in other states to provide oxygen to the national capital, saying all available resources are proving to be inadequate owing to the severity of Covid 19. Kejriwal's request for supply of oxygen came following the death of 20 patients in Jaipur Golden Hospital here as Delhi's desperate hunt for the life-saving gas continued amid rising Covid-19 cases. "I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate," Kejriwal tweeted in the evening. I am writing to all CMs requesting them to provide oxygen to Delhi, if they have spare. Though Central govt. is also helping us, the severity of corona is such that all available resources are proving inadequate. The deaths at Jaipur Golden took place when the hospital was waiting for oxygen to be replenished, officials said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-kejriwal-writes-to-his-counterparts-urges-them-to-provide-oxygen-to-delhi-978099.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Covid-19 surge continues with highest daily tally of over 38,000 cases, record toll of 222 deaths||Uttar Pradesh reported 38,055 cases of Covid-19 in the past 24-hours, the highest one-day spike, amid a continuous shortage of oxygen and beds in hospitals across the state. The state reported 222 deaths in the same period, which was also the highest one-day increase, according to official sources. Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said here that the total number of active cases in the state stood at a little over 2.88 lakh while 10,959 people had so far died from the infection. The state capital of Lucknow continued to be the worst affected in the state with 5,461 new cases of Covid-19 and 42 deaths in the past 24-hours. According to sources, the special 'oxygen express' train arrived at Lucknow railway station on Saturday from Bokaro. The district administration was making arrangements to distribute it among the hospitals. The state government has set up a control room to monitor the availability of oxygen at the hospitals, officials here said. They also claimed that there was no shortage of Remdesivir injections in the state. They said that so far over 96 lakh people had been given the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. Over 19 lakh people had been given the second dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, hospitals continued to report a shortage of oxygen and the serious patients had a hard time getting admitted there. The attendants of the patients were seen running from one hospital to another in search of beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-surge-continues-with-highest-daily-tally-of-over-38000-cases-record-toll-of-222-deaths-978126.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||All interim orders passed by UP courts stand extended till May 31, says Allahabad HC||In the wake of a recent surge in coronavirus cases, the Allahabad HC on Saturday directed that all interim orders passed by it and other courts in Uttar Pradesh stand extended till May 31. A two-judge Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice Prakash Padia passed the order on a PIL. The court further directed that orders of the criminal courts, which granted bail or anticipatory bail for a limited period, which are likely to expire on or before May 31, shall stand extended till May 31. The Bench said, “Any order of eviction, dispossession or demolition already passed by the High Court, district court or civil court, if not executed till the date of passing of this order shall remain in abeyance for the period till May 31.” “The state government, municipal authorities, other local bodies and agencies and instrumentalities of the state government shall be slow in taking action of demolition and eviction of persons till May 31,” it further said. The court directed that any bank or financial institution shall not take any action for auction in respect of any property or an institute till the month-end. However, the court made it clear that in case of extension of interim orders, any undue hardship and prejudice of any extreme nature is caused to any of the party, the said party/parties would be at liberty to seek appropriate relief by moving appropriate application before the competent court. The court fixed May 31 as the next date for hearing on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-interim-orders-passed-by-up-courts-stand-extended-till-may-31-says-allahabad-hc-978149.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||J&K reports 2,030 Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir reported 15 Covid-19 related deaths and 2,030 fresh positive cases on Saturday pushing the number of active cases to 18,064 which were less than 600 around a month before. Officials said out of total 18064 active positive cases 10,485 from Kashmir and 7,579 from Jammu division. With 944 more recoveries, the tally of total recoveries in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 138180 which is 87.25% of the total cases. Of the 15 deaths reported on Sunday eight were from Kashmir and seven from Jammu division. As per the daily Covid bulletin 17,31,301 persons in Jammu and Kashmir are under observation while 82615 persons have been kept under home quarantine besides that 18064 persons are in isolation. According to the bulletin, 15,02,488 persons have completed surveillance period and 126008 persons are under home surveillance besides that so far results of 70,01,906 samples are available. Out of 70,01,906 the number of samples tested negative stands at 68,43,532 while as 1,58,374 have tested positive, among them 18,064 persons are active, 1,38,184 persons have recovered and 2,126 persons have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-2030-covid-19-cases-15-deaths-978196.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||J&K announces free Covid-19 vaccine for people above 18 years||Covid-19 vaccination will be administered free of cost for people aged between 18-45 years in Jammu and Kashmir.  The vaccination cost will be borne fully by the J&K government for which a panel will be constituted by the health department to work out the logistics. " It has been decided that Covid-19 vaccination for people in the age group 18-45 years will be cost- free in the UT. The cost of the vaccine will be fully borne by the government of J&K.The health department will constitute a panel to work out the logistics,” J&K LG'd office tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-announces-free-covid-19-vaccine-for-people-above-18-years-978205.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi hospitals say not responsible if patient dies due to oxygen shortage||The oxygen crisis is so severe in Delhi that hospitals are taking an undertaking from patients' relatives stating that if the patient dies due to a shortage of oxygen, the hospital can not be held responsible. Some hospitals have even discharged patients and stopped admission due to shortage of oxygen. With nearly 50 patients from two hospitals having died in Delhi due to low pressure of oxygen over the last two days, the hospitals are not ready to take any risk with patients' lives. "Because of uncertainity in supply of oxygen, and vendor not supplying as per the requirement, you may need to shift the patient to your choice of hospital. In case of patients suffering due to lack of oxygen, the responsibility lies with the patients' relatives, not with hospital management," read one such undertaking. Some hospitals are even discharging patients due to the shortage in oxygen supply. "We are closing the admissions because of an oxygen shortage. We are discharging the patients," the Covid-19 in-charge of a private hospital said. The state-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital also began discharging patients who were relatively stable. This decision was taken after an in-house technical committee estimated that the existing supply of oxygen would not be enough for the high number of patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospitals-say-not-responsible-if-patient-dies-due-to-oxygen-shortage-978215.html
24-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana bans gathering of over five people in six worst-hit districts||In a bid to tackle the coronavirus situation, the Haryana government on Saturday banned the gathering of over five people and ordered the implementation of the "work from home" system in offices in its worst-hit six districts. Deputy commissioners of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Sonipat and Rohtak have been asked to impose Section 144 of the CrPZC to control the COVID surge, CM Manohat Lal Khattar told reporters after chairing a meeting over the issue. He, however, ruled out the imposition of a lockdown in the state but said there will be "lockdown-like conditions" in place in the worst-hit six districts. Government and private offices won’t be allowed to open to avoid crowding, he said, asking employees to adopt the "work from home culture" to break the chain of the coronavirus infection. The CM also ordered a restriction on gatherings in functions with the maximum limit fixed at 50 people for both indoor and outdoor events in the state. He said for funerals, only 20 people will be allowed. Earlier, the limit for outdoor gatherings was 500 and indoor 200. He asked people to postpone marriage functions. "The authorities will only allow gatherings if it is necessary with a limit of 50 people," he added. He said both government and private hospitals have been asked to keep 50 per cent of their beds for infection patients. A provision for 1,000 beds have been made at the PGI in Rohtak, he said. He said there will now be at least 2,250 beds with oxygen facilities in government hospitals. On the issue of medical oxygen, the CM said the situation is under control and there is no shortage of it in hospitals. We had demanded 180 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen a day from the Centre, who fixed our quota at 162 MT, he said, adding that the state government will submit a revised demand of 200 MT tonnes per day to the Centre. Khattar said his government had placed an order of 6,000 MT of liquid medical oxygen from the Bokaro steel plant, which will arrive soon by a special train. The use of liquid oxygen in the industry for non-essential items has been banned, he said. Besides, OPD services have been curtailed in government hospitals across the state. Khattar said only 50 per cent attendance will be allowed in government and private sector offices across the state. He said the supply of oxygen to Delhi from the Panipat plant will continue uninterrupted. Six small plants manufacturing liquid oxygen will be operational in the state in the next two days, he said. Stressing that the state government was "alert and on toes", he asked the public not to create panic over the issue of oxygen. He said anti-COVID injections will be administered to those above 18 years free of cost at government facilities from May 1. The sharp surge in cases and fatalities continued in the state with Haryana on Friday recording 60 deaths and 11,854 cases, the highest daily figure so far. More than one-third of the fresh infections were reported from Gurgaon, which along with Faridabad and Sonipat, is among the worst-hit districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-bans-gathering-of-over-five-people-in-six-worst-hit-districts-978311.html
24-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Airport observations||Two minds are better than one mind, so tell the Gurus. Google Maps, while you drive, is in total agreement, and it keeps advising you in an intimidating voice, from the very start, short of announcing that you are dumb. With artificial intelligence working full throttle, in a short while it will remind you that you are not wearing your hearing aid or the tooth set! At least they should switch over to the male voice when a woman drives, to give me the just satisfaction. I was at the busy O’Hare airport, but we had four hours to kill as our flight to Buffalo was delayed. To pass some time, while the ladies were busy window shopping and as my son and six-year-old granddaughter Sharada were exploring the fast-moving walkways, I opened my much-thumbed Agatha Christie. You know, the moving walkways, the ones that are gimmicks that take you several feet away even if you do not walk. If you walk on them, you go so much faster. Well, I didn’t really get to settle down and be charmed by the antics of Hercule Poirot, when Sharada came running to me and announced, “ Thatha, you know, Daddy walked on the moving walkway, and I ran on the regular floor next to him, and Daddy timed it and says, his walking speed on the ‘moving walk way’ speed add up to my running speed.” My son joined us and said, “it is simple daddy, I am giving her lessons in relative speeds, the usual A plus B stuff, Einstein?” Now the whole thing flashed back to memory. “Don’t misquote Einstein, now actually Sharada, if you walk on a moving thing, your final speed is slightly less than A plus B.” Both Sharada and my son didn’t take that babble seriously, given my age and the possibility of an early Alzheimer's I suppose. I didn’t want to be dismissed easily, though, “if you and the thing you walk on are both really fast and are about the speed of light, you can measure and find that the final speed is less than A plus B, an outcome of Lorentz Transformation. It ensures that you can’t beat the speed of light” Luckily my wife joined us and quipped “Lozenges or no lozenges, if you three are playing around here, we will miss our flight, even if you run on the moving walkway”. She was referring to my cough. I frowned, son smiled, and Sharada giggled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/airport-observations-977847.html
24-04-2021||Second Edit||Gender-balanced judiciary needed ||While women are underrepresented in most areas of national life, an important area where this is more acute and visible than others is the judiciary and related legal fields. This was recently brought to the attention of the Supreme Court by the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association through a petition which sought the court’s intervention to consider more women for appointment as judges in high courts. The petition noted that there are many qualified and experienced women lawyers who deserve to be appointed to the bench, and sought some provision or a ratio to be considered for their elevation. The court did not pass any order but the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde observed that many women lawyers did not accept invitations to join the bench because of domestic responsibilities. He also said that the judiciary did not need an attitudinal change in the matter, and that more capable candidates were needed.   As the Association pointed out, there are many women lawyers who will do well as judges and it is for the Supreme Court to take the initiative to appoint them as judges. In the last 70 years, only eight women have been appointed to the Supreme Court, out of a total of 247 judges. It has only one woman judge now. Though high courts have a sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges, only 661 were appointed, out of which there are only 73 women judges. There are five high courts with not a single woman judge. Attorney General KK Venugopal had some months ago brought to the attention of the Supreme Court the extremely low representation of women in the judiciary and sought 50% representation for them.   Women are poorly represented in other legal positions also. There are only 17 women designated as senior counsel in the Supreme Court as against 403 men. The exact number of women in tribunals and in lower courts is not known, but it is also likely to be low. Judiciary at all levels needs gender sensitisation in dealing with crimes against women. But it is not only cases that involve gender justice that need to be handled by women judges, though the women’s perspective is vital in such cases. Women interpret the law in any area as well as men and can deliver justice, it is their right to be equally represented on the bench. The traditional symbol of justice as the blindfolded goddess holding the scales is meaningless now seeing that women judges are very rare. The Supreme Court has the responsibility to change the situation, and it can do so through its collegium which selects judges for the higher courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/gender-balanced-judiciary-needed-977846.html
24-04-2021||South||Two killed, several injured during Thrissur Pooram||Two persons were killed and over 20 were injured after a branch of a banyan tree fell over them during the Thrissur Pooram festival in the wee hours of Saturday. According to sources, the incident occurred around 12.30 am when a percussion performance was going on near a banyan tree. The two dead were identified as Ramesh Nadathara and Radhakrishnan Paniyath, both attached to festival committee of the Thiruvambadi Devaswom. Those injured were admitted to nearby hospitals. Condition of the two was reported to be critical. Owing to the Covid-19 second wave, the Thrissur Pooram at Thekkinkadu ground premises of the Vadakkunnathan temple was scaled down. A major tragedy was averted as public was not allowed at the Pooram. Only those associated with the rituals and ceremonies were present. The mishap occurred during 'Madathil Varavu', an event associated with the Pooram. Owing to the sound of the percussion performance the noise of the tree branch breaking went unnoticed. Many people were trapped beneath the branch that fell. Other participants, police and Fire and Rescue Service personnel carried out the rescue operation. An elephant taking part in the event ran amok following the melee. But it was brought under control immediately averting further tragedy. The Pooram ceremonies were supposed to go on till Saturday morning with fireworks, but following the mishap the events were cut short. Last year's Pooram was also reduced to rituals only owing to Covid. This time also there was strong demand to reduce the Pooram to rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-killed-several-injured-during-thrissur-pooram-977952.html
24-04-2021||South||Telangana logs 7,432 coronavirus cases, 33 deaths||Telangana witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases as well as deaths in a single day ever with 7432 fresh infections and 33 more fatalities. Thetally stands at over 3.87 lakh while the toll rose to 1,961. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 1464, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri 606 and Rangareddy 504, a government bulletin said on Saturday providing details as of 8 PM on April 23. The total number of cumulative cases in the state stood at 3,87,106 while with 2,157 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,26,997. The state has 58,148 active cases and over 1.03 lakh samples were tested on Friday. Cumulatively, over 1.23 crore samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was over 3.32 lakh, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.51 per cent, while it was 1.1 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 86.16 per cent, while it was 83.5 per cent in the country. The state has 307 active micro containment zones. According to a separate release, over 33.38 lakh people in the state have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while over 4.66 lakh got their second shot also as of April 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-logs-7432-coronavirus-cases-33-deaths-977956.html
24-04-2021||South||Telangana to administer free Covid-19 vaccine to all, says Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao||The Telangana government will administer Covid-19 vaccine free of cost to the entire population in the state irrespective of their age, Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao announced on Saturday. Rao said it would cost more than Rs 2,500 crore to vaccinate everyone, and taking into consideration the importance of lives of people, this amount is worth spending. The CM issued instructions to the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and officers of the Medical and Health department in this regard, an official release said. Telangana's population, including those who came from different states and working in different sectors, is about 4 crore and among them 35 lakh have already been vaccinated. The rest of the people would be vaccinated free of cost, Rao said. Rao said Bharat Biotech is already producing Covid-19 vaccine and in addition to it, several institutions, including Dr Reddy's Laboratories, are coming forward to produce vaccine and hence there will be no dearth (of Covid- 19 vaccines) for vaccination. Rao, who recently tested positive for Covid-19, said in a couple of days after undergoing necessary medical tests and after completely recovering, he would hold a high-level review meeting with officials concerned and personally monitor the vaccination programme. In addition to the vaccination drive, Rao said necessary steps would be taken to see that there is no shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir as well as other medicines required for Covid-19 treatment. He said the government would go all out to protect people from coronavirus and there is no need to panic. A sanitation programme will also be taken up on a large-scale and the government will take all necessary care for hospital beds and medicines.However, people should not be careless in their day-to-day life, Rao said. The Chief Minister appealed to people not to hold mass gatherings and participate in processions and venture out only if absolutely necessary. He said the welfare of people is very important to the government and it will do all that can be done to protect them from coronavirus, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-administer-free-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-says-chief-minister-k-chandrashekhar-rao-978082.html
24-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to shut cinemas, places of worship, bars from April 26 amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Cinemas, places of worship, malls, bars and salons must be shut effective April 26, the Tamil Nadu government announced on Saturday reintroducing more curbs following surging Covid-19 cases. People from abroad and other states shall be allowed entry to Tamil Nadu only if they have registered in the portal and information on registration should be produced to authorities on arrival. Those from neighbouring union territory of Puducherry are exempted from the e-registration norm, the government said in an official release. Recreation clubs, all types of bars, auditoriums, big format shops, shopping complexes and malls shall not be allowed to operate, the government said. In all corporation and municipal areas, beauty parlours spas and salons are not allowed and only takeaway services should be offered in restaurants, hotels and tea shops. "In all places of worship, there will be no permission for the general public to offer worship," the government said. However, there was no bar on employees continuing with usual worship and prayer sessions, it added. The general public must not be allowed in temple consecration functions too. Sporting activities, except those related to international and national level events, would also not be permitted. Not more than 50 people may assemble for marriages and for funeral the upper limit is 25, the government said. The current restrictions like night curfew (10 pm-4 am), and Sunday lockdown would continue to be on. Groceries and all other kinds of retail outlets may continue to operate as usual and department stores could function without using an airconditioning facility and by sticking to the '50 per cent' customer capacity norm. The state government had announced reintroduction of curbs like permission only for 50 per cent seating capacity in cinemas from April 10 and days ago it postponed class 12 public examination and came up with complete lockdown on Sundays and night curfew from 10 pm to 4 am, effective April 20 as virus cases continued to surge. As on Friday, Tamil Nadu had close to one lakh active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-shut-cinemas-places-of-worship-bars-from-april-26-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-978135.html
24-04-2021||South||Horse race during Kerala weekend lockdown lands in soup||A horse race associated with a temple festival at Palakkad district in Kerala on Saturday landed in trouble as police stopped the event and arrested the organisers for flouting Covid-19 norms. 'Thathamangalam Kuthira Vela', a popular bi-yearly event associated with the Vetakarupu Swami Temple at Thathamangalam on the suburbs of Palakkad landed in trouble. The police registered cases against 25 organisers, 57 riders, and arraigned about 200 spectators. Eight organisers were already arrested. The horses were seized and handed over to their owners. According to police, permission was denied for the event in view of the Covid-induced restrictions, especially the two-day shutdown in the state on Saturday and Sunday. But the organisers conducted the event flouting the restriction and people gathered in large numbers. Subsequently, the police stopped the event. One horse also reportedly ran amok during the melee. Meanwhile, the streets of Kerala wore a deserted look on Saturday in view of the two-day shutdown imposed by the state government to contain the Covid spike. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged the people to abide by social distancing norms instead of waiting for police instruction. An all-party meeting has been callled on Monday to discuss further measures to contain the Covid-19 surge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/horse-race-during-kerala-weekend-lockdown-lands-in-soup-978146.html
24-04-2021||South||Kerala CM condemns high Covid-19 vaccine prices||Mounting pressure on the Centre to supply Covid-19 vaccines free of cost to states, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a fresh letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi citing that the vaccine price prescribed for the states were much higher than the international prices. Vijayan said, quoting reports, that the prices of Rs 400 to Rs 600 prescribed for Covishield for states and private sector was much higher that the international prices. Bangladesh was also reportedly purchasing Covid vaccine from Serum Institute at a lower price, he pointed out. Meanwhile, Covid-19 test positivity rate in Kerala remained above 20 per cent on Saturday also. A total of 26,685 fresh cases were reported on Saturday with a positivity rate of 20.35 percent. Kozhikode and Kochi are witnessing the highest surge. The Chief Minister said that as of now there was no concerns over oxygen shortage in Kerala. In the wake of allegations that some private hospitals were charging excessively for Covid treatment, the Chief Minister convened a meeting of private hospital managements and directed to charge only the rates prescribed by government. The hospitals were also directed to reserve at least 25 per cent beds for Covid patients and service of health workers and ambulances should be also made available to government on demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-condemns-high-covid-19-vaccine-prices-978267.html
24-04-2021||State||H D Kumaraswamy recovers from Covid-19||“Thanks to all your love, concern and prayers, I have recovered from Covid-19 and I have come back home from the hospital,” Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. ನಿಮ್ಮೆಲ್ಲರ ಪ್ರೀತಿ, ಅಕ್ಕರೆ, ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥನೆಯ ಫಲವಾಗಿ ನಾನು ಇಂದು ಕೊರೋನಾ ಸೋಂಕಿನಿಂದ ಚೇತರಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು ಆಸ್ಪತ್ರೆಯಿಂದ ಮನೆಗೆ ಬಂದಿದ್ದೇನೆ. ನಿಮ್ಮೆಲ್ಲರ ಪ್ರೀತಿಯ ಕಾಳಜಿಗೆ ನನ್ನ ಪ್ರಣಾಮಗಳು.1/2 The JD(S) leader was admitted to Apollo Hospital on Bannerghatta Road. “Based on doctors’ advice, it won’t be possible for me to meet the public for another two weeks,” he said, requesting cooperation from people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-d-kumaraswamy-recovers-from-covid-19-978004.html
24-04-2021||State||Vaccinate people in Karnataka free of cost from May 1: H D Kumaraswamy||The Karnataka government should vaccinate people in the state free of cost as announced by some other states when the inoculation for everyone aged above 18 years commences nationwide from May 1, former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said here on Saturday. "As the government has decided to vaccinate everyone above 18 years, I appeal (to the State government) to inoculate 6.5 crore people of the state, who are in financial distress, free of cost," Kumaraswamy tweeted. He pointed out that Jharkhand, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Sikkim have already announced free vaccination and the same should be done in Karnataka. He said that in the current scenario,people will not get vaccinated if they are charged for it and so the government should announce that the shots would be administered free of cost to all those aged above 18 years, from May 1. "Already Rs 400 crore has been earmarked to purchase one crore doses of vaccine. It will not be a burden to reserve Rs 2,000 crore for vaccines for a government, which has presented a budget of Rs 2.5 lakh crore," Kumaraswamy said. The JD(S) leader claimed that he had given the advice on free vaccination one-and-half months ago to the government "It will be a commendable decision to vaccinate everyone free of cost the way Pulse Polio vaccine was given," Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vaccinate-people-in-karnataka-free-of-cost-from-may-1-h-d-kumaraswamy-978231.html
24-04-2021||State||Actor Mandya Ramesh violates weekend curfew norm||Actor Mandya Ramesh faced embarrassment as he flouted Covid-19 weekend norms by not carrying a vehicle pass on Saturday. Ramesh along with his driver was going to a marriage ceremony by car. Periyapatna Town Police stopped the vehicle and asked for the pass near Bylakuppe. When Ramesh failed to produce it, Puttaraju, the Sub-Inspector, clarified that moving without a pass was a violation. He directed the actor to obtain a pass from the authorities concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-mandya-ramesh-violates-weekend-curfew-norm-978237.html
24-04-2021||State||Less than 10% have taken second Covid-19 vaccine dose in Karnataka||Even as the government has promised vaccination for all above 18 years from May 1, a look into the number of people who have been vaccinated until now shows that only a fraction has completed both doses of vaccination.  While close to 60 lakh people above the age of 44 have taken the first dose of vaccination in Karnataka, less than 10% have taken the second dose.  According to data, (as on April 22)as many as 25.99 lakh people between the age of 44-59 years and 32.50 lakh people above 60 years have taken the first dose of vaccine. However, in comparison, only 1.45 lakh between 44-59 years (5.59%) and 3.07 lakh above 60 years (9.4%) have taken the second dose.  This is owing to a combination of factors including disruption in availability of vaccines, change in protocol for the minimum period between first and the second doses, apart from fear and hesitancy among people. Speaking to DH, Dr C N Manjunath, member, State Covid Task Force, and director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said one of the reasons for the delay was the change in protocol for the second dose which said that it need not be taken within 28 days of the first dose. “While earlier it was believed that the second dose had to be taken by 28 days, now research has shown that the efficacy is better if it is taken between six to eight weeks. Many are waiting to complete this period,” he explained.  There is also fear about vaccination itself. For instance, there are apprehensions about blood clot formation from vaccination. “Reports of such instances in other countries have added to hesitation among people. However, such adverse effects are only in rare cases. We need to create more awareness,” he added.  The surge in cases with the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic is an added factor. Many elderly people have confined themselves to home and they fear coming to hospitals in such a situation. “This fear is understandable. This is also a contributing factor for lower numbers for second dose,” pointed out Rajani Nageshrao, State Deputy Director (Immunisation), department of health and family welfare. Some shortage of vaccine in recent weeks has further slowed down the process. To be able to make space for everyone above 18 years and accommodate the backlog of pending second dose of vaccine, the government will have to ramp up the number of vaccination centres, said Dr Madan Gaekwad, past president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/less-than-10-have-taken-second-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-karnataka-978288.html
24-04-2021||State||Karnataka HC vacation bench hearings by video-conferencing||The proceedings of the Karnataka High Court at the principal bench in Bengaluru and benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi will be only through video conferencing during the summer vacation. The notice issued in this regard has stated that both the advocates and party-in-persons will not be permitted to appear in person. “It is further informed that, in pending matters filed on or before 23rd April 2021, if there is an extreme urgency, the advocates/party-in-person may forward memo for posting to the official E-mail ID of the Registrar (Judicial) (regjudicial@hck.gov.in),” the notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-vacation-bench-hearings-by-video-conferencing-978289.html
24-04-2021||State||Favourable monsoon forecast raises hopes in Karnataka||Lessons from the past and new tools at the disposal of the state government will be key this southwest monsoon season, which in recent years has been characterised by extreme events causing extensive damages. With expectations riding high on the agriculture sector again -- it was the only sector to record a positive year-on-year growth in the pandemic-hit 2020 -- a favourable monsoon forecast has raised hopes among farmers.  Speaking to DH, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority’s (KSDMA) senior consultant G S Srinivasa Reddy says that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) will share a spatial distribution map of rainfall, along with monthly forecasts during the southwest monsoon. “These will help us in assessing flood-risk areas at the beginning of the month itself and prepare for extreme weather events better,” he says. The spatial distribution map will be shared with states for the first time, something Karnataka has been seeking for the past few years, according to Reddy. “Conditions in both the Pacific and Indian Ocean are promising for a good monsoon. Forecasts currently indicate well-distributed rainfall throughout the peninsula. There will be normal rainfall for 75% of Karnataka, while it is likely to be below normal in Kolar, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts,” he says.  Extreme events Karnataka has suffered flooding for three consecutive years - 2018, 2019 and 2020. G S Bhat, Chairman, Centre for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, IISc, says that despite the forecast there will be spatial and temporal variations. “A normal monsoon season does not mean there are no extreme events. Such events are part of the monsoon system,” he said. Predicting the magnitude of rainfall in a region is difficult, despite accurate rainfall forecast for a two-week period. However, the practice of reservoir management between states and an early alert system will help in reducing damages during extreme events. The devastating floods in 2019 were largely caused due to the sudden release of water to the Krishna river from upstream reservoirs in Maharashtra. Both Karnataka and Maharashtra have agreed to monitor water levels at reservoirs, with an eye on forecasts, to avoid sudden release of water from dams during periods of heavy rainfall. “Last year, too, we faced a crisis at the same time. We have some experience of dealing with it now,” KSDMA commissioner Manoj Rajan says, adding that a detailed plan is being prepared for the monsoon season to reduce the impact of extreme events on agriculture and the local population. Sowing The Covid-19 surge is unlikely to affect the monsoon sowing pattern in the state, Rajan says.  According to Reddy, the KSDMA senior consultant, good pre-monsoon showers meant that sowing activity will pick up, especially in the South Interior Karnataka region. “Karnataka witnessed good sowing in both Kharif and Rabi season last year. This year, too, both pre-monsoon and monsoon conditions appear favourable,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/favourable-monsoon-forecast-raises-hopes-in-karnataka-978292.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's active Covid-19 cases breach 2 lakh-mark||Karnataka on Friday recorded its highest single-day spike by logging nearly 27,000 new cases in 24 hours. Covid-19 fatalities crossed the 14,000-mark in the same period. The active cases of the state also breached the two lakh mark. Bengaluru Urban alone logged 16,662 new cases. A total of 26,962 fresh cases that were logged on Friday took the total infection tally to 12,74,959 and with that, the active tally touched 2,14,311, including 1,128 in the ICU. Also, the death toll rose to 14,075 as 190 fatalities were recorded. On Thursday also, the state had reported the single-day highest mark with 25,795 cases. As many as 10,46,554 people have been discharged cumulatively, including 8,697 on Friday, in the state. The health department said 1,77,466 tests were done on Friday, including 1,59,681 using the RT-PCR and other methods, taking the total tests done so far to 2.44 crore. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 124 deaths on Friday. The city has so far reported 6,15,581 infections and 5,574 deaths. There are 1,49,624 active cases. As many as 1,004 infections were reported in Tumakuru, 742 in Kalaburagi, 695 in Ballari, and 645 in Mysuru districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-active-covid-19-cases-breach-2-lakh-mark-977904.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 advisory panel recommends more stringent restrictions in Karnataka||With Bengaluru recording 1.5 lakh active coronavirus cases, the highest for any city in the country, the Karnataka Task Advisory Committee on Covid- 19 has asked the state government to impose stringent restrictions, including lockdown for 14 days to break the chain. The members of the panel have also recommended to the government to increase the number of beds to tide over the crisis. The TAC members also foresee the third wave Covid in October-November and have, accordingly, insisted that the government should complete the vaccination of vulnerable age groups before the next wave hits. Professor and Head of Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Giridhar Babu told PTI: "I have on record said that there are two main strategies. Firstly, we need to reduce the number of cases and that will happen only by a stringent lockdown for at least 14 days. Secondly, we should expand the bed capacity by taking as much as possible beds from all the private medical colleges, nursing homes and hospitals." According to him, the 14 days lockdown will reduce the number of infections. The TAC member said the state may witness the peak of the second wave by the May end or the first week of June. Eminent cardiologist and director of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, C N Manjunath said he had in November 2020 predicted the arrival of the second wave of Covid in March or April based on the pattern of spread and resurgence in Europe. While the Covid cases may come down by May end or the first week of June, people's behaviour for the next six to nine months will hold the key. "The most important is when the cases come down, guards should not be let down. Facemask wearing and physical distancing should continue while most importantly congregation should be banned," he told PTI. The health experts were of the opinion that the healthcare system is totally suffocated. "In the first phase, the cases were coming in a staggered manner. So the daily rise in a particular state was 200 to 300 cases. Now it's in thousands," the cardiologist said. Giridhar Babu too concurred with him. "The BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike) has informed the high court that there are no more ICU beds. So, the court has also said the situation is very scary. That will summarise the current status," Babu explained. Both were unanimous that the vaccination drive should be completed by October before the possible third wave hits the nation. "Vaccination should go on. By October- November the entire country should be vaccinated. Otherwise, we are in for a rude shock again," Manjunath said. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the officials at the civic agency's Covid war room are working over time. On the shortage of oxygen and essential drugs such as Remdesivir, the Chief Commissioner told the news agency that the whole country was grappling with it and the Centre and the state are dealing with it in an effective manner. To a query on the need for more ICU beds, he said already a few have been arranged and more have to be procured very soon. With 26,962 infections on Friday, the state touched the highest single-day spike in Covid cases. There were 190 deaths too. More alarming was that the active cases in the state crossed two lakh mark of which 1.5 lakh are in Bengaluru alone. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had during a video conference told the PM that the state needs about 1,500 tonnes of oxygen and two lakh vials of Remdesivir. To contain the alarming rise in Covid cases, the state has imposed night curfew and weekend curfews while ordering closure of many shops and business establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-advisory-panel-recommends-more-stringent-restrictions-in-karnataka-977996.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government in favour of lockdown, but people against it: Chief Secy||Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar on Saturday said the state government was in favour of a lockdown, but public opinion was against it.  “The government wants to do it,” Kumar said on continuing the weekend lockdown throughout the week. “Everyone says it’s best. But, people don’t want it. People want everything to be let loose and that those who’re dying should continue dying,” he said, caustically.  “All people should be responsible. The government alone cannot do everything. People should step out only if necessary. At least, they should wear masks,” Kumar said.  The Cabinet is scheduled to meet on April 26 and Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is reportedly going to solicit opinions from his ministers on imposing week-long lockdown-like restrictions.  The Cabinet is also expected to decide on providing free vaccines to citizens.  On April 20, the BS Yediyurappa administration stopped short of announcing a full-fledged lockdown, preferring instead night curfews and a weekend lockdown till May 4. These guidelines were issued soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised states to consider a lockdown as a last resort. According to Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar, the state government wanted to impose a lockdown. “But this was changed after the PM’s address,” he claimed.  On Friday, Karnataka recorded its highest single-day spike by logging 26,962 new cases in 24 hours. The number of active cases breached the two-lakh mark. Bengaluru Urban alone registered 16,662 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-in-favour-of-lockdown-but-people-against-it-chief-secy-978014.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to set up makeshift hospitals to tide over Covid-19 demand||Amid explosion of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, the state government has decided to set up makeshift hospitals with ICU and ventilator here and elsewhere in a fortnight and ordered the private facilities to reserve 80 per cent of the beds for coronavirus patients. Addressing reporters here on Saturday, state Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa took an important decision on Friday to set up 2,000-bed makeshift ICU with ventilators within the campus of the tertiary care hospitals in Bengaluru." Besides, makeshift hospitals with modular ICU with a capacity of about 250 beds will be established in Mysuru, Hubballi, Bidar, Belagavi and Shivamogga. "We have decided to set up these hospitals in a fortnight. You all know that we may have to import various equipment including ventilators..," the Minister said. According to him, a decision has been taken to increase the number of government beds for Covid from the existing 50 per cent to 80 per cent. "Most probably, the order will be issued by the end of the day," Sudhakar said. On the current wave of Covid, he said the trends have baffled the medical world and the rising coronavirus cases in India shows that a new variant has emerged in the country. "Other countries too faced the second wave, but the one in India is neither the UK, Brazil nor any other variant. In fact, the foreign countries are calling it the second wave of Indian strain and are doing genomic sequencing." Last year the demand for oxygen was not so high, but now people are suddenly complaining about breathing problems and demanding the life-saving gas. "Last time when our cases were at the peak, we used only 300 to 350 tonnes of oxygen. This time we have already utilised 500 tonnes of oxygen. You can understand if this goes up, how the oxygen can become deficient," he added. He recalled Yediyurappa asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to supply around 1,500 tonnes of oxygen for the next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-set-up-makeshift-hospitals-to-tide-over-covid-19-demand-978041.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi asks private hospitals to reduce Covid-19 treatment cost||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday requested major private hospitals in Karnataka to reduce the price of treatment for Covid-19 patients along the lines of BLDEA's hospital in Vijayapur. "We request private hospitals to offer treatment for Covid-19 at half the cost. They will get business later if lives are saved now," Joshi said. People should not panic about the availability of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients as the required arrangements are being made. Big cities are facing problems in supplying oxygen to Covid patients and the Union Government has increased the state's quota of oxygen, he noted. "AIIMS director and other experts have clarified that Remdesivir is not the ultimate solution but panic is created in this issue. The Centre is extending all co-operation to state governments to face the challenges caused by a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. People should also follow the norms introduced by the government, to check the spread of Covid-19 infection," Joshi said. Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar warned that strict action would be taken against private hospitals if they fail to reserve 50% beds for government-referred Covid-19 patients. Unlike the first wave of Covid-19, private hospitals are already treating Covid-19 patients this time and non-cooperation from them is unlikely, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-parliamentary-affairs-minister-pralhad-joshi-asks-private-hospitals-to-reduce-covid-19-treatment-cost-978076.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CII, Karnataka govt to form task force against Covid-19||The Karnataka government and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Saturday decided to form a task force to jointly fight against Covid-19. The task force would have representatives from the CII and the State Health Department. It would explore ways to quickly augment medical and non-medical infrastructure, including a massive call centre and modular ICU units, to manage the virus more effectively. The representatives of CII had a video conference with Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar and other senior officials of the Health Department here today. According to an official statement, the task force would help the State government on various aspects such as technology, knowledge, sourcing of medicines and medical equipment, and software applications. It would work on a master call centre, the statement said. The call centre is likely on the lines of ApthaMitra helpline set up during the first wave of the virus. Currently, there are multiple helplines for Covid-19 management and that is causing confusion among the public. This helpline is likely to act as a master helpline for all aspects pertaining to coronavirus The task force would work out the modalities soon. The training for the call centre executives is likely to be done by medical professionals from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, the department said. Speaking on the occasion, the Health Minister said the task force would help the government in managing Covid-19 with respect to technology, software applications, know-how, sourcing of medicines, medical equipment and oxygen. He said the task force would help the government to also set up about 3,000 to 5,000 Modular ICU units in the State to address the rising demand for ICU beds. The Minister urged the industry to channel their CSR funds for virus-related activities. Kris Gopalakrishnan, former CII president and co-founder of Infosys, Vikram Kirloskar, former CII president and CMD of Kirloskar Systems, Dr Devi Shetty, cardiologist, and Ramesh Ramadurai, CII's Karnataka chairman, were among those representing the CII.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cii-karnataka-govt-to-form-task-force-against-covid-19-978124.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls lockdown-like curbs on all days of the week||Karnataka has hinted at lockdown-like measures during all days of the week and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet is likely to take a call on this on Monday. "The government wants to do it," Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said, on continuing the weekend curfew on all days of the week. The weekend curfew is akin to a lockdown: prohibition on movement of people, no public transportation for commuting within a city, essential shops open only between 6 am and 10 am and so on. "But, people don’t want it. People want everything to be let loose and their attitude is that those who are dying can die. What can we do?" Kumar said, caustically. Health Minister K Sudhakar said imposition of tougher measures will be discussed in the Cabinet meeting. "All our Cabinet colleagues will express their opinions. Finally, the CM and Cabinet will decide," Sudhakar said. "From my department's side, we will give our suggestions. Ultimately, it is the wisdom of the Cabinet." The Cabinet is also expected to decide on providing free vaccines to citizens. The biggest worry for the Yediyurappa administration is the Covid-19 situation in Bengaluru where cases are rising and the healthcare systems overburdened. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the weekend curfew was a success. He, too, said Monday's Cabinet meeting will discuss the possibility of imposing daytime curfews. Among those in favour of a lockdown is former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, who pitched for it at the all-party meeting Governor Vajubhai R Vala chaired earlier this week. On April 20, the Yediyurappa administration stopped short of announcing a full-fledged lockdown, preferring night curfews and a weekend lockdown till May 4, keeping in mind the need to keep economic activities going. Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar claimed that the state government wanted to impose a lockdown, but decided against it after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said lockdowns should be a last resort. Chief Secretary Kumar said the government was doing its best to handle the second Covid-19 wave. "Nothing can be done overnight. For us to put an oxygen line for a ventilator, it will take a minimum of 15 days. There is a limit to the number of beds available. Even if we get more beds, we will need more doctors and nurses," he said. "People should be responsible. The government alone can't do everything. People should, at least, should wear masks. That is as good as vaccination."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-lockdown-like-curbs-on-all-days-of-the-week-978144.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka crosses 13 lakh Covid-19 cases with 29,438 fresh infections, 208 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday crossed the 13 lakh infection mark since the outbreak of Covid-19 with the highest single-day spike of 29,438 infections, while 208 deaths took the total fatalities to 14,283, the health department said. The highest single-day infection was on Friday with 26,962 fresh cases. The state has now 2,34,483 active cases including 1,280 in the ICU. According to the health bulletin, 10,55,612 people were discharged cumulatively including 9,058 today in the state. Bengaluru urban district accounted for 17,342 infections, 149 deaths and 1,62,171 active cases. As many as 4,646 patients were discharged on Saturday. Tumakuru reported 1,559 infections and three fatalities,while 823 cases were recorded in Hassan, 791 in Kalaburagi, 731 in Ballari, 688 in Mandya, 684 in Bengaluru Rural, 536 in Mysuru, 517 in Dakshina Kannada, 506 in Chikkaballapura and 497 in Raichur. Cases were also reported in Bagalkote, Belagavi, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Kodagu, Kolar, Koppal, Ramanagar, Shivamogga, Udupi, Yadgir, Vijayapura and Uttara Kannada. The department said eight fatalities were reported in Kalaburagi, six in Kolar, five in Dharwad, four in Mysuru, three each in Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Haveri, Mandya and Shivamogga, two each in Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Hassan, Kodagu, Raichur, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura. Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura and Chikkamagaluru reported one fatality each. Following rising Covid-19 cases, the state increased RT-PCR testing as well. There were 1,89,613 tests done on Saturday including 1,73,400 using RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done to 2.45 crore, the department added. Cumulatively, the state has done 85,63,208 inoculations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-crosses-13-lakh-covid-19-cases-with-29438-fresh-infections-208-deaths-978207.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Weekend curfew: Karnataka taxi, auto drivers seek aid||The undeclared shutdown on Friday followed by the weekend lockdown has hit the auto and taxi drivers hard, with many urging the government to come out with an aid package before resorting to such moves. Abhishek D, a taxi driver, said most of the time, the government had been doing the greatest disservice to them with such sudden decisions. “Till last week, the government assured us that there would be no lockdown. Suddenly, they announced a weekend curfew. Even before we could realise, the curfew came into force on Friday itself. They had so much time to prepare us. These last-minute decision-making has made life in the city uncertain,” he said. Tanveer Pasha, president of Ola, Taxi for Sure and Uber Owners and Drivers Association, said they will support a lockdown if it helps break the chain of infections, but demanded that the government support the drivers. G Sampath, general secretary of Adarsh Auto Union, said the government had failed to consider the unorganised sector in its decisions. “We are people whose life and livelihood is dependent on the day’s earnings. The government has failed us time and again,” he said. He referred to the government’s promise last year that over 7.5 lakh drivers will get Rs 5,000. “In the end, less than 2.9 lakh drivers received and they had to struggle a lot to get that amount. Now, there is another talk of lockdown. Let them implement a programme to provide fixed aid to the community for three months, before taking such decisions,” he said. Drivers who spoke to DH echoed the sentiments, noting that their income had gone down considerably in the pandemic period. Prakash Kammatgi said he had to pay Rs 5,000 per month to service the loan on his autorickshaw. “We can’t pick passengers after 7.30 pm as dropping someone to a faraway place will land us in trouble during night curfew,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/weekend-curfew-karnataka-taxi-auto-drivers-seek-aid-978286.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Police get tough as Karnataka weekend curfew comes into effect||Police got tough in the urban areas of Karnataka on Saturday as a stringent weekend curfew came into effect to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lathi-wielding policemen dotted all the important roads, junctions, and markets of the cities to ensure that no one violated the norm. In some places, they forced the shopkeepers to wind up their businesses as they tried to open the shops with a hope that there was no prohibition on the sale of essential goods. The government imposed a stringent weekend curfew till May 4, which would come into effect from 9 PM on Friday till 6 AM on Monday in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. The decision was taken as the daily caseload reached close to 30,000 cases a day on Saturday while the daily fatality exceeded the 200-mark during the day. In addition to it, there were about 2.35 lakh active cases in Karnataka, most of which were from the capital city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-get-tough-as-karnataka-weekend-curfew-comes-into-effect-978293.html
24-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre allocates additional oxygen supply to Karnataka, Yediyurappa thanks Modi||Following the state government's plea to supply additional oxygen cylinders to Karnataka for Covid-19 treatment, the Centre on Saturday has approved an additional daily oxygen allocation of 500 MT, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has stated on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, Yediyurappa thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Minister DV Sadananda Gowda for increasing the allocation. At present, the daily allocation of oxygen is 300 MT and this has been increased to 800 MT, Yediyurappa stated. At the same time, the Remdesivir allocation has also been increased from 50,000 to 1.22 lakh till April 30, he tweeted.  On Friday, Karnataka's CM had indicated a severe shortage of oxygen in a video conference with Narendra Modi and had said that several healthcare facilities would have to be shut if the Centre did not provide additional oxygen.  Meanwhile, earlier in the day, Yediyurappa held meetings with all DCs and directed them to immediately alert officials concerned if there was a shortage of oxygen in their respective districts. The DCs have to ensure that there is no shortage of oxygen at any cost. They could reach out either to district incharge ministers or the Chief Minister himself to give updates in this regard, Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-allocates-additional-oxygen-supply-to-karnataka-yediyurappa-thanks-modi-978316.html
24-04-2021||West||Virar fire: Hospital directors booked for culpable homicide||After 15 patients were killed in a fire in the early hours of Friday in a hospital in Virar in Palghar district, its directors and management were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other offences, police said. The blaze erupted in the ICU located on the second floor of the four-storeyed Vijay Vallabh Hospital, a private facility, shortly after 3 am on Friday. A case was registered under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 and 338 (both dealing with rash or negligent act endangering human life) and 38 (acts done by several people in furtherance of common intention) of IPC, a Virar police station official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/virar-fire-hospital-directors-booked-for-culpable-homicide-977893.html
24-04-2021||West||Mumbai's colour-coded sticker system for vehicles discontinued||The color-coded sticker system, which was recently introduced by the Mumbai police to ensure smooth movement of vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services during the ongoing restrictions, has been discontinued, an official said on Saturday. This decision comes in the wake of the state police's move to reintroducing the e-pass system on Friday for inter-state and inter-district movement of vehicles during the curbs. Some people had expressed displeasure that having two systems at the same time - colour-coded stickers for Mumbai and e-passes at state level - would create confusion. "The decision to discontinue the colour-coded sticker system for Mumbai was taken on Friday and an order to that effect was issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) late last night," the official said. Police have recently issued prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC in Mumbai as one of the measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. They had introduced the colour coding system for the vehicles last week. While the red colour sticker was for vehicles carrying doctors, medical staff and providing medical equipments, the green sticker was for the vehicles engaged in supplying grocery, vegetables, bakery and food items. Yellow stickers were meant for the employees engaged in essential services, including civic staff, electricity, telephone, press and all others. The intention was to avoid unwanted vehicles on roads during the prohibitory orders, the official said. However, with stricter restrictions in place from Thursday night, Maharashtra Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey on Friday reintroduced the e-pass system for all the vehicles in emergency and essential services across the state. The decision to stop the color-coded sticker initiative was conveyed to all police officers in Mumbai, the official added. Taking to Twitter, the city police said, "Dear Mumbaikars. The red, yellow, green #EmergencyStickers categorisation is being discontinued. However, thorough checks shall continue & we hope you will stand by us in #TakingOnCorona & avoid all non-essential/non-emergency movement outside home #StayHomeStaySafe."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-colour-coded-sticker-system-for-vehicles-discontinued-977940.html
24-04-2021||West||Man undergoes knee replacement surgery in Mumbai amid lockdown||In a rare case, the Apollo Spectra Mumbai successfully performed a bilateral total knee replacement surgery on a 62-year-old Surat man suffering from osteoarthritis of both the knees with morbid obesity, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Sunil Jariwala, an auto-rickshaw driver suffered from knee pain owing to his age, which was aggravated by his obesity.  With the Covid lockdown announced in India, he had to stay home. Dr Chirag Patel, Orthopedic Surgeon, Apollo Spectra Mumbai said when the patient consulted him, he weighed 135 kgs (BMI > 50) and his radiographs showed severe osteoarthritis of the knees.  "After counseling, he was scheduled to undergo staged bilateral total knee replacement surgery," he said. “Operative challenges in performing a knee replacement in severely obese patients include inadequate surgical exposure, suboptimal bone resection, and imperfect ligament balancing. Aggressive rehabilitation protocols were followed for an early discharge from the hospital given the current covid scenario. Eight weeks after the second knee replacement, he is back on his feet and has resumed driving his auto rickshaw," said Dr Patel. "Earlier, I ignored my knee pain but as matters became worse, I couldn’t drive a rickshaw properly. During the pandemic, I piled up excess kilos, couldn’t move. constantly requiring assistance. I thought I will never be able to walk again or drive an auto rickshaw.” said Jariwala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-undergoes-knee-replacement-surgery-in-mumbai-amid-lockdown-977961.html
24-04-2021||West||CBI searches former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's house in Nagpur||The CBI is carrying out searches at former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's residence and other locations here on Saturday after it registered a case against him in connection with allegations of corruption. A team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had arrived in Nagpur on Friday night and launched searches on Saturday morning, sources in the agency said. Deshmukh's house in Nagpur is located at GPO Square in the Civil Lines area. The CBI team is also likely to visit Katol town, Deshmukh's constituency, located around 60 kms from Nagpur, they said. The CBI has registered an FIR against Deshmukh after carrying out a preliminary enquiry on the orders of the Bombay High Court to look into the allegations of bribery against him levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The CBI is also carrying out searches at a number of locations, including Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai. Deshmukh had resigned as a minister earlier this month after the high court asked the CBI to probe the allegations against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-searches-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukhs-house-in-nagpur-977973.html
24-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: Oxygen Express reaches Nashik, four tankers unloaded||The first Oxygen Express carrying oxygen for Covid-19 patients arrived in Nashik on Saturday. The special train came from Visakhapatnam and took a day's time to reach Nashik. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has thanked his Orrisa counterpart Naveen Patnaik for sparing oxygen for the worst-affected state. “I thank him for helping in procurement and transportation of oxygen from Odisha to Maharashtra and for standing by each other in these crucial times, as one nation truly,” Thackeray said. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the train has reached Nashik and four oxygen tankers have been unloaded to provide additional oxygen to the patients. ‘Oxygen Express’ train loaded with liquid medical oxygen tankers from Vizag has reached Nashik. 4 Oxygen tankers have been unloaded to provide additional oxygen to the patients. Railways took the movement of oxygen express as a challenge and successfully ran the first oxygen express from Kalamboli to Vizag and back upto Nasik. The moment railways got the request for, made ramps at various places immediately for the movement of liquid medical oxygen tankers. It must be appreciated the work done by the team in Mumbai as the ramp was made in only 24 hrs time at Kalamboli. “For the movement of Ro-Ro service Railways had to map the entire route considering the various constraints like Ghat sections, Road Over Bridges, Tunnels, Curves, Platform canopies, Over Head Equipment etc. at certain locations. Because height is an important aspect in this movement, Railways mapped the route via Vasai. The model of road tanker T1618 with a height of 3320 mm was found feasible to be placed on flat wagons. The longer route via Vasai was charted as Over Dimensional Cargo (ODC) is not permitted to travel in Ghat sections over Mumbai division,” a Central Railway spokesperson said.  As oxygen is cryogenic and hazardous chemical, Railways have to avoid sudden acceleration, deceleration, have to check pressures in between, especially when it is in loaded condition. The distance between Kalamboli and Vizag is more than 1,850 kms which was completed by these tankers only in about 50 hours. 7 tankers with more than 100 tons LMO (Liquid Medical Oxygen) were loaded in 10 hrs and transported back to Nagpur in only 21 hrs. Railways unloaded 3 tankers in Nagpur yesterday, and the remaining 4 tankers reached Nashik at 10.25 am today, in just 12 hours. “Transportation of oxygen through trains is faster over long distances than road transport. Transportation through rail takes 2 days while through road it takes 3 days. Trains can run 24 hours in a day but truck drivers need to take halts etc. The green corridor is created for the faster movement of these tankers and monitoring of movement was done at the apex level as we know that it’s a difficult time for our Nation and Nation is first for us,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-oxygen-express-reaches-nashik-four-tankers-unloaded-977983.html
24-04-2021||West||Nobody above law: NCP, Sena on CBI action against Deshmukh||With the CBI conducting searches at the premises of former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh, the NCP on Saturday said nobody was above the law, but added that the truth behind the "political conspiracy" against him and the state government would come out through the high court-ordered probe. Talking to reporters, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said, "Nobody is above the law. Anil Deshmukh is cooperating with the agencies." He said he was not aware if any FIR has been registered against Deshmukh. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is yet to reveal for whom suspended police officer Sachin Waze was working when he planted explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, Malik said. "What was the role of former Mumbai police commissioner (Param Bir Singh) in the case. All these actions are taking place based on the ex-commissioner's letter," he alleged. "This is nothing but misuse of power to malign the state government and Anil Deshmukh. We have full faith in the judiciary and know that the truth behind the political conspiracy will be exposed through the probe," he said. The CBI on Saturday conducted searches at Deshmukh's premises in Mumbai and his hometown Nagpur after registering a case against him in connection with allegations of corruption levelled against him by Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, had resigned as a minister earlier this month after the high court asked the CBI to probe the allegations against him. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also said that nobody was above the law. "It is not correct to comment on CBI's action. Anil Deshmukh had already given his statement in the case. CBI is doing its work, similarly high court and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are doing their own work," he said. "If there is a political agenda in the case against Anil Deshmukh, then the MVA government will take a stand. Hope the action against Deshmukh is restricted to directives of the high court," he said. On March 25, Param Bir Singh had filed a criminal public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh, who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nobody-above-law-ncp-sena-on-cbi-action-against-deshmukh-978021.html
24-04-2021||West||BJP mounts pressure on Shiv Sena, demands action against Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab||The BJP on Saturday stepped up its demand for action against Maharashtra Parliamentary Affairs and Transport Minister Anil Parab, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The demand surfaced hours after the CBI raided former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's house in Nagpur. It may be recalled that suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze had made a handwritten application before a special NIA court alleging that Deshmukh and Parab were asking him to extort money. Besides, he had also claimed that Darshan Ghodawat, a person close to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, also approached him, asking him to extort money. “Now that investigations have started against Deshmukh, we demand that there should be a CBI probe against Prarab and Ghodawat,” said state BJP President Chandrakant Patil. “CBI is in action….after Deshmukh would be Parab,” said senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, urging that other agencies like the NIA, IT, ED, and SFIO should join the investigation. After Vaze had made the charges, Parab, a senior Shiv Sena leader, has denied the allegations swearing by his two daughters and late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mounts-pressure-on-shiv-sena-demands-action-against-maharashtra-transport-minister-anil-parab-978030.html
24-04-2021||West||7 die in Maharashtra as they drink sanitiser as substitute for alcohol||In a shocking incident, at least seven persons died after they consumed alcohol-based hand sanitiser in Yavatmal district because of unavailability of liquor due to strict lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra. The incident was reported from Wani in Yavatmal district of Vidarbha region.   “Seven persons have died after consuming hand sanitizer,” Yavatmal district police officials said, adding that the deceased included manual labourers, hawkers and rickshaw-wallas. While post-mortem of three deceased could be done, relatives of the other four had performed the last rites without informing authorities. Detailed investigations are in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/7-die-in-maharashtra-as-they-drink-sanitiser-as-substitute-for-alcohol-978040.html
24-04-2021||West||Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel tests positive for Covid-19||Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel on Saturday informed that he has tested positive for coronavirus infection. Patel, 64, who also holds the health portfolio, was admitted to the U N Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre here after testing positive. "I had my RT-PCR test done after showing mild symptoms of coronavirus, the result of which is positive. On the advice of doctors, I am getting admitted to UN Mehta Hospital," he tweeted. "I urge all of you who recently came in contact with me to take care of their health," Patel added. Earlier in the day, he participated in a programme in Gandhinagar which was attended by UnionHome Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. He was also with Shah and Rupani on Friday. Patel had received his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine around a month ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-deputy-cm-nitin-patel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-978091.html
24-04-2021||West||Gujarat's daily Covid-19 cases breach 14,000-mark||Continuing to display an upward trajectory in daily new Covid-19 cases, Gujarat on Saturday reported 14,097 cases, taking the cumulative figure to 4,81,737 while the death toll reached 6,171 with deaths of as many as 152 patients in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases increased to 1,07,594. The recovery rate has reduced to nearly 76 per cent from the 96 per cent that was recorded a month ago.  Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Nitin Patel was admitted to UN Mehta hospital in Ahmedabad after he tested positive for Covid-19. Resident Medical Officer Dr Kaushik Barot told DH that Patel's condition was stable. The deputy CM also tweeted, saying, "After developing symptoms, I got myself tested and was found positive. On doctors' advice I am getting admitted to UN Mehta hospital. I am requesting everyone who came in close contact with me to take care of their health."  Earlier in the day, Patel was present with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Union Home Minister Amit Shah at the inauguration of an oxygen plant in Gandhinagar. On Friday evening, Patel had accompanied Rupani and Shah at the newly set up 950-bed hospital at GMDC ground. He had also held meetings with health officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-daily-covid-19-cases-breach-14000-mark-978246.html
24-04-2021||West||36% in Mumbai have Covid-19 antibodies, says report||Nearly 36.3 per cent people in Mumbai are found to have antibodies, according to the latest round of sero-survey done by BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) coinciding with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Overall 36.3% seropositivity is found in 10,197 blood samples collected from citizens from across all 24 municipal wards of Mumbai, according to the report. According to the survey, 35.02% seropositivity is found amongst men and 37.12% in women. There has been an increase in the percentage of sero positivity in blood samples taken from non-slum areas; where as decline reported in the slums areas. The sero survey, conducted using unlinked anonymous sampling method, found positivity/IgG antibodies in 36.30%, according to the Public Health Department of BMC. With the initiative of BMC, the first sero survey of the citizens was conducted in July 2020 in three wards. The second sero survey, was conducted in August 2020 in the same three wards. Now, results of the third sero survey conducted in March 2021 across all 24 wards of Mumbai is being released. For the survey, blood samples collected at municipal dispensaries were tested. The survey also included blood samples collected from private medical laboratories. This sero survey was conducted on blood samples collected from individuals who were not vaccinated. All blood samples have been tested for antibodies at BMC’s Molecular Biology Laboratory in the Kasturba Hospital premises. In the lastest sero survey, 41.6% seropositivity was found in the blood samples taken from municipal dispensaries  in slum areas. The first survey, conducted in July 2020, found 57% seropositivity in slum areas of 3 wards and during the second sero survey conducted in August 2020 in these 3 wards, sero positivity was found to be 45% in slum areas. Blood samples taken from private laboratories in non-slum areas showed sero positivity of 28.5% in the latest survey this year. In the first survey conducted in July 2020, seropositivity in the non-slum areas was 16% in 3 wards and during the second sero survey, conducted in August 2020, sero positivity was found to be 18% in non-slum areas. During the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of patients are being detected from non-slum areas. Findings from the survey, therefore, appear to corroborate with the current trend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/36-in-mumbai-have-covid-19-antibodies-says-report-978302.html
