25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere corporation engineer dies of Covid-19||As many as two persons including Davangere city corporation engineer Murugendrappa (56) died of Covid-19. According to the health department, the engineer tested positive on April 19 and was admitted to Bapuji hospital in the city. He breathed his last in the hospital. A 56-year old man from Nerlige village in Davangere taluk also died of Covid in the district's general hospital.  The district recorded 266 deaths so far. Shivamogga district recorded three deaths on Saturday. So far the district recorded 362 deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-corporation-engineer-dies-of-covid-19-978325.html
25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Increase in number of people getting vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada||With surge in Covid-19 cases, the Health department has intensified the vaccination drive. A total of 11,655 people were vaccinated on Friday. So far, 2,96,345 people had received vaccination doses in Dakshina Kannada district. Frontline workers too have shown interest and had achieved 105.79% success. The progress in above 45 years category in the district is 20.62%. On Friday, as many as 523 health workers had availed the first jab while 244 availed the second jab. A total of 207 frontline workers availed the first dose and 209 persons availed the second dose of vaccine. A total of 4,957 people above 45 years old received the first jab and 625 people were inoculated with the second jab. As many as 2,610 people above 60 years received the first dose, and 2,570 received the second dose of vaccine. As on April 23, 44,804 health workers out of the target of 52,523 have received the first dose of vaccine, while 29,834 have received the second dose. Among the frontline workers, 8,601 persons have received the first dose, while 5,520 have received the second jab. The target is to inoculate 4,161,23 people above 45 years in the district. Of which 85,818 have received the first dose and 3,297 have received the second dose. Of the target of 2,01,000 beneficiaries above 60 years, a total of 1,04,860 have received the first jab and 13,611 have received the second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/increase-in-number-of-people-getting-vaccinated-in-dakshina-kannada-978375.html
25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two injured in clash in Mangaluru prison||Two prisoners suffered injuries in a clash among jail inmates at district prison in Mangaluru on Sunday. According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, the injured are Ansar who was arrested by Mulki police last month and Jainuddin who was arrested on the  charges of dacoity in Moodbidri recently. The accused Sameer had assaulted the duo using a spoon and other kitchenware. Ansar suffered injuries on his arm and leg, while Jainuddin has suffered injuries on his shoulders and back.  The accused Sameer was arrested in a robbery case reported in Panambur and has been lodged in prison since last July. City police commissioner and other police officers have visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-injured-in-clash-in-mangaluru-prison-978492.html
25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru NGO develops face masks that grow into plants when discarded||Activists engaged in removing trash from beaches have reported that a huge quantity of used surgical masks are finding their way to rivers and sea. They have now found novel ways to tackle the issue. One organisation doing so is Paper Seed Co, a social enterprise located at Pakshikere on the outskirts of Mangaluru.  “Masks which are meant to protect humans are also causing damage to environment and marine ecology,” said 36-year-old Nitin Vas, founder of Paper Seed Co.  “In order to minimise the threat posed by these masks, which are plastic fibers, we decided to launch eco-friendly face masks that will grow into plants when discarded,” Vas said. Paper Seed Co has developed the expertise of making paper embedded with plant seeds since 2017. They began experimenting with masks when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. “The masks are made using recycled rags and inner linings are made from cotton cloth. It is thick enough to give protection to users,” he said.   The outer layer is embedded with seeds of tomato and basil (tulasi). Though made from cotton, the masks are single-use only. When disposed of in soil, the seeds sprout under ideal conditions. “We are planning to embed passion fruit seeds in future, so that even when thrown in public places, they grow into fruit-bearing plants,” Vas said. Though a Dutch firm and another venture in Uttarakhand are also into selling face-mask-seed papers, Paper Seed’s face masks have made a huge impact online. “Each mask is priced at Rs 25, as emphasis is on the disposal after single use. Its compostability is the core-feature of the product,” said Vas, who is also an artist. Paper Seed has manufactured around 500 such masks. These masks were ordered by a few NGOs working for the conservation of the environment in Chennai, Bengaluru, Udupi and other places. “If the demand increases, a batch of locals will be trained to make the eco-friendly masks,” he said. Paper Seed village  Paper Seed’s previous popular innovations include Mangaluru toys, modelled on the lines of Channapatna toys. The hand-made toys saw good demand and were sent to the US and Chennai. Paper Seed had launched eco-friendly rakhis with seeds of tomato, cucumber, capsicum, tulsi, etc. embedded into them for Raksha Bandhan. Vas dreams of building a Paper Seed village with a bigger workshop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-ngo-develops-face-masks-that-grow-into-plants-when-discarded-978500.html
25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||90 couples to tie nuptial knots at Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple on April 25||Amid the weekend curfew, as many as 90 couples will enter into wedlock at the Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple on Sunday. Sources in the Temple said that April 25 and 26 is considered an auspicious day. Thus, many had decided to get their marriages solemnised on the same day. Only 10 people were allowed to take part in the marriage from the bride and the groom’s side. To ensure that there was no rush, the marriage will be held in front of the temple, Saraswathi Sadana, dining hall and other places in the temple. A uniform ‘muhurtha’ for the marriages was avoided to prevent large gatherings at a time, sources added. MLA Umanath Kotian said that the highest number of marriages had been scheduled at the Kateel temple on Sunday and Monday. Only 10 people will be allowed to accompany the bride and the groom. There is no need for any confusion, he said. On April 25, 90 marriages, 52 marriages (April 26), 49 (April 29), 26 (May 2) and 27 (May 3), have been registered at the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/90-couples-to-tie-nuptial-knots-at-kateel-durgaparameshwari-temple-on-april-25-978507.html
25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chorus grows for release of elephant Kusha back into wilderness||Several animal rights activists, including MP Maneka Gandhi, have urged the Forest department officials to set free Kusha, an elephant that was recaptured on March 30. The elephant is housed at Dubare elephant camp in Karnataka's Kodagu district. After his recapture, Kusha was kept in a kraal at Dubare elephant camp to treat a wound on its leg. However, a team sent by the Chief Wildlife Warden claimed that there were no wounds. The Chief Wildlife Warden intervened and ordered to release the elephant from the kraal, according to Maneka. In a communication, Maneka said that the elephant was released, but with heavy short chains on his front legs, affecting his movement. She has urged the authorities concerned to remove the chain without any delay. According to Dr Amardeep Singh, veterinary surgeon of People For Animals (PFA), Mysuru, who visited the camp, there was no wound and the elephant was in a good condition. According to one of the activists, as Kusha is a wild jumbo, it cannot be denied its true home - the forest. The elephant has not killed any human being in the past and alienating him from the wilderness is an act of cruelty. “To recapture Kusha and put him in a kraal after he escaped into the forest from the elephant camp a year ago does not make logical sense on the part of the Forest department. If the department is worried about him possibly attacking humans or raiding crops, he can be radio-collared and tracked. One more chance for freedom should be given to Kusha,” he felt. According to the activists, the Forest department has radio-collared seven elephants to keep track of them, at Male Mahadeshwara Hills in Chamarajanagar division. Let Kusha be the eighth elephant, they said. The 27-year-old elephant escaped from Dubare camp in 2019. All efforts by the mahouts and Forest Department officials to persuade Kusha to return failed, as he refused to obey their commands.  Separated from companion Kusha had moved into the woods to find a companion. He has been forcefully separated from his mate. He has been shedding tears and trumpeting, said a staffer at the camp.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chorus-grows-for-release-of-elephant-kusha-back-into-wilderness-978738.html
25-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||At Aihole, heritage structures turn into open toilets||The monuments of Aihole -- the earliest capital of the Chalukya Empire and the cradle of Indian temple architecture -- are lying in utter neglect. A few heritage structures have been converted into open toilets by the villagers. Many locals were spotted defecating on the premises of the 12th century Tryambaka Temple, built in the Kalyani Chalukya style of architecture, and in the interiors of the Rachi Temple. A walk through the temple town will make you realise that most of the monuments are encroached upon. The locals have turned the heritage structures into cattle sheds and godowns to store their produce and keep agri equipment. The temple premises are also used for drying/threshing grain. A few locals have made some heritage structures their home. The district administration in October 2018 had decided to relocate 1,052 families and 51 acres of land for the same was also identified. But the decision has since remained on paper. Piles of garbage, unbearable stink, massive encroachment and poor access have made these heritage structures uninviting. This has resulted in a fall in tourist footfall. Ironically, the Archaeological Survey of India has put up notice boards here warning people of imprisonment and/or fine if the heritage structures and their premises are misused. But, this hasn’t deterred the locals, says Ishtalinga Sirsi, a guide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/at-aihole-heritage-structures-turn-into-open-toilets-978740.html
25-04-2021||National||Sitting SC Judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar passes away||Sitting Supreme Court judge, Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar passed away on Saturday, following a prolonged illness. He was 62. Sitting Supreme Court judge, Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar passed away on Saturday, following prolonged illness. In a message, Assistant Registrar, Supreme Court, Gagan Soni said Justice Shantanagoudar has left for heavenly abode on the late evening hour of Saturday. Sources said he was not keeping well for some time and admitted to a hospital in New Delhi. He breathed his last on Saturday evening. Justice Shantanagoudar, who hailed from Dharwad in North Karnataka, was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He was to retire on May 4, 2023. After having enrolled as an advocate in 1980, he practised mainly in civil, criminal and Writ matters.  He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court in 2003 and as a permanent Judge in 2004.  He was appointed as Chief Justice of Kerala High Court in 2016, before his elevation to the Supreme Court a year later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitting-sc-judge-justice-mohan-m-shantanagoudar-passes-away-978330.html
25-04-2021||National||Centre hikes Remdesivir allocation to states||Centre on Saturday night substantially increased the allocation of Remdesivir to states after getting the industry to step up production of the anti-viral drug prescribed for patients with mild infection of Covid-19. Against the overall allocation of 11 lakh vials to state governments till April 30, the Centre decided to hand out an additional five lakh vials as Covid-19 cases continued to surge across the country. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state by the pandemic, would get 4.35 lakh vials of Remdesivir, while Gujarat has been allocated 1.65 lakh vials of the anti-viral injection. The Centre has given a nearly five-fold increase in the allocation made to Karnataka from 25,400 vials on April 21 to 1.22 lakh vials on Saturday. “After a detailed review of state-wise allotment of Remdesivir with Department of Pharmaceuticals, the substantial increase has been made in overall production and allotment to all states,” Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said. Initially, the government had made the allocation only to 19 states that had a high disease burden. But on Saturday, every state and union territory had been allocated the anti-viral drug. Uttar Pradesh has been allocated 1.61 lakh vials of remdesivir, Madhya Pradesh (95,000), Chhattisgarh (75,000), Delhi (72,000), Rajasthan (67,000), Andhra Pradesh (60,000), Tamil Nadu (59,000), Bihar (40,000), Telangana and Haryana (35,000 each), West Bengal (32,000). On Wednesday, the Centre had said the allocation includes bulk purchases made by the States as well as supplies through private distribution channels. “This initial allocation is dynamic and will be reviewed constantly in consultation with the States, to ensure all needs can be met within the available supplies,” an official statement said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-remdesivir-allocation-to-states-978337.html
25-04-2021||National||The ‘good doctor’ Harsh Vardhan loses his cool||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan is an angry man these days. Former prime minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh got a taste of Vardhan’s mood recently. On April 18, when Manmohan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, suggesting a few changes to the country’s faltering Covid-19 vaccination programme, Vardhan didn’t like it. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said it was “unfortunate and condemnable” on part of the Health Minister to write a “politically motivated” reply to the former prime minister who had made “constructive suggestions” to the Central government. Vardhan’s angry reply took everyone by surprise because the BJP leader is soft-spoken and genial. Known as the ‘good doctor’ in the national capital, Vardhan earned his spurs by pioneering the Polio Immunisation Campaign during his term as Delhi’s first Health Minister between 1993-98. An ENT surgeon by training, he has been spearheading the country’s fight against Covid-19 since last year, working with state governments and keeping differences at an arm’s length. Having built a reputation by successfully steering the polio programme, Vardhan is now hoping to pull off the biggest challenge in his career – the vaccination drive against Covid-19. Vardhan also holds the distinction of implementing the first anti-tobacco laws in the country as the Health Minister of Delhi in 1997, earning praise from the then Prime Minister I K Gujral and later from his successor Atal Bihari Vajpayee. However, as the pandemic batters India with a second wave, the health minister appears to be losing his cool over criticism on the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The vaccination drive itself has been dogged by controversies: first over the approval of the home-grown Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and the National Institute of Virology, and later over the pace of the inoculation. As the government granted the ‘go-ahead’ to Covaxin and Covishield, developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and produced by the Serum Institute of India, the Opposition trained its guns on the “premature approvals” to the ‘desi’ vaccine.   In January, Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma questioned the approval to Covaxin, contending that the vaccine had not cleared the Phase 3 trials. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav went on to dub it ‘vaccine of the BJP’. The rebuke to the Opposition, back in January, was mild considering the language used to counter Manmohan on April 19. In January, he had urged not to discredit science-backed protocols followed for approving the vaccine. “Wake up and realise you are only discrediting yourself,” Vardhan had told Opposition leaders. Cut to April, as the second wave swamped the country, the tone of Vardhan’s statements had changed and become politically charged, leading many to wonder who the real authors of the statements were. Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, said, “More likely these ministers are only mouthpieces for their Master. In Dr Harshvardhan’s language and tenor, you actually hear the words of Prime Minister Modi.” When Maharashtra raised the issue of vaccine shortages, Vardhan hit back, accusing the state of trying to distract attention from their “repeated failures” to control the spread of the pandemic. “Throughout the last year, as the Health Minister of India, I have been a witness to the misgovernance and utter casual approach of the Maharashtra government in battling the virus. The lackadaisical attitude of the state government has singularly bogged down the entire country’s efforts to fight the virus,” Vardhan said on April 7. He also accused the governments of Punjab, Delhi, and Maharashtra – all Opposition-ruled states – of being sluggish in vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers, for whom the vaccination drive had begun in January. Then came the Manmohan episode. On April 19, responding to Singh’s letter to Modi, Vardhan accused the Congress party of derailing the vaccination drive against Covid-19, which a section of experts claimed was progressing slowly. Vardhan also accused Congress governments of “spreading falsehoods” on the efficacy of the vaccines and “thereby fuelling vaccine hesitancy, and playing with the lives of our countrymen”. He even accused a Congress party chief minister of inciting people against taking Covaxin. The health minister has also been in midst of controversies. Vardhan was in the eye of a storm when he tried to attribute comments on Vedas having a better theory than the Theory of Relativity to physicist Stephen Hawking. More recently, the ENT surgeon was caught in an embarrassing episode after he graced an event to launch Coronil, developed by Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved. Ramdev had claimed that Coronil would cure Covid-19 but presented no study to back his claim. The Indian Medical Association had expressed shock at the presence of Vardhan at the event, where Patanjali claimed WHO certification for Coronil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-good-doctor-harsh-vardhan-loses-his-cool-978418.html
25-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Covid SOS! To whom it may concern!||India’s coronavirus second wave is rapidly sliding into a devastating crisis, with hospitals unbearably full, oxygen supplies running low, desperate people dying in line waiting to see doctors — and mounting evidence that the actual death toll is far higher than officially reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-covid-sos-to-whom-it-may-concern-978428.html
25-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 25||India reported 3,46,786 new Covid-19 cases and 2,624 deaths, as per the latest Union Health Ministry data on Saturday, continuing the rise in fresh infections in the country, as a shortage of oxygen and drugs continues to overwhelm health systems across states. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,69,60,172 as of April 25, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,92,311 as of April 25, 2021  No. of people discharged: 1,40,85,110 Total Vaccination: 14,09,16,417 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-25-978436.html
25-04-2021||National||India's Covid-19 crisis imperils global vaccination efforts||The rapidly escalating coronavirus crisis in India is not only forcing hospitals to ration oxygen and sending families scrambling to find open beds for infected loved ones. It is also wreaking havoc on the global vaccination effort. Nowhere is that more evident than in Africa. Most nations were relying on vaccines produced by the Serum Institute factory in India. But the Indian government’s decision to restrict exports of doses as it deals with its own outbreak means that Africa’s already slow vaccination campaign could soon come to a near standstill. Before India suspended exports, more than 70 nations received vaccines it manufactured, totalling more than 60 million doses. Many went to low- and middle-income countries through the COVAX program, the global initiative aimed at ensuring equitable access to vaccines. So far, COVAX has delivered 43.4 million doses to 119 countries, but this represents only about 2% of the 2 billion doses it hopes to deliver this year, according to Andrea Taylor, an assistant director at the Duke Global Health Innovation Center. “The export controls from India are the primary constraint on COVAX current supply,” she wrote in an email. Even before India’s halt in shipments, Africa was experiencing the slowest vaccine rollout of any continent. As of April 21, African nations, with a total population of 1.3 billion, had acquired more than 36 million vaccine doses but administered only about 15 million, according to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Just 6 million doses have been administered in all of sub-Saharan Africa — fewer than in many individual US states. The prospect of reduced supplies further complicates what was, for many African nations, an already daunting logistical challenge. Many African governments prioritized administering first doses to more of their populations in the expectation that more doses would soon arrive. Now they are struggling with what to do if there are not enough vaccine supplies to give the full two-dose regimen that offers maximum prevention. Countries like Rwanda and Ghana, which were among the first to receive doses from COVAX, are about to exhaust their initial supplies. In Botswana, inoculations were temporarily halted in some areas this month after the allotted doses were finished. And Kenya, which has almost run out of its initial 1 million doses, said this week that it would seek to acquire Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer vaccines to continue its inoculation campaign. On Saturday, because of the delays, the country lengthened the timing between the administration of the first and second dose to 12 weeks from eight. In total, the 10 African countries that have carried out the most vaccinations have run through more than two-thirds of their supplies, said Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, the World Health Organization’s regional director for Africa. The African Union’s vaccination task force has secured funding to purchase up to 400 million Johnson & Johnson vaccines for member states — but those doses won’t start arriving until fall. “More than 1 billion Africans remain on the margins of this historic march to end this pandemic,” Moeti said. A spokesperson for Gavi, which helps lead the COVAX program, said in an email that it was in close contact with the Indian government about restarting vaccine shipments, but that “in terms of timing of next deliveries, we’re not able to confirm at this stage.” Even as the United States sits on tens of millions of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine — the most affordable vaccine in widespread use — African nations are turning to Russia and China for doses made in those countries, despite concerns about lack of clinical data on their efficacy and safety. Amid the delays, some African countries are facing new and possibly deadlier waves of the pandemic. The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 2,155 deaths from the virus in the past week, up from 1,866 the week before. In Nairobi, the capital of Kenya and home to one of the continent’s better health care systems, officials have warned of a scarcity of intensive-care beds and oxygen supplies. Last month, the Kenyan government ordered a new lockdown that has prompted anger over the restrictions’ economic impact. Some countries have struggled to administer even the doses they have received. Others, including Eritrea, Chad, Burundi, Tanzania and Burkina Faso, have yet to approve or administer any vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-crisis-imperils-global-vaccination-efforts-978437.html
25-04-2021||National||India reports over 3.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, deaths touch new high of 2,767||India on Sunday reported 3,49,691 new Covid-19 cases and 2,767 deaths, the largest single day rise in the world, according to the latest Union Health Ministry data. The nation has seen a steep rise in fresh infections as a shortage of oxygen and drugs continues to overwhelm health systems across states. As per the Union Health Ministry, 2,17,113 were discharged in the last 24 hours and the total case count is 1,69,61,072. Total recoveries stand at 1,40,85,110, while death toll is at 1,92,311. India now has 26,82,751 active cases. As per the ICMR, 27,79,18,810 crore samples have been tested as of April 24. The total number of people vaccinated under the government's inoculation program is 14,09,16,417.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-349-lakh-covid-19-cases-deaths-touch-new-high-of-2767-978450.html
25-04-2021||National||Wildlife experts welcome SC order on Great Indian Bustard||Days after the Supreme Court asked Gujarat and Rajasthan to lay all low voltage power lines underground in the Great Indian Bustard (GIB) preferred and potential habitats,  wildlife conservation organisations and experts have welcomed the judgement. “This is perhaps the finest judgement of the Supreme Court for the long-term protection of the Great Indian Bustard, but we must see that the judgement is strictly followed by the power companies and the governments,” said Dr Asad R Rahmani, former Director, Bombay Natural History Society and Scientific Adviser to the Corbett Foundation who has worked on the GIBs for almost three decades “I hope that this landmark order is implemented with urgency in letter and spirit by the government and private sector. GIBs are struggling to survive and it is our moral responsibility not only to prevent their extinction but also to ensure a safe and a secure future for these heaviest flying birds of Indian Grasslands,” said Kedar Gore, Director of The Corbett Foundation and Member, IUCN Species Survival Commission (Bustard Specialist Group). “Now the state governments should take immediate actions to (place) underground the power lines. Just like lions and tigers, GIB is also the pride of our nation, and it is our duty to protect it...,” pointed out Devesh Gadhavi, Deputy Director of The Corbett Foundation and Member, IUCN Species Survival Commission (Bustard Specialist Group)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wildlife-experts-welcome-sc-order-on-great-indian-bustard-978964.html
25-04-2021||National||Don't believe rumours on vaccine: PM on 'Mann ki Baat'||Noting that the second wave of Covid-19 is testing people's patience and their limit to bear pain, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that this "toofan" (storm) has shaken the country after it was full of spirit and self-confidence after successfully tackling the first wave. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat broadcast, Modi spoke to doctors, nurses and frontline workers, who shared their experience and views on the disease, and expressed confidence that people will soon come out of this crisis. The over 30-minute broadcast was entirely focussed on the pandemic, which has been rampaging across the country for weeks, with Modi asserting that defeating the disease is the biggest priority. He urged countrymen to go for vaccination against the disease and cautioned them against rumours about it. Key points from his address: 1. The government of India is dedicated to taking forward the efforts of the state governments to tackle the current Covid-19 situation, says PM. 2. "I urge people to not fall prey to any rumour about vaccine. You all must be aware that Govt of India has sent free vaccine to all State Govts. All people above 45 years of age can benefit from this. From May 1, vaccines will be available for every person above 18 years of age," he said. 3. Country's corporate sector can also participate in vaccine drive by getting their employees vaccinated. Govt of India's free vaccination program will continue in future too. I request states to ensure benefits of this free vaccination program reaches as many people as possible, Modi added. 4. "We have to give priority to the expert and scientific advice at this time to win this battle," he said. 5.  While people are getting affected by the disease, they are also recovering from it in big numbers, Modi said.  6. The Centre, he said, will continue to provide jabs free of cost to the eligible people (those over 45 years of age) and has been helping states in their efforts to deal with the disease with its full might. In his last Mann ki Baat, Modi hailed the world's largest vaccination programme being carried out in India against the Covid-19 and stressed on "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicines as well as strict preventive measures). (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-believe-rumours-on-vaccine-pm-on-mann-ki-baat-978454.html
25-04-2021||National||Planning to donate plasma to Covid-19 patients? Here's a checklist||If you or someone you know is planning to donate plasma to a Covid-19 patient, do ensure that the following criterion are met by the donor. Who are not eligible to donate plasma? Women who have ever been pregnant. People vaccinated for Covid-19 less than 28 days ago (Covid-infected persons are ineligible for plasma donation for 28 days since inoculation). Anyone who does not have enough antibodies present in their blood. If found eligible, when can you donate plasma? 14 days have passed after a Covid-19 positive report, if asymptomatic. 14 days after symptoms have disappeared, if symptomatic. What to keep in mind while going to a hospital for plasma donation? Contact the hospital prior to your visit and inform them of your plans/ask for any additional information they might have on the matter. Carry a hard copy of your Covid-19 negative report, whether RT-PCR or a Rapid Antigen test, within 4 months of the donation day. This plasma donation checklist has been put out by the MyGovIndia Twitter page. Lastly, be cautious Covid-19 infections are increasing at an alarming rate in the country amid an oxygen supply crisis and new variants surfacing. Prevention is the best cure at present. Stay safe by getting inoculated at the earliest and remember to follow Covid-19 norms such as wearing face masks and keeping social distance even after receiving the jab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/planning-to-donate-plasma-to-covid-19-patients-heres-a-checklist-978461.html
25-04-2021||National||Lord Mahavir's life gives us message of peace, restraint: PM Modi||On the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that his life gives us the message of peace and restraint. "At a time we all countrymen are fighting the corona crisis unitedly, I pray to Lord Mahavir on his birth anniversary that he keeps everyone healthy and bless our efforts with success," Modi tweeted. भगवान महावीर का जीवन संदेश हमें शांति और आत्मसंयम की सीख देता है। जब हम सभी देशवासी मिलकर कोरोना के इस संकट का मुकाबला कर रहे हैं, ऐसे समय में महावीर जयंती पर मेरी भगवान महावीर से प्रार्थना है कि सभी को स्वस्थ रखें और हमारे प्रयासों को सफलता का आशीर्वाद दें। Mahavir was believed to have been born in the sixth century BC and was the last of the 24 'tirthankaras' of Jainism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lord-mahavirs-life-gives-us-message-of-peace-restraint-pm-modi-978464.html
25-04-2021||National||Ulcer removed from Sharad Pawar’s mouth||An ulcer detected in the mouth of NCP President Sharad Pawar has been removed. Pawar is now recuperating and will resume his normal schedule soon. The ulcer was detected when Pawar (80) underwent back-to-back procedures for a problem in gallbladder. “Post gallbladder surgery of our president Sharad Pawar saheb, a follow up visit and check up at hospital revealed an ulcer in his mouth which has been removed,” NCP chief spokesperson and state’s Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said. “He is well and resting in hospital. Saheb is taking stock of the pandemic situation daily and will resume his activities soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ulcer-removed-from-sharad-pawar-s-mouth-978477.html
25-04-2021||National||Cleanliness key to battle Covid-19 from inside our homes||As Covid-19 infections continue their climb, being armed with preventive measures inside the four walls of our homes will keep us safer. Here are 3 golden rules for keeping your home clean during the pandemic, especially while taking care of someone infected with Covid-19 under home isolation. 1. Keep all surfaces clean: Cleaning surfaces properly at regular intervals kills the virus. Special focus should be given to floors and surfaces that are touched frequently. 2. While using bleach or similar disinfectants, use a mop with a handle. 3. Do not sweep your floors with a broom if there is a Covid-19 patient at home. By following these guidelines Tweeted by MyGovIndia, you can keep the virus at bay inside your home. Additionally, we at DH recommend those battling Covid-19 and in home isolation to use pulse oximeters daily and keep a note of the readings, along with readings of your temperature. Make sure you are following proper hand hygeine, whether Covid-19 infected or not. Do also follow Covid-19 norms, avoid stepping out unless necessary, and get inoculated at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cleanliness-key-to-battle-covid-19-from-inside-our-homes-978478.html
25-04-2021||National||Congress sets up control room to coordinate Covid relief with its state units||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Sunday approved the setting up of an AICC control room to coordinate with the party's state units about relief activities being carried out during during the second wave of the pandemic. The party has set up control rooms in each state to provide assistance to people in need during the current Covid-19 crisis. "The AICC control room shall coordinate with PCC (Pradesh Congress Committee) control rooms on a daily basis and report back," the party said in a statement. The Congress leaders who will coordinate at the AICC control room are Manish Chatrath, Ajoy Kumar, Pawan Khera and Gurdeep Singh Sappal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-sets-up-control-room-to-coordinate-covid-relief-with-its-state-units-978481.html
25-04-2021||National||PM-CARES to fund 551 oxygen plants at district hospitals, says PMO||The Centre on Sunday approved setting up of 551 dedicated pressure swing adsorption oxygen generation plants at government-run district hospitals, with instructions to make them operational as soon as possible. Expenses of the 551 oxygen generation plants will be borne by the PM-CARES fund, a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said. It said the PM Cares Fund has given in-principle approval for allocation of funds for their installation, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi directing these plants should be made functional as soon as possible. He said these plants will serve as a major boost to oxygen availability at the district level. These dedicated plants will be established in identified government hospitals in district headquarters in various states and union territories, and their procurement will be done through the Health and Family Welfare ministry. The PM Cares Fund had earlier this year allocated Rs 201.58 crores for installation of an additional 162 dedicated PSA medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities in the country, the PMO noted. It said the basic aim behind establishing PSA oxygen plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility. Such an in-house captive oxygen generation facility would address the day-to-day medical oxygen needs of these hospitals and the district. In addition, the liquid medical oxygen (LMO) would serve as a top-up to the captive oxygen generation, it said. Such a system will go a long way in ensuring that government hospitals in districts do not face sudden disruption of oxygen supplies and have uninterrupted access to it to manage Covid-19 patients and other sick persons needing such support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-to-fund-551-oxygen-plants-at-district-hospitals-says-pmo-978482.html
25-04-2021||National||India fastest in world to administer over 14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses: Govt||India has become the fastest country in the world to administer over 14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, done in just 99 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Eight states -- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala -- account for 58.83 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, it said.   So far, 14,09,16,417 vaccine doses have been administered across the country through 20,19,263 sessions, the ministry said citing a provisional report till 7 am. These include 92,90,528 healthcare and 1,19,50,251 frontline workers who got the first dose, and 59,95,634 healthcare and 62,90,491 frontline workers who have taken the second dose. Among the senior citizens, 4,96,55,753 have got the first dose and 77,19,730 the second done. Among beneficiaries aged between 45 and 60 years, 4,76,83,792 got the first dose and 23,30,238 the second dose. "In another significant development, India has now become the fastest country in the world to cross the landmark of 14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. India achieved this feat in just 99 days," the ministry highlighted. Over 25 lakh vaccine doses were administered in a span of  24 hours. On April 24, day 99 of the vaccination drive, 25,36,612 vaccine doses were administered. While 16,43,864 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 25,732 sessions for the first dose, 8,92,748 received the second dose of the vaccine. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and the immunisation of frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1. It later decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-fastest-in-world-to-administer-over-14-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-govt-978485.html
25-04-2021||National||Pakistan offers relief materials to help India fight Covid-19||Pakistan has offered to provide relief support, including ventilators, to India to help the country fight the deadly wave of Covid-19 and said the two countries can explore possible ways of further cooperation to mitigate the challenges posed by the pandemic. The Foreign Office in a statement late Saturday night said Pakistan was ready to send specific items quickly once the modalities were worked out. “As a gesture of solidarity with the people of India in the wake of the current wave of Covid-19, Pakistan has offered to provide relief support to India including ventilators, Bi PAP, digital X ray machines, PPEs and related items,” according to the statement. It said that the authorities concerned of Pakistan and India can work out modalities for quick delivery of the relief items. “They (authorities) can also explore possible ways of further cooperation to mitigate the challenges posed by the pandemic,” it said. The offer was made after Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed solidarity with the people of India battling the deadly wave of the pandemic, saying “we must fight this global challenge confronting humanity together”. In a tweet, Khan said: “Our prayers for a speedy recovery go to all those suffering from the pandemic in our neighbourhood and the world”. I want to express our solidarity with the people of India as they battle a dangerous wave of COVID-19. Our prayers for a speedy recovery go to all those suffering from the pandemic in our neighbourhood & the world. We must fight this global challenge confronting humanity together “I want to express our solidarity with the people of India as they battle a dangerous wave of Covid-19. “We must fight this global challenge confronting humanity together,” he said on Twitter. Several Pakistanis, including political leaders, sports celebrities, took to twitter to offer prayers and good wishes for the people of India. Hashtags like #pakistanstandwithindia in support of India were trending and 'Twitteratis' poured in their ideas for Pakistan and India to come together in the difficult times. Former cricketer Shoaib Akhtar said that it was time to support each other. “India is really struggling with Covid-19. Global support needed. Health care system is crashing. It’s a Pandemic, we are all in it together. Must become each other's support,” said the fast bowler known as the 'Rawalpindi Express'. The tweets from the Pakistani leaders came amidst some signs of rapprochement in the relations between India and Pakistan over the Kashmir issue. India's decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with New Delhi and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. Pakistan also snapped all air and land links with India and suspended trade and railway services. The militaries of the two countries, in a surprise announcement on February 25, said that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-offers-relief-materials-to-help-india-fight-covid-19-978490.html
25-04-2021||National||Babul Supriyo tests positive for Covid-19 a second time||Union Minister Babul Supriyo Sunday informed that he and his wife have tested positive for Covid-19 and hence he wont be able to vote in Asansol on April 26. Supriyo has tested positive for the virus for the second time. He, however, said mentally he will be with the BJP candidates of the Asansol area and will monitor the situation from home. "Both me & my wife have tested positive. Me for the 2nd time!! V Sad that I won't be able to vote in Asansol. I needed to be there on the road too for the 26th polls where 'desperate' @AITCofficial goons hv already unleashed their terror machinery to disrupt free & fair polls," Supriyo tweeted. "However, the #TMchhi terror machinery who I hv handled (well) since 2014 may not rejoiceWil b doing my duties frm my room & b right by my candidates mentally in everyway possible to ensure 9/9 seats there," he said in a series of tweets. Supriyo, a two-time MP from Asansol, is contesting assembly election from Tollygunge assembly seat where voting is over. The seventh phase of elections in 36 assembly segments in West Bengal will be held on April 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babul-supriyo-tests-positive-for-covid-19-a-second-time-978493.html
25-04-2021||National||These 10 states form 74% of India's new Covid-19 cases||Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, account for 74.53 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. India registered a record single-day rise of 3,49,691 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,69,60,172, according to the ministry data updated on Sunday morning. Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are the other states in the list of 10. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 67,160. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 37,944 while Karnataka reported 29,438 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 26,82,751 and now comprises 15.82 per cent of the country's total cases. A net increase of 1,29,811 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Kerala cumulatively account for 69.94 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar, and West Bengal are displaying an upward trajectory in daily Covid-19 new cases, the ministry said.   The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.13 per cent, the ministry said. A total 2,767 deaths were reported in a day. Ten States account for 80.23 per cent of the new deaths, the ministry said adding Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (676). Delhi follows with 357 daily deaths.  India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,40,85,110 with 2,17,113 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states also account for 81.73 per cent of the new recoveries, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-10-states-form-74-of-indias-new-covid-19-cases-978509.html
25-04-2021||National||Centre clarifies why it asked Twitter, Facebook to remove posts||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said on Sunday that it asked social media platforms Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to remove over 100 posts and accounts alleging they were "inflammatory". Twitter already removed 50 tweets, while Facebook and Instagram are in the process to remove, sources in the Ministry said. The Ministry issued orders as per Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act. However, critics alleged that the government asked social media platforms to remove posts critical of the Modi government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tweets by Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, Congress MP Revanth Reddy and West Bengal Minister Moly Ghatak were removed. The government claimed that posts, which were asked to be taken down were "inflammatory,"  spread fake information about the pandemic by using unrelated/old/out of context images/ visuals, misinformation about Covid protocols. The Ministry alleged that the posts in question showed photos of cremations of dead bodies which were incendiary, had inflammatory messages that could incite the public and lead to assaults on healthcare personnel, sources told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-clarifies-why-it-asked-twitter-facebook-to-remove-posts-978517.html
25-04-2021||National||Four Congress-ruled states accuse Centre of 'hijacking' Covid-19 vaccine stocks||Four Congress-ruled states on Sunday demanded that the Centre ensure availability of vaccines for the 18-45 years age group which will become eligible for immunisation from May 1. “We spoke to Serum Institute of India, we were told that they will require time till May 15 to fulfil the orders placed by the Government of India. The supplies to states can begin only after that,” Raghu Sharma, Health Minister of Rajasthan told reporters in a virtual press conference with the health ministers of Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Jharkhand. Sharma said the state has adequate capacities to launch vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group but has no access to vaccines. Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo said the state government has made elaborate arrangements to complete the vaccination of the 18-45 years age group in 30-40 days. “But how can we do vaccination when vaccines are not available?” Singh Deo asked. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu demanded that the Centre pick up the entire tab for vaccination as the state governments had made no allocations for the vaccines in their respective budgets. “The Centre had made an allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in the Union Budget, they should spend on vaccines for everyone,” Sidhu said. Jharkhand Health Minister Banna Gupta said the Central government has hijacked all the quota of vaccines and wondered how the state governments were supposed to carry out vaccination drive without the vaccines. “Centre has announced that states will vaccinate those between 18-45 years of age. How are we supposed to do it when vaccines are not available?” Gupta asked. The third phase of the vaccination drive, covering the 18-45 years age group, begins on May 1 and the beneficiaries in this category will have to get themselves vaccinated at private vaccination centres or those set up by the state governments. The Centre will vaccinate only those above 45 years of age, besides healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-congress-ruled-states-accuse-centre-of-hijacking-covid-19-vaccine-stocks-978521.html
25-04-2021||National||India trying to get as many cryogenic oxygen containers as possible: Envoy in Singapore||India, in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic, is trying to get as many cryogenic oxygen containers as possible globally, the country’s envoy here said on Sunday, after the Indian government airlifted four containers from Singapore on Saturday. The Indian Air Force on Saturday brought four cryogenic tanks, to be used for transporting oxygen, from Singapore as the country scrambles to meet the spike in demand for medical oxygen amid a surge in Covid-19 infections. The containers were airlifted from Singapore by C17 heavy-lift aircraft of the IAF. India’s High Commissioner to Singapore P Kumaran told PTI that there will be more consignments in the coming days. "We are trying to get as many cryogenic oxygen containers as we can from any part of the world," said Kumaran, adding that oxygen plants and concentrators are being contacted. Acting swiftly to meet the high demand of oxygen requirements, India procured four containers of cryogenic O2 tanks from Singapore on Saturday. The transfer of four containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks donated by Tata Group was moved from Singapore by the Indian Air Force, Singapore Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Singapore (MINDEF), Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, LINDE GAS (Singapore) and the Changi Airport and Immigration and Checkpoints Authority, the Indian mission said in a Facebook post. According to observers, Indian corporations with international network are supporting the Government of India's call in getting the cryogenic oxygen containers at the highest priority. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Since Friday, the IAF has been airlifting empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. On Friday, the Union Home Ministry said it was in talks for the import of high-capacity oxygen-carrying tankers from Singapore and the UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-trying-to-get-as-many-cryogenic-oxygen-containers-as-possible-envoy-in-singapore-978522.html
25-04-2021||National||India failed to prepare for second Covid-19 wave: IIM-Ahmedabad professor Chinmay Tumbe||Indian Institute of Management - Ahmedabad professor Chinmay Tumbe on Sunday said India failed to prepare for the second Covid-19 wave due to the complacency of the government and society, and failure to keep track of the different strains of the virus. Tumbe, who recently authored the book titled 'The Age of Pandemics: How They Shaped India and the World', further said India will have to be alert for at least two more years to the possibility of a repeated wave of this crisis. "I think there are two major factors (India's failure to prepare for the second wave). One is, of course, complacency from the government level, from the society level where everybody assumed that the pandemic is over, but serious pandemic rarely gets over in a few months, so that was a big mistake. "Second is failure to keep track of the different strains of the virus, it's clear that this particular strain that is right now is quite different from the first one," he told PTI. India is grappling with a spiralling number of Covid-19 cases as well as related deaths, forcing many state governments to put in place restrictions on the movement of people. Asked what India could have done differently to fight Covid-19, Tumbe said if you see what countries like New Zealand and Australia have done, they have been very very slow to go back to full economic activity. "The fact that a lot of focus on the science behind the pandemic was forgotten in India. For example, Kumbh Mela should not have been allowed because we were not completely out of the woods of pandemic," he said.   He also argued that beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators, all should have been ramped up in the last year by the Centre and states. "Between, say December to February, the amount of complacency was terrible," Tumbe opined. The IIMA professor said the pandemic is not going to get over in a few weeks, it is going to be there for a long time. "We have to be alert for at least two more years to the possibility of a repeated wave of this crisis. But our immediate focus has to be on crushing this immediate wave in the next few weeks," he said. Asked how India should prepare to fight the next pandemic, Tumbe said the country needs to ramp up the availability of bed, oxygen cylinders and ventilators. "It is better to have an oversupply of these things than undersupply... Even if Covid-19 cases come down, we should plan ourselves for 10X, 20X demand for medical oxygen that sort of planning has to be done," he observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-failed-to-prepare-for-second-covid-19-wave-iim-ahmedabad-professor-chinmay-tumbe-978524.html
25-04-2021||National||Life-span of militants shrinking in Kashmir||The life span of militants in Kashmir has shrunk considerably over the last three years with 65% of the ultras surviving less than a year after joining militancy. Better coordination among security forces, a first-rate intelligence network, and poorly trained militants are some of the reasons for this development, an army officer told DH. “Earlier the terrorists went to Pakistan for arms training, but the current crop is poorly trained and all they have is on-the-job training exposure and they are no match for the army,” he said. Last year 203 militants, including 166 locals were killed by security forces across the Valley. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. The trend from the last three years shows that only 35% of the militants survive more than one year, a senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations told DH. “Many of the terrorists killed in these years had only been active for a few weeks. From three to four years in mid 2010’s, the life span of terror recruits, many of them recruited by handlers as cannon fodder, has come down to a few months now.” The officer said they expect that the militant numbers would decrease this year as infiltration has also come down. “Besides, security forces are also working surrender policy and preventing youth from joining militant ranks,” he added. Earlier this month, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Srinagar-based 15 Corps, Lt. Gen Devendra Pratap Pandey said they were working on a two-way strategy to prevent militant recruitment. “We are trying to bust over ground worker (OGW) networks, who are behind recruiting and radicalizing youth through social media platforms,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/life-span-of-militants-shrinking-in-kashmir-978535.html
25-04-2021||National||Italy imposes travel ban from India over Covid-19 variant||Italy has joined other countries by imposing restrictions on travel from India to avert the spread of a Covid-19 variant as the Asian nation struggles with a surge in infections. Italy's Health Minister Roberto Speranza said on Twitter he had signed an order barring foreign travellers who have been in India in the past 14 days from entering the country. India, which is facing a health crisis, is battling a "double mutant" strain of Covid-19. On Sunday, the country posted the world's highest single-day increase in cases for a fourth day. Italian residents will be allowed to return from India with a negative test result at their departure and one at their arrival and then have to go into quarantine, the minister said. Those already in Italy and who travelled from India in the past 14 days were requested to undergo a swab. "Our scientists are at work to study the new Indian variant," Speranza said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/italy-imposes-travel-ban-from-india-over-covid-19-variant-978526.html
25-04-2021||National||This gurudwara aids Covid-19 patients battling for breath||Indian coronavirus patient Vidhya Devi, 70, should have been in emergency care at a New Delhi hospital, but instead she lay on the backseat of a car outside a Sikh temple, battling for breath, as she was connected to an oxygen tank on the street. A massive surge in Covid-19 cases in India, which set a new global record of the most number of infections in a day on Sunday, has left many infected people struggling to find treatment, with hospitals overcrowded and many running out of oxygen. Total infections stand at 16.96 million and deaths at 192,311, health ministry data showed. At the Sikh gurudwara (temple) in Ghaziabad city on the outskirts of the capital Delhi, the humanitarian tragedy is visible on the street. Sikh aid group Khalsa Help International has been buying small quantities of oxygen as and when it becomes available to help those in urgent need. Cars, vans and rickshaws plying Covid-19 patients and their families choked the street outside the temple on Saturday, as volunteers holding black oxygen cylinders spread out to help. "I came here because I didn't get help anywhere else," said Manoj Kumar, who sat next to his mother Devi in the car as a volunteer monitored the flow of oxygen from the tank to her masked mouth. "I called the gurudwara and they asked me to reach here fast," said Kumar. A middle-aged woman in a van appeared to be palpitating as her adult son, holding her arm tried to keep her conscious, calling out: "Mummy? Mummy?" In another van, a man lay unconscious on a car seat, legs stretching out of the door, as one volunteer vigorously rubbed his feet, while another pumped his chest to try to revive him. Rummy, who is president of the gurudwara and founder of Khalsa Help International, said he began providing the service three days ago as cases started spiking in New Delhi. "People are dying on the streets. That's why we started this," said Rummy. Over 36 hours up to Saturday evening, Rummy estimates the Khalsa Help International group has saved around 700 patients, but some didn't survive. Reuters witnessed two deaths there that evening. As breathless patients arrived seeking oxygen, the street outside the temple resembled the emergency ward of a hospital, but crammed with cars not bed trolleys. Rummy called out to those gathering, requesting them to disperse. "Please remove the cars from the middle of the roads. Please keep to one lane," he said. "You will all get oxygen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-gurudwara-aids-covid-19-patients-battling-for-breath-978527.html
25-04-2021||National||Registration on CoWIN mandatory for those between ages 18 and 45 taking Covid-19 vaccine||Getting registered on the CoWIN web portal and taking an appointment to get a Covid-19 vaccine jab would be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years as walk-ins will not be allowed initially, official sources said on Sunday. Those above 45 years can still avail the facility of on-site registration to get vaccinated, they said. As India witnesses a sudden surge in coronavirus cases, it has decided to allow everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1. "An increased demand is expected once the vaccination is opened for all. For the purpose of crowd control, registering on CoWIN portal and making an appointment to get a vaccine will be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years. Walks-in will not be allowed in the beginning so that there is no chaos," an official said. Registration for vaccination for all those aged above 18 will begin on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu App from April 28. The inoculation process and documents to be provided to get the jab remains the same. From May 1, the present system of private Covid-19 vaccination centres receiving doses from the government and charging up to Rs 250 per dose from people will cease to exist and private hospitals will procure directly from vaccine manufacturers. According to the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy, Covid-19 vaccination will continue to be free for eligible population groups comprising healthcare workers, frontline workers and population above 45 years of age in government vaccination centres that receive doses from the Centre. Vaccine manufacturers would make an advance declaration of the price for 50 per cent supply that would be available to state governments in the open market before May 1. Based on this price, states, private hospitals, industrial establishments may procure vaccine doses from manufacturers.  Private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of Covid-19 vaccine exclusively from the 50 per cent supply earmarked, other than the Government of India channel. "While the Centre has liberalised the vaccination policy, it does not mean that vaccines will be sold in pharmacists or chemist shops in the open market," Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had clarified on Wednesday. The price charged for vaccination by private hospitals would be monitored, he said, adding "The present dispensation where private Covid vaccination centres receive doses from the government and can charge up to Rs 250 per dose will cease to exist." Vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the Centre and and would be free to supply the rest to state governments.   All immunisations will be part of the National Vaccination Programme, will be captured on CoWIN platform along with stocks and price per vaccination applicable in all vaccination centres, will comply with adverse event following immunization management and reporting, and all other prescribed norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/registration-on-cowin-mandatory-for-those-between-ages-18-and-45-taking-covid-19-vaccine-978529.html
25-04-2021||National||Fact-check | Death certificates issued with PM Narendra Modi’s photo?||A picture of a man holding a document that has an image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the bottom is making rounds on social media. While the content on the document is not legible, people have claimed that death certificates are issued with the PM’s photo. PM Modi is being criticised for gaining publicity even through deaths. People on Facebook have also promoted the claim. हरामखोरी देखये मृत्यु प्रमाण पत्र पर भी अपनी फ़ोटो चिपकाकर क्या साबित करना चाहता है ये भस्मासुर बेशर्म कहि का डूब मरो समर्थन करने वाले   The text printed on the image published by India Times is clearer and readable. “Provisional Certificate for COVID 19 Vaccination,” says the document on top.   The viral image shows one such vaccination certificate. It is not a death certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-death-certificates-issued-with-pm-narendra-modi-s-photo-978530.html
25-04-2021||National||Received 28,350 Remdesivir injections from makers against 1.75 lakh ordered: Rajasthan govt||The Rajasthan government on Sunday said the state had placed an order for the purchase of 1.75 lakh Remdesivir injections from various drug manufacturers in April, but it has so far received only 28,350 of them. For the period from April 21 to April 30, a total of 26,500 Remdesivir injections have been allocated to Rajasthan by the Centre, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said in a statement. He said after efforts of the Rajasthan government, the Centre allocated another 67,000 injections to the state. The Health Minister said 250 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen is required in the state in view of the ongoing coronavirus situation. The Centre has allocated 140 MT oxygen to the state. Currently, 23 tankers each having a filling capacity of 4 to 6 MT are available for liquid oxygen transport in the state, the Rajasthan Health minister said. An additional requirement of six tankers, each with a capacity of 30 MT oxygen, has been made, Sharma said. He said a continuous rise in screening facilities for the prevention and treatment of the coronavirus infection in the state is being made and the number of oxygen beds is also being increased continuously according to the requirement. "Rajasthan is among the leading states of the country (in terms of vaccinating people). Every effort is also being made to supply oxygen and other drugs, including Remdisvir, to the needy" he added. So far, 4.95 lakh people have been found infected with the coronavirus in Rajasthan and 3.67 lakh of them have recovered from the infection, while the state has an active case count of 1.27 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/received-28350-remdesivir-injections-from-makers-against-175-lakh-ordered-rajasthan-govt-978537.html
25-04-2021||National||Bharat Biotech seeks DCGI nod to extend Covaxin shelf life from six to 24 months||Bharat Biotech has written to the India's drug regulator seeking extension of the shelf-life of its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin from six to 24 months, sources said on Sunday. Covaxin, along with Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India, are the two vaccines so far being used in India's current Covid-19 vaccination drive. Russian vaccine Sputnik-V has also been approved for emergency use in India. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech was given permission for sale and distribution of Covaxin with shelf life of six months when stored at two to eight degrees Celsius. "Now, we are herewith applying for the extension of shelf life from six months to 24 months when stored at 2-8 degreesCelsius," the firm said in its application to the Drugs Controller General of India. In support of their proposal, Bharat Biotech has submitted updated accelerated and real-time stability data of Coaxin along with the justification for the extension of shelf-life. The DCGI had extended the shelf-life of Covishield from six to nine months from its manufacturing date in February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-seeks-dcgi-nod-to-extend-covaxin-shelf-life-from-six-to-24-months-978546.html
25-04-2021||National||Fact check: No, nebulizer cannot be used as substitute for oxygen cylinder||In the backdrop of the acute shortage of oxygen cylinders faced by hospitals in many parts of the country, a video of a man – who identifies himself as Doctor Alok – advising how nebulizer can be used as a substitute for oxygen cylinders is circulating on social media. He is Dr Alok from Sarvodaya Hospital Faridabad.He has shown an excellent technique using ‘nebuliser’ to improve the levels of blood oxygen level. In today's scenario of Oxygen crisis this can save lives of many. Request everyone to watch it once. Sarvodaya Hospital Faridabad refuted the claim that the video was endorsed by the hospital. “The video has not been backed by any evidence or scientific study…Please do not follow any such practice without consulting your medical practitioner. It could lead to worsening of the disease,” reads its statement.   What is a nebulizer? कृपया इसे ऑक्सीजन का विकल्प बिलकुल न कहें। नाहक जाने जा सकती हैं। The video demonstrating a purported technique that can substitute a nebulizer machine for an oxygen cylinder to improve blood oxygen levels is totally baseless. It should be discredited.   “Using air nebuliser may mildly inflate the alveoli, largely filled with liquid, to increase the internal surface area. This may allow a brief uptake of oxygen from the air. However, it’s only a short fix until one is waiting for the oxygen. The air nebuliser is certainly not a replacement for oxygen,” Alt News Science founding editor Sumiaya Shaikh explained. The doctor in the video also refutes the claim A nebulizer cannot be used as a substitute for an oxygen cylinder as propagated on social media through this misleading video. Medical misinformation can prove fatal in the middle of a deadly pandemic. People receiving WhatsApp forwards should cross-check the information with medical professionals and not try self-treatment without professional supervision. Follow the standard medical opinion for monitoring your blood oxygen and seek medical help if it drops below 95.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-no-nebulizer-cannot-be-used-as-substitute-for-oxygen-cylinder-978547.html
25-04-2021||National||Storm has shaken country: Modi focuses 'Mann ki Baat' on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday cautioned citizens against falling for rumours about Covid vaccines and roped in experts and doctors to counter 'misconceptions' around jabs, tests and drugs like Remdesivir. In his 'Mann ki Baat' address, Modi assured that the Centre will continue to give free jabs to eligible people and appealed to people to give priority to expert and scientific advice to defeat the virus even as he acknowledged that this 'toofan' (second wave) has shaken the country, which was full of self-confidence after successfully tackling first wave of Covid-19. "Corona is testing our patience; it is testing the limits of all of us at enduring misery. Many of our near and dear ones have left us untimely. After successfully confronting the first wave of Covid, the country was full of enthusiasm, full of self-confidence, but this storm has shaken the country," Modi said. As Opposition-ruled states raise a number of questions on Centre's strategy to counter Covid-19, Modi insisted that the government of India is applying its entire might to give a fillip to the endeavours of state governments. Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a pot shot saying "System’ failed, so it’s important to do Jan ki baat." Hodling that in this crisis, the country needs responsible citizens, he requested his "Congress colleagues to leave all political work- just provide all help and ease the pain of our countrymen. This is the Dharma of the Congress family."   Modi in his address took note of the "colossal battle against Corona" waged by doctors and health workers and took their suggestions on how to counter the second wave, incorporating their thoughts on the fear around it. On the virus's mutation, Dr Shashank from Mumbai said they "keep on happening…the way we change our clothes, the virus keeps changing its colours…hence there is nothing to fear and we shall overcome this wave too. Waves keep coming and going, the virus keeps coming and going." Modi put frequently asked questions (FAQs) related to the disesase to the experts on issues like panic management, the rise in demand for certain drugs and the vaccines in reply to which experts flagged the "limited role" of Remdesivir and told him "we have the world’s best treatment available…you will see that India has the best recovery rate. If you compare Europe, America, our patients are recovering through our treatment protocols." Modi urged that if people have any apprehensions, they should try to get information only from a correct source. "It is my appeal that don’t get swayed by any rumour about the vaccine. People above 45 years of age can benefit from the free vaccine that has been sent to all state governments by the government of India. Now from May 1 onwards, the vaccine is going to be made available for every person 18 years and above in the country. Corporate Sector, companies too will be able to participate in the programme of administering vaccines to their employees. I also want to say that the programme of free vaccines by the government of India that is going on now will continue further too. I appeal also to the states to extend the benefit of this free vaccine campaign of the government of India to  maximum number of the people of their state," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/storm-has-shaken-country-modi-focuses-mann-ki-baat-on-covid-19-978550.html
25-04-2021||National||From The Newsroom: Delhi extends lockdown by a week; Centre asks Twitter, Facebook to remove 'inflammatory’ posts||In your evening news brief, the Centre asks Twitter, Facebook to remove ‘inflammatory’ posts; Lockdown extended by another week in Delhi, and 82 people killed in Baghdad hospital fire.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of April 25, 2021:   The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said on Sunday that it asked social media platforms Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to remove over 100 posts and accounts alleging they were "inflammatory". Twitter already removed 50 tweets, while Facebook and Instagram are in the process to remove the posts, sources in the Ministry said. However, critics alleged that the government asked social media platforms to remove posts critical of the Modi government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tweets by Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, Congress MP Revanth Reddy, and West Bengal Minister Moly Ghatak were removed.   Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi for another week, saying the severity of Covid-19 was unabated and positivity rate has been as high as 36 per cent in the last few days. The lockdown imposed on April 19 night will now continue till 5 AM on May 3, he said. It was scheduled to end at 5 AM on April 26 before extension. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in a 12-day period Several hospitals in the national capital are grappling with a severe shortage of medical oxygen.   A fire that ravaged a Covid-19 hospital in the Iraqi capital killed 82 people and sparked angry calls for the sacking of officials, in a country with a long-dilapidated health infrastructure. The blaze at Baghdad's Ibn al-Khatib hospital started with an explosion caused by "a fault in the storage of oxygen cylinders", medical sources told AFP. Baghdad Governor Mohammed Jaber called on the health ministry "to establish a commission of enquiry so that those who did not do their jobs may be brought to justice". Source: DHNS/PTI/AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-extends-lockdown-by-a-week-centre-asks-twitter-facebook-to-remove-inflammatory-posts-978552.html
25-04-2021||National||CJI N V Ramana expresses grief on passing away of Justice Shantanagoudar||"I have lost a valuable colleague," Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Saturday while expressing grief at the passing away of sitting Supreme Court judge, Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar. “I was hoping for his speedy and complete recovery and his return to the Bench at the earliest. The news of his passing has come as a rude shock. I have lost a valued colleague. In the last four years of my association with him in the Supreme Court, I have benefitted immensely from his amazing legal acumen," Chief Justice Ramana said. In a statement, he said he spoke to the son of Justice Shantanagoudar and offered condolences to the bereaved family on his own behalf and that of the other judges of the Supreme Court. Justice Shantanagoudar passed away here at a hospital in Gurugram on Saturday evening, following a prolonged illness. He was 62. The judge, who hailed from Haveri in undivided Dharwad in North Karnataka, was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He was to retire on May 4, 2023. The Supreme Court Advocates-On-Record Association also paid its homage to the judge, saying he continued to hear cases and gave his full to the judicial hearings when the nation was trying to overcome the Covid-19 pandemic. "Justice Shantanagoudar was part of 24 reported judgements since March 17, 2020, till he breathed his last. This, by itself, shows his undeterred determination to the cause of justice," SCAORA Secretary Joseph Aristotle said. Maintaining that Justice Shantanagoudar would be remembered for his judicial acumen, humility and pleasant disposition, the lawyers' body said he was considerate and courteous towards all and believed in encouraging the young members of the Bar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-n-v-ramana-expresses-grief-on-passing-away-of-justice-shantanagoudar-978555.html
25-04-2021||National||Oxygen Express to deliver over 140 tonnes of oxygen to various locations by Monday||As many states are facing oxygen scarcity, Indian Railways is going to deliver more than 140 tonnes of  liquid medical oxygen by Monday through "Oxygen Express". "So far, Oxygen Express has run between Mumbai to Vizag via Nagpur to Nashik and Lucknow to Bokaro and back. A total of 10 containers having nearly 150 tonnes of liquid oxygen have been carried till now," Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma told media on Sunday. Another nine tankers from Bokaro will reach Lucknow any time.   One "Oxygen Express" train carrying four tankers (around 70 tonnes of oxygen) departed for Delhi from Raigarh, Chattisgarh. Indian Railways has urged Delhi government to obtain the road tankers. Indian Railways is also ready for the movement of oxygen containers on container wagons from Durgapur to Delhi.  "Liquid oxygen being a cryogenic cargo has many limitations like maximum speed at which it can be carried, maximum acceleration and deceleration and loading restrictions like availability of liquid oxygen tankers and loading ramps, etc." the statement from the Railway Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-express-to-deliver-over-140-tonnes-of-oxygen-to-various-locations-by-monday-978558.html
25-04-2021||National||India welcomes ASEAN's initiative to end Myanmar crisis||India on Sunday welcomed an initiative by the ASEAN to end the ongoing crisis in Myanmar which has been in turmoil since its military grabbed power in a coup in February. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India will continue to play a constructive and meaningful role in resolving the current situation in Myanmar. "We welcome the ASEAN initiative on Myanmar agreed to at the ASEAN summit held on April 24. Our diplomatic engagement with Myanmar will be aimed at strengthening these efforts," he said. Myanmar has been rocked by massive protests since the military seized power in a coup on February 1. Hundreds of people including children were killed in the crackdown against the protesters by Myanmarese authorities. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) on Saturday released a "five-point consensus" on Myanmar that included “immediate cessation of violence” and holding constructive dialogue among all parties concerned to seek a peaceful solution in resolving the crisis. Myanmar is a member of the 10-nation grouping. "India, as a friend of the people of Myanmar, will continue to play a constructive and meaningful role aimed at resolving the current situation in Myanmar. India's support to the democratic process in Myanmar remains steadfast," Bagchi said. According to the five-point consensus, the ASEAN will provide humanitarian assistance in Myanmar and it will appoint a special envoy to facilitate mediation in the dialogue process. "First, there shall be immediate cessation of violence in Myanmar and all parties shall exercise utmost restraint," the ASEAN said, Second, it said, constructive dialogue among all parties concerned would commence to seek a peaceful solution in the interests of the people of the country. "Third, a special envoy of the ASEAN chair shall facilitate mediation of the dialogue process, with the assistance of the secretary general of ASEAN," it said, adding the fourth step would be providing humanitarian assistance to Myanmar. Fifth, it said, the special envoy and a delegation will visit Myanmar to meet with all the parties concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomes-aseans-initiative-to-end-myanmar-crisis-978570.html
25-04-2021||National||World's biggest Covid-19 crisis threatens Modi's grip on India||By Archana Chaudhary, Sudhi Ranjan Sen and Bibhudatta Pradhan As India recorded more than 234,000 new Covid-19 infections last Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an election rally in the West Bengal town of Asansol and tweeted: “I’ve never seen such huge crowds.” The second wave of the coronavirus has since grown into a tsunami. India is now the global coronavirus hotspot, setting records for the world’s highest number of daily cases. Images of hospitals overflowing with the sick and dying are flooding social media, as medical staff and the public alike make desperate appeals for oxygen supplies. The political and financial capitals of New Delhi and Mumbai are in lockdown, with only the sound of ambulance sirens punctuating the quiet, but there’s a growing chorus of blame directed at Modi over his government’s handling of the pandemic. Modi canceled another planned appearance in West Bengal on Friday to hold meetings on the pandemic response. Whether it’s enough to prevent the political fallout may become clear on May 2, when election results are due to be announced for the five states voting over the last month: West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “At this crucial time he is fighting for votes and not against Covid,” said Panchanan Maharana, a community activist from the state of Odisha, who previously supported Modi’s policies but will now look for alternative parties to back. “He is failing to deliver — he should stop talking and focus on saving people’s lives and livelihoods.”Modi is seen by many as a polarizing leader whose brand of nationalism that promotes the dominance of Hindus has appalled and enraptured the nation. Despite policy stumbles in his first term, voters re-elected him in a landslide in 2019 in the absence of any viable opposition. In the last poll taken in January, during a lull in the epidemic, his popularity was 74 per cent, down a touch from 78 per cent last August but still impressively high. Whether the pandemic will dent his appeal remains unclear. “There is no doubt an outpouring of anger at the mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis in India,” said Nikita Sud, who teaches international development at the University of Oxford and has published a book on Hindu nationalism. “The question is, will this anger trump the hate that has been systematically sown in our society for years? And will public memory last long enough for the pandemic-related anger to be manifested at election time?” Those are not easy questions to answer. Judged by the outpouring of criticism on Twitter, the anger and disappointment in India’s leader is manifest. When Modi addressed the nation on Tuesday, it seemed that he had failed to grasp the growing sense of panic among citizens. As he spoke, without providing any details on how his government would turn the situation around, the Hindi hashtag that translates as “Stop the speech, not the oxygen” was tweeted more than 108,000 times. Other hashtags, including #ModiMadeDisaster and #ModiResign were also popular. Footage of Modi, unmasked, addressing huge crowds who were also mostly without masks or social distancing, stood in stark contrast to images of exhausted doctors and nurses desperately trying to create more capacity in the country’s decrepit, underfunded health system. Noting that at least six high courts are hearing disputes about Covid-19 management including oxygen shortages, the Supreme Court on Thursday asked the federal government to come up with a national plan for the distribution of essential supplies and services. Yet it is far from guaranteed that the current crisis will cost Modi at the ballot box. For his followers, the government’s support for building a Hindu temple in Uttar Pradesh on the contested site of a former mosque and its move to abolish the special status of Jammu and Kashmir — the only Muslim majority region in India — are far more pressing priorities. Hindus make up 80 per cent of the population. “The construction of the temple is important for us, why can’t Hindus build a temple in our own land,” said Govind Kumar, a factory worker, as he sat with his meager belongings at a Delhi bus station on Tuesday, waiting to return to his village in Uttar Pradesh after the capital went into lockdown. Of the pandemic, he said: “Nobody can control the situation, why only blame Modi?” It’s a sentiment expressed widely in India. Some commentators attribute the support for Modi as akin to that of a messianic figure whose appeal goes beyond mere politics. Asim Ali of the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi, writing in The Diplomat on April 1, said that “Brand Modi seems to have escaped into the political stratosphere, untouched by the conventional laws of political competition.” There are signs elsewhere that the pandemic may be too much for even the most populist of leaders to remain unaffected. President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil confounded his skeptics by maintaining his base despite dismissing the pandemic, only to be forced into concessions when cases soared this year. Donald Trump could arguably have won a second term in November if it wasn’t for the US Covid-19 death toll, still the world’s highest. Modi’s decision to hold election rallies and green-light large religious gatherings in the face of a growing second wave “will not inspire confidence about India’s leadership and governance record in any objective observer or investor,” said Sud of Oxford. And India’s economy, which was showing nascent signs of recovery after falling into recession last year for the first time in decades, is now struggling again. As more cities and states have issued stay-at-home order or other movement restrictions, job losses have begun to tick up. Urban unemployment jumped to 10.72 per cent for the week ending April 18 from 7.21 per cent two weeks ago, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. The prime minister is also under fire for over-promising on India’s vaccination rollout, both domestically and globally, after he dubbed the South Asian nation the “pharmacy to the world” last October. As case numbers soared, India suddenly halted its exports, which were a critical part of Covax, the World Health Organization program to provide inoculations to low income countries. Only last month his administration declared that the pandemic was in its end game. After administering more than three million doses a day earlier this month, vaccine centers are now running out of doses and have shut down across many states, including the mega-city of Mumbai. On April 19, Modi announced changes to his government’s immunization strategy — opening the program up to everyone over 18 and allowing state governments to tailor their own strategy and procure directly from manufacturers. His critics fear it is intended to leave the states with the blame. “In the first phase, Modi touted that they were in control and took credit,” said Sanjay Kumar, an election expert and co-director at Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies in New Delhi. “Now people won’t buy their argument, they will blame Modi and his government.” Still, Modi changed gear on Wednesday, tweeting about monitoring India’s depleted oxygen supplies and sending condolences and get well messages to public figures falling sick or dying. On Friday, he planned to “review the prevailing Covid-19 situation.” He has a track record of successfully deflecting blame for policy failures. That includes demonetization in 2016 where he banned 86 per cent of the country’s currency overnight and left the economy and India’s citizens reeling, according to Katharine Adeney, director of the University of Nottingham Asia Research Institute. “It will be easy for him to blame other political actors such as state governments and chief ministers if that suits his purpose,” Adeney said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worlds-biggest-covid-19-crisis-threatens-modis-grip-on-india-978572.html
25-04-2021||National||Bangladesh closes border with India for two weeks as Covid-19 cases rise||Bangladesh on Sunday closed its border with India for two weeks in view of the sharp increase in coronavirus cases in the neighbouring country. "We are closing it (border) for the passengers for the time being…," Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen told reporters. "Bangladesh took the decision in view of rapid increase of coronavirus infection in India,” he added. He said that the land routes for people's movement to and from the neighbouring country would be closed for two weeks but the goods-laden vehicles would be allowed to operate. "The higher authorities have decided to close the borders for two weeks...The land routes with India will be shut from April 26," Home Minister Asaduzzamman Khan Kamal told the Kalerkantha newspaper. The border closure came as the Covid-19 situation kept suspended flight operations between the two countries since April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-closes-border-with-india-for-two-weeks-as-covid-19-cases-rise-978589.html
25-04-2021||National||Nadda hits out at Mamata for 'skipping' PM's virtual meet with CMs on Covid-19 situation||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday slammed Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her persistent attacks on the Centre over the prevailing Covid-19 situation, and sought to know why she chose to skip a virtual meeting where Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed ways to combat the disease. He contended that the TMC supremo's "anxiety has grown manifold", after having seen the support that is pouring in for the BJP, and the ruling party, for that reason, has "resorted to attacks on saffron party men". Addressing a virtual meeting from Delhi in support of BJP candidate from Malda's Manikchak seat, where polling is scheduled to be held on April 29, Nadda said, "Why didn't you (Banerjee) attend meetings convened by the prime minister on Covid-19, is it because of your huge ego?" Modi has also accused Banerjee of not attending meetings called by the Centre on various issues, including the Covid-19 management. Banerjee, on the other hand, has claimed that she was not invited to a meeting chaired by the PM a few days ago to discuss modalities to tackle the pandemic. Nadda said that the chief minister, who also holds the health portfolio, "claimed that vaccines are not available in Bengal, having forgotten that she deprived the people of the state of many essential facilities over the last 10 years". "If vaccines are not available, how are you (Banerjee) sending updates on the number of doses administered every day to the Union Health ministry?" Nadda stated. He further said that members of a central team sent by the Union government to West Bengal last year to review the coronavirus situation were prevented from working freely by the Banerjee-led administration. The BJP president hit out at the TMC dispensation, and said the party's top leaders, fearing that they might lose elections, have "let loose goons to intimidate voters". "Mamata ji claims she is the daughter of the state, but it is under her rule that Sobha Majumdar (a BJP worker's mother) had to sacrifice her life trying to saving her son from goons," he said, referring to an incident of violence at Nimta in the northern suburbs of the metropolis. Asserting that the lawless in Bengal has reached its nadir under the TMC rule, Nadda alleged that the CM has stopped sending crime records of the state to NCRB to "mask the real situation". Bengal tops the chart when it comes to crimes against women, including rapes, he claimed, insisting that a BJP government will ensure women's security in the state. "Extortion rackets, appeasement policies and dictatorship rule the roost in Bengal under the TMC rule," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-hits-out-at-mamata-for-skipping-pms-virtual-meet-with-cms-on-covid-19-situation-978645.html
25-04-2021||National||Centre bars use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes, asks plants to maximise production||Amid the firefighting by the Centre to ensure medical oxygen supply to crowded hospitals gasping for breath, the Home Ministry on Sunday issued a fresh order directing states to ensure that use of liquid oxygen is not allowed for any non-medical purpose. The order issued by Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked oxygen plants to make oxygen available to the government for medical use only with immediate effect. "Entire stock of liquid oxygen should be used for medical purposes, no exception to any industry," the order said, which also urged the oxygen plants to maximise production of the life saving gas. Issuing the order in exercise of powers conferred to it under section 10 (2) (1) and Section 65 of the Disaster Management Act, the Centre in its letter to Chief Secretaries of all states also said, "Further all stocks of liquid oxygen, should also be made available to the government for use for medical purposes. No exception is allowed to any industry with regard to use of liquid oxygen." The order, which came after the Centre reviewed the oxygen supply situation in wake of the rising number of SOS from hospitals and states battling to save the life of critical patients, deemed it necessary to restrict industrial usage of oxygen in order to ensure an uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen across the country. The Centre barring the use of liquid oxygen for any non-medical purpose comes amid a scarcity of medical oxygen in many parts of the country including Delhi, which is among the worst-hit states, with its hospitals flooded with patients. The Home Ministry's order is in line with the growing chorus for a uniform nationwide approach to tackle the various problems related to Covid-19 management. Earlier on April 22, the union government had passed an order in this regard. In a two-page letter issued to the states, Bhalla had then said that there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states, and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen-carrying vehicles. The Home Ministry had then put the onus on the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the district concerned for any violation of its order, asking the states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders. The last order had said no restrictions shall be imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the oxygen supplies only to the hospitals of the state and the union territory in which they are located.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-bars-use-of-liquid-oxygen-for-non-medical-purposes-asks-plants-to-maximise-production-978653.html
25-04-2021||National||Covid deaths being under-reported, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that the truth about the pandemic is shrouded and deaths are being under-reported. "Shroud the truth. Deny oxygen shortage. Underreport deaths. Government of India (GOI) is doing everything......to save his fake image," he said on Twitter. Rahul Gandhi earlier alleged that the "system has failed" and it is the duty of the party to provide help to fellow citizens suffering due to the sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in the country. His comments came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his 'Mann ki Baat' radio programme said the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has shaken the country and assured the people that the Centre was working with all its power to help the states. "System' failed, so it's important to do Jan ki baat," Gandhi said on Twitter. "In this crisis, the country needs responsible citizens. I request my Congress colleagues to leave all political work -- just provide all help and ease the pain of our countrymen," he added. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said "hiding data" and not sharing the total number of infections and deaths is doing a disservice to the nation. He said the data, howsoever serious it may be, makes us aware and alert, and urged for a "course correction". "The Modi government has bungled up. If Modi government has abandoned its people and abdicated its duty, please do course correction and let us work together," he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-deaths-being-under-reported-alleges-rahul-gandhi-978659.html
25-04-2021||National||Germany preparing 'mission of support' for India: German Chancellor Merkel||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday said her government is "urgently" preparing a "mission of support" for India as it battles a massive spike in coronavirus cases that has triggered a severe shortage of medical oxygen in several states. In a message, Merkel said Germany stands in solidarity with India in the "common fight" against the pandemic. "To the people of India I want to express my sympathy on the terrible suffering that Covid-19 has again brought over your communities," Merkel said. "The fight against the pandemic is our common fight. Germany stands in solidarity with India and is urgently preparing a mission of support," added. Her message was shared on Twitter by German Ambassador to India Walter J Lindner. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani too expressed solidarity with India as it reels under the second wave of the pandemic. "Our hearts go out to the Indian people & government as they fight the horrendous outbreak of Covid. On behalf of the Afghan people & government, we send our condolences to the families who lost their loved ones & wish a quick recovery to those who are suffering from the virus," Ghani tweeted. Afghan foreign minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar said India has the prayers and support of all those nations that it has assisted generously with Covid-19 vaccines. "Our hearts & prayers go to all the great people of India at this time of national struggle against Covid-19. India has the prayers and support of all those nations that it has assisted generously with Covid vaccines. "India will come out of it even stronger," he said. On Friday, French President Emmanuel Macron expressed solidarity with India and offered his country's support to it. "I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no one. We stand ready to provide our support," Macron said. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases. The country recorded over three lakh-plus coronavirus cases for the fourth straight day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/germany-preparing-mission-of-support-for-india-german-chancellor-merkel-978690.html
25-04-2021||National||UK sending 'vital medical equipment' to India to aid Covid fight||The British Government on Sunday responded to New Delhi’s request and sent ventilators and oxygen concentrators to help deal with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. The European Union is also pooling resources to respond rapidly to India’s request for assistance to deal with situation. The first shipment of vital medical equipment from United Kingdom are expected to reach India on Tuesday, with further shipments expected to arrive a few days later. The British Government committed to provide New Delhi more than 600 pieces of vital medical equipment for India to support the country in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the British Government announced The British High Commission in New Delhi stated that the UK Government would send nine airline container loads of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators, to India. The UK is working closely with the Government of India to identify further assistance it can provide in the coming days. “We stand side by side with India as a friend and partner during what is a deeply concerning time in the fight against Covid-19,” the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said. “Vital medical equipment, including hundreds of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, is now on its way from the UK to India to support efforts to prevent the tragic loss of life from this terrible virus.” “We have all got to work together to tackle Covid-19. India is a very important partner to us, so we’re providing oxygen concentrators and ventilators to help save the lives of the most vulnerable. We will be following up on this first delivery with further support, based on our ongoing discussions with the Indian Government,” the Foreign Secretary of the UK said. The EU also responded to the request from the Government of India. “Alarmed by the epidemiological situation in India. We are ready to support. The EU is pooling resources to respond rapidly to India’s request for assistance via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. We stand in full solidarity with the Indian people,” Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission’s President, tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-sending-vital-medical-equipment-to-india-to-aid-covid-fight-978758.html
25-04-2021||National||Shashi Tharoor in hospital days after testing positive for coronavirus||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, who had tested positive for coronavirus last week, was on Sunday admitted to a private hospital in the national capital, sources said. They said the 65-year-old was admitted to Apollo Hospital in Sarita Vihar. He is stable and doing fine, they said. Tharoor, the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, reported on April 21 that he had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-in-hospital-days-after-testing-positive-for-coronavirus-978778.html
25-04-2021||National||States wanted removal of restrictions on vaccine supply, no reason to complain now: Vardhan||The Centre liberalised the coronavirus vaccination strategy to allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments following requests from nearly all states and to unleash the "combined effort of Team India" to inoculate every adult in the earliest possible time, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday. In a four-page statement posted on his Twitter handle, the minister defended the new strategy under which everyone above 18 years of age will be vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1 and hit out at those political leaders indulging in "needless politics" on the matter and spreading misinformation. Vardhan said he sees no reason why the states must complain now as they were demanding removal of restrictions on vaccine supplies to them. The new strategy gives states one guaranteed channel of free vaccine supply from the Centre, while they can simultaneously procure vaccines directly from manufacturers for which they can negotiate prices based on volumes, he said. Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market. In his statement, Vardhan said multiple states like Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Sikkim, West Bengal, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have already announced that they will inoculate those between the ages of 18 and 45 against the coronavirus free of cost. This is a welcome decision and under the new liberalised policy, they have the full freedom to do this, he said. Presenting some "pertinent" points in the public domain "to scotch the attempts by some vested interests who are trying to derail the biggest vaccination drive of the world", Vardhan said under the new policy, even after the launch of the third phase of vaccination starting May 1, the Government of India's pricing shall continue for the free distribution bracket.  Just as before, the Centre will continue giving vaccine doses from its 50 per cent quota to the states and union territories for free. These vaccines shall continue to be administered by states and UTs. "Several questions are being raised on the balance 50 per cent quota and what it means. That is why I have chosen to clarify here that this balance 50 per cent quota grants flexibility for states. "Many states had requested that the vaccination process be opened up for them. Now, this 'balance 50 per cent quota' shall give them the freedom to vaccinate groups that they deem as priority," Vardhan said. "It is a fact that health is a state subject, where the Centre essentially coordinates and facilitates the states. After we received requests from nearly all states to liberalise the vaccine distribution policy and pass on the control to the states, we decided to go ahead," he said. The balance 50 per cent quota is also open for the corporate and private sector to "pool in their resources so that the combined effort of Team India can be deployed to vaccinate every adult in the earliest possible time," he underlined. Undoubtedly, Vardhan said, the private and corporate sector route will empower a large number of people to get themselves quickly vaccinated outside the government route. In essence, those who can afford to get them at the private and corporate sector rates shall go ahead, he stated. "The states, therefore, as per their own priority and commitments, have to vaccinate only those remaining people who have not been administered vaccines either through the GOI free route or through the private route. It is thus important to note that for the common people at large, there is and will always be an option to get vaccinated for free, to ensure that the price of vaccines does not become a burden for them," he said. Vardhan reiterated that the Centre does not give vaccines directly to anyone. The 50 per cent quota of the Centre is for free distribution through the states only.  "Hence the allegation that Centre is getting it cheap and States are not is patently false," he said. Vardhan said he sees no reason why the states must complain now as they were demanding removal of restrictions on vaccine supplies to them. "Under the new policy, they have the liberty to directly procure from the manufacturers and even negotiate prices based on volumes. This will also cut the delays. I empathise with the states because they are leading this battle from the front and need fast replenishment of vaccine stocks. They need to decide when, how, how much and to whom. This is exactly what the Centre has done by easing the process," he underlined. Stating that certain political leaders who have chosen to indulge in needless politics on the matter and are spreading misinformation at every step, whether it is about the efficacy or about pricing of vaccine, he appealed to these political parties to put the success of vaccination programme above everything else so that "we may save the lives of our people". The health ministry earlier said that vaccine manufacturers would have to make an advance declaration of the price for the 50 per cent supply that would be available to the state governments and in the open market before May 1. Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. Serum Institute of India has announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for "Covishield" for states and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. Both vaccines will be available to the central government at Rs 150 per dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-wanted-removal-of-restrictions-on-vaccine-supply-no-reason-to-complain-now-vardhan-978790.html
25-04-2021||National||Maharashtra's Covid-19 death toll sees alarming spike||The number of daily Covid-19 deaths is on the rise in Maharashtra with 832 deaths being reported on Sunday. Over the last week, there has been a steady increase in the number of deaths. Last Monday, the state reported 351 deaths followed by 519 on Tuesday, 568 on Wednesday, 568 on Thursday, 773 on Friday and 676 on Saturday. On Sunday, the state reported 66,191 cases and 832 deaths taking the progressive total to 42,95,027 and 64,760, respectively. During the day, 61,450 patients were discharged taking the total treated patients to 35,30,060 crossing the 35-lakh mark. The recovery rate stands at 82.19%. Nearly 43 lakh people are under quarantine in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtras-covid-19-death-toll-sees-alarming-spike-978799.html
25-04-2021||National Politics||Congress highlights shortage of Covid vaccines, asks Centre to focus on it||The Congress highlighted a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country on Saturday with party leader Rahul Gandhi asking the Centre to focus on the issue, instead of "spending on PR and unnecessary projects". Pointing out that only 1.4 per cent of the country's population has been vaccinated so far, Gandhi, in a tweet, said "India needs vaccines" and shared a graph showing that the US has vaccinated 26.5 per cent of its population and the UK 15.9 per cent. In another tweet, he asked the Centre to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other health services amid the Covid-19 pandemic, instead of "spending on PR and unnecessary projects". "This crisis will deepen in the coming days. The country has to be prepared to deal with this. The current plight is unbearable!" the former Congress chief said. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also pointed towards the shortage of vaccines and warned the government of more protests if people were turned away by hospitals. He welcomed the decision to vaccinate all citizens above the age of 18 years from May 1. "However, we have to caution the government that this decision brings with it huge responsibilities," the former Union minister wrote on Twitter. "The government is standing (not helplessly) and silently endorsing the blatant profiteering and exploitation by the two manufacturers. Why is the government not invoking the provision of 'compulsory licensing'? "Will those who justified the COVISHIELD prices of Rs 400 and 600 also justify the COVAXIN prices of Rs 600 and 1200 announced today?" he asked in a series of tweets. Will those who justified the COVISHIELD prices of Rs 400 and 600 also justify the COVAXIN prices of Rs 600 and 1200 announced today? Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh raised questions over the differential pricing of vaccines for the Centre and the states. "Deferential to Centre. Differential to States. SII recently said Rs 400 is new price for ALL new govt procurements -- States and Centre. What's the truth? States have to buy from SII at Rs 400 ($5.30) -- Highest in the World -- for Made in India vaccine. Why?" he asked. "COVISHIELD at Rs 400 for new govt procurement is higher than what govts of US, UK, EU, Saudi, Bangladesh & SA pay. Made in India & highest price for India? By SII's own admission profits are made even at Rs 150. Prices must be renegotiated," the former Union minister wrote on Twitter. The health ministry, however, clarified, saying, "It is clarified that Govt of India's procurement price for both Covid-19 vaccines remains Rs 150 per dose. GOI procured doses will continue to be provided TOTALLY FREE to States." Ramesh said a report by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare had pointed out in November 2020 that "there is a strong need to ensure oxygen inventory and that prices are controlled". It had also pointed towards the affordability and availablility of oxygen cylinders at all hospitals. "Shortage of Oxygen in hospitals across the country is an UNMITIGATED MAN-MADE DISASTER! "Standing Committee on Health in report presented to RS Chairman on 21.11.2020, recommended Modi Govt to 'encourage adequate production of Oxygen' to meet needs of hospitals. Why wasn't it done?" he asked on the microblogging website. Congress leader Ajay Maken also claimed that the Centre ignored the recommendations made by the parliamentary panel in its report that talked about a possible shortage of oxygen and asked the government to prepare. Chidambaram said the first and foremost requirement right now is availability of vaccines, adding that there are widespread complaints about a lack of their supply. "The government's claim that there is no shortage of vaccines is hollow and untrue," he said. "When the surge in demand happens on May 1 and more people flock to hospitals for vaccination, will there be adequate stocks of vaccines all over the country?" Chidambaram asked. "If people are turned away at hospitals, there will be great resentment and protests," he said. The Congress leader said the time to plan for May 1 had started many weeks ago, wondering whether the government was prepared for it. "I am sceptical. Nevertheless, I urge the government to start preparing NOW in order to meet the much greater demand for vaccines on and after May 1," he said. All citizens above 18 years of age will be eligible for vaccination against the coronavirus from May 1, after the Centre announced its liberalised vaccine policy. Currently, only those above 45 years of age are eligible to get the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-highlights-shortage-of-covid-vaccines-asks-centre-to-focus-on-it-978421.html
25-04-2021||National Politics||System has failed, so it's important to do 'jan ki baat': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday alleged that the "system has failed" and it is the duty of the party to provide help to fellow citizens suffering due to sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in the country. His comments came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his 'Mann ki Baat' radio programme said the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has shaken the country and assured people that the Centre was working with all power to help the states. ‘System’ failed, so it’s important to do Jan ki baat: In this crisis, the country needs responsible citizens. I request my Congress colleagues to leave all political work- just provide all help and ease the pain of our countrymen. This is the Dharma of the Congress family. "System' failed, so it's important to do Jan ki baat," Gandhi said on Twitter.  "In this crisis, the country needs responsible citizens. I request my Congress colleagues to leave all political work -- just provide all help and ease the pain of our countrymen," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/system-has-failed-so-its-important-to-do-jan-ki-baat-rahul-gandhi-978483.html
25-04-2021||National Politics||Congress claims vaccine makers to make Rs 1.11 lakh crore profit||Congress on Sunday accused the Modi government of allowing vaccine makers profiteer to the tune of Rs 1.11 lakh crore by allowing differential pricing for Covid-19 vaccines. “How can such brazen vaccine profiteering be permitted? Why is the Modi government complicit in this profiteering in the times of pandemic? Prime Minister Narendra Modi must answer,” Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters at a virtual press conference. He claimed that the Modi government has introduced “the most discriminatory and insensitive vaccination policy” in the entire world. According to the prices offered by the vaccine makers, Surjewala claimed that the SII and Bharat Biotech would make a profit of Rs 35,350 crore and Rs 75,750 crore respectively. “The population below 45 years of age is 101 crore. To vaccinate them, we need 202 crore doses and the cost of these will have to be borne by the states or the individuals themselves,” he said. “Assuming that states will provide 50 per cent vaccination and individuals will bear 50 per cent of vaccination cost, the profit of the two vaccine manufacturers -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – will be Rs 1,11,100 crore,” he said. He came to the conclusion after assuming that 50 per cent of 101 crore people between 18 and 45 years would buy their own vaccines and the other half would be served by states. “The Modi government is guilty of permitting brazen profiteering of vaccination. The Modi government is also guilty of abdicating its responsibility and abandoning the young of India between the age group of 18 and 45 years,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-claims-vaccine-makers-to-make-rs-111-lakh-crore-profit-978766.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Twitter removes 50 tweets criticising Modi government's handling of Covid-19 crisis||Twitter on Saturday removed around 50 tweets mostly criticising the Covid-19 pandemic handling by the NDA government. Though Twitter is silent about the removal, tweets from verified accounts have been removed by the company. Tweets by Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, Congress MP Revanth Reddy and West Bengal Minister Moly Ghatak are among some of the tweets that have been taken down.  Mostly these tweets blamed the Kumbh Mela for the Covid-19 surge in India.  Sources said that the microblogging platform removed tweets following the requests from the central government. Earlier, Twitter and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology were at loggerheads on the removal of tweets related to farmers' protests in Delhi. Though Twitter was reluctant to remove tweets flagged by the government, mostly criticising the Modi government handing farmers' protests, the US-based company had taken down all tweets finally.  The government had also warned Twitter of serious consequences if it failed to follow Indian law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/twitter-removes-50-tweets-criticising-modi-governments-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-978364.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt mulling lockdown extension||With the Covid-19 situation remaining grim in Delhi despite a mini-lockdown, the city government may consider extending it by some more days, sources said on Saturday. On April 19, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown that will be in force till 5 am on Monday, saying the step was taken to break the chain of the coronavirus infection and boost the health system that was on the verge of collapse. "The idea behind the brief lockdown was that it will control the cases and give time to boost the health infrastructure, but the situation has gone from bad to worse. In such a situation, extending the lockdown, by maybe another week, is a possible option," a source in the Delhi government said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government decided to impose the week-long lockdown to curb the spread of the virus in the national capital, Kejriwal had said while announcing the measure. However, the Covid-19 positivity rate is still over 30 per cent in Delhi and the number of fresh cases continues to rise. A total of 24,331 cases were reported in the city on Friday and the positivity rate was 32.43 per cent. In an appeal to migrant workers not to leave the city due to the lockdown, Kejriwal had hoped that there might not be a need to extend it further. Meanwhile, the Chamber of Trade and Industry claimed that according to a survey conducted by it, 70 per cent of the Delhi traders favour extending the lockdown. The traders' body is in favour of the lockdown being extended till April 30, its chairman Brijesh Goyal said. Community platform LocalCircles has also appealed to the authorities, including the chief minister and the lieutenant governor, to extend the lockdown in view of the "biggest health emergency" faced by the city. There is an urgent need to add capacity to the medical infrastructure and flatten the daily Covid cases, LocalCircles chairman Sachin Tapadia said, suggesting an extension of the lockdown by one or two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-mulling-lockdown-extension-978417.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||5 J&K gram panchayats bag National Panchayat Awards 2021||Five gram panchayats in Jammu and Kashmir bagged the National Panchayat Awards-2021, an official spokesman said on Saturday. Lt Governor Manoj Sinha extended his heartiest congratulations to the best performing panchayats for bringing laurels to the Union territory. Gram panchayat Kangroosa, block Kandi Rafiabad, Baramulla, and Gram panchayat Hakermulla, block Soibugh, Budgam won the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP), the spokesman said. He said gram panchayat Kootah, Hiranagar, Kathua was conferred with the Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), while gram panchayat Panzgam A, block Reddi Chowkibal, Kupwara won the Gram Panchayat Development Plan Award (GPDPA). Gram panchayat Achabal A, block Nadihal, Baramulla bagged the Child Friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA), the spokesman said. The Lt Governor applauded the sarpanches and other Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) members for putting in outstanding efforts for effective and efficient delivery of public services for transformation of rural J&K. “These PRIs would be role models for other panchayats and these achievements shall motivate others to follow their path. I am hopeful that other panchayats in the UT would replicate similar steps and adopt best practices for greater development and welfare of the rural masses,” Sinha said. He said distinct emphasis on rural development through inclusive programmes, empowering PRIs and efficient monitoring of rural welfare programmes has won the UT five national awards. On the occasion of National Panchayati Raj Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi conferred the National Panchayat Awards 2021 under various categories on Saturday. The prime minister also transferred the award money directly to the bank accounts of the winning panchayats in real time, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-jk-gram-panchayats-bag-national-panchayat-awards-2021-978419.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi received 309 MT oxygen as against allocated 480 MT oxygen: AAP govt tells HC||The AAP government on Saturday told the Delhi High Court that the national capital received 309 MT of medical oxygen against the allocated 480 MT on Friday, terming it as the main cause behind the oxygen crisis in the city hospitals. The ruling AAP, in a statement, said the crisis follows a continuous trend where daily oxygen delivered was way short of the quota assigned to Delhi. The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate on the issue of making available medical oxygen to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, observing that citizens cannot be left to die. The AAP said the court has "curtailed the attempt" by the Centre to wish away its responsibility from arranging oxygen tankers for Delhi. "The Delhi government has also stated (in court) that the root cause of this issue (oxygen crisis) was that in the revised allocation plan devised by the central government, for the first time ever, 102 metric tonnes of oxygen supply for Delhi has been allocated to plants far away in Odisha and West Bengal, more than 1,000 kms away," the statement said. The AAP claimed this was done without the Centre making any corresponding arrangement for tankers to supply oxygen or any consultative process with the city government. The Delhi government also submitted that as on date, there is a vast shortage of cryogenic tankers across the country and the Centre is best placed to allocate adequate capacity to each state or if required import more tankers. "Besides, Delhi being a non-industrial state, it does not have a ready fleet of cryogenic tankers like many other industrial states. To this, without producing any concrete examples or numbers, central officials once again evaded any kind of responsibility and said that some states are taking care of their tanker requirements and therefore, Delhi should also do so," the AAP statement added. Several hospitals in the national capital continued to grapple with a severe shortage of medical oxygen on Saturday even after receiving emergency supplies with the help of the Delhi government and the Delhi Police. While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight. At least two private hospitals in Delhi -- Saroj Super Speciality Hospital in Rohini and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area -- asked the families of patients to shift them to other healthcare facilities in view of oxygen shortage on Saturday. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal sent an SOS to his counterparts in other states seeking their help in boosting medical oxygen supply in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-received-309-mt-oxygen-as-against-allocated-480-mt-oxygen-aap-govt-tells-hc-978420.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Father, 3 others held for selling 15-day-old boy in UP||A man and three others were arrested in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday for allegedly selling his 15-day-old son, police said. The main accused has been identified as Santosh Ram, a resident of Rudalpur Gayghat village under Phephana police station, they said. A complaint was lodged by Ram's wife Gudhia Devi alleging that her husband had sold their son to Jitendra Kumar Yadav of Rausinghpur village in collusion with one Lal Bahadur Singh for Rs 1.45 lakh, Superintendent of Police Vipin Tada said. A case was registered on the basis of Gudhia Devi's complaint and Ram, Yadav and Singh were arrested along with another accused, he said. Police also recovered Rs 1.23 lakh from them, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/father-3-others-held-for-selling-15-day-old-boy-in-up-978423.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Family members of victims in Delhi hospital tragedy look for answers||Hours after the death of 20 Covid-19 patients at the Jaipur Golden Hospital due to a shortage of oxygen on Saturday, the family members of the victims were still looking for answers. "My 34-year-old sister-in-law was recovering well. The hospital management did not tell us anything about the oxygen shortage. If it had, we could have tried to manage oxygen at our end, like we did for the plasma and other things. They were only bothered about their bills, nothing else," a teary-eyed Hari Singh Tomar said, adding that the family had mortgaged its house for her treatment. According to the hospital's medical director, DK Baluja, the reason behind the deaths of the "critically-ill" patients was a "dip in the oxygen pressure". The incident took place a day after 25 patients died at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, one of the city's biggest and most high-profile healthcare facilities. Another grieving family member said he cannot believe his younger brother is no more. He claimed that his brother was doing fine and that he had spoken to him over the phone on Friday night. "I had a conversation with him at 8 pm on Friday. He was doing fine. He was in the ICU but not on a ventilator. His oxygen saturation level was 92. I do not know what happened and this is what we want to know from the hospital now," said the brother of deceased Dinesh Kataria (38). Kamal Khera, who lost his brother and sister-in-law in the tragic incident, complained that the hospital did not tell him or any other family member anything about the oxygen shortage. "They did not tell us anything. I came to the hospital and they told me that my brother and sister-in-law have died and asked me to wait for their bodies. They just made us fill forms and pay bills, nothing else," he said. Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 357 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Saturday as well as over 24,000 fresh cases. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last 12 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/family-members-of-victims-in-delhi-hospital-tragedy-look-for-answers-978424.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||No shortage of oxygen in any Covid hospital in UP: Yogi Adityanath||Asserting that there is no shortage of oxygen in any private or public Covid hospital in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the state government will conduct an audit of the life-saving gas in collaboration with various institutes. Urging people not to let their guard down against coronavirus, he said it will be a huge mistake to take it as normal viral fever. Adityanath was speaking during a virtual interaction with editors of different newspapers. "There is no shortage of oxygen in any Covid hospital, be it private or government. The problem is black marketing and hoarding, which will be tackled with a heavy hand. We are going to conduct an oxygen audit in collaboration with IIT Kanpur, IIM Lucknow and IIT BHU for proper monitoring of oxygen. The system of live tracking of oxygen demand, supply and distribution will be implemented," the chief minister said. Adityanath also said that oxygen is not in short supply provided only the needy use it. "Every infected patient does not need oxygen, cooperation is expected from the media in increasing awareness about this," he said. He acknowledged that there were some initial problems in increasing the number of hospital beds in the state but they were quickly overcome. Adityanath further said, "It would be a huge mistake to take corona as normal viral fever. I am also in its grip. I have been following all Covid protocols since April 13 while in isolation." While reviewing the situation in Uttar Pradesh, its large population and demographic diversity should be kept in mind, he said. The number of infections in this Covid-19 wave is about 30 times more than last time, he added. Adityanath claimed that the state government's preparation is better than before. "We have made arrangements for oxygen plants in government institutions. There was a lack of this system in private institutions. Work is on to set up 31 new oxygen plants including 18 plants based on DRDO's latest technology," he said. The chief minister asserted that there is no shortage of drugs like Remdesivir in Uttar Pradesh. When the demand increased, a state aircraft was sent to Ahmedabad and the drug was procured directly from the pharma company. Again, even this medicine is not required by all patients, he said. Adityanath said Uttar Pradesh is the first state to go for 'free vaccination for all'. Nearly 8,000 centres have been set up where Covid-19 vaccines will be administered free of cost to all people above the age of 18 from May 1, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-shortage-of-oxygen-in-any-covid-hospital-in-up-yogi-adityanath-978425.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital receives 5 metric tonnes of oxygen, highest in 3 days||After an all-night scramble for an oxygen refill, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here received five metric tonnes of the life-saving gas in the early hours of Sunday, according to officials. The hospital had raised an alarm at 10:30 pm on Saturday, saying its oxygen stock would last only an hour. There were 130 patients in the ICU, including 30 on invasive ventilation, when the SOS was sent. Around 12:20 am it received a tanker, with the help of local AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, which supplied one metric tonne of oxygen. "It should last two hours," a hospital spokesperson said around 12:45 pm. According to him, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital's primary supplier in Faridabad was supposed to send a tanker before 3 am. The tanker finally arrived at 4:15 am and delivered 5 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, the highest volume that the hospital has received in the last three days in one refill, he said. "It should last for 11-12 hours. Oxygen running at full pressure after a long time," the spokesperson said. Some hospitals in the national capital continued to grapple with severe shortage of medical oxygen on Saturday even after receiving emergency supplies with the help of the Delhi government and the police. While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight.  At least two private hospitals in Delhi -- Saroj Super Speciality Hospital in Rohini and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad Institutional Area -- on Saturday asked families of patients to shift them to other healthcare facilities in view of oxygen shortage. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Friday reported the death of 25 of its "sickest" patients as the administration grappled with depleting oxygen supplies. "I appeal to both the Centre and the state to help. On one hand, they increased Covid beds and on the other, they can't supply oxygen in sufficient quantity. How are we supposed to work?" the hospital's chairman Dr D S Rana said. "If this is Covid tsunami and the government has invoked the Disaster Management Act, then they should work according to it. We need immediate intervention," he said. Dr Rana also said, "The government is doing its best but, perhaps, they too are helpless. But then they should admit it and reduce patient intake."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-receives-5-metric-tonnes-of-oxygen-highest-in-3-days-978453.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||With 2 hours of oxygen supply left, Delhi's LNJP hospital gets refill||Amid an acute oxygen crisis in the national capital, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital here received a supply of the life-saving gas in a cryogenic tanker around 10 am on Sunday, officials said. It came as a huge relief for the hospital which was running on its backup stock of oxygen. "We had exhausted our oxygen stock and were using the backup which would have lasted for two hours only," said LNJP Hospital's Medical Director Dr Suresh Kumar. AAP MLA Raghav Chaddha, who is also the chairman of LNJP Hospital's Rogi Kalyan Samiti, had earlier tweeted about the cryogenic tanker on its way to refill oxygen stock in the hospital. "Within the next 30 minutes, LNJP will receive liquid oxygen supply via cryogenic tanker. The tanker is on its way," he tweeted around 9.55 am on Sunday. Chaddha had also helped Sir Ganga Ram Hospital get one metric tonne of oxygen around 12.20 am. The hospital has also received five metric tonnes of oxygen in the early hours of Sunday. The Delhi High Court on Saturday asked the Centre and the Delhi government to coordinate on the issue of making medical oxygen available to hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, observing that citizens cannot be left to die. The court also made it clear that the efforts which Delhi government has to make in this regard cannot be trivialised and they should not leave it entirely to the central government. While some hospitals have managed to make short-term arrangements, there is no immediate end to the crisis in sight.  The situation is grim for hospitals like Penatamed in Model Town that had oxygen supply for only one hour around 9:45 am. "We at Pentamed Hospital have oxygen supply left for one hour only. There are around 50 patients and most of them are on oxygen support," said the hospital management.  Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 deaths with 357 more people succumbing to the viral disease on Saturday as well as over 24,000 fresh cases. The city has reported nearly 2,500 deaths due to the deadly virus in a 12-day period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-2-hours-of-oxygen-supply-left-delhis-lnjp-hospital-gets-refill-978471.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi extends coronavirus lockdown till May 3||The lockdown in the national capital was on Sunday extended by a week as hospitals here grappled with the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, with some still complaining of oxygen shortages. Every third person tested for Covid-19 was reporting positive for the infectious disease with several rushing to hospitals for treatment, prompting Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to extend the six-day lockdown, announced on April 19 by another week. As of Sunday morning, Delhi had reported 24,103 new cases in a single day, fewer than the 28,395 cases reported on April 21. Of the 74,702 samples tested on Saturday, 32.27 per cent had reported positive for Covid-19. “We will have to watch the situation for a few more days to see if the cases decrease or increase,” Kejriwal said. The lockdown imposed on April 19 night will now continue till 5 am on May 3, he said. It was scheduled to end at 5 am on April 26 before the extension. With hospitals facing shortages of oxygen, the Delhi government has asked manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals to update supply and consumption data every two hours on a portal set up by it.   “The Centre has increased Delhi's quota from 480 tonnes to 490 tonnes per day. But, we are yet to receive a full quota. Currently, only 330-335 tonnes per day supply is being received by us,” he said. “Allocated 2.5KL every 24 hrs from INOX – required 4.5KL daily. No supply for 71 hrs. Refusal to supply today. Save lives of 119 patients or move them to other facilities,” Saroj Hospital in north-west Delhi said. Similar problems were also faced by Gangaram Hospital and Jaipur Golden Hospital where 25 and 20 patients had died respectively because of shortage of oxygen over the weekend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-3-978474.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Restrictions in place across Kashmir as Covid-19 cases surge||Strict restrictions on the movement of people were imposed across Kashmir as part of the administration's 34-hour 'corona curfew' amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, officials said on Sunday. The restrictions that came into force on 8 PM on Saturday will remain till 6 AM on Monday in all the ten districts of the Valley, the officials said. They said security forces put barricades on roads at many places in the city here as well as in other district headquarters of the valley to prevent the movement of the people. However, essential and emergency services were being allowed to move, they added. The officials said police vehicles, fitted with public address system, went around localities announcing the imposition of strict restrictions for combating the spread of coronavirus.  Shops, fuel stations and other business establishments were shut across the valley, the officials said, adding, people were cooperating with the administration. On Saturday, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had announced a complete corona curfew in the Union Territory. Earlier, on April 8, the administration had ordered the imposition of night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am in the urban areas of eight districts which was later extended to municipal and urban local body limits of all the 20 districts in the Union Territory on April 20. The valley has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-in-place-across-kashmir-as-covid-19-cases-surge-978488.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Tears, prayers, police, JCB: How Saroj Hospital in Delhi saved over 100 lives||On a gloomy Saturday afternoon, the staff at the Saroj Super Specialty Hospital in Delhi broke down and started praying anxiously as lives of more 100 patients hung by a thread amid rapidly depleting oxygen supply. An oxygen tanker had reached the hospital after the staff spent hours running around in search of supplies and making frantic calls to the government and police. But it could not enter the area where the hospital's oxygen tank is. The problem: its larger-than-normal size. The solution: an excavator, which broke down a portion of a wall. The hospital ran out of oxygen in the afternoon and the supply from the vendor never came. The situation was tense amid fears of a repeat of the tragedy at the Jaipur Golden Hospital, where 20 patients died due to lack of oxygen. "We really didn't know what to," Pankaj Chawla, the owner of the hospital, said. "This was the time we started discharging patients. We told families that we don't have oxygen and they can take their patients to some other healthcare facilities," Chawla said. The hospital, run by a trust, discharged 34 patients during this time. Since the rest were on ventilators, their families were asked to arrange oxygen cylinders. "Most of the patients said, 'we will stay... it's the same situation everywhere. Let's see what happens'. Thirty-four were medically okay to go," Chawla said. The hospital went to the high court to get an order for urgent relief, but help still did not come immediately. It borrowed oxygen cylinders from various healthcare facilities, while some Delhi government officials worked in the background. Later, the city government allotted a tanker to it on a sharing basis. "The tanker came to the hospital, but it was so big that it couldn't get into the area where our LMO (liquid medical oxygen) tank is," Chawla said. "We started breaking down a wall and a ramp with electronic hammers and whatever we had, but it was taking time and the tanker had to go to the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital." Government officials told the hospital that the tanker would come back after an hour. "That is the time everybody thought nothing can save us. All of us, my doctors, my staff started crying. We were running out of luck, too," Chawla recalled. The hospital staff and some police personnel rushed to get some cylinders filled. Twenty cylinders were brought to the hospital in a Delhi Transport Corporation bus. Those cylinders lasted 40 minutes and actually saved the day, he said. "In the meanwhile, we called the mayor, fire department... brought in a JCB (excavator), which broke a portion of the wall and the ramp," Chawla said. The police brought the tanker back after delivering oxygen at the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital. At present, there are over 100 patients at the hospital, majority of them on oxygen support. "It could've been another Jaipur Golden tragedy, perhaps, of a bigger size... All this time, the families were there, helping us," Chawla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tears-prayers-police-jcb-how-saroj-hospital-in-delhi-saved-over-100-lives-978501.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 weekend curfew shuts Jammu and Kashmir||Amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, authorities on Sunday imposed a strict Corona curfew across Jammu and Kashmir to prevent the further spread of the deadly virus. Jammu and Kashmir reported 2,030 Covid-19 positive cases and 15 fatalities on Saturday while the state saw 1,937 positive cases and 19 deaths on Friday. Over the past week, the UT has reported over 13,200 positive cases and 75 Covid-19 related deaths. The restrictions that came into force on 8 PM on Saturday will remain till 6 AM on Monday across the Union Territory (UT), officials said. A large contingent of police and paramilitary forces were deployed across Srinagar city and other districts to impose strict restrictions. Eyewitnesses said barricades had also been erected on entry and exit points of Srinagar city and other major towns of the Kashmir valley. The famous Sunday flea market in Srinagar also remained closed while only emergency services were allowed to function normally. Earlier, on April 8, the administration had ordered the imposition of a night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am in the urban areas of eight districts, which was later extended to municipal and urban local body limits of all the 20 districts in the UT on April 20. In Kashmir valley, authorities have declared 140 areas, where a huge number of Covid-19 cases have been reported, as containment zones. An area is declared as containment or micro containment zone after it records infection cases in clusters, and to prevent the spread of the virus, the entry and exit points of these areas are sealed. In containment zones, no inward or outward movement of any person from/to the said area is allowed. In case the spread of clusters goes beyond 300 metres, a committee headed by the concerned Tehsildar decides the boundary of the containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-weekend-curfew-shuts-jammu-and-kashmir-978505.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Oxygen crisis: Congress MP says Madhya Pradesh government ignoring Jabalpur||Congress MP from Madhya Pradesh Vivek Tankha on Sunday accused the BJP-led state government of ignoring Jabalpur in the supply of medical oxygen amid the Covid-19 surge. Tankha, who hails from Jabalpur, in a Twitter post tagged a media report that mentioned about the state government's decision on Saturday to airlift empty oxygen tankers from Bhopal and Gwalior along with Indore and send them to Ranchi for re-filling. Referring to the report, the Rajya Sabha member in his tweet said, "Is Jabalpur not in Madhya Pradesh". Notably, five Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the ICU of a private hospital in Jabalpur died on Friday allegedly after the stock of medical oxygen at the facility got over, police earlier said. According to a government release issued on Saturday, there was sufficient medical oxygen available in Jabalpur. The medical oxygen is procured from local plants as well from outside. In the last two days, 20 KL (kilolitre) of medical oxygen was received from Rourkela (Odisha) and 15 KL from Bhilai (Chhattisgarh) by two tanker trucks. One more tanker truck carrying 20 KL of medical oxygen is expected to reach Jabalpur from Rourkela (Odisha) on Sunday, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oxygen-crisis-congress-mp-says-madhya-pradesh-government-ignoring-jabalpur-978512.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Third phase of Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls on Monday||Voting for the third phase of the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held on Monday with more than 3.52 lakh candidates in the fray in over 2.14 lakh seats across 20 districts of the state. According to the State Election Commission (SEC), voting will be held from 7 am to 6 pm in Shamli, Meerut, Moradabad, Pilibhit, Kasganj, Firozabad, Auraiya, Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Fatehpur, Unnao, Amethi, Barabanki, Balrampur, Siddharthanagar, Deoria, Chandauli, Mirzapur and Ballia. For the posts of 746 members of zila panchayats, there are 10,627 candidates in the fray. For the 18,530 posts of members of kshetra panchayats, there are 89,188 candidates. As many as 1,17,789 candidates are in the poll arena for 14,397 village panchayats. For 1,80,473 village panchayat wards, there are 1,34,510 candidates contesting the polls. The candidates will contest on "free symbols" given by the State Election Commission (SEC). In the first phase of the polls, which was held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The second phase of polls held on April 19 also saw over 71 per cent of polling. The 2015 panchayat polls had registered a polling percentage of 72.11, according to the SEC. In view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had said last month said that not more than five people would be allowed to accompany a candidate during the door-to-door campaigning for the panchayat elections. Additional Election Commissioner Ved Prakash Verma said three-member teams were formed under the additional district magistrates to ensure that directives issued by the SEC were being followed. At the district level, the chief medical officers have been made nodal officers and stress has been laid on Covid-19 prevention. Voters will mandatorily have to wear masks and maintain social distancing at polling booths. Instructions have also been issued to make circles maintaining a distance of six feet between voters standing in the queue. Verma said Covid-19 norms would also be followed during the counting of votes and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits would be arranged according to requirements. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to conclude the panchayat election process by May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/third-phase-of-uttar-pradesh-panchayat-polls-on-monday-978518.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Death toll in avalanche in Uttarakhand's Chamoli rises to 11||The death toll in an avalanche near the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district rose to 11 on Sunday, officials said here. Ten bodies were recovered till Saturday. One more body was recovered on Sunday and a rescue operation is underway, the district disaster management office here said. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauriya and Superintendent of Police Yashwant Singh have been at the spot since Saturday to monitor the rescue operations. Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar said a total of 430 BRO workers were at the road construction site when the avalanche occurred on Friday. Sumna, where the avalanche occurred, is approximately 25 km from Malari village and located near the confluence of the Girthigad and the Kiogad, two streams that originate from the Dhauli Ganga river, which witnessed a calamitous avalanche in February, killing 80 people and leaving 126 missing. A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Chamoli on February 7, leading to massive floods, recalling a 2019 study that warned about the dangers of climate change and said Himalayan glaciers have been melting twice as fast since the start of this century. The glacier collapse at Joshimath led to a massive flood in the Alaknanda river system and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. In June 2019, a study spanning 40 years of satellite observations across India, China, Nepal and Bhutan, indicated that climate change is eating the Himalayas' glaciers. The study, published in the journal Science Advances, shows that glaciers have been losing the equivalent of more than a vertical foot and half of the ice each year since 2000 -- double the amount of melting that took place from 1975 to 2000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-in-avalanche-in-uttarakhands-chamoli-rises-to-11-978531.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Bodies keep arriving at Kanpur crematoriums, belie official Covid death count||As coronavirus cases surge, the number of cremations taking place at the city's crematoriums has increased several-fold -- far more than the 66 deaths officially attributed to the virus in the entire district over the past six days. Data from Bhairoghat and Bhagwatghat crematoriums shows 462 bodies were consigned to flames from April 19 to April 24. People have to wait with the bodies for the last rites and the situation is no different at burial grounds. In the six-day period, Kanpur Nagar district officially recorded 66 Covid-19 deaths, while 406 cremations took place at Bhairoghat and 56 in Bhagwatghat alone. The Bhairoghat crematorium also includes an electric crematorium. "The number of cremations has risen several fold in the last week," said Qamruddin, a Kanpur Municipal Corporation employee at the Bhairoghat electric crematorium. "Until last month, we were cremating less than 10 bodies a day, but for the last 10 days, we have been handling over 50 bodies every day," he said. Data shows that 91 of the 406 funerals were performed at Bhairoghat on April 21 alone, he added. The spurt has forced the people to wait for hours to cremate the dead, Qamruddin said. "We are working for long and incinerators are running full time, but many people still have to wait with the bodies for the last rites," he said. Additional District Magistrate Atul Kumar said information about all the Covid-19 patients as well as their recovery or deaths is uploaded on the government portal, so "it is impossible to hide or alter the death toll". He, however, refused to comment over the large number of bodies being brought to the crematoriums, contrary to the Covid-19 death figures being shared with the media and displayed on the official portal. The divisional commissioner and the district magistrate were not available for their comments. According to Dhaniram Panther, a social worker who voluntarily performs last rituals of unclaimed bodies, the electric and firewood funerals at the crematoriums have been running without a break almost everyday during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Over 400 bodies were cremated in the last six days, while the official coronavirus death toll stood at 66 during the same period. We are working with 100 per cent capacity to cremate the bodies on time," Panther said. The Bhairoghat crematorium has cremated 50 to 90 bodies a day during the last week, far in excess of the city's official daily coronavirus death toll of approximately 10, said Panther. "I have been regularly performing cremations of unclaimed bodies for decades, but I haven't seen bodies in such large numbers awaiting funeral. Sometimes the crematorium ran out of wood and people were asked to bring it themselves," Panther said. A large number of bodies are being brought to the Muslim graveyards as well for burial and many graveyards are left with no space for further burial of bodies, Panther said. A health official said 1,060 people have died so far from the coronavirus in the Kanpur Nagar district according to official data, while over 100 such deaths were reported in the last 11 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-keep-arriving-at-kanpur-crematoriums-belie-official-covid-death-count-978532.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Night curfew in four Himachal Pradesh districts from April 27||Keeping in view a sharp increase in the number of coronavirus cases, the Himachal Pradesh government imposed a night curfew in its four districts from April 27 to May 10. According to an official statement, the decision was taken in a meeting held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The night curfew will be imposed in Kangra, Una, Solan and Sirmour from April 27 to May 10 and the restrictions will remain in force from 10 pm to 5 am daily during the period, said the statement. It was also made mandatory for visitors and state residents to produce a negative report of coronavirus test, conducted not earlier than 72 hours before entering the state. In case Himachal residents do not undergo an RT-PCR test before entering the state, they will have to remain in home isolation for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-in-four-himachal-pradesh-districts-from-april-27-978548.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Omar Abdullah amplifies SOS messages from Covid-19 patients on Twitter||Amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah, who is popular on Twitter with 3.2 million followers, on Sunday started amplifying distress and SOS messages from Covid-19 patients and their relatives from across the country. Omar, who tested positive for Covid-19 days after taking the first vaccine dose, said he could understand the feelings of those who have their loved ones hospitalised due to the infection. I know in the grand scheme of things it may not amount to much but every little bit helps & if even one individual benefits from a tweet of mine I’ll consider myself extremely fortunate. "I want to be able to help people through this crisis as best I can because I know what's it like to have a loved one in hospital fighting against Covid-19. To that end I've opened up my DMs for now & will amplify every message requesting/offering help," Omar said before re-tweeting and re-posting SOS messages from across the country. Omar's father and Lok Sabha member from Srinagar, Farooq Abdullah, had to be hospitalised after testing positive for the infection after getting his vaccine dose. "I know, in the grand scheme of things, it may not amount to much but every little bit helps & if even one individual benefits from a tweet of mine I'll consider myself extremely fortunate," Omar tweeted.  The National Conference vice president, however, made it clear to his followers that he would not be endorsing or re-tweeting any requests for donation.  "I apologise in advance but I won't be tweeting requests for donations/funds because I have no way of independently verifying the antecedents of the people/organisations seeking to raise funds," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdullah-amplifies-sos-messages-from-covid-19-patients-on-twitter-978549.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Test on arrival, ICMR form: J&K sets Covid-19 norms for flyers||With a steep spike in Covid-19 positive cases across the country, authorities at Srinagar airport have asked passengers to fill up the ICMR health form on arrival. The passengers are also required to undergo the Covid-19 test at the airport and must have the Aarogya Setu app. As per the guidelines, the airlines concerned have been asked to inform the passenger that there will be a mandatory test on arrival and quarantine if found positive. Srinagar airport authorities in a tweet said, “It is advised to all passengers before traveling kindly confirm the latest COVID test report requirement and validity from concerned airline operators to avoid any last time confusion.” Authorities at the airport said that all the incoming passengers are tested for Covid-19 under strict guidelines and regular announcements are being made about the adherence of SOPs, including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing.  In a separate set of rules and regulations for the Union Territory of Ladakh, authorities have made Covid negative report (not earlier than 96 hours of arrival) mandatory for entry into Ladakh, failing which, the passenger will have to go for mandatory seven days home quarantine. “After 7 days of quarantine, Covid test may be conducted at the end.” “Passengers may have to be tested for Covid and if tested positive, passengers will be transferred to Covid facility for further processing, if test report is negative then the passengers shall be released from mandatory quarantine,” reads the new direction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/test-on-arrival-icmr-form-jk-sets-covid-19-norms-for-flyers-978575.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath invokes 'Ramcharitmanas' to tackle Covid-19, says some people creating fear in state||Amid the Covid-19 surge and shortage of oxygen and beds at the hospitals in the state, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that some people were trying to create an ''atmosphere of fear'' and hinted at tough action against 'fearmongers'. Adityanath also cited a couplet from the Hindu epic 'Ramcharitmanas' to impress upon the people that in times of crisis, people's patience is tested. He also said that no charge would be levied on the cremation of people dying from Covid 19. "The government has also ordered an oxygen audit in the state,'' he added. "We are facing a pandemic... it will be a grave mistake to take it as a simple viral fever... I am too in its grip," the chief minister said in a virtual interaction with the newsmen here on Saturday evening. In reply to a query on the alleged shortage of oxygen, he said that the situation in the state must be analysed keeping in mind its population and the intensity of the pandemic. Adityanath said that there was no shortage of oxygen and other medicines required to treat seriously infected people. "The problem has arisen owing to black marketing and hoarding of these items," he said. He said that the government had slapped the National Security Act (NSA) against those found to be indulging in black marketing of oxygen and Remdesivir. Adityanath said that some people were trying to create fear in the minds of people through misleading and fake posts on social media. "Identical messages are being posted on social media through different accounts... there is a need to identify such people," he said, indicating that his government would take tough action against such people. His remarks came in the wake of heart-wrenching videos on social media showing the attendants of the patients crying in front of hospitals after their refusal to admit the patients citing shortage of oxygen and non-availability of beds. Meanwhile, 35,614 new cases of Covid 19 were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. A total of 11,165 people have died from coronavirus in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-invokes-ramcharitmanas-to-tackle-covid-19-says-some-people-creating-fear-in-state-978580.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Muslim men help Hindu man cremate father amid Covid-19 fear in Madhya Pradesh||A group of Muslims helped a Hindu man cremate his 60-year-old father in Sagar in Madhya Pradesh after his neighbours and relatives refused to join due to the fear of coronavirus. Ullas Belapurkar, an employee of a local government engineering college, died on Saturday morning reportedly of pneumonia, while his coronavirus test report is still awaited, his son Madhur said. "My household comprises my mother, wife, and I. Since women do not take part in funerary arrangements, I was left alone, without any help from my neighbours and relatives who were afraid to cremate my father due to the fear of coronavirus," he said. However, some members of the Muslim community came forward and helped carry out the last rites as per Hindu rituals at the local crematorium on Saturday, Madhur added. Muslim Kabristan Committee chairman Irshad Khan said, "When we got information about this issue, some of us in PPE kits went and took the body to the Muktidham (crematorium) here and helped conduct the last rites."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-men-help-hindu-man-cremate-father-amid-covid-19-fear-in-madhya-pradesh-978586.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||11,000 more construction workers to get Rs 5,000 aid each in coming days: Delhi government||Nearly 11,000 more construction workers in the national capital registered with the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board will receive a one-time financial assistance of Rs 5,000 in the coming days, a statement from the office of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday. The Delhi government has been providing financial assistance to the registered workers who are facing a livelihood crisis during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "A total of 2,10,684 construction workers are targeted to be provided the aid, out of which two lakh have already been disbursed a sum of Rs 100 crore and 11,000 workers will be granted the aid in the coming days," the statement said. During last year's lockdown, the Delhi government disbursed Rs 5,000 each to as many as 55,000 construction workers. In the second phase, the Delhi government will disburse Rs 46.1 crore to the construction workers, it said. The government has also set up as many as 150 food distribution centres in various schools and construction sites to help migrant workers, daily-wage labourers, and construction workers during the lockdown. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi for another week, saying the severity of COVID-19 is unabated and the positivity rate has been as high as 36 per cent in the last few days. The lockdown imposed on April 19 night will now continue till 5 AM on May 3, he said. It was scheduled to end at 5 AM on April 26 before extension. Thousands of migrant workers had gathered at railway stations and bus stands to catch a ride back home after Kejriwal had announced a week-long lockdown on April 19, notwithstanding the state government's assurance of taking care of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11000-more-construction-workers-to-get-rs-5000-aid-each-in-coming-days-delhi-government-978616.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan CM announces free Covid vaccine to 18 and above||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Sunday announced the state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to people above the 18 years of age, who will be inoculated beginning May 1. He said the state government will spend about Rs 3,000 crore on the exercise. "The state government will provide free coronavirus vaccine to all people above the 18 years of age in the state at the cost of about Rs 3000 crore," Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi. He also said it would have been better if the Centre had agreed to incur the cost of vaccination for the 18-45 age category, as demanded by state governments. For the past several days, Gehlot has been demanding the Centre bear the cost of vaccination of those above the 18 years of age. During a video conference with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, Gehlot had raised this issue. In his tweet on Sunday too, he said, "It would have been better had the Centre, as demanded by state governments, met the cost of vaccinating the 18-45 age group, as it did in the case of those above 45 and 60. This would have saved states' budget from getting disturbed," he said. Meanwhile, Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that starting vaccination from May 1 for those above 18 will depend on the availability of shots. He said when state government officials spoke to the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, they were told that vaccine is not available. The Centre had last week announced to vaccinate youths above 18 years of age starting May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-announces-free-covid-vaccine-to-18-and-above-978671.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||MP: 'Corona curfew' in Bhopal extended till May 3||The 'corona curfew' imposed in Bhopal of Madhya Pradesh to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases has been extended till May 3, an official said on Sunday. The curfew in the state capital was set to end at 6 am on April 26. It has been extended in Bhopal and Berasia town of the district till 6 am on May 3, an order by Collector Avinash Lavaniya said. A week-long 'corona curfew' was first imposed in Bhopal city from 9 pm on April 12 to curb the rising cases of Covid-19. It was further extended for another week from April 19 to April 26. It has now been extended for one more week. Essential services will be exempted from the corona curfew and people arriving in the city or leaving by rail, bus etc will not be inconvenienced, officials said. Bhopal on Saturday reported 1,776 fresh cases, pushing its infection count to 78,934, including 707 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-corona-curfew-in-bhopal-extended-till-may-3-978679.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||J&K reports highest single-day spike of 2,381 Covid-19 cases ||Jammu and Kashmir reported its highest single-day Covid-19 spike ever on Sunday after the Union Territory added 2,381 coronavirus cases and 21 deaths. According to the daily media bulletin, with 2308 new Covid-19 cases, the tally has reached 1,60,755. Along with that, 21 more fatalities were reported in the UT, taking the death toll to 2147, it said. On April 22, the UT had reported 2,204 Covid positive cases which was the highest number in the UT since the pandemic erupted last year in March. Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. Like previous days, Srinagar district recorded the highest 716 cases, including 32 travelers, followed by 449in Jammu, 200 in Baramulla and 137 in Budgam, 111 in Kupwara and 108 in Anantnag districts. Five out of ten districts in Kashmir valley reported double digit positive cases. The active case count has surged to 19,558 comprising over 12.16 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 1,39,050. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37,372 cases and 478 deaths. On April 1, the UT had registered 461 cases, taking the total number of active Covid-19 patients to 2,874. Just 25 days later, the total number of patients has risen by nearly seven times to 19,795. The UT has also recorded 153 deaths in the 25-days of April. The number of active positive cases has surged from 2531 on March 31 to 19,558 on Sunday. Officials said that the vaccination drive in the UT was being sped-up and more doses were requested for from the Centre, however there was no shortage of the vaccine. Due to the huge surge in Covid-19 positive cases, J&K government on Saturday imposed a weekend curfew till Monday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-2381-covid-19-cases-978716.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||All Parliament staffers to work from home as Covid-19 cases rise||All Parliament staffers will now work from home amid a surge in Covid-19 cases and a lockdown in the national capital, with the Lok Sabha Secretariat issuing an order to this effect on Sunday. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat had issued a similar order a few days ago instructing its employees to work from home. All employees working in Parliament will now work from home subject to exigencies of work, according to the orders. "...taking into consideration the extension of curfew in Delhi in wake of continued spike of Covid-19 cases, the competent authority has decided that all categories of employees of Lok Sabha Secretariat shall work from home, subject to exigencies of work," according to the order issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in the national capital for another week, saying the severity of Covid-19 is unabated and the positivity rate has been as high as 36 per cent in the last few days. The lockdown imposed on the night of April 19 will now continue till 5 AM on May 3, he said. Before the extension, it was scheduled to end at 5 AM on April 26. However, government employees and those engaged in essential services are exempted from the lockdown restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-parliament-staffers-to-work-from-home-as-covid-19-cases-rise-978754.html
25-04-2021||North and Central||From 1,198 to 37,000 cases: UP emerges as new Covid-19 hotspot||Uttar Pradesh is adding Covid-19 cases at an alarming clip as India's most populous state recorded nearly 2.5 lakh new cases between April 18 and April 25. The state, which reported 37,944 new cases on Saturday, has a total of 2.88 lakh active cases and has reported 10,959 deaths so far, statistics that prompted the Allahabad High Court to order lockdowns in five cities but which the Yogi government refused to implement. The Covid situation in the state went downhill quite quickly. On April 1, the state had reported 1,198 new cases of the highly contagious disease and 11 deaths. But the situation worsened and the 10,000 mark in daily cases was breached on April 12, when the state reported 12,748 new cases. With 2,88,144 active cases, Uttar Pradesh is ranked number two after Maharashtra, which has 6,96,298 active cases of Covid-19. On April 18, the state had reported 27,334 fresh cases and the rise has been steady this past week, with a slight dip reported on April 24 when 22,566 fresh cases were recorded. On Sunday, the state reported 35,614 new cases of Covid-19 as against 37,944 on Saturday. The number of patients recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday was 25,633 as against 23,231 on Saturday. This prompted a sanguine assessment from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.  “It is clear that the infection rate is on a decline and the recovery rate is increasing,” Adityanath said on Sunday. Adityanath also directed offices across districts to call employees in shifts and ensure no more than 50% attendance at any given time. Karnataka, Kerala and Delhi are the other states that have been reporting more than 20,000 cases every day. As per the Health Ministry figures, 10 states -- Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan -- had reported 74.53% of the new cases on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-1198-to-37000-cases-up-emerges-as-new-covid-19-hotspot-978788.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||When 'national interest' meets press freedom||Last week, India was called out, once again, for its dismal performance on the protection of media freedoms. With four journalists killed in connection with their work in 2020, the World Press Freedom Index 2021 labels our country as one of the most dangerous places on the planet to pursue this profession. Ranked 142nd among 180 countries surveyed by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), this is India’s worst performance ever. The country summary highlights the deeply worrisome phenomenon of hate campaigns launched on social media platforms against several mediapersons by supporters of the ruling dispensation. The targeting of women journalists is particularly violent, the report notes. It has become commonplace in recent years to label journalists who do not toe the establishment’s line as “anti-national” and bring criminal charges including ‘sedition’ against them, the survey says. What is the criteria for labelling a news report “anti-national” at worst or “not in the national interest” at best, is a question which this author tried to probe last year. Readers may recall Press Trust of India’s (PTI) interviews with the ambassadors of China in India and his Indian counterpart in Beijing in June 2020 soon after 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in the violent incidents that occurred in the Ladakh region. The fact that PTI interviewed the Chinese ambassador was abhorrent to the establishment, and Prasar Bharati apparently admonished PTI saying its reportage was not in the “national interest” and that it wanted to review their relationship. It duly dropped PTI in October last year. This author filed an RTI application with Prasar Bharati seeking copies of all official records and file notings relating to this unsavoury episode and the criteria adopted for evaluating PTI’s newsfeeds as being detrimental to India’s national interests. Another query was whether Prasar Bharati’s latest action had the approval of its Board which at the time was functioning with only three members apart from the CEO. Prasar Bharati transferred the RTI application to All India Radio (AIR) and DD-News. Their public information officers (PIOs) promptly replied that they did not hold any of the information sought. Neither organisation seems to have been involved in Prasar Bharati’s knee-jerk reaction to the interviews. Prasar Bharati’s PIO sent a reply, three weeks later, admitting that the decision to issue the notice to PTI was not presented to its Board for prior or post facto approval. He remained silent on all other queries, including the criteria for assessing whether or not PTI’s news story was in the national interest. Prasar Bharati transferred the first appeal against its poor response, also, to AIR and DD-News, even though such action is not permissible under the RTI Act. AIR and DD-News reiterated their replies. Then there was radio silence for eight months. Two weeks ago, Prasar Bharati’s Appellate Authority (AA) issued a decision on the appeal merely listing the action taken by AIR and DD-News on the RTI queries and appeals. Prasar Bharati remains unresponsive to the demand that it is duty-bound to provide all records relating to the notice sent to PTI and the criteria for evaluating the flavour and content of its news stories. The assessment criteria, if there are any written down at all, remain a sarkari secret. Perturbed by the poor rating received in successive years, the Government is said to have set up Index Monitoring Cells across the ministries to find ways of improving India’s position. Ironically, last year, the Press Information Bureau is reported to have contacted RSF seeking details of the ‘criteria’ for the survey used by the World Press Freedom Index. The establishment seems to realise the importance of ‘criteria’ only when an assessment has a stinging effect on it. One good way to start doing better on press freedoms is to require Prasar Bharati to publish all records about the retaliatory action taken against PTI. This will constitute the best ode to India’s national motto – satyameva jayate (truth alone shall triumph).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-national-interest-meets-press-freedom-978318.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||There is more to Bengal than the 'khela' that is 'hobe'||I like to think I am a bit of a Hiuen Tsang. That Chinese pilgrim who we read about in history books in school? And who crossed over to India in the 7th century to study Buddhism, traversed Tashkent to Takshashila to Kanchi in the south, and who stayed in India for 16 years? Last fortnight, I stayed in West Bengal for 17 days. The travel was triggered by love for that state, and the fact that one knows so little about it. I mean, beyond Roshogolla, Gurudev Tagore, Satyajit Ray and the Bengal cotton saree, how well do you know your Bengal? Would you know of ‘matir putuls’ the unmatched clay dolls of Krishnanagar in Nadia district? Or of the mulmul – fine muslin- made in Nabadwip and in east Bardhaman of Bengal? Murshidabad’s silk, Bankura’s terracotta horses, Kantha work from Bolpur near Shantiniketan, Coochbehar’s Bhawaiyya music, the eco-fabric jute along the Hooghly? An election is as good a time as any to know about the state of a state. And so this solo sojourn was planned around the time when political mud-slinging would peak and the people would speak. What makes Bengal tick? How has a state that led India in dazzling intellect, freedom consciousness, social reforms, literature and education, now let itself lag in industry and employment? What was the price it paid socially and culturally for Partition that can explain today’s huge border issues and religious divide? A fortnight’s stay is not expected to magically reveal all the answers, but travel can certainly be the beginning of understanding.  And the journey was mystical. Rivers with names last read in the Amar Chitra Katha, like the Icchamati from where you can see Bangladesh while driving from Kolkata to an island on the Sunderbans. This was to Hingalganj, along with a teacher, Satarupa Mazumder, who is building an English-medium school for tribal children. Ahead were women whose lives were devastated by cyclone Amphan last year - and where they said corrupt TMC workers never let relief reach - who are now being trained by an NGO to rear ducks to earn a livelihood. The ‘Shundorbon’ is home to the Royal Bengal Tiger; I did meet a quiet tigress, Archana Mridhha who is ‘mahasabhopati’ – the Panchayat president responsible for welfare programmes in 100 villages in the North 24 Paragonas district. Change seemed brewing quietly, despite the system. As I took the evening Bhagirathi Express from the capital city to Buharampore, the Indian Railways coach buzzed with enterprise and entrepreneurship. From every Bengali’s favourite spiced puffed rice Jhaal Muri to ‘badaam’ (peanuts that were neatly packed and stayed crisp for the next 4 days) to fruits to even Bluetooth gadgets – the wares were packed neatly and vanished from the vendors’ baskets. In politically explosive Murshidabad, I was warned to not get caught in poll violence, but I was on the way to Raghunathganj anyway, where one saw village after village of women, 90% of them Muslims, roll the beedi, the poor man’s cigarette. The contractor pays them Rs 152 for every 1,000 beedis rolled. The men migrate, as the masons of this region are in demand all over India: A pattern unchanged for decades. If acceptance stood out in Murshidabad, anger was the dominant emotion in the tea plantations of Darjeeling. “Our forefathers worked in these same tea gardens even more than 100 years back, and we are being called Nepalis?” Maniraj, a proud Gorkha leader, said, adding that the BJP wouldn’t get votes in the hills as “kuch nahi kiya” despite being given 3 wins in the past polls. A further journey, this time by the state bus into the former princely state of Cooch Behar, got pleasant when the Bengali-speaking conductor lapsed into Kannada suddenly. It turned out that Bidyut had worked in Bengaluru as a security guard for 3 years but home had beckoned him. Back in Kolkata, fiery speeches at street corners, students with purpose, hoardings of Didi-Modi everywhere met the eye. Names that would read Aunindyo, Ananya, Saraswati, but who were actually Onindho, Ononna and Shoroshhoti. Where the curd or dahi was by default mishti doi, sweet curd. Where the mention of ‘aami niramish’ (I am vegetarian) worried hosts who wondered what creature didn’t eat ‘mach’, fish. But ‘Chaa khaabe?’, will you have tea, always made me feel welcome. Mostly milk-free, it was lal-chai, of deep red, a colour that has almost gone missing in a state that now seems to have to decide between white-blue and saffron.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/there-is-more-to-bengal-than-the-khela-that-is-hobe-978319.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||China's aim to install a friendly regime in Kabul is flawed||United States President Joe Biden’s announcement on April 14 on a final pull- back of troops from Afghanistan by September 11 this year and the multi-party, multinational conference led by the United Nations, Qatar and Turkey slated for the end of next month have surprised many countries, including China. As a neighbour of Afghanistan, with acute concerns on the controversy about Xinjiang’s internment camps and growing political violence in the region, China has been at the forefront of many initiatives to curb the negative fallout from any US withdrawal of troops. China’s multi-billion investment in the contiguous China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) could also be in jeopardy, as the April 21 bomb attack on a hotel in Quetta indicated. The immediate response of China, which earlier criticised the presence of US troops in Afghanistan since 2001, is for such withdrawal “in a responsible and orderly manner to ensure a smooth transition” in Afghanistan. China borders Afghanistan through the Badakhshan province for 76 kilometres in Xinjiang. This region was part of the Qing-British-Russian great game in the 19th century. Its national interests include stability in Xinjiang, which has been plagued by violence and drug trafficking. China concluded a border treaty with Afghanistan in 1963 but remains concerned about cross-border movements. Given the importance of Afghanistan to its western stability and as a gateway to west and central Asia, China took several measures to cozy up to Kabul. In the 1990s, China began the Western Development Campaign, an effort for infrastructure and strategic domination. This has been transformed into the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). China’s diplomatic interactions with Afghanistan have intensified over the years. In June 2012, the two elevated ties to “strategic cooperative partnership”. President Ashraf Ghani surprised many when he chose China as his first visit abroad in 2014. In May 2016 the two sides signed an MoU on the BRI and in April 2019 the BRI energy partnership agreement was signed. Secondly, China began activating its security contacts in the region. When the Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan, China’s 300-odd military intelligence instructors trained the Mujahideen at Kashgar and Hotan. Later, Beijing made a deal with the Taliban to shield it from international pressure provided the Taliban did not support the Uighur insurgency in Xinjiang. After the September 11 attacks and Afghan strikes in 2001, China articulated a position for observing the UN Charter, no collateral damage, civilian reconstruction and so on. Beijing also concluded with Kabul a treaty in 2006 for expanding security and economic relations. However, after six deadly attacks killed several Chinese in different parts of Afghanistan, China began approaching the Hekmatyar Network through its own contacts in the Fata region, assisted by the ISI of Pakistan. China is now pushing the twin policies of making a deal with the Taliban for stability in Xinjiang and supporting a pro-Beijing transitional government. China is also taking things into its own hands by establishing a military base in Badakhshan-Tajik borders with reports of frequent intrusions into Afghanistan. It is pushing its trilateral, quadrilateral and multilateral efforts to rope in regional actors, sometimes to the exclusion of others. This is seen in its discussions with Pakistan, Tajikistan, Nepal, Iran or Turkey. Its recent “Himalayan Quad” is to counter the other Quad. China’s Afghan reconstruction efforts have been kept to a minimum, specifically assistance which remains a paltry $156 million (as compared to over $3 billion by India), suggesting that Beijing prefers to have political and security influence in Kabul. Its BRI commitments and bilateral trade and investment in Afghanistan are also minimal. All in all, China’s approach towards Afghan reconciliation is flawed, self-centric and contradictory in nature with serious consequences to regional security and local well-being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/chinas-aim-to-install-a-friendly-regime-in-kabul-is-flawed-978320.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||Its own enemy: The Indian State||In recent interviews after the publication of the account of his life and a decade in Indian jails, the septuagenarian activist Kobad Ghandy drew a Kafkaesque picture of the criminal justice system and the fate of undertrials, and reserved special attention for India’s truest metaphor for hell, Tihar Jail. In 2009, the Andhra Pradesh police captured Ghandy and arraigned him on alleged connections with outlawed central Indian Maoists. There were numerous other charges leading to his incarceration and movement from one jail to another through the 2010s. The most heinous charges were proven false. P Chidambaram, the then home minister of the United Progressive Alliance government, said that public discourse must not “romanticise Maoism”. Large parts of mainstream media fell in line. In light of the April 3 ambush on army jawans in Chhattisgarh, decorated former police officers R K Raghavan and D Sivanandan wrote an essay in a national daily this week underlining the failure of intelligence gathering, policing and State strategy against Maoist bloodletting. They enunciated reasons for the fiascos of negotiation, rapprochement and the use of force. They mentioned the complexity of ushering in “development”. They didn’t utter a word critical of the State. Both Chidambaram then and these ex-cops now, have, not unlike their political opponents or policing peers, failed to display a whit of nuance in understanding Maoist motivations. They coloured them as Others, and admittedly, very dangerous Others, not as fellow Indians or human beings beset in a social atmosphere that has pushed them over the edge over decades. They didn’t ask: How come, the few means available to them in a ‘democratic’ state are arms? Sure, for making such an argument, this writer will be accused of sympathising with them. But if these Others exist, who is culpable? What makes a set of systemically exploited peoples fight against the Goliath of the Indian State? Is it only due to “ideology” or “revolution”? Really? Ghandy’s travails make the State and democracy look much worse than the fare that the extremists of central India dish out. Only last week, Uttar Pradesh exonerated the police officers accused of extrajudicially killing gangster Vikas Dubey. In such a country, why wouldn’t people take up arms against the State? In a democracy, how come there are so many groups that are so angry, bitter, and disaffected enough to pick up the gun? It’s in this context that this writer feels that the State owes Ghandy reparations, and that former home ministers and other leaders should be questioned over their actions. The Ghandy experience proves we have a State that is cruel to dissenters and clumsy with investigations: Brutal on one hand, stupid on the other. In some ways, how different is the Ghandy case from the trumped-up charges of espionage against the space scientist Nambi Narayanan? The latter was given his due damages. What about Ghandy? We witness such State-sanctioned violence in India every other day in some part of the country or the other because the State mounts huge efforts in demonising legitimate critical voices and groups. So, State force gets normalised. And it’s not just over the last six years: In most such matters concerning the establishment, there isn’t much difference among our largest national parties. Today’s Telangana was formed after a long, sporadically violent struggle. How does the State now explain its past behaviour? Sometimes I wish State officers were made to read the works of writers like Mahasweta Devi. Some of her short stories like ‘Draupadi’ and ‘Shishu’ offer extremely powerful and unsettling viewpoints that humanise both the adivasi agitators and law enforcers brainwashed into believing the might-is-right mantra of the State. For, there is overwhelming proof that the Indian State’s biggest foe is itself, as it sees the country and its people at the fringes in black and white.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/its-own-enemy-the-indian-state-978321.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||Reimagining growth: A new trajectory||An interesting dilemma exists. At one level India is poised to exit the low-income orbit and take off on a trajectory towards becoming a medium-income country with an economy bigger than $10 trillion despite strong headwinds. The growth thrust will coincide with ongoing preventive action on climate change. In asserting our right to grow and develop as others have done, we will face a handicap of living in cities struggling with parking woes and worsening AQIs. We cannot isolate ourself from this reality. Alongside, it cannot be denied that there is some sort of a misdesign in our growth management. Most countries underwent Covid-induced lockdowns last year. However, only we stood a mute, but somewhat horrified, witness to distressed migrants returning back to their mofussil homes in hundreds of thousands, often even by foot, from our previously glittering metropolises. All this raises the question whether we should remain focused on trying to press a generic accelerator or try to do things differently. As a starting point we need to ask whether our focus is to secure growth or to attain development. The two are often used interchangeably but are quite different. The concept of GDP was developed by the US economist Simon Kuznets for a report to US Congress when the country was in the grip of the ‘Great Depression’. It was defined as the sum of consumption, investment, government spending and net exports. In this same report, however, Kuznets warned against overdependence on this measure or confusing it with measures of welfare, saying “with quantitative measurements especially, the definiteness of the result suggests, often misleadingly, a precision and simplicity in the outlines of the object measured. Measurements of national income are subject to this type of illusion and resulting abuse, especially since they deal with matters that are the centre of conflict of opposing social groups where the effectiveness of an argument is often contingent upon oversimplification”. Development is less easy to define but easier to experience, as any migrant from a mofussil area would tell you, and thus is a better measure of welfare. Notwithstanding this, GDP gained traction amongst policy makers in the post WW2 decades, partly basking in the reflected glory of the brightly shining Soviet sun. A belief was created that rapid economic growth would come from heavy investments in production of steel, chemicals, fertilisers, electricity, transport equipment et al. India was no exception and P C Mahalanobis and his growth models dominated intellectual thought. It is a different matter that, perversely, the more the government of the day adapted this ‘model’ behaviour, the worse the economy performed, until the whole system collapsed, forcing what is now known as the ‘economic liberalisation’ of the nineties. Lo and behold, the less the government tried to ‘help’ the economy, the faster the GDP grew. However, notwithstanding this revealed perversity, the governmental impulse to ‘assist manufacturing’ rather than focusing on improving the quality of the broader economic fabric still remains strong. The Chinese model is often wistfully fancied. But maybe we should pause and consider the case of Japan. Japan was the fastest-growing economy of the seventies and eighties. It then experienced a crisis in the form of a stock and property market crash in the backdrop of a skyrocketing currency. The primary causes could have been something similar to our own stock market collapse of 1992. However, while Indian GDP growth revived, Japanese GDP thereafter literally stagnated, averaging barely 1 per cent growth until today. Strangely, however, this has not negatively impacted indices which often trouble us in India. Absolute employment has grown faster than population even though manufacturing employment has shrunk. Manufacturing exports have more than doubled to over $700 billion and foreign currency reserves have gone up several-fold to about $1.2 trillion. Further, although its GDP has stagnated, its Gross National Income and thus individual income and wealth has gone up substantially as Japanese citizens and companies invest abroad resulting in increasing dividend and interest inflows. Swings in crude prices do not create tensions there. Mortality rates have fallen by a third and life expectancy is now in the eighties. Its cities look fresh and clean and its trains travel at bullet speed. Its tech products impress the world and it sits relaxed at the high table of all climate-change related discussions. Development takes place with well-designed cities, blessed with high-quality education and health facilities, acting as a fulcrum. Because Japan has those cities, it still continues to rapidly develop, though statistically, based on the GDP index, it does not grow. China continues to both develop and grow because it, by focusing on 600 or so, has an even larger base of such cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/reimagining-growth-a-new-trajectory-978322.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||What do you do when the kids are still unvaccinated?||Many families will soon face a complicated choice about how quickly to resume their pre-pandemic activities. More than 50% of American adults have already received at least one Covid-19 vaccine shot. At the current pace, virtually all adults who want to get vaccinated will have been able to get a shot by July. Yet relatively few children, especially younger children, will have been vaccinated by then. While the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine may be authorised for children ages 12 to 15 as early as next month, younger children appear to remain months away from being eligible for any vaccine. What should those families do this summer and next fall, as they consider sending children to day care, seeing relatives, socialising with friends, eating in restaurants or traveling on airplanes? The answers will not be easy. Families will make different decisions based on their preferences. There will be more than one reasonable approach. Some parents will choose to keep their children largely away from indoor social situations until vaccines are available for them. These parents will point out that some children have died from Covid-19, while a few thousand others have contracted a rare inflammatory condition. These parents will also rightly say that many things about Covid remain mysterious. Future variants could cause more severe effects in children, and the long-term effects of Covid-19 are unclear. A cautious approach may be especially sensible for families in which the children have underlying health conditions or some adults have chosen not to be vaccinated. But other parents will be more willing to resume many parts of normal life before all of their children have been vaccinated. And those parents will be making a decision that is as scientifically grounded as the more cautious approach. I recognise that some readers will be skeptical of this argument. Many Americans have now spent 13 months in some version of lockdown, and imagining a return to normalcy can be as uncomfortable as it is exciting. Perhaps even more important, parents feel intensely protective about their children and are often happy to endure inconveniences or worse to protect their children from any danger. Unfortunately, there is no risk-free option available to parents in the coming months. Keeping children at home — away from their friends, activities, schools and extended family — can also harm them, as multiple studies have suggested. “It’s really important to look at a child’s overall health rather than a Covid-only perspective,” Dr. Amesh Adalja, a pandemic expert at Johns Hopkins University, told me. Keeping children isolated is particularly fraught for lower-income parents, because it forecloses child-care options and can keep them from working a normal schedule. Any decision about family life over the next several months will have to involve weighing one set of dangers against another. My goal here is to walk you through the risks that Covid poses to children. As a comparison, let’s start with its effect on adults. For them, Covid-19 has exacted a brutal toll, one large enough to warrant the shutdown of much of daily life. The disease has killed about 16 times more Americans than the flu would have in a typical year. Nationwide, Covid-19 was the third-leading cause of death in 2020, after heart disease and cancer. Even for adults who are only in their 30s, Covid-19 has meaningfully increased the dangers of everyday life: It appears to have been the fifth most common cause of death over the past year, after accidents, suicide, cancer and heart disease — and ahead of murder, liver disease, diabetes and every other cause. But Covid’s effect on children has been fundamentally different from its effect on adults. For children, Covid looks much more like the kind of risk that society has long tolerated, without upending daily life. “For the average kid, Covid is a negligible risk,” Dr. Aaron Richterman, an infectious disease specialist at the University of Pennsylvania, told me. Richterman added that he would not upend his family’s life to avoid every possible exposure to children. To put this in perspective, I worked with experts and colleagues to compile data comparing Covid-19 with influenza in recent years. The underlying numbers come from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. They are necessarily incomplete, because not all cases of Covid or the flu are diagnosed. But academic researchers have published work that estimates the number of undiagnosed cases, which makes the comparisons meaningful. Consider that Covid-19 has killed fewer than 450 Americans under the age of 18, which is fewer than a flu season often does. The flu can be deadlier for children than Covid has been, even though most children receive a flu vaccine. While some of the new coronavirus variants may be more severe, the difference is not big enough to change any of the fundamental comparisons. “It’s very unusual for kids to get very sick,” Dr. Rebecca Wurtz of the University of Minnesota said. The low toll of Covid-19 on children is not just because millions of them have largely stayed at home over the past year and avoided getting the virus. Among those children who have contracted Covid-19, the death rate still looks similar to the death rate from the flu. These numbers offer a reminder that influenza is a serious disease. In an average year, it kills about 35,000 Americans, which is nearly as many deaths as are caused by gun violence. The flu’s toll is worse for Black, Latino and Native Americans, as is the case with Covid. Still, the flu does not upend most children’s lives. They go to school when the flu is circulating. Americans have understandably decided that keeping children away from their classrooms, day care centers, friends, relatives and activities would bring a larger cost than shielding them from the flu. And Covid-19 appears to present a smaller risk to children than many flu seasons. “For people under the age of 18, Covid is really not that big of a risk,” said Stephen Kissler, a researcher at Harvard’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “I do think of it as on par with the risk from flu.” It’s also helpful to put Covid-19 in the context of other risks that children face. About twice as many children drown in a typical year as have died from Covid-19 over the past year. About five times as many die in vehicle accidents. If protecting children from small but real risks of serious harm were society’s top goal, keeping children away from pools and cars would probably have a bigger effect than isolating them in coming months. There is also evidence that Americans are exaggerating Covid’s risks to children. When a large survey by Gallup and Franklin Templeton asked people to estimate the share of Covid deaths that have occurred among people under age 25, the average answer was 8% (and Democratic voters tended to give higher estimates than Republican voters did). The actual answer was 0.1%. By contrast, Americans badly underestimated the share of deaths among people over age 65. Jennifer Nuzzo, a public health researcher at Johns Hopkins, told me that she viewed decisions about children’s activities as a matter of personal choice that different parents would make differently. In her family, she said, she was worried about how a year of pandemic life had hurt her children by making them less comfortable in social situations. Once all the adults are vaccinated, she plans to restart more activities. “I can accept the risks of my kids getting Covid, in part because I compare it to the risk of them getting other infectious diseases and the risk seems very, very small,” Nuzzo said. “I feel that if my kids were to get Covid, they would be OK. I also see the direct harms of their not having a normal life.” Of course, many parents aren’t worried only about death or hospitalisation with Covid-19. They are also anxious about chronic long-term effects, like potential neurological or cardiac damage. This is a murkier area — and arguably the best case for treating Covid exposure as different from flu exposure. There is a reason scientists use the term “novel coronavirus” to describe this virus: It’s new. We don’t yet know what its eventual effects will be. Already, some people have suffered from a condition known as long Covid, with protracted fatigue and other symptoms. A recent study published in Nature Medicine found that 2.3% of Covid patients had symptoms that lasted for at least 12 weeks. Still, it is worth remembering that some of the focus on these long-term symptoms reflects the current attention on all things Covid. The chronic effects of Covid may well be worse than the chronic effects of familiar illnesses like the flu, but it is not yet clear how much worse. One academic study found that up to 10% of people who contracted influenza later developed myocarditis, or cardiac inflammation. For children, the evidence so far does not offer much reason for alarm about Covid-19’s long-term effects. They are much less likely than adults to contract virtually every worrisome version or symptom of the disease. So what should your family do once the adults in it are vaccinated? Until all adults have had a chance to receive a shot, experts recommend caution, because children can spread the virus. Even after that, some basic safety measures will make sense, Nuzzo points out. They include wearing masks when in close contact with people who may not be vaccinated and avoiding situations that offer little benefit but a meaningful risk of infection. Taking children to a crowded, poorly ventilated restaurant, for example, seems questionable. But it’s important to keep in mind that acting in the best interests of children is not the same thing as minimising Covid risk. “Everything has risk,” as Adalja of Johns Hopkins said. For more than a year, many Americans have reordered their lives because of the extreme danger of Covid-19. And Covid continues to dominate our thinking. Whether it should dominate our children’s lives is a different question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-do-you-do-when-the-kids-are-still-unvaccinated-978452.html
25-04-2021||Opinion||Mild breathlessness due to Covid-19? A personal guide to action at home||Every day now, thousands of people all across the country experience breathlessness due to the Covid-19 infection. Unfortunately, several hundred of them succumb in what is often an agonising death as oxygen supplies in many hospitals across the country run out. Breathlessness due to Covid-19 is a condition where hospitalisation is strongly advocated. And it will be unavoidable in cases where the problem is severe as manifested by rapidly falling saturation levels. This requires immediate oxygen administration and fast acting injectable drugs.  But with hospital beds increasingly hard to come by, oxygen supplies not able to keep up with skyrocketing demand and the medical infrastructure at breaking point, it has become urgent to prioritise treating mild and moderate breathlessness at home on a war footing. I strongly advocate it based on personal experience. On March 26 2021, I was diagnosed Covid-19 positive after experiencing symptoms of a mild cough and low-grade fever. The next day, I started feeling breathless and my saturation (as seen on my handy pulse oximeter) dropped below 90 briefly. I was advised hospitalisation given I was knocking on the doors of 60 and had mild blood pressure and diabetes issues. I checked into the Covid-19 ward of one of Bengaluru’s top 10 private hospitals and after an X-ray and blood tests was put on antiparasitic drug Ivermectin and antibiotic Doxycycline. After two days, I was told my infection markers like D-dimer, CRP Ferritin, etc. remained high and the treatment was changed to a five-day injectable dose of the steroid Dexamethasone and the by-now-famous antiviral Remdesivir. On the seventh day, my infection markers were found to be at acceptable levels and since the breathlessness that took me to hospital had disappeared and the saturation was holding around 94/95, I was advised to go home and quarantine for another week. This despite a CT scan of the chest taken a day before my discharge showing that I had a severity of infection of 5/25. This is considered mild on a scale of mild, moderate and severe. The treating doctor informed me the government-mandated protocol had changed from requiring a negative RT-PCR test before discharge as was the case last year.  Meanwhile, I learned from the wonderfully helpful nursing staff that the real reason for hastening my discharge was a queue of patients waiting for a Covid-19 ward bed. The doctor was also candid enough to say that with no definite cure for Covid-19, hospitals were only treating patients to reduce the infection severity using various experimental therapies that worked well for some and not so well for others. Back home where I continued to be on vitamins, zinc, a mild blood thinner to prevent Covid-19-induced clots, and my regular BP medication, the breathlessness again returned after a week. The pulse oximeter showed my saturation at 91/92 and a pulse rate of 120 plus, well above the normal 72. A pounding heart, that was obviously working harder given the oxygenation problem, literally gave me sleepless nights and raised new worries about how it would hold up should saturation dip further. I decided to meet the consultant pulmonologist at the hospital where I was treated (surprisingly, it was only the duty doctor who saw me while in hospital with no visit by a pulmonologist)  and gently suggested to him to put me on oral steroids. He put me on the steroid Methylprednisolone and a combination drug whose active ingredients contained a bronchodilator and one used to treat Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Within a day, my breathing improved considerably, my resting pulse rate dipped to the 80s, and I felt a whole lot better. This treatment continues even as I write this though the challenge of getting my saturation levels up even closer to 100 remains.  I would suggest the following steps for anyone experiencing mild breathlessness as an alternative to rushing to the hospital. If you are feeling breathless and your saturation is below 92, get a local doctor to prescribe a  HRCT (High Resolution Computed Tomography) scan for you. Do this even if your RT-PCR is showing negative (there are far too many false negatives now). Take the CT scan at your nearest hospital/diagnostic centre and see a qualified pulmonologist with it. If you are only mildly breathless, then your CT would indicate mild or moderate infection that can be treated through oral drugs. Gently suggest to the doctor that oral drugs are what you prefer over hospitalisation. I did.   Various studies/reports available online indicate methylprednisolone has shown good results. Leave it to the pulmonologist to determine the dosage and duration as also the accompanying combination of bronchodilator-COPD drug which in my case was branded Pulmoclear. Steroid use pushes up blood sugar levels sharply and this can be dangerous if left untreated. Mine climbed to over 300 while in hospital, three times the normal level. So, invest Rs 1,500 in getting a good quality glucometer and monitor your blood sugar twice a day. Metformin tablets after breakfast and dinner helped keep my sugar levels in check. Similarly, calcium needs to be taken to compensate for bone loss, which is another undesirable effect of steroid usage. With the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and breathlessness becoming a life and death issue for thousands, it is high time governments at the Central, State and local levels start publicly advocating early treatment of such cases through oral steroid medication. This to prevent a mild and moderate infection turning severe and life-threatening. Those having mild to moderate breathlessness should be encouraged to register with the local municipal body and government doctors could be assigned to visit the patients at home at least once or twice over a week and ensure they are taking what is strong oral medication properly and adequately compensating for known side effects. With the benefit of hindsight, I can definitely say it would have been far better for me to have taken a CT scan and seen a pulmonologist rather than rush to get myself admitted in hospital. Apart from getting questionably effective treatment in the hospital, there is also the affordability issue that will be important for millions in the country. While the weeklong accommodation in a twin bedded non-AC room cost me Rs 1.2 lakhs (partly covered by medical insurance) with drugs, the option of home treatment costs less than Rs 8,000 with Rs 5,500 of this being the cost of a CT scan. In fact, the steroid methylprednisolone is one of the cheapest drugs available costing less than Rs 100 for the entire treatment. Hospitals have to earn their keep and do tend to prefer expensive medication like Remdesivir, which cost me Rs 20,000 for a five-dose regimen. I remain cautious that, given my age and comorbidities, I may yet be in for what is called a long Covid-19 fight and there could still be some bumps on my road to full recovery. But I have no doubt based on my experience that the country needs to aggressively promote home treatment for those with Covid-19-induced mild breathlessness and prevent what is potentially a home-treatable problem from snowballing into a life-threatening crisis for tens of thousands. (The author is a former Indo-China Correspondent and Kuala Lumpur bureau chief of Time Inc’s erstwhile Asiaweek magazine) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mild-breathlessness-due-to-covid-19-a-personal-guide-to-action-at-home-978506.html
25-04-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala police launches 'cyber patrol' to nab those spreading fake news||At a time when Kerala's Covid-19 graph continued to scale up with record number of cases, the state police has launched 'cyber patrolling', a strict vigil on social media platforms to find out those spreading false news regarding the virus. Director General of Police Loknath Behera has warned of stern legal action against those spreading lies through online platforms regarding the pandemic outbreak. There is a lot of inauthentic and unscientific stuff being propagated by some people about Covid-19 through social media, he said. "Not just creating such fake news but sharing it also is a crime," the DGP said here. As an increasing number of such instances came to the notice, the hi-tech crime inquiry cell at the police headquarters and the Cyber Dome,a centre for excellence for Kerala Police in cyber security, have been instructed to carry out strict cyber patrol on social media to apprehend those who were creating and sharing such false news and messages, Behera added. Kerala's active cases soared to 1.98 lakh on Saturday as the state reported 26,685 fresh cases, 73 of them health workers, according to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-police-launches-cyber-patrol-to-nab-those-spreading-fake-news-978468.html
25-04-2021||South||Puducherry sees total weekend lockdown to combat rising Covid-19 cases||All shops and business establishments remained shut at important shopping centres in Puducherry after a 55-hour long weekend lockdown was imposed to curtb the spread of coronavirus. All major thoroughfares wore a deserted look as people stayed indoors. However, functioning of essential services was permitted till 2 pm to facilitate the availability of vegetables, groceries, and other requirements. There was a very poor turnout of passengers in intra-state buses. Puducherry has been registering a spike in the number of new cases since last week and today the fresh infections reached 1,008. 11 new deaths were recorded in the former French colony. The test positivity touched around 17.89 percent in the Union Territory. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan visited the Central kitchen near here to see for herself the quality of food meant for sale at subsidized rates. The weekend lockdown came into force at 10 pm on Friday and will end at 5 am tomorrow. However, the night curfew would be observed every day from 10 pm till 5 am the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-sees-total-weekend-lockdown-to-combat-rising-covid-19-cases-978540.html
25-04-2021||South||SCBA asks SC to prepone, curtail summer vacations||The Supreme Court Bar Association has asked the top court to prepone the summer vacations from proposed May 14 and curtail it by one week in view of the grim situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi and the extension of lockdown for another week. It also asked the top court to approve a temporary conversion of advocates chamber block in the additional Supreme Court complex for use as Covid care centre or field hospital, as the top court was functioning online. In a letter to the CJI and other six senior-most judges, the Bar body led by its President Vikas Singh said the prevailing pandemic has caused immense disruption to the legal fraternity across the country. Given the current situation and the likelihood of pandemic touching its peak in the middle of May, there may be a further extension of lockdown in Delhi. The Supreme Court may consider preponing the summer vacations so that it may commence from April 26, 2021. The vacations may be curtailed by one week so as to limit to six weeks, instead of, seven weeks, considering the huge pendency of cases created due to the pandemic, the letter stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/scba-asks-sc-to-prepone-curtail-summer-vacations-978656.html
25-04-2021||South||Bride dons PPE kit, weds Covid-19-positive groom at Kerala hospital||The pandemic did not deter a Kerala couple from getting married on the fixed date, despite the bridegroom testing positive for Covid-19 and getting hospitalised. The Covid-19 ward at the Alappuzha government medical college on Sunday witnessed the wedding of Sarath and Abhirami, after they obtained special permission from the authorities. Abhirami arrived at the ward in a PPE kit and exchanged garlands with Sarath in the presence of his mother and a few hospital staff. Sarath's mother Jiji is also admitted to the same ward due to Covid.  The wedding was fixed almost two years ago but got postponed as Sarath, who was working abroad, could not come down to Kerala owing to the pandemic. Finally, the families fixed the wedding for April 25. But Sarath tested positive for the virus a few days ago, followed by his mother anfd both were hospitalised. Since the families could not find any other auspicious time in the coming weeks, they explored the option of conducting the wedding at the hospital itself. The bride left the hospital soon after the ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bride-dons-ppe-kit-weds-covid-19-positive-groom-at-kerala-hospital-978675.html
25-04-2021||South||CSK Chairman L Sabaretnam passes away||L Sabaretnam, director and chairman of Chennai Super Kings Cricket Limited, and a cement industry veteran, died here on Sunday following a brief illness, family sources said. He was 80. Sabaretnam is survived by two sons and two daughters. He served in Chettinad Cement Corporation and was Executive Director of the Company for a long period. He was formerly director of Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited and Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. Sabaretnam was advisor for India Cements and Director and CEO of Coromandel Sugars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/csk-chairman-l-sabaretnam-passes-away-978707.html
25-04-2021||South||Kerala's active Covid-19 cases double, cross 2-lakh mark in one week||Active Covid-19 cases in Kerala crossed the two lakh-mark on Sunday and the test positivity rate also continued to escalate. With 28,469 more fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on Sunday, the total number of active cases in the state reached 2,18,893. The test positivity rate also reached the highest ever figure of 22.46 per cent. The number of active patients in Kerala stood below one lakh last Sunday, meaning that it has doubled in a week's time. The increase in the number of daily tests is also one reason why the real Covid-19 scenario in the state is being reflected. While a shutdown was observed in Kerala on Saturday and Sunday, an all-party meeting on Monday will discuss further restrictions to be put in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-active-covid-19-cases-double-cross-2-lakh-mark-in-one-week-978726.html
25-04-2021||South||Arrested journalist Siddique Kappan chained to bed, writes Kerala CM Vijayan in letter to UP counterpart||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has urged his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath to ensure the humane treatment of Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan who was held under the UAPA. Kappan, who was arrested on Oct. 5, 2020 while he was proceeding to Hathras, tested Covid-19 positive and was admitted to a hospital in Mathura. Kappan's wife Raihanath alleged that he was being chained like an animal to a cot at the hospital and was not even allowed to go to the toilet. Instead, he was provided a can to urinate in and was not able to take food. She also lamented that the Kerala Chief Minister was not intervening in the family's plight. A group of MPs from Kerala and Kappan's wife had also written to the Chief Justice of India N V Ramana seeking an urgent intervention. A request seeking to expedite further steps of a Habeas Corpus petition was also sent to the Chief Justice. Vijayan said in the letter to the UP Chief Minister that it was brought to his attention by some prominent journalists and Kerala Union of Working Journalists that Kappan was facing serious health problems and was chained to his bed at a hospital in Mathura and his health condition was precarious. Vijayan urged that Kappan be shifted to another superspecialty hospital considering his health problems. The public and the media fraternity are anxious to know about his health, whether his human rights were being infringed upon, and are very concerned about his plight, he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/arrested-journalist-siddique-kappan-chained-to-bed-writes-kerala-cm-vijayan-in-letter-to-up-counterpart-978759.html
25-04-2021||South||High production, low demand drives Kerala's oxygen surplus||While many states are facing an oxygen shortage due to the surge in Covid-19, Kerala is heaving a sigh of relief as the state does not have any oxygen crisis as of now, despite the steep escalation of Covid-19 cases. The state has doubled the oxygen production over the last year anticipating a worst-case scenario for Covid-19. Also, comparatively, serious patients requiring oxygen are less as against other states. State health department sources said that while the daily oxygen production in Kerala was only 99 metric tonnes last March, but now it is over 200 metric tonnes (MT). The Kerala Medical Service Corporation is aiming at increasing it to 250 MT soon. Kerala Covid-19 taskforce member Dr Mohammed Asheel told DH that while the state did not face any oxygen crisis, now the state needs to be cautious as the demand is going up gradually. While the daily medical oxygen requirement was 73 MT last week, now it is 84 MT. He added that compared to other states, the oxygen requirement for Covid-19 care in Kerala is comparatively low, mainly because the Covid-19 infected are being identified at the initial stages and given proper treatment. The timely detection and treatment strategy of Covid-19 care in Kerala is also being cited as the reason for the low Covid-19 death rate in Kerala, which is only 0.37% now. Sources said that now, the daily oxygen requirement in the neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu is over 1,000 MT and 300 MT respectively. Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation deputy chief controller of explosives R Venugopal said that Kerala now has 519.41 MT liquid oxygen stock. Agencies in the state are regularly supplying 16 MT oxygen to Karnataka and 70 MT to Tamil Nadu. Oxygen storage capacity at the government medical colleges in the state was augmented over the last few months anticipating the Covid-19 scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-production-low-demand-drives-keralas-oxygen-surplus-978763.html
25-04-2021||State||Karnataka govt orders full state honours for SC judge Justice Shantanagoudar||Expressing grief over the death of Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, the Karnataka government has ordered for his last rites to be performed with full state honours. He hailed from Haveri district in North Karnataka. His last rites will be performed with full state honours, by deploying minimum police force and maintaining social distancing and following Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government, an official notification said. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressing grief said, in Shantanagoudar's death India has lost a great judge. "I pray to the Almighty to give strength to his family members to bear the loss," the Chief Minister tweeted. Justice Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. Born on May, 5, 1958, he got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003 and became a permanent judge in the court in September, 2004. Later, he was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the Acting Chief Justice on August 1, 2016. He became the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-orders-full-state-honours-for-sc-judge-justice-shantanagoudar-978486.html
25-04-2021||State||Day-2 of Karnataka's weekend curfew: People by and large remain at home||With Karnataka observing the second day of the weekend curfew aimed against Covid-19, Bengaluru and most other parts of the state wore a deserted look on Sunday. Businesses and restaurants remained shut, and vehicles stayed off roads. From 6 AM to 10 AM, the administration allowed people to purchase essential items like milk, grocery and vegetables barring which people largely stayed indoors. To restrict unnecessary public movement, certain flyovers and streets were barricaded. After 10 AM, the police started enforcing the restrictions and were seen questioning people still on roads. While those with genuine reasons were let off, the others loitering around were punished and vehicles were seized. There were similar reports from other parts of the State. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said people voluntarily have restricted movement and this would help in Covid management. Speaking to reporters here, he said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa spoke to Deputy Commissioners of the districts on Saturday and gathered information from them. According to Covid-19 guidelines in place from April 21 to May 4, night curfew has been imposed in the entire State from 9 PM to 6 AM every day; there would be weekend curfew from 9 PM on Friday to 6 AM on Monday. Amid reports of lockdown-like measures that are in place during weekends may be extended to other days of the week, Bommai said, "Such proposals did not come up during the meeting on Saturday, so I don't want to comment. For now, things will continue as they are." The government had on Saturday hinted at lockdown-like measures through the week, with a couple of Ministers and the Chief Secretary indicating about it while stating that the State Cabinet is likely to discuss and take a call at its meeting on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/day-2-of-karnatakas-weekend-curfew-people-by-and-large-remain-at-home-978542.html
25-04-2021||State||Bride fined for not wearing mask in Karnataka||Tahsildar Y M Renukumar imposed a fine on the bride, who was found not wearing a mask during the wedding ceremony, violating the covid guidelines, at Konanuru, in Hassan district, on Sunday. Renukumar, who was on an inspection on Sunday, visited Swagat Convention Hall, at Ramanathapura, where a wedding was being held/ He found the bride not wearing the mask and imposed on-the-spot fine and issued a receipt for the same. He also ensured that the young bride wore a mask. Similarly, the authorities, including revenue inspector, gram panchayat development officer and others, imposed fine on many, who were roaming without wearing masks at several places in Ramanathapura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bride-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-in-karnataka-978614.html
25-04-2021||State||2 drops of lemon in nose can prevent Covid, claims Sankeshwar; WHO, scientists say no scientific proof for this||Two drops of lemon in the nose can increase oxygen saturation level in the body and prevent Covid-19 infection, claimed noted industrialist and VRL Group Chairman Vijay Sankeshwar. However, the World Health Organisation and the United States National Academies of Sciences Engineering and Medicine in their official websites have stated that there is no scientific evidence of lemon juice able to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “Lemon contains Vitamin C that is essential for your health, however, there’s no evidence to show that it can boost or provide strong protection to the immune system,” the websites said. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday Sankeshwar said he along with his family members and 200 others have used lemon drops and their immune system has improved. “Last night two of my senior officials had reported low oxygen levels. I suggested them to use lemon and within half an hour, their oxygen levels rose from 88% to 96%,” he said without giving any supporting evidence. He said 80% of India’s oxygen scarcity problem that hospitals are facing can be addressed by using this ‘lemon therapy’. He said the current oxygen scarcity is artificial and can be managed through proper management. “Linde India, which produces 50% of India’s liquid oxygen, used to supply only 1 per cent  of its production for medical purposes and 99% for industrial use earlier. However, with the Modi government banning the supply of liquid oxygen to industries, the oxygen scarcity issue will be resolved soon,” he said. While he advised people to take doctors' advice to treat themselves against the Covid-19, he also asked people to use ‘home remedies and medicines’. 'Big mistake' Sankeshwar, whose VRL Group holds the record in Limca Book of Records for the single largest fleet owner of commercial vehicles in the private sector, said the Union government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a big mistake of announcing free ration to 80 crore Indians. “Only 30-40 lakh people are in utter poverty in India. The government should have provided free ration to only them. By announcing free ration to a large number of people the Modi government has made a big mistake. Labourers are not coming to work as they are getting free ration,” he said. Government should not have held elections or Khumb Mela during the pandemic, he said and added that in spite of all these, chief ministers of all States and the prime minister has done commendable work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-drops-of-lemon-in-nose-can-prevent-covid-claims-sankeshwar-who-scientists-say-no-scientific-proof-for-this-978624.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs nearly 30,000 new Covid-19 cases, 208 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 29,438 new cases and 208 deaths, both new records, as the virus raced through the state. Of the total, worst-hit Bengaluru alone accounted for 17,342 cases and 149 deaths.  “From March 24 to April 21, Karnataka witnessed 1,301 Covid deaths, out of which 819 or two-third of the deaths occurred in Bengaluru Urban alone. This is the effect of an increase in positive cases per million in Bengaluru Urban from 39,590 to 51,300,” said Mysore Sanjeev, Convenor, Project Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima and supported by the Public Health Foundation of India. Bengaluru Urban added 1.62 lakh new Covid patients during this period, leading to a 10-fold increase in the number of active cases from 11,520 to 1,13,374. Amid the gloom, there is something to cheer as well. According to data, Davangere and Gadag — two districts that witnessed relatively higher mortality during the first wave — have effectively managed to ensure zero deaths during the period. 14 out of the 30 districts in the state have witnessed mortality in single digits so far. These districts include: Davangere, Gadag, Chitradurga, Raichur, Koppal, Kodagu, Bagalkote, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Chamarajanagar, Yadgir, Chikkaballapura and Shivamogga. “Higher mortality Moving Growth Rate (MGR) indicates shorter doubling period or vice-versa. The 28-day Mortality MGR of Karnataka is 10% whereas in Bengaluru Urban it is 18%,” said Mysore. “Bengaluru Urban, Bidar and Kalaburagi have a high mortality MGR. Poor medical infrastructure and a lack of competent medical professionals to treat critical Covid patients could be one of the reasons for higher mortality,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-nearly-30000-new-covid-19-cases-208-deaths-978343.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka 2nd PUC practical exams postponed over Covid-19||The practical examinations of second-year pre-university college (PUC 2) courses which were scheduled to begin on April 28 across Karnataka have been postponed, said a circular issued by the Department of Pre University Education on Sunday. Considering the requests from parents, teachers and students to postpone the exams in the wake of a spike in the Covid-19 cases across the state, the department has decided to act on them. However, colleges have been directed to conduct practical exams after the completion of theory examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-2nd-puc-practical-exams-postponed-over-covid-19-978568.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet likely to decide on daily lockdown-like curbs on April 26||A decision on imposing lockdown like restrictions on all days of the week in Karnataka, which is facing a huge spike in Covid-19 cases, is likely to be taken by the state cabinet on Monday. While ministers on Sunday said a decision in this regard was likely during the cabinet meeting, official sources said another one on the matter of free of cost vaccinations might also be taken. "Weekend curfew restrictions are in place till May 4 and as per the guidelines, it will be there next Saturday, Sunday also. Discussions are on whether to enforce a curfew on weekdays, whether to go for complete lockdown or not," Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said. Speaking to reporters in Dharwad, he said it would be discussed at the cabinet meeting tomorrow, following which Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would announce the decision. "We are not in favour of lockdown, but the situation is such that we have to impose restrictions to bring things under control...we have to break the chain, it is a matter of 10-12 days, let's see... once the numbers (cases) come down, restrictions will also reduce," he added. The state cabinet is scheduled to meet at 11 am on Monday. According to Covid-19 guidelines that are in place from April 21 to May 4, night curfew has been imposed in the entire state from 9 pm to 6 am every day and there will be a weekend curfew from Friday 9 pm to Monday 6 am. During the weekend curfew that began on Friday night, Bengaluru and most other parts of the state wore a deserted look with businesses and restaurants remaining shut and vehicles staying off the roads. Barring the 6 am to 10 am period when the public were allowed to purchase essential items like milk, groceries, and vegetables, among others. People largely stayed indoors and cooperated by following the restrictions. Stating that no decision has yet been taken by the government on lockdown, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said it would discuss and take a decision based on what the CM or the Health Minister places before the cabinet on this issue. He said suggestions have been put forward for "Janata curfew", wherein people voluntarily decide not to come out unnecessarily. However, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said "such proposals (lockdown) did not come during yesterday's meeting. So I don't want to comment on speculations. For now things will continue as it is." The state government had last week imposed night and weekend curfew amid intense speculation that it may go for lockdown-like restrictions in Bengaluru and few other places, with former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy too demanding for it. State Congress President D K Shivakumar had subsequently said it seemed that the government, which had planned to impose lockdown last week, changed it, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation, during which he requested states to use it as a last resort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-likely-to-decide-on-daily-lockdown-like-curbs-on-april-26-978666.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports biggest single-day spike of 34,804 Covid-19 cases, 143 deaths||Covid-19 cases set another grim milestone on Sunday with Karnataka posting 34,804 cases. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for whopping 20,733 cases. As many as 143 deaths were reported on the same day. Compared with Saturday’s numbers, the daily cases of Sunday increased by 5,366 and is in line with the warning by officials. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar had cautioned that ignoring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour will lead to 30,000 daily cases. While the 18.2% increase in daily numbers took the state’s active caseload to 2.62 lakh, the new record for Bengaluru came at a time when the city is struggling to accommodate the existing number of patients many of whom are complaining that they are not receiving any care. The previous record was set on Saturday when the state reported 29,438 cases and Bengaluru 17,342 cases. Elsewhere in the state, Tumakuru posted 1,153 cases, followed by Kodagu (1,077), Bengaluru Rural (864), Mandya (814), Kolar (782) and Hassan (768). Only Gadag and Haveri posted less than 100 Covid patients. The number of persons in the intensive care unit (ICU) across the state went up to 1,492, more than double the 721 persons reported on Monday. Of the new numbers, 338 were from Bengaluru followed by 265 from Kalaburagi. Coming after a record 208 deaths on Saturday, Sunday’s figure of 143, however, may not be a dip considering the time lapse in reporting of the deaths. Many of the numbers reported on Sunday accounted for the deaths which took place three or five days ago while at least four dated back to April 12. Along with the near 21,000 cases, Bengaluru reported 77 deaths, including six persons who died at home and two brought dead on April 21 and 23. Cases in other districts seemed to be climbing. Ballari reported 16 deaths, the highest after Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-34804-covid-19-cases-143-deaths-978697.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cabinet meeting to decide on free vaccines for all on April 26||The demand for free vaccination for everyone 18 years of age and above grew on Sunday, ahead of the key Karnataka cabinet meeting scheduled for Monday. Apart from vaccinations for those in the 18-44 age group, the Cabinet is also expected to discuss stern regulations along the lines of the ongoing weekend lockdown. Emergency approvals for the purchase of equipment and medicine to address the crisis faced by the healthcare sector due to the brutal second wave of the pandemic are also likely. Ahead of the Cabinet meeting, Opposition leaders and members of civil society put pressure on the state government to ensure free vaccines for all those eligible. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar said that India was probably the only country that is discussing vaccine prices “when it’s being given for free across the world.” “Why Karnataka government has still not announced free vaccination for all?”, he said, demanding the state government to provide free vaccines to all citizens and to come out with plan as soon as possible. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah lashed out at both the centre and state governments for increasing prices of vaccines. “Instead of encouraging people to get vaccinated, BJP government has created a barrier by increasing the prices of vaccines,” he said. Tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Siddararamaih said that the PM should ensure free vaccination for everyone, instead of PR events like vaccination campaign. The Cabinet is also expected to discuss measures to ramp up facilities in the state, as cases continue to explode on a daily basis. Increasing ICU facilities for critical patients, ensuring adequate oxygen supply and key drugs is are likely to be on the agenda. While Chief Secretary P Ravikumar has recently spoken in favour of a lockdown, he had noted that the government had not imposed such measures as public opinion was against the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-meeting-to-decide-on-free-vaccines-for-all-on-april-26-978739.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Thermal power plant to generate oxygen for Covid patients in Karnataka||The Yeramarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS) has come forward to generate oxygen, essential for treating Covid-19 patients.  The YTPS has ozone generation technology which provides for storing oxygen. The Karnataka government has directed the power station to supply this oxygen for Covid patients in the state. It is estimated that up to 7,000 litres of oxygen could be stored at YTPS. YTPS Chief Executive Director Shashikanth said that the plant can supply oxygen if appropriate arrangements were made by the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited for tapping the gas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thermal-power-plant-to-generate-oxygen-for-covid-patients-in-karnataka-978742.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka labourer's children to be trained for UPSC||The Karnataka Labour department has taken up a unique initiative to train the children of construction labourers in the state to attempt the esteemed UPSC examinations. The department has started the groundwork for the programme and will soon start receiving applications from across the state, out of which 600 candidates will be shortlisted. The department is currently looking for training institutes willing to train students for the programme in cities like Bengaluru and Mysuru. Interested candidates can thereafter apply for the programme. “There are 29 lakh construction labourers in the state and their children, even if brilliant, are usually underprivileged to receive such training. Hence, this programme will help eligible candidates to attempt the examinations’’, said Akram Pasha, secretary of the department as well as the labour commissioner. Pasha said that the department had come across many bright students belonging to this section of the society while going through the regular scholarship applications. “Those who apply for scholarships usually submit their marks cards too. Some of them have scored excellent marks in different subjects and they will greatly benefit from this programme,” he explained. Although prominent labour unions said they have still not received any formal circular about the initiative, they are fully supportive of the programme. Shivanna, state secretary, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), said, “We welcome this initiative. Upon proper implementation, it will be very useful to the children of the labourers”. President of the labour cell Manjunath Kamble also shared the view. “If the programme helps in the education and training of the economically weaker sections, like construction labourers, then it is definitely a good programme,” he said.  The department will soon announce the guidelines for the submission of applications as well as the criteria for applying. It is expecting a large number of eligible candidates to come forward to join the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-labourers-children-to-be-trained-for-upsc-978746.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BBMP dedicates 7 crematoriums to Covid-19 victims||In an effort to streamline the cremation process in view of the mounting Covid-19 deaths, the BBMP on Sunday declared that seven crematoriums will be exclusively dedicated to bodies of Covid-19 victims while adding that the remaining ones will still allow the victims as well as those who die of other causes. The order came a day after the city reported nearly 150 Covid deaths. "These seven crematoriums will not take any non-Covid bodies not referred by the BBMP helpline," the BBMP order said, listing Medi Agrahara, Kudlu, Panathur, Summanahalli, Kengeri, Peenya, and Banashankari are the seven crematoriums.  Marshals will be deployed to control the access at the seven facilities to ensure only bodies referred by Covid helpline and carried in RFID-enabled hearse vans are allowed inside. The online booking facility will be disabled. The marshalls will be instructed to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. Those who want to cremate bodies of those who have succumbed to the virus will have to register with the Covid hearse van facility control room on, 080-22493202, 080-22493203, +91 8792162736.  The BBMP order further said that the Covid bodies will still be cremated in the other five crematoriums where the victims can be brought on a walk-in basis. However, it will not be exclusive to the Covid bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bbmp-dedicates-7-crematoriums-to-covid-19-victims-978756.html
25-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka private hospitals cry foul over 75% beds quota for Covid patients||As Covid-19 continued to choke the hospitals, the Karnataka government on Sunday issued an order telling the private hospitals to reserve 75% of their beds for state quota days after Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said they will claim 80% of the beds. The order came even as the private hospitals are yet to follow the previous rule of giving away 50% of the beds for the government quota and drew angry responses from managements of such hospitals. Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) challenged the government to take over the entire hospitals. "The beds allocated to Covid patients are already full. Many are finding it difficult to get a bed due to a lack of information on availability. We have launched a signature campaign against the government order for 75% bed reservation," PHANA chief Dr Prasanna H M said. He said a general bed costs Rs 10,000 but the private hospitals gave 50% of such beds for half the amount. "The payment from the government is still pending. How can they demand 75% of the beds, that too for the same price," he asked, noting the difficulties in making arrangements for the non-Covid patients. He further stated that the government was not supplying either Remdesivir or oxygen to private hospitals. "The hospitals were built borrowing crores of rupees as loans. What can we do when the government fails to respond to our demands," he said. As the number of cases has doubled in less than two weeks, the number of patients requiring ICU or oxygen facility has also gone up. On April 14, there were 506 patients in ICU which were 1,492 on Sunday. Officials in the Health Department said there was an urgent need to ramp up bed availability. "There is a huge shortage of ICU, oxygen and ventilator beds in Bengaluru. The chief minister has instructed that the number of ventilator beds should be increased 10 times and we are preparing for the same," an official said.  As per the BBMP bed management portal, of the 8,804 beds (including private ones) allocated to patients, 7,450 were full on Sunday. Though the portal shows that 734 beds are available in private medical college hospitals and 510 in private hospitals, patients who rush to the facilities are told that there are no beds. Hospital beds in Karnataka Govt hospitals: 31,444 Govt Medical Colleges: 14,617 Private hospitals: 38,600 Private medical colleges: 35,766||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-private-hospitals-cry-foul-over-75-beds-quota-for-covid-patients-978762.html
25-04-2021||West||More antibodies in women to fight Covid-19: BMC sero survey||A sero survey by Mumbai's civic body has found that women have more antibodies than men to fight the coronavirus. It also showed that sero positivity in non-slum areas was increasing, while it was decreasing in slum areas, which matches the current trend that a large number of patients are being detected from the former in the current Covid-19 surge, officials said. Sero positivity entails a blood test showing a positive result for a particular antibody, a civic official explained. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation survey, details of which were revealed on Saturday, showed sero positivity among women was 37.12 per cent as against 35.02 per cent in men. "In the sero survey, 41.61 per cent sero positivity was found in blood samples taken from municipal dispensaries in slum areas. Overall, 36.30 per cent sero positivity is found in 10,197 blood samples collected from citizens from all 24 wards in Mumbai," it said. "The samples were tested for antibodies in BMC's molecular biology laboratory in its Kasturba Hospital premises. The first survey in July last year had found 57 per cent sero positivity in slum areas of three wards, while the one in August showed 45 per cent sero positivity in slum areas," an official said. "Blood samples taken from private laboratories in non-slum areas showed sero positivity of 28.5 per cent in the current survey. In the first survey conducted in July last year, this figure was 16 per cent for three wards and 18 per cent in the one held in August," he added. The sero survey, held in March this year, was carried out using the "unlinked anonymous sampling method" with blood samples collected from those who had not been vaccinated, and was the third after similar exercises in July and August last year, a BMC release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-antibodies-in-women-to-fight-covid-19-bmc-sero-survey-978413.html
25-04-2021||West||5 held for selling Remdesivir at Rs 45,000 per vial||Five persons were arrested in Nagpur for allegedly selling Remdesivir, a key drug in the treatment of Covid-19, at Rs 45,000 per vial, police said on Saturday. After a tip off was received, a trap was laid and five people were held on Friday night and seven vials of the anti-viral drug were recovered from them, said Beltarodi police station inspector Vijay Akot. They have been remanded in police custody till April 26, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-held-for-selling-remdesivir-at-rs-45000-per-vial-978414.html
25-04-2021||West||Maharashtra to get SII's 'maximum support' for vaccination||As India struggles with its second wave of Covid-19 infections, hotspot Maharashtra reported a decline in fresh cases. While still featuring among the top 5 states burdened with the virus, Maharashtra reported 67,160 new cases and 676 deaths in the past 24 hours. However, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office tweeted that the Serum Institute of India and its CEO Adar Poonawalla have pledged ‘maximum support’ for the state’s inoculation drive. “CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has been assured of maximum support by Mr. @adarpoonawalla and the Serum Institute of India to ensure maximum vaccination at the earliest in the State of Maharashtra”, the CMO tweeted.  With most people inoculated, Maharashtra stands a better chance at battling the pandemic. With no clear antidote for the virus and new variants amplifying the damage, experts have been stressing for fast vaccination of all citizens. Vaccines are the best bet to reduce the severity of Covid-19 infections and mortality from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-get-siis-maximum-support-for-vaccination-978455.html
25-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Sero-positivity increasing in non-slum areas of Mumbai, says BMC||Sero positivity is increasing in non-slum areas and decreasing in slum pockets of Mumbai, as per a survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. This matches the current trend of a large number of people from non-slum areas here testing positive for the viral infection amid the Covid-19 surge. The sero survey also showed that women have more antibodies than men to the fight the coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Saturday. As per the survey, there was 37.12 per cent sero positivity among women as against 35.02 per cent in men, it said. Sero positivity entails a blood test showing a positive result for a particular antibody, officials said. "In the survey, 41.61 per cent sero positivity was found in the blood samples taken from municipal dispensaries in slum areas. Overall, 36.30 per cent sero positivity was found in 10,197 blood samples collected from citizens from all 24 wards in Mumbai," said the survey. The first survey in July last year found 57 per cent sero positivity in slum areas of three wards, while the survey in August showed 45 per cent sero positivity in slum areas, a civic official said. "The blood samples taken from private laboratories in non-slum areas showed sero positivity of 28.5 per cent in the current survey. In the first survey conducted in July last year, this figure was 16 per cent for three wards and 18 per cent in the survey held in August," he said. The latest sero survey, held in March this year, was carried out using the "unlinked anonymous sampling method" with blood samples collected from those who had not been vaccinated. It was the third survey after similar exercises in July and August last year, a BMC release said. The samples were tested for antibodies at the molecular biology laboratory located in the civic-run Kasturba Hospital premises here, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-sero-positivity-increasing-in-non-slum-areas-of-mumbai-says-bmc-978462.html
25-04-2021||West||20 Covid-19 patients escape from care centre in Yavatmal||20 Covid-19 patients have escaped from a care centre in Maharashtra's Yavatmal district, officials said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday at the Covid-19 care centre set up at a students' hostel in Ghatanji taluka, local health officer Dr Sanjay Puram said. Based on a complaint lodged by health officials, the Ghatanji police have registered an FIR against the 20 patients under relevant sections, he said. Puram said a Covid-19 testing camp was organised on Friday at Amdi village in the district. Later, 19 village residents who tested positive for the disease were admitted to the Covid-19 care centre at Ghatanji. All those 19 patients and another person lodged at the facility escaped around 8 am on Saturday, he said. Puram said he had lodged a police complaint, seeking action against the patients. Efforts were on to trace them, he added. Yavatmal Collector Amol Yedge expressed concern over the incident. "If this behaviour continues, the cases of viral infection will rise in the district. Instructions have been given to take criminal action against the patients who escaped," he said. A committee will be set up to conduct a probe into the incident and action will be taken against those found guilty, the collector said. On Saturday, 1,163 new Covid-19 cases were found in the district, taking the overall tally to 46,704. The district has so far reported 1,073 deaths due to the viral infection. As of now, there are 5,972 active Covid-19 cases in the district, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/20-covid-19-patients-escape-from-care-centre-in-yavatmal-978495.html
25-04-2021||West||Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases decline, but trend to be checked for two weeks||For the first time in a month’s time the financial capital of Mumbai reported less than 6,000 cases of Covid-19 infection in 24-hours time, back-to-back for two days – a trend that gives a ray of hope in combating the Second Wave of the viral pandemic. However, experts feel that the trend has to be noted for at least two weeks to arrive at any conclusion. The decline in daily figures is coupled with another bit of encouraging news that in Mumbai that 36.3 per cent people in Mumbai are found to have antibodies, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On Saturday, Mumbai reported 5,888 cases and 71 deaths taking the progressive total to 6,22,109 and 12,719, respectively. The active cases in Mumbai now stand at 75,740. On 4 April, Mumbai posted the highest tally of 11,206 after the sudden surge of February-March. While for some time, Mumbai was reporting 10K and 9K plus cases, last week the trend was encouraging – April 15 (8,217), April 16 (8,839), April 17 (8,834),  April 18 (8,400), April 19 (7,381), April 20 (7,214), April 21 (7,684), April 22 (7,410), April 23 (7,221) and April 24 (5,888). Acknowledging the downward trend, Dr Rajesh Dere, the Dean of BKC Jumbo Covid Centre in Mumbai, said: “Yes, we are seeing a decline for the last few days. We have to note that there are lockdown-type restrictions which are in place across Maharashtra.” Vaccinations are being done and people have started receiving the second doses. Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra, who often tweets on public issues, said: “Mumbai daily cases down to 5,888. The decline is well in line with the projection made by ATE Chandra Foundation that I had shared earlier. Let’s keep our fingers crossed!” Meanwhile, IMA Maharashtra President-elect Dr Suhas Pingle said: “If we look at the figures, there has been a rise in cases and deaths. But now in Mumbai, we have seen a decline in cases over the weekdays and a sudden big drop on weekend. However, we have to monitor cases for a week to a fortnight’s time to arrive at any conclusion.” On the ATE Chandra Foundation survey that he shared last week Mahindra points out: “Their model shows an encouraging trend. Mumbai’s daily cases have plateaued at a lower level over the last week or so Seroprevalence in Mumbai (existence of Covid antibodies) is high at 40%+ and rising fast due to both new infections and vaccinations... Global evidence suggests at around 60-65% we may reach a tipping point from where daily cases sharply decline. Just as it happened in the United Kingdom." The Maharashtra government and the BMC is making all efforts to boost up the vaccination drive.  Meanwhile, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that 1.5 lakh doses of Covishield arrived on Sunday and all vaccination centres in Mumbai would be functional from Monday. However, Covaxin would be available only at select centres for the second dose because of limited stocks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-covid-19-cases-decline-but-trend-to-be-checked-for-two-weeks-978498.html
25-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Missing 'fear factor' among citizens compounded crisis during second wave, says Mumbai doctor||The missing “fear factor” among citizens has compounded the Covid-19 crisis in India leading to the raging second wave of the pandemic, Dr Rajesh Dere, the Dean of Jumbo Covid Facility at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai, said on Sunday. “The Covid-19 pandemic broke out in Mumbai in March last year. Between March and June, there was a visible fear factor…but that went missing when the curve started flattening. If we compare the position with today, the fear factor at the initial stages was much more,” said Dr Dere, who manages one of the biggest field hospitals in India. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had reported as low as 463 cases in 24 hours some time ago as compared to the city recently zooming past the 10,000-mark, he said, adding that over the last few days Mumbai has been posting cases below 10,000. “I would say that the missing of the fear factor is the biggest contributor as it led to other things – public gatherings, political rallies, weddings, events, travel and so on and so forth,” Dr Dere said while participating in an online discussion titled “How to deal with Covid-19's second wave?” hosted by the Mumbai Press Club. Besides Dr Dere, the other panelists included Dr Subhash Hira, Professor of Global Health at the University of Washington-Seattle, USA, Dr Arun Bal, diabetic foot surgeon and public health activist, and Dr Vinayak Sawardekar, In-charge of Covid section at St George Hospital. The panel discussion was moderated by veteran journalist Vinod Kumar Menon, an expert on matters of health care. When asked why the fear factor had vanished, Dr Dere explained, “Cases started reducing, around and after Diwali, everything started opening up…nightlife started,  political gatherings started....also, after the announcement of vaccines came, people regained confidence and perhaps forgot the SOPs and protocols.” According to him, people, by and large, lowered their guard. “People stopped wearing masks or they did not wear them properly. The Covid-appropriate behavior expected during the new normal went for a complete toss….and by January and February, people perhaps thought corona was gone but then we were hit by the second wave.” Dr Dere admitted that problems have compounded – lack of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines – but the government is trying to address these issues. Dr Bal pointed out that even after such a severe situation, people are initially going in for home remedies. “In case of people with comorbidities, the cases are compounding,” he said. Dr Hira said that tackling the mutants is a big challenge and added, "Several countries have already been hit by the second wave….we have to look at the strategies that we are adopting.” Dr Sawardekar said that preventive measures are a must if people want to end the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-missing-fear-factor-among-citizens-compounded-crisis-during-second-wave-says-mumbai-doctor-978514.html
25-04-2021||West||Maharashtra to vaccinate all its citizens against Covid-19 free of cost||In a significant move, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided to vaccinate the people of the state free of cost. The ongoing vaccination drive and the plans ahead were discussed at the weekly Cabinet meeting last week. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said that global tenders would be floated and vaccines would be purchased for the people. “The Chief Minister would make an announcement soon,” he said. Speaking to reporters on Sunday, state NCP chief spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said that in the time of crisis the government would help its people. “The Deputy Chief Minister, who is also the Finance Minister, has spoken about it….we will float tenders and get the best vaccine…we need to produce nearly 14 crore vaccine doses and two jabs are needed,” he said.   The government’s top officials are also in touch with the management of Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which is rolling out Covishield and Covaxin, respectively. Both companies have given vaccines to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose. Serum Institute has offered the vaccine at Rs 400 per dose for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals, while Bharat Biotech vaccine will be available at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-vaccinate-all-its-citizens-against-covid-19-free-of-cost-978544.html
25-04-2021||West||14 oxygen generation plants to come up in Maharashtra's MMR||In the wake of the high demand for medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, 14 plants for producing the life-saving gas from the atmospheric air will come up soon in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde said on Sunday. Talking to reporters here, Shinde said one plant will produce about 2 tonnes (960 litres per minute) of oxygen in a day, which is adequate for 200 oxygen beds. Three of these plants will come up in the civic limits of Thane, two each in Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai, and one each in Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Ambarnath, Badlapur, Mira- Bhayander, Vasai-Virar and Panvel, he said. The work has been started and these plants will become operational in the next few days, the state urban development minister said. The state government decided to set up these plants to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, he said. Shinde said the agencies involved in oxygen production have been identified and work orders have been issued. The minister also said that five to six plants producing 1 to 1.5 tonnes of oxygen daily were also being set up in Gadchiroli district. Shinde is the guardian minister of Gadchiroli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14-oxygen-generation-plants-to-come-up-in-maharashtras-mmr-978584.html
25-04-2021||West||Vasai family overcome problems of getting beds, oxygen cylinder and Remdesivir but lose their member ||A fortnight ago, members of the Pandey family from Vasai, located nearly 60 kms off Mumbai, were running helter-skelter to save a family member. However, the patient passed away leaving behind his wife and two sons. This incident has shattered the family of the Vasai-Virar urban conglomerate, in Palghar district, a large part of which is under the Mumbai metropolitan region. The story just reflects how difficult it is for a middle-class family to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic crisis – and if one requires hospitalization, matters become worse. One of the members, a bread-earner in a joint family, started showing symptoms of the deadly viral infection. “We all were okay…my father went out for some work and went to Bhayander suburbs…after returning he started feeling unwell,” said Rakesh (name changed), the 18-year-old son of the victim, who this year would appear for Class XII board examinations. After consultation with the general physician after a day of falling ill, the patient was advised to be admitted. “My father was restless, we wanted him admitted immediately but found it difficult to get beds….we searched for beds in the entire Vasai-Virar area and finally managed to get one in a hospital near our home,” said Rakesh. However, things didn't go as per their wishes. “We got to the hospital but a day later we were told that my father needs oxygen, and there were no oxygen beds at that point of time,” he said, adding that the family again started hunting for another hospital where oxygen is available. “In the new hospital, we were told that my father’s oxygen levels have dropped and Remdesivir was needed. For half a day, he made hundreds of calls and visited several pharmacy shops but could not get it….after trying or long, we spent Rs 20,000 to secure three Remdesivir vials,” he said. Rakesh said that after the first shot, my father was a bit okay but then his condition worsened again. “We did our best …but failed,”  Rakesh said, breaking down.  The family spent nearly two lakh for the treatment - but could not save their member. "We tried our best, we did almost everything possible from our end but we lost him," he said. "The situation is difficult for middle-class families. In fact, this is happening right in Mumbai, so we can imagine the plight of people in rural areas. Somewhere we feel that after the First Wave we have not factored in the Second Wave," said Vasai-based civil rights activist Susheel Dwivedi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vasai-family-overcome-problems-of-getting-beds-oxygen-cylinder-and-remdesivir-but-lose-their-member-978609.html
25-04-2021||West||BJP will file contempt of court case against MVA leaders:Patil||Maharashtra BJP Chief Chandrakant Patil on Sunday threatened to file a contempt of court case saying leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi are raising allegations of misuse of the CBI by the BJP in Anil Deshmukh case even though the probe against him was ordered by the Bombay High Court. "The CBI probe against Deshmukh is going on as per the orders of the Bombay High Court. But, they (leaders of the MVA) are alleging that the BJP is misusing the CBI. So do you want to say anything against the HC? This (allegations by MVA) amounts to contempt of court and we are going to file a contempt of court case," Patil told reporters. The ruling MVA comprises the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. The CBI has registered an FIR against Deshmukh, a former home minister of the state, in connection with the allegations of corruption raised against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The CBI on Saturday conducted searches at the premises of Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. "MVA leaders are fooling people by stating that the CBI was only asked to submit a report in 15 days in connection with the corruption allegations against Deshmukh. But the HC had also said that an offence can be registered if necessary. So the allegations of MVA leaders are meaningless," said Patil. He alleged that leaders of the Sena, Congress, and NCP take a stand on any issue as per their convenience. "If they receive a favorable order from court, they hail the court but in case of any adverse decision they raise suspicion," said Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-will-file-contempt-of-court-case-against-mva-leaderspatil-978741.html
25-04-2021||West||Gujarat govt to provide free vaccines, secures 1.50 crore doses||The Vijay Rupani-led BJP government on Sunday announced that it has secured 1.50 crore doses of vaccines for the inoculation drive beginning May 1 for people aged 18 and above. The government said that vaccines will be free to all. The decision was taken in the core committee meeting chaired by Rupani in Gandhinagar. In a note issued late on Sunday night, the state government said that it has secured one crore doses of Covishield from Pune-based Serum Institute of India and 50 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. The note said that the state has already administered nearly 1.13 crore vaccine doses at over 6,000 public and private vaccination centres. The online registration for people aged 18-45 will start on April 28. The state government's daily health bulletin stated that till April 25, a total of 93, 63,159 persons received the first dose of vaccines while 19,32,370 have taken the second dose. On the other hand, Gujarat reported 14,296 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases to 1.15 lakh. The state also reported 157 fatalities in 24 hours that included 27 in Ahmedabad, the highest in the state followed by Surat, 26, Vadodara 11, Rajkot 9, among others. Meanwhile, in view of the worsening condition and human resource crunch at hospitals, the state government passed an order asking over 1,200 MBBS pass-outs, who are yet to appear for bond service, to present themselves for Covid-19 services by 27th April else action will be taken under Epidemic Diseases Act. The notice states that due to a shortage of manpower for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, doctors are required for emergency cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-provide-free-vaccines-secures-150-crore-doses-978761.html
25-04-2021||West||Former Maharashtra minister Sanjay Deotale dies due to cardiac arrest||Former Maharashtra minister Sanjay Deotale died following a cardiac arrest while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Nagpur on Sunday, his family sources said. He was 58. While undergoing treatment at the private hospital, his oxygen level deteriorated and he breathed his last around 2.15 pm after suffering a cardiac arrest, they said. Deotale was minister for environment and cultural affairs in 2012 when Prithviraj Chavan was the chief minister. He had started his political career as a Zilla Parishad member from Madheli-Nagri circle in Warora tehsil in 1991. Deotale had contested and won his first Assembly election from Warora-Bhadravati Constituency in 1995. He was elected from the same seat in 2000, 2005, and 2009 as a Congress candidate. He had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha election in 2014. Before the 2014 state Assembly election, Deotale had left the Congress after the party denied him a ticket. He joined the BJP and contested an election, which he lost. Ahead of the 2019 state polls, Deotale had quit the BJP and joined the Shiv Sena. However, he could not win that election. A few months back, he had rejoined the BJP in the presence of Union minister Nitin Gadkari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-maharashtra-minister-sanjay-deotale-dies-due-to-cardiac-arrest-978781.html
