26-04-2021||First Edit||Discriminatory and unjust vaccine policy||There is discrimination writ large in India’s vaccine pricing policy which forms part of the drive for expanding vaccinations to a larger part of the population. The liberalised policy makes all adults 18 years of age and above eligible for vaccination from May 1 but the pricing scheme goes against the policy of free and universal vaccination pursued by the country for decades. The differential pricing is irrational and arbitrary, and is not in public interest as it might leave large sections of the people, especially those belonging to the underprivileged sections of the population, out of vaccine coverage. There is also a shifting of responsibility by the Central government to the states without giving them the necessary agency and wherewithal to discharge that responsibility. The price scheme is against all principles of price management, especially because it is about the price of Covid vaccine which should be considered a public good and not a commercial product. The vaccine manufacturers in India — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — will supply 50 % of the vaccine they produce to the Central government and the other 50 % to state governments and the private sector. SII, whose Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford, is the main vaccine being offered in India, will supply it for Rs 150 a dose to the Centre, Rs 400 a dose to state governments and Rs 600 to the private sector. Bharat Biotech will supply its vaccine at Rs 150 to the Centre, Rs 600 to states and Rs 1,200 to private hospitals. There is no justification for pricing the same product differently for different buyers. It is ethically wrong and should be considered a malpractice, especially because the vaccine is a life-saving and essential commodity. Covishield is not a commercial product in the usual sense, because it was developed with public funding. Public money from India is also going into the production of vaccines because the government is funding the capacity expansion of the two Indian manufacturers. SII had once stated that at Rs 150 a dose the company was making normal profit. Its profit would be considerable because it is producing the vaccine on a large scale, and therefore pricing it above Rs 150 would amount to profiteering.  It is particularly wrong to make the state governments, which are in dire financial straits, pay a higher price for the vaccine. It is the Central government's duty to provide free and universal vaccination to all citizens. Strangely, when it has set a price for the vaccine, it has promised free vaccinations in West Bengal if it comes to power there. A discriminatory and unjust vaccine policy would make the state a commercial entity, far from the ideal of a welfare state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/discriminatory-and-unjust-vaccine-policy-978901.html
26-04-2021||In Perspective||Concerns remain over electoral bonds||After the electoral bonds scheme was notified in 2018, a total of 12,924 electoral bonds worth Rs 6,534.78 crore have been sold in 15 phases between March 2018 to January 2021. The sale of these bonds peaked in the run up to the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, and 55.43% of the total value of electoral bonds were purchased in March and April 2019. The anonymity promised by electoral bonds have made it the most popular mode of donations to political parties. The law does not require political parties to mention the names of those contributing through these bonds. Post-independence, during the 65 years period from 1952 to 2017, about 1,800 political parties were registered in India. After the introduction of electoral bonds, in barely a four-year period, an additional 900 political parties got registered themselves. Election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) says, “Definitely points the needle of suspicion towards the government’s controversial electoral bonds and unlimited and anonymous corporate donations.” ADR says “a vast majority of these parties will never contest elections”. It believes these parties “may be involved in money laundering activities or may simply be using their status to turn black money into white”. More than 52% of the total income of national parties and 53.83% of the total income of regional parties analysed by ADR for FY 2018-19 came from donations received through electoral bonds. Given the opacity of the scheme, there can be no guarantee against political parties receiving funds from foreign sources, even foreign government-owned companies. Dismissing the two stay applications moved by ADR, filed in 2019 and earlier this month, a three-judge bench of the apex court headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde noted that the sale of the electoral bonds, which began in January 2018, have continued “without any impediment” in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The Supreme Court found no justification to block their sale over concerns of anonymity. The court cleared the next tranche of sale of the electoral bonds ahead of elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. ‘Judgement disappointing’ In April 2019, the Supreme Court introduced an interim “safeguard” by directing all political parties to submit details of receipts of the electoral bonds to the Election Commission of India (ECI) in a sealed cover. The bench said, “Certain safeguards have already been provided by this Court in its interim order of April 12, 2019, (and) we do not see any justification for the grant of stay at this stage.” The interim safeguard directed by the apex court in 2019 is not a fool-proof safeguard. Even after all the political parties do submit details of receipts of the electoral bonds to the Election Commission in a sealed cover, ECI cannot know the true identity of real donors. Any number of shell companies can be created, and their bank accounts used for making anonymous contributions. KYC compliance by such shell companies is a routine process. The audited accounts and the cumulative figure of amounts received through the bonds declared by political parties cannot be easily matched with the statutory filings of numerous donor companies. Such safeguards or counterchecks are far-fetched to do in practice. While information about the identity of the donors is kept away from citizens, it is accessible to the government of the day. The government can access the details of donor/s by demanding the data from the State Bank of India, which is authorised to sell these bonds. ADR Founder Jagdeep Chhokar said, “The judgement is disappointing. The interim arrangement on which the Court has relied is unworkable. The EC cannot know the donors of these bonds received by political parties. Further, the Court has said that information about the donors can be known by making a little effort. If this information can be found, why can’t it be made available in public domain? We hope this order does not impact our petition pending on the larger questions of law challenging these bonds.” (The writer is an alumnus of IIM, Ahmedabad, and a retired corporate professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/concerns-remain-over-electoral-bonds-978903.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Record man-days created in Dakshina Kannada under MGNREGS||Dakshina Kannada district has achieved more than the target in the implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme during 2020-21. Several works under MGNREGS were carried out during Covid-19 lockdown in the district and also helped in generating employment to those who had lost their means of livelihood. The district has 65,078 active job card holders, of which 32,644 card holders were given employment during 2020-21. As many as 11,789 new job cards were generated in the district during the year. The target in the district was creation of 16 lakh man-days. However, the district has completed 16,54,551 man-days during the year and has achieved 103% success. Since the implementation of MGNREGS in Dakshina Kannada in 2008, this is the highest man-days created so far. In the past, the district had achieved 15,50,000 man-days. In 2019-20, a total of 1,29,113 job cards were issued and 12.91 lakh man-days were generated. In 2020-21, a total of 1,40,018 job cards were issued. According to officials, several works on digging percolation pits, rejuvenation of water bodies, small rivulets were taken up under Jala Shakthi - Catch The Rain campaign. Further, the work on construction of soak pits were taken up in villages. Several women job card holders were engaged in removing silt from small rivulets in Kolnadu, Noojibailu, Athikaribettu, Kilpadi, Jalsoor, Devachalla, Nellur, Kemraje, Kalanja Kollamogru, Madyanadka and others areas and also took up the works of construction of school compound. Zilla Panchayat Chief Excutive Officer Dr Kumar said that there was no demand for work under MGNREGS in the district in the past. However, there was demand for work last year during the lockdown. Several works could be taken up during the period. Statistics of the works in 2020-21 Taluk              Job cards                   Man-days Bantwal            35,256                     3,27,331 Belthangady     36,936                     4,06,399 Mangaluru        18,584                     2,00,152 Kadaba             13,959                     46,627 Moodbidri          6,640                       92,996 Puttur               12,110                      1,87,454 Sullia               16,533                       1,93,592||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/record-man-days-created-in-dakshina-kannada-under-mgnregs-978915.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||372 weddings held in Dakshina Kannada amid weekend lockdown||Amid the weekend lockdown across Karnataka, several scheduled weddings were held as per the guidelines of the government in Dakshina Kannada.  372 marriages took place in Dakshina Kannada district. Of the 372 marriages, 225 were held in rural areas, 65 in urban local body limits and 82 in Mangaluru City Corporation limits, said officials. In Kateel Durgaparameshwari temple alone, 47 couples entered into a wedlock that was held at different timings in the temple premises. The marriages were registered several days ago. Families of the brides and grooms were informed that only 10 people were allowed for the ceremony. To ensure social distancing, the marriages were held at dining halls, Saraswathi Sadana, Mahalakshmi hall and other areas.   Along with the accompanying family members, the brides and grooms wore masks when the rituals were performed. None were allowed inside the temple. Even meals were also not served at the temple. Initially, 90 marriages were scheduled at the temple premises. Durgaparameshwari temple priest Sriharinarayanadasa Asranna said, “Measures were taken to ensure that there was no large gathering. Several marriages are fixed for next one week which will be conducted by adhering to the guidelines.” On the other hand, the weekend curfew evoked good response. All shops remained closed after 10 am. Private buses remained off roads in Mangaluru. The busy roads wore a deserted look. However, a few people had stepped out to the market to purchase vegetables, fish and meat. A few of the fruit and vegetable vendors expressed concerns that fruits and vegetables they had stored might perish. Fruit vendor Isaak Periyadka in Uppinangady said, “We had procured a large quantity of fruits and vegetables on account of Ramzan month without the knowledge of restrictions. Now, the vegetables and fruits are perishing. Our stalls should be permitted to remain open till 12 noon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/372-weddings-held-in-dakshina-kannada-amid-weekend-lockdown-979045.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 patient ends life||A 48-year-old Covid-infected person ended his life at Srirangapatna government hospital late on Sunday. Jayakumar of Arakere ended life by hanging. He was hospatalised on April 21. A case has been registered at Srirangapatna Town Police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patient-ends-life-979060.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi's first oxygen refilling plant comes up at Belapu||The first oxygen refilling plant in Udupi district has been set up at Belapu, which will supply industrial and medical oxygen cylinders to hospitals and industrial units. Manipal-based S N Cryogenics has started the plant within the premises of the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board. The plant will be able to supply oxygen cylinders within two days if liquid oxygen reaches the plant as per current plans, the unit head Nataraj said. At present, hospitals in Udupi district, as well as industries, are dependent on three oxygen units functioning at Baikampady and Karnad in Mangaluru. Once the Belapu unit starts functioning, dependency on other districts will come down. The refilling plant will get liquid oxygen from Bengaluru and Torangal near Ballari. The plant can store 20,000 cubic metres of liquid oxygen at -180 degree and refill the cylinders after processing the same into gas. It will cater to the oxygen requirements of over 40 private and government hospitals in the district, including those at Udupi, Manipal, Kundapur, Brahmavar and Karkala. The Belapu plant will be able to provide oxygen with less shipping charges and within a short time, Nataraj said. Udupi additional deputy commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu said that all required licences have been issued for the plant, which will enable the district handle medical emergencies quickly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupis-first-oxygen-refilling-plant-comes-up-at-belapu-979066.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Declare health emergency in Karnataka: Shobha Karandlaje to B S Yediyurappa||Udupi-Chikamaglore MP Shobha Karandlaje has urged Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to declare a health/medical emergency in the state and take over 50 per cent beds in all the private hospitals. In a letter to the CM, Karandlaje expressed fear that the situation would worsen as the surge in Covid-19 cases had created an alarming situation in the state. She recommended an increase in the number of dedicated lines given to the BBMP helpline from the 30 to 100 and distribute the work in three shifts to professionals. “Additional 1,000 ventilators should be supplied to Bengaluru. The ventilator capacity in small hospitals and nursing homes should be increased with the financial assistance given by the government,” she suggested. The health department should understand the gravity of the situation. Though the government had placed demand for 1,000 ventilators, it had procured only 130. There was a need to encourage ventilator and oxygen suppliers, she stated in the letter. The health department should publish the availability of Remdesivir and oxygen on a daily basis. A help-desk should be set up in each hospital with a doctor and team of officials to assess whether the infected patients required hospitalisation or home isolation. This would help manage beds in hospitals. Help-desks in hospitals should guide the patients in getting the treatment, she suggested. The MP said that free ambulance services should be provided across the state to shift the Covid-19 victims to the crematorium. The government should seize all those ambulances who charged exorbitantly for service. Karandlaje asked the CM to convert schools, collegesand hostels into Covid care centres as more beds and ventilators would be needed in the coming days. “As there is a demand for plasma from those who have recovered from Covid-19, all blood banks should collect plasma from such persons and store it. There is a need to encourage plasma donation,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/declare-health-emergency-in-karnataka-shobha-karandlaje-to-b-s-yediyurappa-979086.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka 'close-down': Labourers head to native towns from Mangaluru||The KSRTC bus stand in Bejai in Mangaluru was buzzing with activity following the announcement of a 'close-down' by the Karnataka government due to the rise in Covid-19 cases. The labourers, along with their family members working in construction sites, have packed their bags and are heading to the bus stand to catch the next available bus to reach their native. “The government has already announced lockdown. We can not stay back in Mangaluru. It is better if we return to our native and be with our family members rather than struggling to eke out a square meal in an unknown city,” said Shivanna from Koppal. He along with his wife and child were at the bus stand waiting for the bus to return to their native. “We do not have any means of livelihood unless we work as daily wage labourers. With the announcement of lockdown, we will not get any employment here,” he said. Kayappa, who along with six other family members from Gadag were working in construction sites in Mangaluru. “We do not know how long this lockdown will continue. We had experienced the woes of last year. We do not want to experience the same struggle. We are not sure of two meals a day here,” he said. Vijayalakshmi from Vijayapura who was working in a quarry said “I am returning to my native with my children. We can at least be with our family members in the time of pandemic. With no source of income in our native, we had arrived in Mangaluru in search of employment. Now, with uncertainty looming large, we are returning back to native, to be with family members.” Even the tipplers started queuing up at liquor stores to stock up ahead of 14-day long close-down. Many were worried about what they would do if the close-down is extended. At least 10 to 15 people were seen outside the liquor outlets in Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-close-down-labourers-head-to-native-towns-from-mangaluru-979153.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||39 Bagalkot prison inmates contract Covid-19||A total of 39 inmates of the district prison at Navanagar have tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. All 39 infected are from men's barracks. The district prison houses 164 inmates, including nine women. A staffer has also tested positive for the infection. He has been sent into home quarantine. According to prison superintendent Dattatri R Medha, "The Amingad police had taken an undertrial in custody on April 19. After enquiry, they brought him back to the prison on April 24. The undertrial was put to his barracks as he had tested negative for Covid-19 in a rapid antigen test. The following day, his RT-PCR test result returned positive. Hence, the inmates and the staff were subjected to the Covid-19 test. Throat and nasal swab samples of 39 inmates and a staffer have returned positive for the infection." "All inmates are asymptomatic and are being treated in a separate barracks. The prison building has been sealed and the prison visits by the relatives of the inmates and others have been restricted till further notice," the jail superintendent said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/39-bagalkot-prison-inmates-contract-covid-19-979268.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar seeks sops for small businesses||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Monday asked the state government to waive property tax and provide other sops for pandemic-hit small businesses.  Shivakumar said this after holding talks with industry body FKCCI and traders.  “Small businesses are so hurt and pained that it looks like these are the last days of this government,” Shivakumar told reporters.  “We demand that all commercial property taxes be waived. Second, there should be a two-year moratorium period for the repayment of loans. Third, the government should support small businesses in paying the interest,” he said.  Shivakumar demanded that transport, hotel and restaurants should be brought under the ‘essential commodities’ category. He opposed the government’s move to impose a lockdown. “How does a lockdown help? Let the government convince people on this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-seeks-sops-for-small-businesses-979271.html
26-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Covid-19: All upcoming polls will be postponed, says Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa||Elections to ten urban local bodies scheduled on Tuesday could be the last that the state will see for the time being as the government has decided to postpone all other upcoming polls in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have decided to postpone all upcoming elections. There won’t be any elections, at least for six months. This will be recommended to the Election Commission,” Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said when asked about the May 9 Kannada Sahitya Parishat elections. With the two-week ‘close down’ kicking in from 9 pm on April 27, the State Election Commission said on Monday that elections to 10 urban local bodies will be held as per schedule. Ballari City Corporation, Vijayanagar Town Municipal Council (TMC), Ramanagara City Municipal Council (CMC), Channapatna CMC, Gudibande Town Panchayat, Bhadravathi CMC, Thirthahalli Town Panchayat, Belur TMC, Madikeri CMC, Bidar CMC, Hirekerur Town Panchayat and Hallikhed Town Panchayat will go to polls on April 27. Polling will be held from 7 am to 6 pm, much before the ‘close down’ time of 9 pm, officials said. There is no clarity, however, on the counting of votes scheduled on May 2 for the Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-19-all-upcoming-polls-will-be-postponed-says-karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-979276.html
26-04-2021||Main Article||Turning away evidence-based approach is the real disease||There is no escaping the death and destruction of the pandemic that is upon us in a second disastrous wave. Experts tell us we will hit a peak soon; the numbers will then begin to climb down. Nature would have found a way to bring some calm. We did precious little and can only pray that there will be no third wave. Even if we may excuse the poor response during the first hit last March, there can be no excuse for doing worse the second time around. Consider that we can claim to fight at the borders but die in the tens of thousands within our borders. The nation has been described in recent days by senior functionaries of the government as a space superpower, knowledge superpower, economic superpower, manufacturing superpower; even a vaccine superpower. We can get people to come together to beat empty vessels and light lamps and lakhs march out with a leap of faith to the Kumbh Mela, but we can’t arrange hospital beds when a pandemic we know is around and flares up. Examples of how badly we fought this war come from all directions. It is difficult to get ambulances. Remdesivir is being black-marketed: the latest being the BJP seeking to procure these vials in a private operation in Mumbai, leading to the arrest of two directors of a manufacturing company. The distribution of vaccines has become a bone of contention between the Centre and non-BJP-ruled states. In Maharashtra, for example, no one can miss the fact that vaccines are in short supply. Several vaccination centres have closed. Yet, this has led to the lowness of a Trumpian Twitter war, not a fix of the problem at hand. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh has offered a simple and wise solution: distribute vaccines transparently using an agreed formula so that states know how much is coming, when to expect stocks and, accordingly, plan their rollouts. Coupled with advance orders to vaccine manufacturers and compulsory licensing, we should set the course for a swift coverage for a wider age group. The second round of the pandemic already indicates that the virus is no more sparing the young. What does it take to keep away pettiness, to take decisions that are simple yet bold and to let the nation see and feel that this is a government geared to fight the pandemic, not merely to win the next election round the corner? We can see Covid-19 is the disease but just beneath the surface is the real disease that kills us: narrow-mindedness, one-upmanship and turning away from an evidence-based approach that allowed the government to endorse a holy snaan and a gathering of lakhs; devotees duly facilitated with 12 pairs of special trains and welcomed with front page ads featuring the Prime Minister of India and the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. The announcement to end the mammoth Kumbh Mela gathering came too late in the day. The announcement is significant because it tells us that belief, faith and ritual are not contradictory to the scientific approach. Yet, the former has been put to work and exploited at the cost of the latter. An Associate Professor at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, has been funded by the Department of Science and Technology to run a pilot to study the “effect of Gayatri mantra and pranayama in terms of inflammatory markers in hospitalised Covid-19 patients”. The official record states: “…Scientists are racing against time for a miracle cure/vaccine to fight this pandemic which has gripped the world. In this scenario, the role of pranayama and Gayatri mantra chanting which has been used in other diseases and has shown promising effects becomes vital.” Millions of Indians who chant the Gayatri mantra, Hindus and non-Hindus alike, will understand that this is not the best way to respond to the pandemic. No funds On the other hand, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (named ‘INSACOG’), comprising 10 labs identified to study variants of the virus in India and launched in December 2020, had received no funds till at least as late as March-end. This was critical activity because variants are thought to have delivered the new wave. Yet, the nation has been too slow to launch this kind of sustained, planned and coordinated activity to sequence the virus genome. On March 24, the health ministry reported that “though VOC (variants of concern) and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish or direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states”. That begs the question: What has caused the current spike? Where is the epidemiological insight? As of April 16, only 13,614 Whole Genome Sequenced samples were processed at the 10 designated INSACOG labs. Sequencing was targeted for 5% of total positives beginning December 2020; what was sequenced cumulatively as of mid-April is barely 5% of daily rise in infections! Meanwhile, there is a daily release on vaccination numbers that look large in absolute terms but offer the true picture of the task at hand when we see that barely 1.2% of India is fully vaccinated, according to data from the University of Oxford. This compares to 25% fully vaccinated in the US, 14% in the UK and 3.8% in Brazil, which India overtook this month to have the second largest number of infections in the world after the US. It is true that Covid-19 is a terrible disease that is killing us but the disease that allows this disease to thrive and spread with impunity is the disease that we have had for long – a longing to live by a mythical story of a much-told greatness of yesterday to bring on an air of celebration today before we go crashing down tomorrow. (The writer is a journalist and faculty member at SPJIMR) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/turning-away-evidence-based-approach-is-the-real-disease-978904.html
26-04-2021||Mysuru||74-year-old’s 30-hour ordeal across 2 states ends in Mysuru||It was a horrific experience for the family of a 74-year-old Covid patient from Denkanikote in Tamil Nadu, for over 30 hours and spanning two states to get medical aid, thanks to the prevailing crisis.  S Rajagopal, who was feeling weak and fatigued for nearly a week, was taken to a clinic at Denkanikote, bordering Bengaluru, on Saturday. The doctor there refused to provide treatment. His son Vivek said, “The doctor asked us to approach a hospital in Hosur. Thus, my father was taken to Gunam Hospital. The hospital turned us away, citing non-availability of beds. By the time we took my father to the government hospital in Krishnagiri, it was 12 midnight. There, he was administered insulin as he was diabetic, outside the hospital building. There were over 200 more such patients being treated for various illnesses”. “Though Bengaluru was nearer to Krishnagiri, I decided against trying a hospital there, given the crisis in Bengaluru. I shifted my father to Mysuru on Sunday morning, where my sister Vanitha Shalvapille Iyengar resides,” Vivek said. “His blood oxygen saturation was 93 and pulse rate 76. He was taken to Kamakshi hospital, where samples were collected for RT PCR test. In CT scan, 5% phlegm was found. Thus, doctors advised to admit my father-in-law to a government Covid hospital as it was related to pulmonology. But there was no bed in the government Covid hospital — KR Hospital,” said Rajagopal’s son-in-law Shalvapille Iyengar. “The next stop was Apollo BGS Hospital, where my father-in-law was subject to Abott Covid antigen test, which confirmed him to be positive. However, he did not get a bed there. We tried over 10 private hospitals for a bed. Finally, he was admitted to Spandana Hospital on New Sayyaji Rao Road on Sunday night,” he said. Iyengar said, “The sufferings of non-Covid patients are no better. According to the government order, non-Covid patients should receive immediate treatment. But the hospital staff do not accept Covid negative reports that are more than one day old. If a person undergoes a Covid test, the reports take more than a day. No treatment is provided till Covid negative report is received. So, more than a day passes in suffering”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/74-year-old-s-30-hour-ordeal-across-2-states-ends-in-mysuru-979266.html
26-04-2021||National||US to send vaccine raw material to India, UK dispatches medical supplies||The United States will soon ease restrictions it imposed on the export of raw materials required to augment the production of Covid-19 vaccines in India. US National Security Advisor Jack Sullivan spoke to Ajit Doval, his Indian counterpart, and conveyed to him that the Joe Biden administration has already identified sources of specific raw materials urgently required for manufacturing AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccines in India. He also assured Doval that the materials will immediately be made available to India, according to the spokesperson of the US National Security Council, Emily Horne. Sullivan told Doval that the US will also provide India with therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). It is also pursuing options to provide oxygen generators and related supplies urgently. The US had drawn flak for imposing restrictions on export of raw materials. The move was aimed at ramping up production in the US. But it also slowed down vaccine production in India. The British government also responded to New Delhi’s request for help on Sunday and sent ventilators and oxygen concentrators. The European Union is also pooling resources to respond rapidly to India’s request for assistance. The first shipment of medical equipment from the UK is expected to reach on Tuesday.   The British High Commission in New Delhi stated that the UK government will send nine airline container loads of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators. “We stand side by side with India as a friend and partner during what is a deeply concerning time in the fight against Covid-19,” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said. The EU also responded to India. “Alarmed by the epidemiological situation in India. We are ready to support,” Ursula von der Leyen, European Commission’s President, tweeted. Alarmed by the epidemiological situation in India. We are ready to support. The EU is pooling resources to respond rapidly to India’s request for assistance via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. German Chancellor Angela Merkel also promised support to India on Sunday, days after lamenting that European Union leaders had not provided enough support to pharmaceutical companies and thus allowed India to become a major pharma exporter. The US Chamber of Commerce recently urged the Biden administration to release the millions of AstraZeneca vaccine doses lying unused in storage for shipment to India, Brazil and other nations hit by the pandemic. Several members of the American Congress and prominent Indian-Americans also called upon the US to provide India with life-saving medical supplies. Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of the Serum Institute of India, recently took to Twitter to urge the US government to lift the embargo on export of the raw materials required to make vaccines in India — like reagents, plastic tubing material, nano-filters and bioreactor bags.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-send-vaccine-raw-material-to-india-uk-dispatches-medical-supplies-978920.html
26-04-2021||National||Centre suggests intense action in areas with 10% or more Covid-19 positivity rate||Alarmed at the sustained surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday asked state governments to resort to “intense action” in districts or areas reporting test positivity rate of 10% or higher and more than 60% occupancy of oxygen or ICU beds. The Centre has asked the state governments to carry out local containment measures for 14 days to break the chain of transmission. It asked the states to classify districts requiring intensive action and local containment on a weekly basis. “The areas requiring intensive action and local containment connotes specific and well defined geographical units such as cities/town/part of the towns/district headquarters/semi-urban localities/municipal wards/panchayat areas,” a health ministry statement said. Among the containment measures recommended include the imposition of night curfew, ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival related gatherings. The Centre said marriages with attendance of up to 50 persons and funerals with attendance of up to 20 persons may be allowed. It said all shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurants & bars, sports complexes, gym, spas, swimming pool and religious places should remain closed. The Centre also suggested 100% vaccination for the eligible age groups shall be undertaken in such areas. In a bid to ensure effective monitoring, the Centre has asked the districts to send a daily status report to the state governments. It has also asked the states to send a consolidated report to the Centre for information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-suggests-intense-action-in-areas-with-10-or-more-covid-19-positivity-rate-978925.html
26-04-2021||National||US to soon facilitate export of vaccine raw materials in India||The United States will soon ease restrictions it imposed on the export of some raw materials required to augment the production of the Covid-19 vaccines in India, where the raging second wave of the pandemic is wreaking havoc. President Joe Biden’s National Security Advisor Jack Sullivan spoke to his counterpart in New Delhi, Ajit Doval, over the phone and conveyed to him that the US had already identified sources of specific raw materials urgently required for manufacturing AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccines in India. He also assured Doval that the raw materials would immediately be made available for India, according to the spokesperson of the US National Security Council, Emily Horne. Sullivan told Doval that the US would also immediately provide India with therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) not only to help treat the Covid-19 patients but also to protect frontline health workers. The US was also pursuing options to provide oxygen generators and related supplies urgently. The Biden Administration had invoked the American Defence Production Act (DPA) in February to impose restrictions on the export from the US some raw materials required for the production of the Covid-19 vaccines. The move was aimed at ramping up production and increasing availability of the vaccines in the US. But it also slowed down the production of vaccines in India. Adar Poonawala, the Chief Executive Officer of the Serum Institute of India, recently took to Twitter to urge the US Government to lift the embargo on the export of the raw materials required to make vaccines in India – like reagents, plastic tubing material, nano-filters and bioreactor bags. The US is deploying an expert team of public health advisors from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) and USAID to work in close collaboration with the US Embassy, India’s health ministries, and India’s Epidemic Intelligence Service staff. USAID will also quickly work with CDC to support and fast-track the mobilization of emergency resources available to India through the Global Fund, Sullivan told Doval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-soon-facilitate-export-of-vaccine-raw-materials-in-india-978926.html
26-04-2021||National||Uncertainty lingers as Congress-ruled states say no vaccines till May 15||As the second Covid-19 wave rips through India, a cloud of uncertainty hangs over the vaccination drive covering 18-45 years from May 1, as health ministers from Congress-ruled states claimed Serum Institute has expressed inability to deliver the doses before May 15. If the claims are indeed true, it will delay efforts to curb the record-breaking surge of cases that has pushed the rickety health infrastructure across states to the verge of collapse. The Centre had expanded the vaccination to cover those in the age group of 18-45 during phase 3 of the drive but had put the onus of immunising them on state governments. “We spoke to Serum Institute of India, we were told that they will require time till May 15 to fulfil the orders placed by the Government of India. The supplies to states can begin only after that,” Raghu Sharma, Health Minister of Rajasthan, told a virtual press conference along with health ministers of Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Jharkhand. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the Centre has informed the state government that delivery of vaccines for the 18-45 age group is not expected before May 15. But BJP-ruled Karnataka said the government will launch the drive with available doses. “Karnataka is receiving periodic supply from the central government,” said KV Thrilokchandra, Principal Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare. Karnataka currently has eight lakh doses of vaccine and additional stock will be supplied soon, he said. On the state setting aside Rs 400 cr for one crore doses of Covidshield vaccine from Serum Institute, Thrilokchandra said that the supply schedule of the order is still awaited. Vaccine wait Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singhdeo said the state government has made elaborate arrangements to complete the vaccination of 18-45 years age group in 30-40 days. “But how can we do vaccination when vaccines are not available?” Singhdeo asked. Jharkhand Health Minister Banna Gupta said the “central government has hijacked all the quota of vaccines”. “How are the state governments supposed to carry out the vaccination drive without the vaccines?” asked Gupta. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu demanded that the Centre pick up the entire tab for vaccination as the state governments had made no allocations for the vaccines in their respective budgets. “The Centre had made an allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in the Union Budget. They should spend on vaccines for everyone,” Sidhu said. The third phase of the vaccination drive, covering the 18-45 years age group, begins on May 1. However, the beneficiaries in this category will have to get themselves vaccinated at private vaccination centres or those set up by the state governments. The Centre will vaccinate only those above 45 years of age, besides healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uncertainty-lingers-as-congress-ruled-states-say-no-vaccines-till-may-15-978929.html
26-04-2021||National||Govt says health infrastructure 'might not be able to cope' with rising Covid cases||Noting that existing infrastructure “might not be able to cope" with the surge in Covid cases, the Centre on Sunday suggested that states should identify geographies with higher positivity or bed occupancy rate, and take local containment measures for 14 days. Local containment will primarily focus on restricting intermingling of people and on three strategic areas of intervention, which include containment, clinical management and community engagement, the Health Ministry said in a statement. Noting that a very high number of daily new Covid cases being reported for the past few days, the Centre said there is an urgent need for states to consider strict Covid management and control measures to bring the situation under control. "The existing infrastructure may not be able to cope with this kind of surge, it has been stressed,” the statement reads. In this regard, a letter has been written to health secretaries of all states by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Underlining the need for “prompt and targeted action” focused on specific areas to flatten the current curve, the Centre suggested that states, identify those areas which are having “test positivity of 10 per cent or more in last week or more than 60 per cent of oxygen supported or ICU beds are occupied.” “Districts fulfilling any one of the above two criteria are to be considered for taking intensive action and local containment measures. Local containment primarily focused on restricting intermingling of people for a period of 14 days to break the chain of transmission by duly following epidemiological principles,” the Health Ministry said. Elaborating the local containment measures, the Centre said it will essentially focus on containment, clinical management and community engagement. Identification of areas for local containment should be a dynamic exercise aiming to break and suppress the chain of transmission of Covid and save precious lives in areas reporting higher surge in cases and deaths and exhibiting overstretched healthcare systems, it said. The Centre has also suggested a monitoring mechanism for states in this regard. As the situation is dynamic, a daily review should be taken up at the highest levels in the state, it said. The Centre also said local administration shall decide the duration of the night curfew hours and issue orders, in the entire area of their jurisdiction, under appropriate provisions of law, such as under Section 144 of CrPC, and ensure strict compliance.The Centre also said local administration shall decide the duration of the night curfew hours and issue orders, in the entire area of their jurisdiction, under appropriate provisions of law, such as under Section 144 of CrPC, and ensure strict compliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-says-health-infrastructure-might-not-be-able-to-cope-with-rising-covid-cases-978931.html
26-04-2021||National||16 critical Covid-19 patients rescued after fire in hospital ICU in Gujarat||As many as 16 critical Covid-19 patients were rescued and shifted to safer places after a fire broke out in the ICU of a private hospital here on Sunday night, officials said. No casualty was reported due to the blaze, they added. A fire broke out in Ayush Hospital located on the fifth floor of a multi-storey building on Station Road in Surat at around 11.40 pm Sunday, after which sixteen patients admitted in the ICU were rescued and shifted to safer places with no casualty being reported in the incident, the officials said. "There were sixteen patients in the ICU of the hospital located on the fifth floor of the building where the fire broke out. The fire department team rescued 11 patients, and the remaining five were shifted to safer places by the hospital staff before the fire team arrived," said Basant Pareek, In-charge Chief Fire Officer of Surat Municipal Commission (SMC). The fire broke out after a blast in the air conditioner caused either due to the short circuit or overloading, he said. Out of 11 patients rescued by the fire department personnel, five were taken to the SMIMER, a hospital run by the city cvic body, four to Sanjeevani Hospital, and the remaining two to other floors of the Ayush Hospital, Pareek said. The officials were trying to find out the whereabouts of the remaining five patients who were rescued by the hospital staff, he said. As many as fifteen fire tenders were rushed to the hospital after the fire was reported at around 11.40 pm, and the fire was brought under control within half an hour with the help of two tenders, Pareek said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-critical-covid-19-patients-rescued-after-fire-in-hospital-icu-in-gujarat-978932.html
26-04-2021||National||Joe Biden recalls India's help in fighting Covid-19 as US scrambles to return favour||US President Joe Biden recalled India’s assistance to the United States in the early days of the Covid-19 outbreak as his administration in Washington DC swung into action to return the favour and support the South Asian nation to contain the raging second wave of the pandemic. Even as a special Air India aircraft brought 318 Phillips oxygen concentrators from New York to New Delhi early on Tuesday, Biden, his Vice-President Kamala Harris, Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin followed Secretary of State Anthony Blinken and National Security Advisor Jack Sullivan in pledging support to India. The US is likely to use its military transport aircraft to rush medical equipment to India. Not only the US, but Singapore, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom also started sending healthcare equipment to help India deal with the crisis, while Canada, Ireland, Australia, Germany, Russia, Iran, France and Denmark also offered assistance. So did China and Pakistan too. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need,” Biden posted on Twitter. He was apparently referring to India’s supply of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and other drugs as well as Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to the US soon after the SARS-CoV-2 virus caused a pandemic around the world last year. The President was spending his weekend at his home in Delaware but is believed to be following up the developments in India. Harris tweeted that Washington DC was working closely with New Delhi to “rapidly deploy additional support and supplies” to help contain the alarming Covid-19 outbreak in India. “As we provide assistance, we pray for the people of India – including its courageous healthcare workers.” The U.S. is working closely with the Indian government to rapidly deploy additional support and supplies during an alarming COVID-19 outbreak. As we provide assistance, we pray for the people of India—including its courageous healthcare workers. Biden and Harris took to Twitter to reassure New Delhi of the US assistance shortly after Sullivan spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and indicated that Washington DC would ease restrictions imposed on export of certain raw materials needed to augment production of the Covid-19 vaccines in India. The US is also likely to send to India more oxygen concentrators, therapeutics, rapid Covid-19 diagnostic test kits, ventilators and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and New Delhi’s envoy to Washington DC Taranjit Singh Sandhu discussed with the American Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman a proposal for Washington DC to consider allowing export of millions of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccines lying unused in storages in the US, sources told DH. Austin stated that he had directed the Department of Defence to use every resource at its disposal, within its authority, to support the US Government’s interagency efforts to rapidly provide India’s frontline healthcare workers with the materials they need. “We are currently assessing the equipment we can both procure and draw from our own inventory in the coming days and weeks,” he said in a statement. He added that the US Department of Defence would provide transportation and logistics assistance to deliver medical supplies to India. The Biden Administration swung into action after it drew flak both in the US and from India for its State Department’s statement defending restriction on export of raw materials required for production of vaccines. The restrictions hindered attempts to augment production of the vaccines in India. The US was criticised for defending the restrictions even as the second wave of the pandemic wreaked havoc in India. The Indian Air Force aircraft brought seven empty cryogenic oxygen containers from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Four oxygen containers were brought in by the IAF aircraft from Singapore. The South-East Asian nation promised to send altogether 7,511 oxygen concentrators and 516 BiPAP machines. Nearly 500 BiPAPs and 250 oxygen concentrators have already arrived in India. The Embassy of India in Riyadh facilitated import of 80 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen from Saudi Arabia by the Adani Group. The British High Commission in New Delhi stated that the UK Government would send nine airline container loads of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators, to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/joe-biden-recalls-indias-help-in-fighting-covid-19-as-us-scrambles-to-return-favour-978940.html
26-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Central Vista Project highlights 'policy paralysis'!||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday urged the central government to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other health services amid the Covid-19 pandemic instead of "spending on PR and unnecessary projects". The Railway Board has given its approval to redesign its headquarters based on the "aesthetics" of the Central Vista project, even as the fate of the Rail Bhawan in Lutyens Delhi remains unclear as plans for the Rs 20,000-crore redevelopment drive are yet to be finalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-central-vista-project-highlights-policy-paralysis-978945.html
26-04-2021||National||The Lead: A talk on Covid-19 vaccines with Dr Rajesh Parikh||In this episode, Dr Rajesh Parikh, author of the book 'The Vaccine Book for Covid-19', talks about vaccines.  Ahmed Shariff: As the second wave of the pandemic grips India, there is only one solution in sight: Vaccine. Come May 1, those above 18 in India will be eligible for the vaccine. To talk about vaccine today we have Dr Rajesh Parikh, who has recently authored the book titled 'The Vaccine Book for Covid-19.' Dr Parikh is the Director of Medical Research and Hon. Neuropsychiatrist at the Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre. He is an adjunct Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Iowa, Carver College of Medicine and a former WHO Global Expert on Depression. Trained at the Seth G.S. Medical College and the K.E.M. Hospital, Mumbai and the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Dr Parikh with Harvard Medical School, conducted a large study on stress and depression among college students in Boston and Mumbai. Hi, Dr Parikh and welcome to DH Radio. Dr Rajesh M Parikh: Hi, Ahmed. It's a pleasure to be with you. Ahmed: We all know that vaccines are important and there is no doubt about it. The first question has two parts. The attenuated virus; the vaccines which have the concept of attenuated virus seem to be the more effective ones and why are they no vaccines for Covid-19 under this category? — this is the first. And the second: Have not experimented like (Edward) Jenner, looking at similar viruses which are less virulent but produce an effective immune response that can attack the SARS-COV-II virus? Dr Parikh: As you are aware, but I'm not sure if all our listeners are aware that an attenuated virus is a weakened virus; a tweaked version of the same virus. For example, in Polio or historically in smallpox. Well, smallpox (vaccine) was not exactly attenuated because they used the cowpox virus, but polio (vaccine) was an attenuated or weakened virus. The great advantage of attenuated virus is that because we are using the weakened version of the same virus, the immunity lasts for a very long time, almost lifelong... To know more about the conversation, listen to the Podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-a-talk-on-covid-19-vaccines-with-dr-rajesh-parikh-978947.html
26-04-2021||National||Hoarding of oxygen, medicines creates both panic and shortage, say experts||Noting that hoarding of oxygen and injections like Remdesivir is leading to panic and creating their shortage in the market, top health experts on Sunday said Covid-19 is a mild infection and that for 85-90 per cent of people only symptomatic treatment at home is enough. They also stressed that vaccines and Covid-appropriate behaviour together can break the chain of transmission. On the shortage of oxygen and medicines, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said that hoarding of oxygen and injections like remdesivir in homes is creating panic and causing a shortage of these medicines.  "Covid-19 is a mild infection and 85-90 per cent people will only suffer from cold, fever, sore throat and bodyache. Only symptomatic treatment at home is enough to ride through these infections and there is no need for oxygen or remdesivir," he was quoted as saying in a Health Ministry statement. He added that 10-15 per cent of patients with severe infection may need oxygen, remdesivir or plasma etc, while less than 5 per cent need ventilators or intensive care. Furthermore, Dr Guleria clarified that remdesivir neither reduces the hospital stay nor saves lives. In moderate to severe cases, it may be able to reduce hospital stay but if administered in mild cases it can complicate matters. Remdesivir is no magic bullet and it is used in hospitals for moderate to severe cases, he said. On administration of oxygen to those who don't need it, Dr Guleria said that people who have oxygen saturation above 94 do not need the gas as increase in oxygen saturation beyond this level would not increase oxygen in blood. However, this can cause shortage in supply of oxygen and will reduce access to oxygen for serious cases, the statement said. Dr Guleria along with Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairman and Managing Director, Medanta, Dr Navneet Wig, Head of Department of Medicines, AIIMS and Dr Sunil Kumar, Director General Health Services addressed concerns and issues related to Covid-19. Dr Trehan, while speaking on the steps to be taken immediately after a positive RT-PCR test, said that the people should first contact local or family doctors. All doctors are aware of the protocol to be followed and can recommend courses of medication for patients who should isolate themselves at home. He also advised yoga and pranayam which are help maintain lung health and added that pronation is also helpful, the statement said.  Dr Trehan reiterated the importance of double masking, distancing and hand hygiene and said the mask should seal the air passage around the nose and mouth for proper protection. He also recommended staying away from crowded places. On oxygen demand, he said it has suddenly risen in the current crisis and manufacturing facilities are stretched for supplies. Industries have the capacity but lack cryo-transportation. The government is actively working on this and the situation will be under control in the next five to seven days, he was quoted as saying in the statement. Dr Sunil Kumar addressed the topic of preparations of the government to mitigate the situation and said that from no preparedness last year, it ramped up capacity to a unique level very soon. Over 2,500 laboratories were created where only one existed before the pandemic, he said, adding, "We increased our testing capability to lakhs of tests per day, ramped up tracking and contact tracing and manufacturing of PPE kits et al." Reiterating the importance of getting vaccinated, Dr Sunil said there are negligible side effects of vaccines, and that vaccines and Covid-appropriate behaviour together can break the chain of transmission, statement said. Dr Navneet said there is a need to save healthcare workers who will in-turn save patients. "To save our healthcare workers we need to break the chain and reduce the number of infections. To break the chain is a responsibility of all sections of society but foremost it is the responsibility of the people to undertake Covid-appropriate behaviour," the statement quoted him as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hoarding-of-oxygen-medicines-creates-both-panic-and-shortage-say-experts-978950.html
26-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 26||India reported 3,52,091 new Covid-19 cases and 2,624 deaths, as per the latest Union Health Ministry data on Saturday, continuing the rise in fresh infections in the country, as a shortage of oxygen and drugs continues to overwhelm health systems across states. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,73,13,163 as of April 26, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,92,311 as of April 26, 2021   No. of people discharged: 1,43,04,382 Total Vaccination: 14,19,11,223 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-26-978953.html
26-04-2021||National||Oxygen Man of Mumbai helps people in home isolation||At a time when the country is reeling under severe oxygen shortage because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ‘Oxygen Man of Mumbai’ is busy saving lives. Meet Shahnawaz Shaikh, a resident of the Malad suburbs who is helping out people with oxygen cylinders, particularly those who need them during home quarantine. This is free of cost to the patients, not only in Mumbai but also in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region.  He depends on donors and the network of dealers of oxygen cylinders. A young businessman from Mumbai, who suffered badly because of the Covid-19 pandemic, he is now helping out people in distress. Rattled by the death of an acquaintance, a pregnant lady who died of Covid-19 infection last May, he decided to do something to help people. “My friend’s wife died in an autorickshaw gasping for oxygen... This moved me, disturbed me,” he said. To start with, he needed funds. He decided to sell off his Ford Endeavour SUV for Rs 22 lakh. “In March 2020, the pandemic broke out in Mumbai, then the lockdown happened and in May the cases were peaking,” said Shahnawaz, adding that there was chaos and confusion everywhere. “I was mulling how to help and decided that an oxygen cylinder is the best option. In fact, taking the cylinder to the patient’s home was the most difficult task and we as a group decided on that,” said Shahnawaz, who is part of Unity and Dignity Foundation, an NGO. “From my network, I could then organise more than 200 cylinders daily during the first wave… But now things have changed and we are facing difficulty during the second wave. We are hardly managing 50 per day… I am maintaining a stock of around 200 cylinders,” he said, adding that the demand is very high. During last year, he could provide 5,000 to 6,000 cylinders while this time the count is hardly 600. “I have been receiving calls from various parts of the MMR like Vasai, Virar and Nalasopara in the western suburbs and Kalyan and Dombivali in central suburbs and Thane city,” he said, adding that people from Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar too had called him. “We have set up a war room where youth are working. We are trying to network with people and oxygen dealers… We are getting 500 to 600 calls per day now,” he said, pointing out that even hospitals are seeking help. “I am trying to accommodate all, however, my priority is to help people who are in home quarantine,” he said, adding that the hospitals are crowded and hence people who can get treated at homes need to be helped. Asked about his SUV, Shahnawaz smiled and replied: “Once Covid-19 goes and things are back to normal, another SUV will come.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-man-of-mumbai-helps-people-in-home-isolation-978983.html
26-04-2021||National||US to ramp up support for virus-hit India||The United States will "immediately" make supplies of vaccine-production material, as well as therapeutics, tests, ventilators and protective equipment available to India as the South Asian giant battles a Covid-19 surge, the White House said Sunday. Western nations including Britain, France, Canada and Germany have also pledged help as India's coronavirus crisis grows, driving an increase in the global case count in recent days even as the number of vaccines administered worldwide surpassed the one billion mark. Worst-hit in the country of 1.3 billion people was the capital New Delhi, with reports of overwhelmed hospitals, severe oxygen and medicine shortages, and patients' families pleading for help on social media. "The United States has identified sources of specific raw material urgently required for Indian manufacture of the Covishield vaccine that will immediately be made available for India," a White House statement said. Washington has also "identified supplies of therapeutics, rapid diagnostic test kits, ventilators, and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that will immediately be made available for India," said the statement from National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne. But it did not mention whether the United States would send its surplus AstraZeneca shots to India, after top US pandemic adviser Anthony Fauci said on ABC Sunday that it would be considered. The AstraZeneca jab, along with the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, is suspected of causing very rare but serious blood clots in a handful of cases, but is approved for use in many countries including India. Canadian Foreign Minister Marc Garneau tweeted Sunday that his country was ready to help and had "reached out to Indian authorities to determine how Canada can best support India in its time of need." Experts have long warned that no one will be safe from Covid-19 until everyone is -- including those in the developing world, making it in the global interest for wealthier countries eager to move past the pandemic to help large, lower-income nations such as India to vaccinate their populations. The worrying scenes out of India have fuelled a backlash against the United States, with celebrities, activists and experts calling for Washington to do more -- including lifting an export ban on raw materials that would allow India to make its own vaccines. Among the international chorus was writer Salman Rushdie, who in a tweet addressed to President Joe Biden said "the US has something like a vaccine glut. India is in dire straits. Please overturn this export ban ASAP." Horne's statement came after National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan spoke by telephone with his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval on Sunday. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need," the statement said. Horne said that the US is "pursuing options to provide oxygen generation and related supplies on an urgent basis," and that it is funding a "substantial expansion" of Indian vaccine manufacturer BioE, enabling it to "ramp up to produce at least 1 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the end of 2022." It will also deploy experts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and USAID to work with the Indian government, and help fast-track the mobilization of emergency resources available to India through the Global Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-ramp-up-support-for-virus-hit-india-978984.html
26-04-2021||National||India reports world's largest daily rise with 3.52 lakh Covid-19 cases, 2,812 deaths||With 3,52,991 people testing positive for the Covid-19 infection in a day, the highest so far, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 28,13,658 comprising 16.25 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.62 per cent.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,43,04,382. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.13 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 27,93,21,177 samples have been tested up to April 25 with 14,02,367 samples being tested on Sunday. The 2,812 new fatalities include 832 from Maharashtra, 350 from Delhi, 206 from Uttar Pradesh, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 157 from Gujarat, 143 from Karnataka, and 103 from Jharkhand. A total of 1,95,123  deaths have been reported so far in the country including 64,760 from Maharashtra, 14,426 from Karnataka, 14,248 from Delhi, 13,557 from Tamil Nadu, 11,165 from Uttar Pradesh, 10,941 from West Bengal, 8,432 from Punjab and 7,685 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-worlds-largest-daily-rise-with-352-lakh-covid-19-cases-2812-deaths-978977.html
26-04-2021||National||SC suspends judicial work; observes 2-min silence to pay homage to Justice Shantanagoudar||The Supreme Court on Monday suspended its judicial work as a mark of respect to Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar who passed away on Saturday evening due to prolonged illness. All the judges of the Supreme Court led by Chief Justice N V Ramana, along with Attorney General K K Venugopal, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh and SC Advocates-On-Record Association president Shivaji Jadhav observed two-minute silence to pay homage to the soul of the departed soul. CJI Ramana said all the judges and staff were deeply pained with the passing of the sitting judge. He also announced the suspension of judicial work on Monday. All the cases listed before the court would be taken up on Tuesday. Justice Shantanagoudar passed away at a hospital in Gurugram on Saturday evening at the age of 62 The judge, who hailed from Haveri in undivided Dharwad in North Karnataka, was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He was to retire on May 4, 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-suspends-judicial-work-observes-2-min-silence-to-pay-homage-to-justice-shantanagoudar-978999.html
26-04-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan explains the 50% vaccine quota to states||Union Minister Harsh Vardhan clarified that the government will continue to provide free vaccines to states from its 50 per cent bracket, saying that the idea that the Centre got vaccines cheaper than states is "patently false". In a four-page statement, Vardhan said, "Several questions are being raised on the ‘balance 50% quota’ and what it means. That is why I have chosen to clarify here that this balance 50 per cent quota grants flexibility for states. Many states had requested that the vaccination process be opened up for them. Now, this ‘balance 50% quota’ shall give them the freedom to vaccinate groups that they deem as priority." The government is opening up vaccination for those aged 18 and above from May 1. Under the new policy, there will be two groups for supply of shots — 50 per cent will be from the Centre and the other 50 per cent will be available in the open market. State governments and private hospitals can procure vaccines directly from manufacturers under the second group. A political row erupted with opposition leaders alleging that states were being charged more by vaccine manufacturers than what they charged the Centre. "The ‘balance 50% quota” is also open for corporate and private sector to pool in their resources so that the combined effort of Team India can be deployed to vaccinate every adult in the earliest possible time. The vaccination process through GOI route will continue as before and the entire expense of this will continue to be borne by the Centre. As the eligibility criteria to get vaccinated through this route evolves further, GOI will continue to provide full support to the states to vaccinate all eligible people free of cost," Vardhan's statement read. Vardhan clarified that the Centre doesn't give vaccines directly to anyone. "The 50% quota, that is at Government of India’s pricing, is for free distribution of vaccines and distribution of all of this will be done through the states only. Hence the allegation that Centre is getting it cheap and states are not is patently false," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-explains-the-50-vaccine-quota-to-states-979000.html
26-04-2021||National||Delhi to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all 18 and above||Delhi on Monday joined a clutch of states offering free Covid-19 vaccines to all those above 18 years with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that his government will carry out the drive on a war-footing as vaccination has emerged as a solution to the pandemic. Kejriwal also appealed to the Centre to put a cap on vaccine prices even as he urged vaccine manufacturers to bring down the price to Rs 150 per dose as they had an "entire lifetime to earn profits" but now they should act in the interest of humanity. The national capital will be joining a number of states -- Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Sikkim, West Bengal, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and Rajasthan -- to offer free Covid-19 vaccines. "The rapid spread of Covid-19 cases is worrying many people. The only solution in sight seems to be the vaccine and ensuring a swift administration campaign for the same. In light of this, the Delhi government has decided to administer the vaccine free of cost to all 18+ residents of Delhi. It will be our effort to carry this out swiftly and efficiently," Kejriwal said. The capital's administration also gave the go-ahead for the purchase of 1.34 crore vaccines for Delhi. Amid a controversy over the pricing of vaccines, Kejriwal said vaccine manufacturers have priced the vaccine at Rs 400-600 for states and at Rs 150 for the Centre. He said the prices should be the same for everyone. "I was watching the interview of one of the manufacturers who told the said interviewer that vaccination companies are profiting even at the Rs 150, rate at which they are providing the vaccine to the Centre. If that is the case, then at Rs 400 and Rs 600 their profit margins must be huge. I believe that now is not the time to look for profits, now is the time to come together as people and help humanity," he said. He appealed to the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to bring the price to Rs 150 for everyone. "There is a lifetime to make a profit, this is the time to aid people. It is also my appeal to the central government, if need be, please cap the rate of the vaccine and ensure it is made available at standardised rates to everyone," he said. Kejriwal said the vaccine has emerged as a solution to the pandemic and those who have been administered the vaccine are either not contracting the virus or contracting only mild forms of it. He said the United Kingdom was facing a similar situation as India is today, one of the main factors behind their ability to overcome the wave was a robust vaccination drive. Kejriwal also highlighted the impact of Covid-19 on those below the age of 18 years and urged the Centre that vaccines should be administered to them also if the existing vaccines are effective for these groups. "If however, special vaccines are required for children i.e. those below the age of 18, I hope they are manufactured soon and can be swiftly administered to the children of the country, for their safety," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccines-to-all-18-and-above-979005.html
26-04-2021||National||Court grants bail to Deep Sidhu; pulls up police on "highly questionable" arrest||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu in a case related to damage to Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day. It, however, pulled up the Delhi police over "highly questionable" manner of arresting the accused on April 17, a day after he got bail in a related case of violence. "Such vicious and sinister action of investigative authorities amounts to playing fraud with established criminal process and shows scant regard to constitutional protections enshrined, protected and cherished under the Constitution," Metropolitan Magistrate Sahil Gupta said. The court said further incarceration of the accused would be unjustified, as he has been interrogated in police custody for 14 days and has already been in custody for about 70 days. It allowed bail to Sandeep Singh Sidhu alias Deep Sidhu on furnishing of a personal bond in the sum of Rs 25,000 with one surety of like amount. Delhi police, for its part, opposed the granting of bail to Sidhu saying the present case was of very sensitive in nature involving damage to Red Fort property, which was a symbol of national pride. It alleged that the accused was the main conspirator who continued to instigate the riotous mob. "During the riot at Red Fort, a total of 167 individuals sustained injuries, out of which 144 were policemen.The riotous mob carrying spears, swords, lathis etc indulged into such act of terror, that created mayhem at Red Fort and sabotaged government property and also damaged the building of Red Fort, a national heritage site," it claimed. The defence counsel, however, pointed towards striking similarities between the two cases one in which the accused got bail on April 16 and another in which he was arrested on April 17. The court agreed to the contention, saying "The sweeping power of investigation does not warrant subjecting a citizen each time to fresh investigation by the police in respect of the same incident." It said the accused was granted bail but before he could be released, he was arrested on April 17 in respect of same incident at Red Fort. "The need and timing of the arrest is highly questionable because despite knowing that the accused has been lodged in judicial custody since February 9, 2021, he was arrested only on April 17, 2021, when he was granted regular bail. This clearly suggests that it was an attempt to defeat the bail order and is a grave affront to personal liberty of the accused and runs foul of rights guaranteed under Article 21," it said. The tractors rally by the farmers taken out to demand repeal of three farm laws had turned violent, leading injuries to several police men and damage to the heritage building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-grants-bail-to-deep-sidhu-pulls-up-police-on-highly-questionable-arrest-979007.html
26-04-2021||National||Over 14.19 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 14.19 crore as part of the world's largest vaccination drive, which completed 100 days on April 25, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. Cumulatively, 14,19,11,223 vaccine doses have been administered through 20,44,954 sessions,according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 92,98,092 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 60,08,236 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,19,87,192 FLWs who have received first dose and 63,10,273 FLWs who taken the second dose. Besides, 4,98,72,209 nd 79,23,295 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 4,81,08,293  and 24,03,633 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala account for 58.7 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. Nearly 10 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on Day-100 of the vaccination drive (April 25), 9,95,288 vaccine doses were given.A total of 6,85,944 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 11,984 sessions for first dose and 3,09,344 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine. The ministry also said that Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka,Kerala,Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan have reported 74.5 per cent of the new cases. A record single-day rise of 3,52,991 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 66,191. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 35,311 while Karnataka reported 34,804 new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 28,13,658 and now comprises 16.25 per cent of the country's total cases. A net increase of 1,30,907 cases were recorded in the total active caseload in a day. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Gujaratand Kerala cumulatively account for 69.67 per cent of India's total active cases.  "The national mortality rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.13 per cent," the ministry said. A total of 2,812 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 79.66 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (832). Delhi follows with 350 daily deaths, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,43,04,382  with 2,19,272 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 78.98 per cent of the new recoveries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1419-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-979016.html
26-04-2021||National||How US export ban impacted India's Covid-19 vaccine production||The US on Sunday assured India and its people of support during the trying second wave of coronavirus which has been devastating the country over the past month. The Joe Biden administration said that it was "determined to help India in its time of need." and is set to send necessary life-saving medical supplies and equipment to help India fight the virus. However, limited exports from the US have been denting vaccine manufacturing in India. Vaccine makers here, including Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla, had asked the US to lift the embargo on the export of raw materials to increase production. Here's a look at what the embargo was and how it hurt India's vaccination program. US export ban US President Joe Biden invoked the US Defence Production Act earlier this year which empowered him to order domestic businesses and companies to prioritise federal contracts and US-based projects. The provisions of this act also include incentivising domestic companies to ramp up production and supply of critical materials for consumption in the US. President Donald Trump had used the same Act at the beginning of the pandemic to increase the production of supplies like ventilators for the US and limit exports of materials. On January 21, after coming to power, Biden invoked the Act to make available critical materials for the production and distribution of vaccines to US companies like Pfizer and BioNTech. Due to this decision, the US could not meet its export commitments. What are these raw materials? It is not immediately clear which materials are blocked and which companies have been instructed to focus on the US. An average company reportedly uses over 9,000 different materials to make the vaccine. The US's decision to limit exports has hit major vaccine manufacturers around the world, all of whom require the aforementioned materials, including India's SII that produces Covishield and Covovax, a Coivd-19 vaccine that has been developed by Novavax, USA, and upscaled by SII. The report quoted Poonawalla as saying that the US restrictions ended up halving the number of doses of Covovax that the company can stockpile. Not just Covishield's makers, but Bharat Biotech MD Dr Krishna Ella, maker of Covaxin, said that supply logistics for vaccine makers have been impacted due to the US's curbs. Bharat Biotech faced an acute shortage of the component adjuvant used in the Covid-19 vaccine.  Dr Ella noted that some raw materials could not be obtained from the US due to certain restrictions imposed by that country, said such problems needed to be anticipated in the future. India was finding it difficult to rope in an alternative country for its needs. Regulatory hurdles in other countries may also have slowed down the process further. The United States, however, will soon be easing the restrictions it imposed on the export of some raw materials required to augment the production of the Covid-19 vaccines in India, where the raging second wave of the pandemic is wreaking havoc. President Joe Biden’s National Security Advisor Jack Sullivan spoke to his counterpart in New Delhi, Ajit Doval, over the phone and conveyed to him that the US had already identified sources of specific raw materials urgently required for manufacturing AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccines in India. He also assured Doval that the raw materials would immediately be made available for India, according to the spokesperson of the US National Security Council, Emily Horne.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-us-export-ban-impacted-indias-covid-19-vaccine-production-979020.html
26-04-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi demands free Covid vaccine for all||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said all citizens should get Covid vaccines for free and the country should not be made a "victim of the BJP's system". India's vaccination campaign is all set to get a major boost from May 1 when everyone above the age of 18 will be eligible for vaccine. "Enough of discussion. All citizens of the country should get vaccine for free. Don't make India a victim of the BJP's system," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi and the Congress have been asking for free vaccination of all. The party has also criticised the government's vaccination policy and the handling of the COVID situation in the country. चर्चा बहुत हो चुकी। देशवासियों को वैक्सीन मुफ़्त मिलनी चाहिए- बात ख़त्म। मत बनाओ भारत को भाजपा system का victim! Maharashtra, which is leading in the number of cases and deaths in the country, Gujarat, Odisha and Rajasthan has said they will provide free vaccination to all, joining several other states. However, four states ruled by the Congress and its allies accused the Centre of "hijacking" vaccine stocks from manufacturers and expressed doubts they would be able to launch the inoculation drive to cover those between 18-45 years of age from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-demands-free-covid-vaccine-for-all-979029.html
26-04-2021||National||Landmarks across UAE lit up with tricolour to support India's Covid-19 battle||Prominent iconic buildings, including the Burj Khalifa, in the UAE were lit up with the tricolour to show solidarity with India as it grapples with a growing Covid-19 crisis. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) headquarters and the world's tallest building, Burj Khalifa, in Dubai were lit up with the colours of the Indian flag in solidarity with India as it responds to a second Covid-19 wave, the official WAM news agency reported. "As #India battles the gruesome war against #Covid19 , its friend #UAE sends its best wishes. Glowing star @BurjKhalifa in #Dubai lits up in Flag of India to showcase its support," Indian Embassy in the UAE tweeted on Sunday. The embassy also tweeted a video of the Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, displaying the Indian flag and #staystrongIndia. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. Pavan Kapoor, Ambassador of India to the UAE, tweeted, "India appreciates the UAE’s strong support to its close friend in difficult times @MoFAICUAE @UAEembassyIndia." The ADNOC on the facade of its headquarters displayed the message "Stay strong, India" to highlight its support for one of the UAE's closest friends and most important trading partners, the report said. Meanwhile, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, has affirmed his confidence in India’s ability to overcome the challenge of the resurgence in Covid-19 cases, the Gulf News reported. He reiterated the UAE’s full support for and solidarity with India. This came in a phone call made by Sheikh Abdullah on Sunday with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. Sheikh Abdullah said the leadership, government and people of the UAE are in full solidarity with India. Sheikh Abdullah expressed the UAE’s keenness to dedicate all resources in support of the efforts currently undertaken by the government of India, the report added. He also reaffirmed the longstanding relations between the UAE and India and the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two friendly countries. He also stressed that global action is fundamental in overcoming the fallout of the pandemic. Cooperation between the two nations over the Covid-19 pandemic took various forms and manifested itself in facilitating repatriation flights during the onset of the health crisis; knowledge transfer; provision of medical aid and supplies; exchange of expertise; and application of advanced screening techniques for detection of active virus infections, the WAM reported. The UAE and India boast longstanding strategic relations that started in 1972 with the initiation of diplomatic relations between the two nations that grew into fruitful cooperation based on mutual trust and common interest across all fronts. These privileged relations fructified into the signing of a comprehensive strategic partnership agreement between the two countries in 2017, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/landmarks-across-uae-lit-up-with-tricolour-to-support-indias-covid-19-battle-979044.html
26-04-2021||National||ITBP's Covid centre with 500 oxygen-supported beds starts in Delhi's Radha Soami Beas campus||A Covid care centre with 500 oxygen-supported beds run by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) began functioning from Monday with the admission of at least 25 patients, officials said. The facility, named Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Covid Care Centre (SPCCC), has been opened in view of Delhi registering a sharp rise in coronavirus cases and its healthcare system creaking under the pressure. It is located at the Radha Soami Beas campus in Chhattarpur area of south Delhi. The border guarding force, ITBP, designated by the Union home ministry as the nodal agency to run the facility, has said there would be no walk-in admissions to the centre. Admission at this centre will be made after approval by district surveillance officers in Delhi. ITBP has said that treatment at this centre will be free of cost. "The SPCCC has started functioning on Monday. About 25 patients have arrived till about 11 am and more are expected," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. Videos and photos provided by the force showed ambulances bringing in patients and they being admitted after preliminary checkup conducted by ITBP doctors and para-medical staff under a tented canopy in the porch. Earlier, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the facility and thanked the Union government for providing doctors and medical staff at the centre. He said 200 ICU beds will also be arranged at the facility. The helpline numbers of SPCCC are: 011-26655547/48/49 and 011-26655949/69. According to an official, patient details like age, address, contact number, oxygen level, pulse and comorbid conditions will be obtained and after assessment by a team of doctors, those eligible to get admitted will be communicated through their contact number. He said the DSOs will also be empowered to recommend patients to the SPCCC. A team of 50 ITBP and other organisations' doctors, about 80 paramedics and nursing staff, security personnel of the border guarding force and other administrative staff have been tasked to run the centre that is expected to add more beds in the coming days. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had declared on April 22 that the SPCCC, which was made operational in July last year and shut in February this year as coronavirus infections declined in the national capital, was being restarted on the Delhi government's request as the cases are rising rapidly once again. A total of 11,657 Covid-19 patients were treated at this centre between July-February. Delhi is currently facing an acute shortage of oxygen beds for serious Covid-19 patients and has almost run out of ICU facilities amid soaring infections. It recorded 350 Covid-19 deaths and 22,933 cases with a positivity rate of 30.21 per cent on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbps-covid-centre-with-500-oxygen-supported-beds-starts-in-delhis-radha-soami-beas-campus-979049.html
26-04-2021||National||State governments negotiating Covid-19 vaccine prices with manufacturers||As a number of states in India have announced that they will vaccinate their entire population free of cost, many have already begun vaccine price negotiations with the country's two vaccine manufacturers, Business Standard reported. Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populous state is seeking one crore doses (50 lakh each from Serum Institue of India and another 50 lakh from Bharat Biotech), while Maharashtra, one of the worst affected Covid-19 states in the country is seeking 1.5 crore doses of the much-needed vaccine. Many states are now seeking to procure the vaccine at the same rate offered to the Centre -- Rs 150 per dose. While Serum Institute of India (SII) is offering a dose each of its Covishield at Rs 400, Bharat Biotech has pegged the price of its Covaxin dose at Rs 600. The states have been left to fend for themselves and are unlikely to receive any remuneration from the Centre for spending out of their own pockets. A Maharashtra government official told the publication that the state may spend an estimated Rs 5,000 crore on procuring the vaccine. The official also said that the government would try to negotiate and purchase it at a lower price. In West Bengal, health officials have held discussions to sort out the mode of procurement of the vaccines for its population in the 18-44 age bracket. While the Centre is getting both vaccines at a much lower price of Rs 150, it said that it would pay for the vaccinations of those above the age of 45 who get their shot at a government hospital or vaccination centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-governments-negotiating-covid-19-vaccine-prices-with-manufacturers-979065.html
26-04-2021||National||Modi, Japan PM Suga discuss fighting Covid-19 together on phone call||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga on Monday discussed the Covid-19 situation in both countries and exchanged views on various regional and global challenges posed by the pandemic. The two spoke over the phone amid New Delhi’s plan to import liquid oxygen from Japan. Modi and Suga highlighted the importance of India-Japan cooperation to overcome challenges such as by working together to create resilient, diversified and trustworthy supply chains, ensuring a reliable supply of critical materials and technologies, and developing new partnerships in manufacturing and skill development, said a press release by the PMO. "Spoke to PM @sugawitter of Japan on phone. We reviewed the progress in various ongoing bilateral initiatives. We also discussed our cooperation in diverse areas including high technology, skill development and in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic together," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-japan-pm-suga-discuss-fighting-covid-19-together-on-phone-call-979069.html
26-04-2021||National||Supreme Court advances summer vacations to May 8 in view of Covid-19||In view of massive rise in Covid-19 cases, the Supreme Court on Monday agreed to advance its summer vacations to May 8 and re-open the top court on June 28 tentatively. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana also agreed to a demand for giving space to establish medical facilities including at least 60 beds, RT-PCR test, vaccination for lawyers. "An emergeny meeting was held by the Chief Justice of India with the representatives of Bar Council of India, SC Bar Association and SC Advocates-on-Record Association this afternoon and it was proposed that the summer vacations may be advanced to May 8 and accordingly reopening to June 28 tentatively," Secretary, SCAORA Joseph Aristotle said.  He added that the final decision would be taken up by the CJI. According to the Supreme Court calendar, summer vacations were proposed from May 14 to June 30. In a letter to the CJI and other judges, the SC Bar Association has asked the top court to prepone the summer vacations from proposed May 14, and curtail it by one week, in view of grim situation of Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi and the extension of lockdown for another week. It also asked the top court to approve temporary conversion of advocates chamber block in the additional Supreme Court complex for use as Covid care centre or field hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-advances-summer-vacations-to-may-8-in-view-of-covid-19-979091.html
26-04-2021||National||IMD predicts wet spell over several parts of country from April 26-30||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday predicted a wet spell over several parts of the country, including central, south and northeast India, from April 26 to 30. Thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kilometres per hour) are very likely at isolated places over Telangana, Kerala and Mahe from April 26. Lightning at isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, central Maharashtra, Marathawada, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Monday. Heat wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over Gujarat and coastal Odisha, the IMD added. On April 27, thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Assam, Meghalaya, central Maharashtra, Marathawada, Telangana, Kerala and Mahe. Lightning is also likely at isolated places over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Konkan, Goa, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka and Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal. On April 28, thunderstorms with lightning are likely over Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, central Maharashtra, Marathawada, Telangana, Kerala and Mahe. Heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over south interior Karnataka and north Kerala on April 28. According to the IMD, thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Telangana, Kerala and Mahe and with lightning at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram & Tripura, Rayalaseema, coastal and south interior Karnataka, Lakshadweep and Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on April 29. On April 30, thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds are likely over Uttarakhand, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Telangana, Kerala, and Mahe. On the same day, heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over south interior Karnataka and north Kerala, the IMD added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-predicts-wet-spell-over-several-parts-of-country-from-april-26-30-979095.html
26-04-2021||National||Covid-19 second wave: IISER develops affordable oxygen concentrator Oxycon||The Bhopal-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have developed a one-of-its-kind oxygen concentrator Oxycon, to bring a solution to tackle the oxygen shortage crisis amid the second wave of Covid-19. The developed device is capable of providing 93% to 95% of oxygen up to 3 lit/min of flow rate and costs less than Rs. 20000. Dr. Mitradip Bhattacharjee, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), and Dr. Venkateshwar Rao, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, along with Dr. P.B. Sujit and Dr. Santanu Talukdar from the EECS Department, have developed this affordable device that can be used if a patient needs oxygen support at any stage during the ailment. Appreciating the innovators’ efforts Prof. Siva Umapathy, Director, IISER Bhopal, said, “The device Oxycon has been developed using the open-source technology and material that has helped us to develop the device at low cost, and therefore once approved, it can be used anywhere from small villages to big cities due to its affordability.”  “In the past year, IISER Bhopal has developed products such as crowd and mask monitoring devices, and now Oxycon to meet the oxygen demands. In addition, the Institute has got leads in drug repurposing research that finds the potential drug to be tested for the Covid-19 treatment, and another lab at the institute has developed the assays to measure antibody titers against SARS Coronavirus-2. The institute is open to collaborating with industries and other organizations to bring Covid-19 solutions and related inventions that address unmet needs for the benefit of the people of India”, added Prof. Umapathy. The developed device is portable, customizable, and easy to deploy. It has a compressor that takes ambient air and passes it through columns having material named zeolite under an optimized pressure. Two such columns are used in alternate cycles and electronically controlled valves are used for this purpose to make it automatic and provide a continuous oxygen supply. The material, zeolite, absorbs nitrogen from the air and throws it back to the atmosphere, hence the concentration of oxygen increases in the air at the outlet. The valve controls are achieved using a programmed microcontroller based circuit. Speaking about further improving and commercializing the innovation, Dr Bhattacharjee said, “This system prototype has already been developed and compared with the commercial systems currently available at the market and we have received positive outcomes. We are actively looking for industrial collaborations to further improve and manufacture the system at a larger scale and to deploy it after necessary testing and approvals.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-second-wave-iiser-develops-affordable-oxygen-concentrator-oxycon-979099.html
26-04-2021||National||Armed forces rope in retired medics for Covid-19 duty||The Armed Forces on Monday recalled its medical personnel who had retired or taken premature retirement in the last two years to work at Covid-19 facilities across the country. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi that other medical officers who have retired earlier have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines. The personnel have been asked to work at Covid-19 facilities within the proximity of their present place of residence, Rawat told the Prime Minister during a review meeting on Monday. The Prime Minister was also told that all medical officers on staff appointments at Command HQ, Corps HQ, Division HQ & similar HQ of Navy and Air Force will be employed at hospitals. Rawat told Modi that nursing personnel were being employed in large numbers to complement doctors at hospitals and that oxygen cylinders available with armed forces in various establishments will be released for hospitals. The CDS also said that the armed forces were creating medical facilities in large numbers where possible military medical infrastructure will be made available to civilians. The Prime Minister reviewed the operations being undertaken by the Indian Air Force to transport oxygen and other essentials in India and abroad. PM Modi also discussed with Rawat the idea of instructing Kendriya and Rajya Sainik Welfare Boards and Officers posted in various headquarters in veterans cells to coordinate the services of veterans to extend the reach to the maximum extent possible including in remote areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-rope-in-retired-medics-for-covid-19-duty-979100.html
26-04-2021||National||Sambalpur adds cremation capacity, Puri bans funeral of outsiders at Swargadwar||The capacity of the main crematorium in Odisha's Sambalpur is being increased as the number of Covid deaths saw a steep rise, an official said. Three more crematoria beds are being added to the existing facility in Rajghat so that 13 bodies could be cremated at one go, he said. The waiting time for cremation will reduce considerably with the increase in the capacity, said Enforcement Officer of Sambalpur Municipal Corporation (SMC) Subhankar Mohanty. The civic body has also started cremating bodies of Covid patients at another crematorium, Santidham, so that the burden on Rajghat is reduced, he said. The crematorium is witnessing a huge rush since the onset of the second wave of C-19, said a staffer of Rajghat. "I have never seen queues for cremation here before. On many occasions, the people are being forced to wait for hours. Under this circumstance, the electric crematorium of the Rajgaht has also gone out of order, making our job more difficult," he said. Around 20-22 bodies are being cremated at Rajghat daily, sources said. In Puri, the district authorities have imposed restrictions on the cremation of bodies from outside the district at Swargadwar, the 'divine' crematorium of the holy town. The decision was taken following a steady rise in Covid cases in the district, said Puri Sub-Collector Bhabataran Sahoo.   "Cremation of bodies from outside Puri district has been banned for now. The bodies from only Puri district will be allowed for cremation at Swargadwar on the condition that the person must not have died of Covid," he added. The district administration has also imposed restrictions on immersion of ashes or 'Asthi Visarjan' at 'Mahodadhi' (Bay of Bengal). The state government has also restricted the number of people who could take part in funeral rituals with only 20 persons being allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sambalpur-adds-cremation-capacity-puri-bans-funeral-of-outsiders-at-swargadwar-979103.html
26-04-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 cases may peak at 38-48 lakh in mid-May: IIT researchers revise prediction||Active cases in the ongoing second Covid-19 wave in India may peak at 38-48 lakh between May 14-18 and daily new infections could hit a high of 4.4 lakh from May 4-8, according to a mathematical model by IIT scientists who have revised their projections upwards. India on Monday saw a single-day rise of 3,52,991 (3.52 lakh) Covid-19 infections and 2,812 fatalities with 28,13,658 (28.13 lakh) active cases. The scientists from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur and Hyderabad applied the Susceptible, Undetected, Tested (positive), and Removed Approach' (SUTRA) model to predict that active cases would go up further by over 10 lakh by mid-May. The latest projection tweaks the time frame as well as the numbers. Last week, the researchers predicted the pandemic may peak between May 11-15 with 33-35 lakh total active cases and decline steeply by the end of May. Earlier this month, their modelling approach projected that active infections in the country would peak by April 15, which didn't come true. “This time, I have also computed minimum and maximum for predicted values and posted it. I am reasonably confident that the actual values will be within the min and max values mentioned,” Maninder Agrawal, professor at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT-Kanpur, told PTI. On Sunday, Agrawal shared the new peak values for active and new Covid-19 cases in a Twitter thread. “Peak timing: May 14-18 for active infections and May 4-8 for new infections. Peak value: 38-48 lakhs for active infections and 3.4 to 4.4 lakhs for new infections,” he said. He also noted that it was not clear what the final values would be. “I have now computed a range of values for peak value and timing and the final numbers should be within this range,” Agrawal said in another tweet. Explaining the changing projections of the model over time, Agrawal said, “The primary reason is that there is a continuous slow drift in parameter values of current phase for India. This makes the guess of the right values difficult. That is causing a slow change in predictions.” The scientists in the as yet unpublished study said there are several novel features in the SUTRA model. Whereas previous papers divided the patient population into asymptomatic and Infected, the new model also accounts for the fact that some fraction of asymptomatic patients could also be detected due to contact tracing and other such protocols. The IIT Kanpur professor noted that the SUTRA model uses three main parameters to predict the course of the pandemic. The first is called beta, or contact rate, which measures how many people an infected person infects per day. It is related to the R-nought value, which is the number of people an infected person spreads the virus to over the course of their infection, Agrawal explained. The other two parameters are ‘reach', which is a measure of the exposure level of the population to the pandemic, and ‘epsilon' which is the ratio of detected and undetected cases. Independent calculations by Gautam Menon and his team at Ashoka University in Haryana had predicted that the peak of the ongoing wave of infections could be between mid-April and mid-May. Menon also cautioned that such projections of Covid-19 cases should really be trusted only in the short term. Any excessively precise prediction, of a peak within just a five-day window would ignore the many uncertainties associated with the inputs to any such calculation, Menon, who was not involved in the modelling, had told PTI earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-may-peak-at-38-48-lakh-in-mid-may-iit-researchers-revise-prediction-979111.html
26-04-2021||National||Centre won't import Covid-19 vaccines, to leave it to states: Report||The Centre has decided to leave the import of Covid-19 vaccines to state authorities and companies, two government officials told Reuters, a decision that may slow acquisitions of shots as a second wave of the pandemic rips through the country. They said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government would instead aim to support domestic vaccine makers by guaranteeing purchases from them. The government this month paid Indian producers in advance, for the first time, for vaccine doses. Under fire for his uneven handling of the world's worst Covid-19 surge, Modi has opened vaccinations for all adults from next month but supplies are already running short. After cases began soaring this month, Modi's government urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to seek permission to sell their shots in India, and he relaxed rules for them. But the sources said New Delhi was now leaving it to India's states and firms to sign deals with foreign drugmakers while it buys half the output of Indian producers - the Serum Institute, now manufacturing the Anglo-British AstraZeneca vaccine, and Bharat Biotech, the maker of home-grown Covaxin. India's new coronavirus caseload hit a record daily peak for a fifth day on Monday as countries including Britain, Germany and the United States pledged to send urgent medical aid to help tackle the crisis overwhelming its hospitals.' "The situation is desperate," one of the government officials told Reuters. He added that India would allow the import of vaccines by local partners of drug companies but the federal government "won’t buy". The second government official said: "I don't think the government will be buying foreign vaccines." Both officials have direct knowledge of the matter but declined to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue. The ministries of external affairs, health and commerce did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The worst-hit state, Maharashtra, has said it will float a global tender to import vaccines. It is the most affluent state in India but many poorer ones may fall behind without financial support from the federal government to buy doses from abroad.   Health economist Rijo M John, guest professor at the Indian Institute of Management in the city of Kozhikode, criticised the Modi government's approach on vaccine procurement. "Vaccines should be bought, imported by the Centre and given to the people for free," he told Reuters. "If left to states, some of them may not be able to afford it and consequently may have to charge (the cost of vaccines) to the people, many of whom would not be able to afford it." Pfizer has said it is talking to Modi's government about supplying vaccines. J&J has sought approval to conduct a small local trial but made no plans as yet to sell its vaccine in India. Moderna has not commented. India has administered nearly 140 million doses to its frontline workers and those aged above 45 years. About 118 million people have received at least one dose of the vaccine, which is only about a tenth of the 1.35 billion population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-wont-import-covid-19-vaccines-to-leave-it-to-states-report-979123.html
26-04-2021||National||Provide proper medical care, treat Kappan with dignity: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Monday demanded that journalist Siddique Kappan, who has tested positive for Covid-19 in custody, be given proper medical treatment at the earliest and that he be treated with dignity, amid reports that he has been chained to his bed in the hospital. In a statement, the Editors Guild said it was "deeply disturbed" by reports of "inhuman treatment" being meted out Kappan, who has been in "custody since October 2020  under the draconian UAPA", for trying to report on the rape and death of a Dalit girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Referring to his wife's complaint that he has been tied to a bed and is neither able to take food nor access a toilet, while undergoing treatment at a Mathura Hospital for Covid-19, it said, "this is shocking and should stir the conscience of the nation that a journalist is being treated in this cruel manner and being denied basic rights." The Guild claimed that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has been ignoring the demands from his family and the civil society for fair treatment of the journalist. "It is further shocking that the Supreme Court of India has yet not intervened in this case to ensure a fair trial of the journalist, even though the Habeas Corpus petition challenging his arrest has been pending before the court for the past six months. All of this goes against the basic canons of a constitutional democracy where independent journalistic enterprises need to be protected rather than repressed," it said. "The EGI demands that Siddique Kappan be given proper medical treatment at the earliest and that he be treated with dignity. The Guild also urges the Supreme Court to urgently take up the pending writ petition and give him a fair trial. Tweeting a letter by Kappan's lawyer to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, the Press Club of India said, "Journalist Siddique Kappan, who has tested +ve for Covid-19, is 'chained to a cot' in the hospital in Mathura. The Press Club of India urges the Supreme Court to take up the matter urgently and ensure that Kappan is treated humanely. Justice delayed is justice denied."  Journalist Siddique Kappan, who has tested +ve for Covid-19, is "chained to a cot" in the hospital in Mathura The Indian Women Press Corps (IWPC) said it joins in demanding govt for a humane treatment and immediate bail to Kappan. The Editors Guild also said that it has written a letter to the UP Chief Minister in November 2020 highlighting several instances of state persecution and violence against journalists, including that of Kappan. "Since then, the situation has only worsened. Recently, the CM threatened to seize the property of anyone who reported on the paucity of oxygen in hospitals in the state. Such declamations have a chilling effect on media freedom, at a time when there is urgent need for objective reporting and accountability on the worsening pandemic," the Guild statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-proper-medical-care-treat-kappan-with-dignity-editors-guild-979125.html
26-04-2021||National||India seeks remdesivir, oxygen from EU, aid expected soon||India has asked the European Union to send medical oxygen and Gilead's antiviral drug Remdesivir to fight a surge in Covid-19 cases, an EU official said on Monday, adding that the aid could be made available soon. India's new coronavirus infections hit a record high for a fifth straight day on Monday, as countries around the world pledged to send urgent medical aid to help battle the crisis overwhelming its hospitals. "The Indians have asked for medical oxygen and antivirals, notably Remdesivir," a spokesman for the EU Commission told a news conference. The EU signed a contract in October with Gilead which allowed its 27 member states and 10 partner countries including Britain to order up to 500,000 Remdesivir courses over six months. However, it is unclear how many doses have actually been bought by EU states after a trial conducted by the World Health Organization suggested Remdesivir had little or no effect on mortality or length of hospital stays among patients with the respiratory disease. The drug is considered more effective for patients in less serious conditions. The EU spokesman added that so far, among EU states, Ireland has offered to send oxygen, which is crucial for patients with breathing problems, while Germany and France have also indicated they will help. "We can expect that in the next hours and days we can confirm more help," the spokesman added. Asked about whether the EU would limit flights from India, the spokesman said the EU continued to discourage non-essential travel to and from third countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-remdesivir-oxygen-from-eu-aid-expected-soon-979132.html
26-04-2021||National||No need to panic, India has enough oxygen stock: Ministry of Home Affairs||India has enough stock of medical oxygen, but the issue is its transportation from the producing states to high-demand areas which the government is trying to address, the Home Ministry said Monday. Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs Piyush Goyal also said the turnaround time of oxygen-carrying tankers was reduced to 1-2 hours from 4-5 days by taking the help of the Indian Air Force transport aircraft which have been ferrying empty tankers. "We have enough stock of oxygen. The issue is transportation which we are trying to resolve by active involvement of all stake holders," Goyal told a press conference here. Amidst increasing demand for oxygen in the country due to the surging coronavirus cases, he said, "There is absolutely no need to panic for oxygen as we are trying to resolve the issue of oxygen transportation from the producing states to high demand areas." He also said the Central government is monitoring the movement of oxygen-carrying tankers on real-time basis through GPS and making them available to hospitals at the shortest possible time. Since Friday, the home ministry has been coordinating efforts to deploy empty oxygen tankers and containers in various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. The coronavirus situation continues to be grim in India with 3,52,991 people testing positive and a record 2,812 deaths reported on Monday. The Central government is trying to source oxygen from different parts of the country and making it available in worst hit states by running special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-panic-india-has-enough-oxygen-stock-ministry-of-home-affairs-979134.html
26-04-2021||National||Time for people to wear masks at home: Centre||A top government health expert on Monday advocated wearing masks even at home given the sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, particularly so when there is an infected person at home. At the same time, government health experts also rushed to calm public nerves saying that 85 per cent Covid-19 patients can be treated at home and there was no need to flock hospitals or stock medicines such as Remdesivir as it was leading to shortages. “If there is a Covid-19 positive case in the family, it is very important that the person wears a mask even indoors because the virus can spread to others at home. I would rather go on to say that the time has come that we start wearing masks at home even otherwise,” V K Paul, member (health), NITI Ayog, told reporters. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria advised against stocking of medicines and oxygen cylinders in anticipation of getting infected and cautioned against taking medicines prescribed for Covid-19 before onset of symptoms. “This may cause more harm than good,” he told reporters. Guleria said given the surge in Covid-19 cases, if a person tests negative in RT-PCR test in spite of showing symptoms, he or she should be considered positive and consult a doctor. He also cautioned against misuse of oxygen at home as well as hospitals saying 94-95 levels of saturated oxygen levels were good enough and there was no need to use oxygen concentrators to raise it to 98-99. “Before pandemic, we have managed patients with these machines at 88-90. If it is below 94, consult your doctor,” he said. Guleria said the unnecessary panic was leading to hoarding of drugs and misuse of valuable medical resources. On drugs required for treatment of Covid-19, Guleria pointed out that the clinical management plan recommended use of paracetamol, ivermectin, HCQS and budesonide inhalation if congestion and cough persist beyond five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-for-people-to-wear-masks-at-home-centre-979139.html
26-04-2021||National||Russia's Pharmasyntez ready to ship 10 lakh packs of Remdesivir to India||Russian pharmaceutical firm Pharmasyntez said on Monday it was ready to ship up to 10 lakh packs of Remdesivir — a drug used in Covid-19 treatment — to India by the end of May, once it receives approval from the Russian government. In comments to Reuters, the Russian drugmaker said it was waiting for a legal basis on which it could send the shipment of the generic version it produces of the US Covid-19 drug Remdesivir, used to treat US President Donald Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russias-pharmasyntez-ready-to-ship-10-lakh-packs-of-remdesivir-to-india-979158.html
26-04-2021||National||3 sectors exempted from govt ban on non-medical use of liquid oxygen||A day after putting a ban on the use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes, the government on Monday allowed three sectors -- ampules and vials, pharmaceutical and defence forces -- to use the commodity. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla had on Sunday imposed a ban on the use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes, amid a scarcity of medical oxygen in many parts of the country, particularly in Delhi, that have been hit by a fresh wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to states and Union Territories on Monday, Bhalla said that three sectors -- ampules and vials; pharmaceutical and defence forces -- have now been exempted from the ban order. The Central government has taken a number of steps to deal with the medical oxygen crisis in some parts of the country due to the increasing demand as the second wave of coronavirus engulfed several states. The central government is trying to source oxygen from different parts of the country and making it available in the worst-hit states by running special trains. It is also getting cryogenic tanks from countries like the Singapore and the UAE to transport oxygen, and sourcing oxygen concentrators from the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-sectors-exempted-from-govt-ban-on-non-medical-use-of-liquid-oxygen-979163.html
26-04-2021||National||Centre asks Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech to lower prices of Covid-19 vaccines||The central government on Monday asked the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech to lower prices of their Covid-19 vaccines amid criticism from various states who objected to profiteering during such a major crisis. The issue of vaccine pricing was discussed at a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. Now the two companies are expected to come up with revised pricing for their vaccines. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker in terms of volume, has announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its Covid-19 vaccine, 'Covishield', for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. Both vaccines are available to the central government at a rate of Rs 150 per dose. Many states have objected to different prices of the vaccines, with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying this is not time for profiteering. India has announced expansion of its Covid-19 vaccination drive by allowing its large 18-plus population to get inoculated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-serum-institute-bharat-biotech-to-lower-prices-of-covid-19-vaccines-979167.html
26-04-2021||National||Train operations to continue despite Covid-19 curbs: Railways||Despite several states announcing lockdown to curb spread of Covid-19, Indian Railways has said that train operations will continue and in busy routes special trains will be operated. "At present 70% trains including mail and express are operating from pre-Covid-19 period. The Railways is also operating around 330 summer special trains to clear the rush," Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said. "Most of the special trains originating from Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka to Eastern parts of the country. The Railways is closely monitoring the situation and ticketing pattern. Where ever the Railways found heavy rush, special trains will be operated," he said. "Though the states have asked the Railways to follow Covid-19 protocol, none of them have asked to stop the train services," he said. The Railways has already stationed 4000 Covid Care Coaches with 64,000 beds in various railway stations in the country. In Delhi, 50 coaches (with 800 beds) are deployed at Shakurbasti station and Anand Vihar Terminal. At Nandurbar (Maharashtra), 21 coaches (with 378 beds) are positioned.  At Bhopal station, 20 coaches have been positioned. In Punjab 50 coaches and in Jabalpur 20 coaches will be deployed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/train-operations-to-continue-despite-covid-19-curbs-railways-979177.html
26-04-2021||National||US to work around the clock to help India in its battle against Covid-19 surge: US Ambassador to UN||The US will “work around the clock” to help India as it battles a “devastating” surge in Covid-19 cases and Washington is doing everything it can to help, including deploying raw materials for vaccines, ventilators, oxygen generation supplies and financial support for vaccine expansion, the US Ambassador to the UN said on Monday. “I want to take a moment to talk about the heartbreaking situation in India. The most recent spike of Covid-19 cases there has been devastating. The United States stands in solidarity with the people of India,” Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said during a closed virtual dialogue hosted by the United States, Argentina, Japan, Norway, and South Africa on Pandemic Preparedness and Response. She said the US is doing everything it can to help, including deploying raw materials for vaccines, as well as therapeutics, rapid diagnostic kits, ventilators, oxygen generation supplies, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and USAID public health teams, and financial support for vaccine expansion. “We will work around the clock to help our ally and alleviate the suffering. And we implore others to do so as well,” she said. Thomas-Greenfield noted that as India so “unfortunately demonstrates”, it is hard to overstate the impact Covid-19 has had on the world. Over 142 million people have gotten infected from Covid-19 and over three million people have died. “And, as we all know, the impacts were not limited to the illness itself. We’ve learned the hard way that global health isn’t just about viruses and disease. It touches every aspect of life itself. Economies have suffered. Gender-based violence has spiked. Kids have been forced to stay home from school, and millions – including an estimated 11 million girls according to UNESCO – may not return,” she said. Thomas-Greenfield underlined that the takeaway from this past year is clear: “the world barely withstood this pandemic. We must be ready for the next. We cannot continue to under-invest – after outbreaks, epidemics, and now a pandemic – in our capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats.” India is witnessing a devastating wave of Covid-19 as it registers more than three lakh cases every day and over 2,000 deaths over the past few days. US President Joe Biden had tweeted Sunday that “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need.” US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan spoke with Indian National Security Advisor Ajit Doval about the spike in Covid-19 cases in India and “we agreed to stay in close touch in the coming days. The United States stands in solidarity with the people of India and we are deploying more supplies and resources,” he said. US Defence Secretary Austin Lloyd has also directed the Pentagon to provide all necessary support to Indian healthcare workers battling the worsening coronavirus situation in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-to-work-around-the-clock-to-help-india-in-its-battle-against-covid-19-surge-us-ambassador-to-un-979204.html
26-04-2021||National||Centre ropes in 1 lakh civil society organisations for Covid-19 awareness through radio, TV||With no end in sight to the spiral of Covid-19 cases and pandemic protocol not being adhered to, Niti Aayog on Monday reached out to more than 1 lakh Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to deliberate on coordinated strategies to navigate through the impact of the recent surge. Centre plans to spread awareness regarding Covid-19 by carrying out a massive mask awareness campaign through the anthem, radio jingles, and awareness campaigns in regional languages. The government has come out with 30 and 35-second-long anthems in Hindi and other languages, 30-second-long television spots, and 10-second-long stings for TV for the purpose. Besides that, out-of-home creatives created by lyricist Prasoon Joshi in partnership with the Gates Foundation, Ministry of Health, and Niti Aayog will also be part of the campaign. They are also using Aston Bands with the tagline "Mask Nahin to Tokenge, Corona Ko Rokenge (we will point out if there is no mask, we will stop Corona). The government has set up six Empowered Groups to address various issues pertaining to the management of Covid-19. The Empowered Group-3, which is chaired by the CEO of Niti Aayog is entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating with the private sector, NGOs and international organisations for Covid-19 response-related activities. The aim of today's meeting with CSOs, NGOs, UN agencies, industry partners and international organisations was to create synergies with the government in creating a unified response system to the pandemic. The agency took note of the recent initiatives taken by the government like waiver of import duties on oxygen and related equipment, the opening of vaccination for the population aged above 18, providing free foodgrains for 80 crore people for two months and resolving logistical bottlenecks. In the meeting, civil society organisations such as Akshaya Patra, Narayan Seva Sansthan, Indian Cooperative Network for Women (ICNW), Karuna Trust, Marico Innovation Foundation, Dharma Life, Swasth Foundation, Dadi dada Foundation, HelpAge India, Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement, VANI, Lupin Foundation, Public Health Foundation of India, International Centre for Red Cross and Disha Foundation made several suggestions for addressing these challenges. Some of the measures suggested include issuing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Home Care Services, creating awareness on vaccines, helping the senior citizens, poor and migrants to enroll for vaccination and providing short-term relaxation in guidelines pertaining to CSR, 80-G exemptions, and FCRA relaxation.  NITI Aayog's CEO Amitabh Kant urged the CSOs to reach out to people with awareness campaigns to dispel common myths and provide accurate information. The meeting emphasised the need for creating awareness about and emphasizing the need for people to continue to follow Covid-19-Appropriate Behaviors (CAB) including wearing masks even after vaccination. NGOs were also urged to support the distribution of PPE kits and other personal health and hygiene products and provide volunteers to support the state governments and the district administrations in filling the gaps in the routine delivery of public health services. They were asked to assist the local administration in identifying hotspots and deputing volunteers and caregivers to deliver services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ropes-in-1-lakh-civil-society-organisations-for-covid-19-awareness-through-radio-tv-979205.html
26-04-2021||National||Safe for women to take Covid-19 vaccine during period, no reason to postpone, says Centre's health expert||The Centre's top health advisor on Monday said it was perfectly safe for women to take Covid-19 vaccines during their menstrual cycle. "Yes, the vaccine can be taken during menstrual periods. This is no reason to postpone vaccination," Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, told reporters here. Social media was abuzz with rumours saying that women should not get vaccinated during the menstrual cycle. Beginning May 1, the Centre has opened Covid-19 vaccination for all above the age of 18 and asked state governments and private hospitals to carry out the task. India has administered 14.19 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in the first 100 days of the vaccination drive that began on January 16. On the 100th day of the vaccination drive on Sunday, 9,95,288 vaccine doses were administered. A total of 6,85,944 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 11,984 sessions for the first dose and 3,09,344 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/safe-for-women-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-during-period-no-reason-to-postpone-says-centres-health-expert-979211.html
26-04-2021||National||IIT-M studying reason behind transmission rate of SARS-CoV-2||Researchers at the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) are studying the high transmission rate and mortality of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Using computational tools, the team studied its two close variants - SARS-CoV and NL63 – to understand how the spike proteins of these different virus strains are interacting with the ACE2 receptors of human cells and how this interaction is affecting their transmission potential and severity of the disease. The scientists set out to find the reason behind the mildness and severity of disease caused by these viruses. From the previous studies, it was realised that all three viruses gain entry to the human cell via ACE2 receptors which are present on human cells. Using various computational tools, the team found that the interaction area between spike protein and ACE2, surrounding hydrophobicity and interaction energy play a key role in deciding the severity and transmission potential of coronaviruses, the IIT-M said in a press release. The team also found that the distant cousin NL63 has unique ACE2 binding sites compared to SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-m-studying-reason-behind-transmission-rate-of-sars-cov-2-979212.html
26-04-2021||National||Covid-19 situation in India 'beyond heartbreaking': WHO chief||The World Health Organization chief voiced alarm Monday at India's record-breaking wave of Covid-19 cases and deaths, saying the organisation was rushing to help address the crisis. "The situation in India is beyond heartbreaking," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters. His comments came as India battles a catastrophic coronavirus wave that has overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums working at full capacity. A surge in recent days has seen patients' families taking to social media to beg for oxygen supplies and locations of available hospital beds, and has forced the capital New Delhi to extend a week-long lockdown. "WHO is doing everything we can, providing critical equipment and supplies," Tedros said. He said the UN health agency was among other things sending "thousands of oxygen concentrators, prefabricated mobile field hospitals and laboratory supplies." The WHO also said it had transferred more than 2,600 of its experts from various programmes, including polio and tuberculosis, to work with Indian health authorities to help respond to the pandemic. The country of 1.3 billion has become the latest hotspot of a pandemic that has killed more than three million people worldwide, even as richer countries take steps towards normality with quickening inoculation programmes. The US and Britain rushed ventilators and vaccine materials to help India weather the devastating crisis, while a range of other countries also pledged support. Since the virus that causes Covid-19 first surfaced in China in late 2019, the disease has killed more than 3.1 million people out of at least 147 million infected, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. Tedros on Monday lamented that global new case numbers have been rising for the past nine weeks straight. "To put it in perspective," he said, "there were almost as many cases globally last week as in the first five months of the pandemic." The United States remains the worst-affected country, with some 572,200 deaths and over 32 million infections, followed by Brazil and Mexico. But India, in fourth place, has in recent days been driving the global case numbers. The country, which has recorded over 195,000 deaths, registered 2,812 new deaths and 352,991 new infections on Monday alone -- its highest tolls since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-situation-in-india-beyond-heartbreaking-who-chief-979218.html
26-04-2021||National||Twitter India suspends account impersonating CJI N V Ramana||Twitter India Monday swung into action on complaint of Supreme Court's Registry and suspended a Twitter account impersonating 48th Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana who is not on any social media platforms. Sources, privy to the development told PTI that the Supreme Court Registry detected the fake Twitter handle with the name @NVRamanma with the name and designation of the CJI in the profile. Taking note of the complaint of the apex court's registry, the social media giant suspended the account during the day, they said. "Since CJI N V Ramana is not on any social media platforms, Registry has asked Delhi Police to investigate the same, " one of the sources said. Hailing from an agriculturist family of Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice N V Ramana was sworn in as 48th CJI by President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-india-suspends-account-impersonating-cji-n-v-ramana-979242.html
26-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Joe Biden promises India 'emergency assistance' in call to PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to American President Joe Biden and stressed on free flow from the United States of the raw materials required to produce Covid-19 vaccines to India. Biden, The White House said "pledged America's steadfast support for the people of India" and said the United States "is providing a range of emergency assistance, including oxygen-related supplies, vaccine materials and therapeutics." “Had a fruitful conversation with @POTUS @JoeBiden today. We discussed the evolving COVID situation in both countries in detail. I thanked President Biden for the support being provided by the United States to India,” Modi tweeted after speaking to Biden over phone. Modi said that his discussion with Biden also underscored “the importance of smooth and efficient supply chains of vaccine raw materials and medicines”. “India-US healthcare partnership can address the global challenge of Covid-19,” the Prime Minister posted on Twitter. "Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need," Biden had tweeted earlier on Monday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-joe-biden-promises-india-emergency-assistance-in-call-to-pm-modi-979243.html
26-04-2021||National||First ventilators, oxygen concentrators dispatched from UK to India||The first life-saving assistance package to help India meet the urgent need for ventilators and oxygen concentrators in its devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has been dispatched by the UK and is due to arrive in New Delhi in the early hours of Tuesday. Further shipments, paid for by the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), are being organised over the course of this week and will include nine airline container loads of supplies, including 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators. The focus at the moment is on expediting a constant flow of the equipment required immediately on the ground in the most efficient way, UK government sources said. In the longer term, discussions are ongoing to coordinate the response across government departments, the High Commissions of both countries and Indian diaspora groups in Britain to address the needs and requirements in India, where hospitals continue to struggle with supply shortages as the country recorded over three lakh coronavirus cases for the fifth day on Monday. Over the weekend, the FCDO had announced that following discussions with the government of India, more than 600 pieces of vital medical equipment will be sent to India to support the country in its fight against Covid-19. “Vital medical equipment, including hundreds of oxygen concentrators and ventilators, is now on its way from the UK to India to support efforts to prevent the tragic loss of life from this terrible virus,” said Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who said the UK stands side by side with India as a “friend and partner” during a deeply concerning time. UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, who also referred to India as a “very important partner”, held talks with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Monday. “Discussed our cooperation to address different aspects of the Covid challenge. Also reviewed progress in our bilateral agenda,” Jaishankar said in a Twitter statement following the call. The FCDO has said the equipment on its way to India will be crucial in helping to save the lives of many vulnerable people. The oxygen concentrators can extract oxygen from the air in the atmosphere so that it can be provided to patients, taking the strain off hospital oxygen systems and allowing oxygen to be provided in situations where hospital oxygen supplies have run out. The UK government said its Department of Health and Social Care worked closely with the National Health Service (NHS), as well as suppliers and manufacturers in the country, to identify reserve medical equipment from surplus stocks that can be transported to India. The UK has categorised the assistance package as the latest example of UK-India collaboration throughout this pandemic, to the benefit of both countries and the world. Its delivery coincides with the week set aside for Boris Johnson’s visit to India during which his talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi were to pave the way to an Enhanced Trade Partnership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-ventilators-oxygen-concentrators-dispatched-from-uk-to-india-979253.html
26-04-2021||National||Pakistan ready to hold talks if India revisits some decisions: Foreign Minister Qureshi||Pakistan would be "more than happy" to talk to India and resolve the outstanding issues if New Delhi was willing to "revisit" some of its decisions to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said. Indo-Pak relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories in August, 2019. India has maintained that issue related to Article 370 of the Indian Constitution was entirely an internal matter of the country. "If India is willing to revisit some of the decisions that it took on August 5, 2019, Pakistan will be more than happy to engage, sit and talk and resolve all outstanding issues,” Qureshi said in an interview with Turkey’s Anadolu Agency which was carried by Dawn newspaper on Monday. He said Pakistan had outstanding issues with India including Kashmir, Siachen, Sir Creek, water, and other minor issues and the only sensible way forward was the dialogue. "We cannot afford to go to war, you know, it will be mutually suicidal. And no sensible person will advocate a policy of that nature. So, we need to sit and we need to talk,” said Qureshi, who is in Turkey on a two-day visit. India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Islamabad in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. Qureshi said one recent development of recommitment to ceasefire during the conversation between directors general of Military Operations of both sides was a positive development. India and Pakistan in a surprise announcement said on February 25 that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. Qureshi also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s messages on Pakistan’s National Day last month and a goodwill message to Prime Minister Imran Khan who also responded positively to it. “So, there is some thought. It is too early to make a value judgment on that,” he said. Last month, Pakistan's powerful army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa said that it was time for India and Pakistan to "bury the past and move forward” as he asserted that the peace between the two neighbours would help to “unlock” the potential of South and Central Asia. The powerful army, which has ruled Pakistan for more than half of its 70 plus years of existence, has hitherto wielded considerable power in the matters of security and foreign policy. Gen Bajwa’s remarks came a day after Prime Minister Imran Khan made a similar statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-ready-to-hold-talks-if-india-revisits-some-decisions-foreign-minister-qureshi-979277.html
26-04-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Infections hit record peak for fifth straight day||India's new Covid-19 infections hit a record peak for a fifth day today with more than 3.5 lakh people testing positive in a day. India's total Covid-19 case tally climbed to 1.73 crore while active cases crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  'No need to panic' Imports left to the states And Bangladesh sealed its border with India for 14 days due to the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, its foreign ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-infections-hit-record-peak-for-fifth-straight-day-979281.html
26-04-2021||National||Biden administration diverts pending orders with US firms for vaccine raw material to India||US President Joe Biden’s administration has diverted its pending orders with the United States' companies for filters required for production of vaccines to India in order to help augment production of the Covid-19 vaccine in the South Asian nation. “Now here’s what we did yesterday: we diverted our pending orders of vaccine filters to India’s vaccine manufacturing effort. This will help India make more vaccine,” Tim Manning, White House Covid-19 supply coordinator posted on Twitter. The Biden Administration had earlier this year invoked the US Defence Production Act (DPA) to impose restrictions on export of some raw materials required for production of the Covid-19 vaccines. The move was aimed at ramping up production and increasing availability of the vaccines in the US. But it also slowed down production of the vaccines in India. Manning, however, said that though the Biden administration had invoked the US Defence Production Act, it had never banned export of the raw materials required for production of the vaccines. “To make vaccine here in the US, we have used the DPA (Defence Production Act) to ensure we have access to all needed supplies with many US companies. DPA in these cases just means US companies must prioritise their government contracts ahead of other orders, it doesn’t mean an export ban,” he tweeted, adding that the use of the DPA did not mean a ‘de facto’ ban on export and the US companies remained free to export. “In fact, companies that supply our vaccine manufacturing, export their product all across the world. We are just one ‘client’ of the raw material companies,” he added.   He also argued that the Biden administration’s move to invoke the US Defence Production Act did not create shortages. “There is just more global manufacturing happening everywhere than the suppliers can support,” noted the White House Covid-19 supply coordinator. Adar Poonawala, the Chief Executive Officer of the Serum Institute of India, had a few days back taken to Twitter to urge the US government to lift the embargo on export of raw materials required to make vaccines in India – like reagents, plastic tubing material, nano-filters and bioreactor bags. The SII is producing the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University – known as Covishield in India. The US started easing the restrictions in the wake of the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-administration-diverts-pending-orders-with-us-firms-for-vaccine-raw-material-to-india-979282.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||As UP cries for help to tackle Covid, Cabinet remains absent: Congress||Accusing the Uttar Pradesh government's entire Cabinet of being absent amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the UP Congress on Sunday said if one Covid hospital was built in every division of the state, then so many lives may not have been lost. In a tweet in Hindi, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh said, "The entire Cabinet of Yogi Adityanath government is absent, while there is a 'traaheemaam' (cry for help) in Uttar Pradesh. The Team-11 of Yogi Adityanath's administration did not do anything in the last year. If one Covid hospital was built by now in every division of the state, then so many lives may not have been lost, and the current grim situation would not have been there." Earlier on Sunday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at CM Adityanath's remarks that there is no shortage of oxygen in any private or public Covid-19 hospital in the state, and asserted that "only an insensitive government" will give such a statement. Asserting that there is no shortage of oxygen in any private or public Covid-19 hospital in UP, Adityanath on Saturday had said that the state government would conduct an audit of the life-saving gas in collaboration with various institutes. Tagging a media report on his remarks, Priyanka Gandhi, in a tweet in Hindi, said, "Just imagine yourself in the place of those patients who are told that they will not get admission due to lack of oxygen. ''Oxygen is low, take your patient''. "Only an insensitive government will give such a statement," she said. इस संकट के समय जनता से झूठ बोलने की सजा क्या होनी चाहिए? जरा खुद को उन मरीजों की जगह रखकर देखिए जिनको कहा जाता है ऑक्सीजन की कमी की वजह से दाखिला नहीं मिलेगा। ऑक्सीजन कम है मरीज ले जाओ। Tagging another media report on Adityanath's remarks, the Congress general secretary also said, "Mr. Chief Minister, there is an oxygen emergency in the entire state." "If you want to file a case against me, seize my property, do so. But for God's sake recognise the seriousness of the situation and get down to saving people's lives immediately," she said in another tweet in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-up-cries-for-help-to-tackle-covid-cabinet-remains-absent-congress-978936.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi receiving less oxygen than required: Officials||Delhi government officials on Sunday said the national capital received medical oxygen much less than a demand of 700 metric ton daily, amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients. The city hospitals, particularly private ones, are facing a severe shortage of medical oxygen for critical Covid-19 patients even as the Centre and the city government are engaged in verbal duel over the issue. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a press briefing on Sunday said that against its daily quota of 480 MT, Delhi is receiving around 330-335 MT of medical oxygen. He, however, said that teams of the Centre and the Delhi government are working in smooth coordination to ensure steady supply of oxygen and hoped that the chaotic situation due to its shortage will subside in the next few days. He also said the Centre has further enhanced Delhi's oxygen quota from 480 MT to 490 MT per day. A few days ago, the Centre had raised Delhi's quota from 380 MT to 480 MT a day in view of a rush of serious Covid-19 patients to hospitals. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Saturday that "Delhi has been allocated more than the quota it demanded. Delhi Chief Minister has formally thanked the Prime Minister for it." Officials in the Delhi government, however, said the city received 380 MT of oxygen against its quota of 480 MT on April 22 and 309 MT on April 23. It was delivered 335 MT on Saturday against a raised quota of 490 MT, they said. The Delhi government has directed manufacturers, suppliers and hospitals to update figures of supply and consumption of medical oxygen on its portal every two hours. This move will help the government in determining any shortages beforehand and ensure needed supply in time, the chief minister said. Delhi recorded 350 Covid-19 deaths and 22,933 cases with a positivity rate of 30.21 per cent on Sunday, even as hospitals across the city continued to send out SOS calls for oxygen supply. This is the fourth day on the trot that Delhi has recorded over 300 deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-receiving-less-oxygen-than-required-officials-978938.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||10.27% voting in first two hours of UP panchayat polls phase three||About 10.27 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the first two hours for the third phase of the panchayat elections which began on Monday with more than 2.72 lakh candidates in the fray in over 2.14 lakh seats across 20 districts of Uttar Pradesh. Polling is underway in Shamli, Meerut, Moradabad, Pilibhit, Kasganj, Firozabad, Auraiya, Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Fatehpur, Unnao, Amethi, Barabanki, Balrampur, Siddharthanagar, Deoria, Chandauli, Mirzapur and Ballia. "Voting started at 7 am on a peaceful note. It will continue till 6 pm. In the first two hours (till 9 am) 10.27 per cent voting was done," a State Election Commission (SEC) official said here. While Kanpur Dehat and Moradabad each recorded the highest 12 per cent polling, Deoria had minimum of nine per cent voting till 9 am, he said. For 746 posts of zila panchayat members 10,416 candidates are in the fray while 88,584 people are contesting for 18,530 posts of Kshetra Panchayat members. As many as 1,16,162 candidates are contesting for 14,379 village panchayats and 57,649 candidates for 1,80,473 village panchayat wards. In both the first and second phase of the elections, 71 per cent votes were polled. Voting for the fourth phase will be held on April 29 and counting will be held on May 2. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to conclude the panchayat election process by May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1027-voting-in-first-two-hours-of-up-panchayat-polls-phase-three-979004.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Set up more Covid-19 testing centres, sample collection infrastructure: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Monday requested the AAP government to set up more testing centres in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital which is recording around 24,000 fresh infections for the last few days. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh also asked the Delhi government to put in place the necessary infrastructure to streamline the sample collection process. The direction was issued by the court after several lawyers told the bench that they were facing difficulty in getting tested as labs were saying they will carry out sample collection after 2-3 days. The lawyers claimed that the number of daily tests have gone down to around 60,000 from the over one lakh tests that were being conducted earlier. Delhi recorded 350 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday and 22,933 cases with a positivity rate of 30.21 per cent The submissions were made during the hearing of a PIL seeking directions to the Delhi government to order hospitals not to insist on Covid positive reports to hospitalise patients who show symptoms of coronavirus. The Delhi government told the court that its Health department has issued a circular on April 23 directing hospitals in the city not to insist on Covid positive test reports to admit patients who are showing symptoms of coronavirus infection. The Delhi government told the bench that such patients would be kept in a dedicated area, in the hospitals, meant for suspected cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/set-up-more-covid-19-testing-centres-sample-collection-infrastructure-hc-to-delhi-govt-979043.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Decide on representation for hospitals to display beds, oxygen availability: HC to AAP govt||The Delhi High Court Monday directed the AAP government to decide "as early as possible and practicable" a representation seeking a direction to all hospitals here to prominently display on digital boards the number of beds, oxygen cylinders and ventilators available with them on a real-time basis. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh directed the Delhi government to decide the representation, by a nursing officer, in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case and keeping in mind earlier directions passed by government on the issue in June 2020. The court said, "The decision be taken as early as possible and practicable." With the observation, the bench disposed of the plea by nursing officer Sinu John who has alleged in her plea that there have been instances of denial of beds by hospitals to patients who were in a critical state and needed immediate medical attention. In her petition, filed through advocates Robin Raju and M P Srivignesh, the nursing officer has said that in the wake of the alarming rise of Covid-19 cases in the country and Delhi in particular the demand for hospital beds and oxygen cylinders has also increased like never before and there are queues outside many hospitals. "Many have lost their lives because they neither got proper medical attention nor accurate information regarding availability of beds.The present situation thus warrants some new measures that will help to withstand this new wave of Covid-19.  "...there is a dire need to direct all the hospitals in the city to place big display boards preferably digital boards outside their hospitals, which gives the information about the total beds in the hospital, the available beds, data regarding availability of ventilators and oxygen cylinders," the petition had said. John contended that such a measure would ensure transparency with regard to availability of beds, oxygen and ventilators in the hospitals in the national capital. "There is also a need for regular monitoring of hospitals by officers of the respondent (Delhi government) to see whether the numbers provided by the hospitals in the mobile application is accurate or not," the petition had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decide-on-representation-for-hospitals-to-display-beds-oxygen-availability-hc-to-aap-govt-979048.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Five Covid-19 patients die at private hospital in Hisar, kin allege oxygen shortage as cause||Five Covid-19 patients, including one from Delhi, died at a private hospital here on Monday with relatives of the deceased holding a protest attributing their death to an alleged grave shortage of medical oxygen shortage at the facility. Police said they were verifying the allegations of oxygen shortage after relatives of some of the deceased held a protest outside the facility. The hospital administration was, however, not available for making comments on the matter. Three of the patients who died at the hospital hailed from Haryana's Hisar district, one belonged to Delhi and another one was from Punjab. A police official said the bodies of the deceased were sent to the Agroha Medical College here following protocols and guidelines issued by the government for dealing with those who die of Covid-19.  He, however, said so far they have not received any formal complaint from any of the family members of the deceased alleging any negligence on part of the hospital. He also said Hisar's Chief Medical Officer will investigate the entire incident. Any action by the police, if needed, will be taken based on CMO's investigation report, the police official added. This incident came within 24 hours of two similar incidents in Haryana. On Sunday, four patients had died in a private hospital in Rewari allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen following which the district administration launched an investigation to ascertain the reason behind the deaths. The Guraon district administration had also ordered a probe into the death of four patients in a private hospital after reports that they died due to an alleged oxygen shortage in the facility. The hospital authorities in Gurgaon, however, had denied these reports and said those who died were critically ill. The opposition Congress, meanwhile, slammed the BJP-JJP led dispensation over the "oxygen shortage” issue. "Mr Chief Minister, there is an outcry in Haryana due to oxygen shortage. People are losing their lives. Horrific scenes are being witnessed everywhere. Supply of oxygen to hospitals in Haryana should be made without delay," state Congress president Kumari Selja said in a tweet on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-covid-19-patients-die-at-private-hospital-in-hisar-kin-allege-oxygen-shortage-as-cause-979050.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Ganga Ram Hospital waiting for 3 days to refill oxygen cylinders used while transporting patients||Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi has been waiting for three days to refill its oxygen cylinders, which are used while transporting critically ill Covid patients, and is currently on beg and borrow mode, sources said on Monday. They said the hospital has, however, received 10 tonnes of liquid oxygen around 11.40 am. In the morning, the hospital said it has 4,000 cubic metres of oxygen left which would last for eight hours. The hospital has 104 oxygen cylinders which are used while moving extremely sick Covid patients in case of emergency which is happening quite frequently now, an official said. "All the cylinders were sent three days ago to different locations for emergency refill. For the last three days our staff is camping there but to no avail," he said. The official added the elite hospital is on "beg and borrow" mode. "The hospital has arranged two cylinders which are also going to empty quickly," a source said, adding it is getting extremely difficult and risky to shift patients. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital requires a minimum of 11,000 cubic meter liquid oxygen daily and has a consumption of 10,000 cubic meter per day. By 11.40 am, a tanker with 10 tonnes of oxygen was sent from Jindal Steel plant in Rourkela by industrialist Naveen Jindal for the hospital, it said. The vehicle took more than 48 hours to reach Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. It had on Friday reported the death of 25 of its "sickest" patients as the administration grappled with depleting oxygen supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ganga-ram-hospital-waiting-for-3-days-to-refill-oxygen-cylinders-used-while-transporting-patients-979064.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||PGIMS hospital in Rohtak stops admission of new Covid-19 patients over oxygen shortage||The PGIMS hospital in Rohtak has stopped admission of new Covid-19 patients till further orders, saying it is faced with a "shortage" of medical oxygen. Medical Superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya, said on Monday that nearly 330 Covid-19 patients are currently admitted to the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, a tertiary care centre, “We have stopped the admission of new patients till further orders. It was on Sunday evening that we sensed acute shortage of oxygen cylinders. We had to manage patients who were already admitted, most of them require high flow oxygen with some on ventilator support,” Dahiya told PTI over phone. She said the hospital was facing issues with oxygen supplies from the plant in Hisar. The hospital also gets liquid oxygen supply from a plant in Bhiwadi in Rajasthan, from where supplies are getting late in recent days after there has been a surge in demand everywhere with rising coronavirus cases.  “In this situation, if we keep on admitting new patients, where do we stand,” she asked. She said PGIMS authorities are continuously in touch with the government on the issue. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar said there was no shortage of oxygen. The DC, however, told PTI over phone that he would look into the issue after he was told that PGIMS here has stopped admitting new Covid patients. “I am not aware of this, I will look into it. But there is no oxygen shortage and supplies are being maintained,” he said.      On halting new admissions, Dahiya said, “In this situation, we cannot keep on taking patients. Ours is a tertiary care centre, most patients who report here require critical care as they are already very sick. They need high amount of oxygen therapy, if we are short of that, there is no way out. So, we have taken a decision till things are under control”. Replying to a question, she said 120 doctors and 100 staff nurses of the institute had contracted coronavirus infection this month while a large number of healthcare workers too were down with the virus, though many had recovered now. “There are challenges which we are facing as a result of this too, but we are managing things,” she said. Dahiya said management of bodies of patients who have died of Covid also has to be taken care of as there are government guidelines for this. She said that on Monday morning itself there were bodies of 50 Covid patients at the institute which the hospital authorities in coordination with the civic authorities had to take care of. Earlier on Sunday, four patients had died in a private hospital in Rewari allegedly due to a shortage of medical oxygen following which the district administration launched an investigation to ascertain the reason behind the deaths.         In another incident, the Gurugram district administration had also ordered a probe into the death of four patients in a private hospital after reports that they died due to alleged oxygen shortage in the facility. The hospital authorities in Gurugram, however, had denied these reports and said those who died were critically ill. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja slammed the M L Khattar government over the issue of oxygen shortage. “Mr Chief Minister, there is an outcry in Haryana due to oxygen shortage. People are losing their lives. Horrific scenes are being witnessed everywhere. Supply of oxygen to hospitals in Haryana should be made without delay,” Selja said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pgims-hospital-in-rohtak-stops-admission-of-new-covid-19-patients-over-oxygen-shortage-979076.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Expect Rajasthan govt to honour orders on no obstruction to medical oxygen tankers, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the states to avoid obstructing the transport of oxygen tankers to the national capital, facing a shortage of supply after a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. "We hope and expect Rajasthan to honour the order passed by Centre and this court. Intervention in the matter of supply of oxygen would tantamount to endangering hundreds of human lives. It serves no purpose to anyone to obstruct," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. The court was told that Rajasthan had stalled the transport of oxygen tankers to Delhi. The court also rapped the Centre and Delhi government over the delay in providing medical oxygen in the capital city. It also asked the Centre to ensure the supply allocated to Delhi was provided on time, as Inox complained its tankers were seized in Rajasthan and some were diverted.  Acting suo motu case on oxygen shortage in Delhi hospitals, the court also directed the Centre to ensure that clearance of customs for the import of RT-PCR testing kits from abroad was given due priority. It sought a report in sealed cover from the Centre on imports held up in this regard. During the hearing, senior advocate Sachin Dutta, representing Jaipur Golden Hospital, alleged that the oxygen supply chain was being disrupted by the Delhi government.  Director Inox Siddharth Jain complained the trucks, carrying oxygen were diverted midway. "Why would I not want to give oxygen? It is my business. Nobody has complained except for Delhi hospitals," he said.  The court directed Delhi Chief Secretary to hold a meeting with hospitals, suppliers, re-fillers in order to work out the modalities on the supply of oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expect-rajasthan-govt-to-honour-orders-on-no-obstruction-to-medical-oxygen-tankers-says-delhi-high-court-979079.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Air India brings 318 oxygen concentrators from New York to Delhi||Air India brought 328 oxygen concentrators to India on its New York-Delhi flight on Monday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. Various hospitals across the country continue to grapple with a severe shortage of medical oxygen on Monday even after receiving emergency supplies. On Saturday, 20 people died at Delhi's Jaipur Golden Hospital amid a shortage of oxygen. "All efforts to strengthen India's fight against the pandemic are on. 318 Philips oxygen concentrators on @airindiain flight from JFK airport land at @DelhiAirport," Puri tweeted on Monday. With 3,52,991 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, the highest so far, India's tally of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,95,123 with a record 2,812 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-india-brings-318-oxygen-concentrators-from-new-york-to-delhi-979084.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Noted Hindi litterateur Manzoor Ahthesham dies of Covid-19||Noted Hindi litterateur and Padma Shri awardee Manzoor Ahthesham has died of Covid-19 in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, family sources said on Monday. He was 73. He died in the intervening night of Sunday and Monday at a private hospital here after being admitted a week back for Covid-19, a hospital functionary said.   Incidentally, Ahthesham, whose first story was titled 'Ramzan Ki Maut', died in the holy month currently underway. Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang tweeted, "Got the sad news of the noted writer Manzoor Ahthesham who had penned his first story 'Ramzan Ki Maut' died. I pray to God to give peace to the departed soul and enough strength to the family and his fans to bear this irreparable loss."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noted-hindi-litterateur-manzoor-ahthesham-dies-of-covid-19-979138.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||It's your baby: Delhi HC asks AAP government to take action against people black-marketing oxygen cylinders||The Delhi High Court Monday took strong note of black marketing in oxygen cylinders, reportedly being sold at Rs 1 lakh per unit in the national capital for treating seriously ill Covid-19 patients, and asked the AAP government to take action against those indulging in it, saying distribution of gas cylinders is "your baby". With regard to distribution of oxygen cylinders, “there is a major major issue in Delhi”, the high court said while sharing the incident of a senior advocate who had personally informed the judge that people were demanding Rs 1 lakh per oxygen cylinder. "Oxygen cylinder distribution is your (Delhi government) baby. You have powers, exercise them. If someone is engaging in black marketing, take action. They need to be taken to task. Bring them before us and we will take action," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said during a three-and-a-half-hour-long hearing on the escalating oxygen crisis in various hospitals in Delhi.   The court was informed by the Delhi government counsel that refillers of oxygen cylinders were not providing details of supplies and refills. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said that before taking any action it will need the information from the refillers with regard to the deliveries made by them, but if it sends a show-cause notice seeking such details, it is viewed as harsh. Taking note of this, the bench directed all the refillers of oxygen cylinders in Delhi to be present at the hearing on Tuesday following complaints of non-availability of gas cylinders and black marketing. The bench said it has received information that refillers were selling oxygen sellers at high rates, like Rs 1 lakh, in the black market and directed the Delhi government to take action against such persons. The court also directed that refillers have to comply with its earlier order to provide details of the deliveries made by them to hospitals and others, failing which “we shall be compelled to take strict action against them”. During the hearing, Siddharth Jain, Director of INOX which is a major supplier of medical oxygen to Delhi, informed the court about the difficulties faced by suppliers in making the supplies. He said his factories are working 24x7 even when a lot of staff members are down with Covid-19 infection. “When my truck leaves, it is working like a milkman who drops off small quantities of milk at several places. Earlier, it was not this but now the demand is much more than the supply. Our trucks are diverted midway. Why would I not want to give oxygen? It is my business and I am supplying oxygen to Delhi for last 20 years. Nobody has complained except for Delhi hospitals,” he said. He said some clarity should be given to them regarding supplies and that the huge volume of paperwork being asked by the Delhi government will affect its functioning in making oxygen supplies. The court then asked Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev, who was present at the hearing, to hold a meeting with oxygen suppliers, refillers, and hospitals and nursing homes during the day to work out a distribution plan. The bench said that just like the central government has worked out an oxygen distribution plan for the whole country, the Delhi government can have such a plan for the national capital. It said the meeting could be held in the evening at around 5 pm and asked the authorities to place the resolution before the court by Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/its-your-baby-delhi-hc-asks-aap-government-to-take-action-against-people-black-marketing-oxygen-cylinders-979143.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Still on 'beg and borrow’ mode: Delhi hospitals' struggle for oxygen continues||Hospitals in the national capital continued to grapple with a shortage of oxygen, saying they are still operating on the "beg and borrow" mode, while three of them also raised the issue before the Delhi High Court on Monday, stating they were not receiving enough supplies. Sources at the elite Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said in the morning they had been waiting for three days to refill their oxygen cylinders, used for transporting critically ill Covid patients. The hospital received 64 refilled cylinders around 4.20 PM. The Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini took to social media, posting at 12 noon that they were still awaiting their supplies. There was no update till around 7.30 pm if the hospital had received the supply or not. Bansal Hospital, where 40 Covid-19 patients are admitted, received the supply in the nick of time, said Delhi Police officials who arranged the cylinders. SOS calls were also raised by Tulsi Multispeciality Hospital in Shahdra and Irene Hospital in Kalkaji. Jaipur Golden Hospital, Maharaja Agrasen Hospital and Shanti Mukund Hospital raised the issue before the High Court, saying they are not receiving enough supply despite SOS calls. "The hospital has 104 oxygen cylinders which are used while moving extremely sick Covid patients in case of emergency which is happening quite frequently now. All the cylinders were sent three days ago to different locations for emergency refill. For the last three days, our staff is camping there but to no avail," said an official at Ganga Ram Hospital. The official added the elite hospital is on "beg and borrow" mode. The hospital later confirmed they received 64 refilled cylinders and also 10 tonnes of liquid oxygen during the day. Jaipur Golden Hospital tweeted, "We are trying to get in touch with INOX @inoxairproducts since morning to ensure our daily oxygen supply reaches on time. Have not got any response or dispatch note yet. Alerting everyone now in the hope of preventing another SOS situation today." Twenty people died at the hospital on Saturday amid a shortage of oxygen. The Delhi High Court also took strong note of alleged black-marketing of oxygen cylinders, reportedly being sold at Rs 1 lakh per unit in the national capital for treating seriously ill Covid-19 patients, and asked the AAP government to take action against those indulging in it, saying distribution of gas cylinders is "your baby". Hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs have been sending out desperate messages of help on social media and other platforms, flagging their dwindling stocks of oxygen. The Railways had announced that the first Oxygen Express train for the city carrying around 70 tonnes of the life-saving commodity will depart from Jindal Steel Works plant in Raigarh, Chhattisgarh, on Sunday night. Central government sources had also said that eight pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants are being installed in Delhi from the PM-Cares fund and they will enhance the capacity of medical oxygen by 14.4 metric tonnes. Delhi recorded 350 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday with the government deciding to extend the ongoing lockdown for another week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/still-on-beg-and-borrow-mode-delhi-hospitals-struggle-for-oxygen-continues-979166.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Chaos, apathy mar Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 management as cases soar||Notwithstanding the claims by the state government, chaos, apathy and poor health infrastructure marred Covid-19 management in Uttar Pradesh as Covid-19 cases continued to remain high in the state. The state reported 33,574 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, which was slightly less than the number of cases reported on Sunday. So far 11,414 people have died from Covid in the state. Alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir, a drug used to treat severe cases, have added to the woes of the patients, who, despite, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's assurances, continued to be turned away by the hospitals citing shortage of oxygen and non-availability of ICU beds. While the arrival of two special trains carrying medical oxygen from Bokaro has provided some respite, the smaller hospitals continued to face the crunch, according to multiple reports. A report claimed that as many as eight patients died at a private hospital in Meerut, about 450 kilometres from here, owing to shortage of oxygen on Monday. Long queues of people were seen outside the oxygen plants in different parts of the state. Some hospitals have put up boards asking the attendants of the patients to arrange oxygen on their own, or else their patients will not be admitted.   Many people complained of the 'apathetic' attitude of the health officials and said that the latter seldom answered the calls made on helpline numbers. Social media platforms were flooded with these complaints, requests for arranging oxygen, and getting their patients admitted to the hospitals. ''They (health officials) don't answer the phones....ambulances are sent several hours after the requests,'' said a resident of the state capital Lucknow. There were reports of people carrying their dead on the roof of the car and hand carts to the crematoria.  To add to the woes of the people, private laboratories were fleecing them for the RT-PCR tests. ''I was charged Rs 1,100 for the test and the report was sent to me after three days,'' said Santosh Kumar (name changed), a resident of Aliganj locality in Lucknow.  The state government has been attacked by the opposition for its alleged mismanagement. ''The Modi government is responsible for the second wave....both the centre and the state government have failed to provide medical facilities to the patients,'' said senior Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha member Pramod Tewari. Adityanath said that the state government had taken adequate measures to resolve the issues. ''We are ensuring uninterrupted oxygen supply to the hospitals....private hospitals, who refuse to admit patients, will be acted against....NSA has been slapped on those hoarding or black marketing remdesivir,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chaos-apathy-mar-uttar-pradeshs-covid-19-management-as-cases-soar-979185.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Punjab government orders closure of shops by 5 pm||In a bid to tackle the coronavirus spread, the Punjab government has ordered the closure of shops by 5 pm and extended the night curfew by two hours. "All shops will remain open till 5 pm," said Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar addressing mediapersons after a cabinet meeting here on Monday. He said the night curfew will now be imposed from 6 pm in the state. Presently, the curfew restrictions remain in place from 8 pm to 5 am daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-government-orders-closure-of-shops-by-5-pm-979188.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh: Aged couple arrested after video of them beating mentally ill granddaughter goes viral||An elderly couple were arrested in Kullu district in Himachal Pradesh after a video purportedly showing them beating their young mentally sick granddaughter went viral on social media, police said on Monday. Jamna Dass, alias Magru Ram, and his wife Hemdasi were arrested after an FIR was registered against them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act at Kullu police station, Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said. The FIR was lodged based on a complaint by the couple's younger daughter-in-law who shot the video as evidence. The SP said the complainant stated that her father-in-law and mother-in-law used to beat her mentally sick young niece every now and then.  When she tried to stop them from doing so, they even threatened her, the complainant said, adding that she shot the video as evidence. The SP said that after committing the offence, both the accused ran away and hid in the house of another person from where they were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-aged-couple-arrested-after-video-of-them-beating-mentally-ill-granddaughter-goes-viral-979209.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: MP farmer donates Rs 2 lakh kept for daughter's marriage to buy oxygen||Moved by the plight of Covid-19 patients and the growing scramble for medical oxygen, a farmer from Neemuch district in Madhya Pradesh has donated Rs 2 lakh he had set aside for his daughter's lavish marriage to the local administration for buying the life-saving gas. Champalal Gurjar, who hails from Gwal Deviyan village, has handed over a cheque of Rs 2 lakh to district collector Mayank Agrawal for buying two cylinders of medical oxygen one for the district hospital and another for Jeeran Tehsil where he lives. Gurjar, who survives on farming, said he raised his daughter Anita with great care and wished that her marriage, which took place on Sunday, was a grand ceremony. However, the pandemic situation made Gurjar change his mind at the last moment. "....So to make my daughter's marriage memorable, I donated Rs 2 lakh to the district administration so that they can buy two oxygen cylinders," he added. Anita said the noble deed of her father left her overwhelmed with joy. "Right now, there is a dire need for medical oxygen given the surge in Covid-19 cases," she said. Collector Agrawal praised Gurjar's gesture. "If others take a cue from the farmer and donate, the fight against the pandemic will become a lot easier," he said. As of Sunday, Madhya Pradesh's caseload stood at 4,99,304 and toll to 5,133, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mp-farmer-donates-rs-2-lakh-kept-for-daughters-marriage-to-buy-oxygen-979249.html
26-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi adds 1.5 lakh cases to Covid-19 tally in six days||Reeling under the fourth wave of Covid-19, the national capital has added more than 1.5 lakh new cases of the infectious disease in the last six days and the daily cases appear to have plateaued, if not on a steady decline On Sunday, Delhi added 22,933 new cases of Covid-19, fewer than the 28,395 new patients reported on April 20. The steady rise in cases has forced the Delhi government to impose a lockdown to curb the speed of the spread of infections According to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the national capital is witnessing the fourth wave of pandemic. The first surge was in late June last year, followed by another peak in September and then in November The fourth wave had its origins in mid-March this year when the capital was reporting about 500 cases every day which crossed the 10,000 daily cases mark on April 12 On April 20, the national capital had reported 28,395 new cases and 277 deaths. The new cases dipped the next day to 24,638, while the deaths too slid to 249   On April 22, the new cases rose to 26,169 while the deaths shot up to 306. The day also saw the test positivity rate to 36.24 per cent, the highest so far in the national capital On Sunday, the news cases 22,933 on a single day, while the total deaths were at 350. The test positivity rate dipped to 30.21 per cent. Between April 20 and April 25, the national capital reported 1,50,569 new cases while 1,30,977 patients had recovered from Covid-19. During the period, 1,887 deaths were reported in the national capital The health infrastructure in the national capital has been stretched to the limit and Kejriwal had to appeal to the Centre to set up new Covid facilities The Railways have deployed rail isolation coaches at Shakurbasti and Anand Vihar railway stations, the DRDO has stepped in with a 500-bed Covid Care Centre near the airport, while the Radha Saomi Satsang Beas has restarted its mega Covid care facility at Chhattarpur in South Delhi to attend to the surge in cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-adds-15-lakh-cases-to-covid-19-tally-in-six-days-979267.html
26-04-2021||Oasis||Nurses are the angels in disguise amid pandemic||We all appreciate when people do their work well. We admire their craft, their resilience and their hard work. Yet, there are so many ‘Good Samaritans’ out there who work silently behind the scenes without flaunting their talent and sense of compassion. They give their all in their perhaps extreme shift timings even if they get no thanks in return. I am referring to nurses.  From November 2020 onwards, I have been in and out of hospitals after losing vision in my right eye and being diagnosed with acute TB. Needless to say, the nurses became my best friends. The nurses would come around regular intervals to check my temperature, blood pressure and oxygen saturation levels on a pulse oximeter. They always gave me the correct medicines in time there being no complaints against them. Indeed nurses get peed on, spat on, bled on, puked on, and yet take it in their stride as part of their job responsibilities. When a patient dies, they are too busy consoling the relatives that they have no time to even call their own parents to say ‘I love you’.  When I was admitted to the hospital, I was going through a phase where at one point every morning I used to vomit out my breakfast. The nurse would rush with a vomiting bowl, clean the vomit and promptly give me ORS salts for loss of electrolytes in my body. How many of us will even clean a family member in that position. I remember once I had to go from the hospital to a diagnostic centre to get a PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scan done and was amazed to see a few nurses awake and active at 4:30 am moving silently among the sleeping patients to wake me up and help me get ready in time for  the scan. Even though they had not had their breakfast and had missed so many hours of sleep, they worked hard. Did they crib and whine? No, not at all. To me, this was not just a professional doing her job but I felt that in her smart white, she was an angel in disguise. On your next hospital visit, learn and appreciate nurses who sign in as nurses but who are indeed beautiful souls sent by God.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/nurses-are-the-angels-in-disguise-amid-pandemic-978912.html
26-04-2021||Panorama||Why CSR funds must be channelled towards tackling the Covid-19 pandemic||The coronavirus has completed one year of devastation across the country, disrupting production and distribution systems, and crippling lives.  Covid-19 has entered the second phase even before the scar of the first wave could be erased. The society and its activities have not returned to normal, the economy is still on the path of recovery and people are yet to give up their fear. Public authorities are in different stages of creating and augmenting health infrastructure, that too, at a very slow pace. The governments are yet to fully equip themselves to face the challenges posed by the pandemic, let alone manage it. While this is the state of affairs, the virus, on the other hand, has given enough indications to strike back even harder. It has also cautioned us to be ready with better health infrastructure to manage its devastating impact. The second wave is fuelling cases across the country. Unfortunately, the government is yet to come out with a strong public commitment in terms of intervention policy, institutional infrastructure and other needed mechanisms. It is not yet fully ready to vaccinate or immunise the entire population, especially the vulnerable. Above all, the treatment of Covid-positive cases and subsequent deaths leave a lot to be desired. It even questions the very presence of the health system. Health is a state subject, but unfortunately, the governments seem to have taken the pandemic for granted and failed to live up to the situation. They have fared badly in the creation of necessary environment in their health systems in general and specific infrastructure for Covid treatment in particular. Lack of dedicated beds for Covid patients, shortage of medical oxygen, medicines and medical personnel have been widely reported even after the lapse of one year of the pandemic. Barring public sensitisation, the announcement of lakhs of crores in financial packages has not translated into action. This is nothing but stark failure at a time when Covid deaths are spiking every day. Interventions like partial or weekend lockdowns have failed to check the rise in cases. It is clear that the current measures are inadequate; public authorities should increase the number of beds and ensure supply of oxygen in hospitals. Private hospitals should be made partners in the management and treatment of Covid patients with strict vigilance on compliance. Public financing being a major constraint in delivering the needed intervention, the government should explore the possibilities of alternative funding. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds is a potential source for the cause. Studies have shown that the CSR Act 2013 has facilitated the formation of substantial capital at the corporate level, due to mandatory earmarking of 2% of profit towards CSR activities to be undertaken in the society. The funds thus created can be transferred to government authorities or invested on company-approved CSR activities. Due to the absolute freedom enjoyed by corporate bodies, the transfer of funds to government or public authorities has not worked out effectively.  Defeating the purpose The health sector, which is in need of a better pandemic infrastructure, has seen very limited investments. The biggest disappointment is the creation of trusts and societies by corporate entities to promote their own interests, and a number of money-spinning activities in the field of education. It goes without saying that educational opportunities are created only for the affordable section, who can pay exorbitant fees. Such steps have defeated the very purpose of these funds. The government should use CSR funds only for developmental activities. Having provided the required facilities to the corporate world and to special economic zones, the government should enforce the implementation of CSR activities to achieve social welfare. Given the needs of the health sector, CSR funds shall be used to create infrastructure in government hospitals on priority to address challenges like the one posed by the pandemic. Creation of additional beds in all government and public hospitals is of paramount importance so as to ensure that all affected patients can be admitted for treatment. It would be ideal to augment the capacity to such a level that no patient is kept waiting for want of beds, as is the case now in major urban centres. Corporate bodies should be encouraged to adopt government hospitals, create more bed facilities and sustain them. Private hospitals must earmark their beds to the poor, especially during a pandemic situation like this, and provide treatment under their own CSR activity. Secondly, medical oxygen and medicines should be made available, and a courteous service extended to patients. As far as possible, the private sector must be encouraged to enhance the supply of these essentials. Thirdly, crematorium facilities should be doubled, especially in major urban centres, to do away with queues and minimise delay in last rites. Finally, there must be a substantial augmentation of ambulance fleet without any second thoughts, given the present scenario. Also, the malpractices associated with hailing ambulance services need to be tackled at municipal/corporation level. (The writer is a Professor in Research at the Institute of Finance and International Management (IFIM), Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-csr-funds-must-be-channelled-towards-tackling-the-covid-19-pandemic-978907.html
26-04-2021||Panorama||Off the record||Good samaritans  The youth wings of the Congress and the BJP have turned good samaritans in helping the needy as the second wave of Covid-19 rages through the country. Youth Congress, Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha and AAP activists are on the forefront helping those in need with medicines, oxygen cylinders and hospital beds in the national capital region. A gurdwara in Ghaziabad started an ‘oxygen langar’, by making available the lifesaving drug to those in need. People were seen in huge numbers outside the gurdwara taking oxygen for short periods of time. Short of common sense  At a time when J&K is reporting over 2,000 Covid-19 cases every day, the administration has put the lives of thousands of teachers at risk by directing them to attend schools where there are no students. Most of these teachers have to travel by public transport, which not only poses risk to their lives but also to their families as well. What’s the purpose of asking teachers to give online classes from their schools when they can do it from home and stay safe? It seems as though the administration in J&K is running short of common sense too, apart from Oxygen.  Protesting digitally  Many in Assam are airing their anger on social media against the alleged sexual assault and murder of a 12-year-old girl in Nagaon district recently by her employer, as protest on the streets brings with it fears of Covid-19. “Justice for little Sumila”--has become the tagline of many online protests against the alleged murder of the girl. The victim was allegedly set on fire and killed in the house of her employer who is a resident of Khaighar village in Nagaon district recently. There are allegations that the girl was sexually abused by the employer and his son before her death. The incident, although sent shockwaves among many, deterred many from attending as a spike in Covid-19 in Assam deterred them from protesting against the gruesome act on the streets. Minister of criticism Looks like the Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan’s is solely focused on criticising the Kerala government. His remark that the Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was a ‘Covidiot’ for flouting Covid protocols was even opposed by some Congress leaders. Almost every day he finds a way to criticise the government. Now, he is even opposing the government for seeking free vaccine supply from the Centre. The CPM cadres have now unleashed a counter campaign, saying that if he did not stop his habit of neddlessly criticising the government, without putting in any effort to ensure free vaccine supply to the state, people would start reacting against him. Tulip promotion  Asia’s largest Tulip Garden, overlooking the famous Dal Lake in Srinagar, was thrown open to the public on March 25, just when the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic had started. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about the opening of the garden, politicians and officers in J&K couldn’t resist from ‘promoting’ the garden on their social media accounts as well. Among them was Srinagar Mayor, Junaid Matoo. However, the Mayor has now sought closure of the garden at a time when there are no potential visitors to the place, and when the tulips there have withered. At the peak of rush, he too was among its votaries, and among its visitors too!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-978909.html
26-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Round table of misogyny||Usually, I avoid the gossip gatherings in the staffroom but today I happened to experience the flavour of one such session. It was a men’s gossip and the subject was women of the world. It all began with an act of eavesdropping by a male colleague who rolled ball by remarking that Geeta (name changed) was again gloating over her expensive and gaudy dresses. The statement was potent enough to the keep the ball rolling. Picking the thread another colleague stated that women had no brains and they always indulged in frivolous talks. A woman can live without food and shelter but not glamorous clothes was his belief. A bachelor in his forties gave the gossip a new turn. He opined that women wear skimpy dresses and provoke men. Now I was reminded of a politico who had made a similar statement over the rape of an innocent a few months ago. Previously known for his reticence, a meek friend suddenly seemed to be blessed with hyperactive vocal chords. He added to the talk with his observations that women are inborn talkative. To prove his point, he chose to refer to an essay ‘Female Orators’ by Addison. Quoting the writer this newly born orator said that a woman’s tongue never rests even if it is cleaved. Misogyny was at its best and all revelled in woman bashing. Hearing all this clap trap, I first decided to walk out on some pretext but then realised that it would be completely unfair on the part of a man who had written his thesis on feminism. Now I was provoked enough to assail my male colleagues due to their generalisations. I drew their attention towards the great women of the world. The lives of all these men were actually incomplete without women. If most of the women love to talk of fashion, it does not indicate that they are without wit. Instead, it is an evidence of the fact that women have better sartorial sense and they are sharper observers than men. When it comes to indulging in small talk,  men are no behind. The best example was the present conversation going on in men’s group. Sensing the rising decibel of my pitch, a colleague tried to close the conversation by jocularly calling me a women’s advocate. Yes, I was advocating women because like most of the participants, I had not forgotten the fact that the reason of my being on this earth was a woman only.  The piece is dedicated to all the women who men owe to a great extent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/round-table-of-misogyny-978905.html
26-04-2021||Second Edit||India’s women mountaineers break yet another glass ceiling||April 16 will go down in history as a day when India’s women mountaineers shattered yet another glass ceiling, this time in the icy heights of the Himalayas. At 1.30 pm that day, 26-year-old Priyanka Mohite scaled Mt Annapurna, the 10th highest mountain peak in the world. She is the first Indian woman to conquer this peak. A few hours later, 25-year-old Sheetal reached Annapurna’s summit. Not only is she the second Indian woman to scale this peak also, she is the youngest to do so. They deserve applause. Located in Nepal, Annapurna rises majestically to a height of 8,091 metres. What makes the duo’s achievement particularly noteworthy is the fact that Annapurna is among the most treacherous of mountains to climb, more difficult to scale than some of the other peaks that are taller. Bangalore-based Mohite has conquered several peaks in recent years, including Everest and Kilimanjaro. But it is the ascent of Annapurna that she is likely to treasure the most, given the toughness of the climb. The climb to the Annapurna’s peak would have been a tough one for Mohite and Sheetal. Oxygen is scarce at that altitude and every step forward and upward would have imposed unbearable pressure on their respiratory and other systems. Yet, they did not give up and soldiered on. More daunting are likely to have been obstacles they encountered even before they actually began climbing this mountain. There would have been countless nay-sayers; many would have told them that climbing Annapurna is a tough task for the best of men and women, supposedly being the ‘weaker sex,’ didn’t stand a chance. Many would have tried to dissuade them. That they did not allow these pessimists to bog them down should be a lesson to others, especially women. Nothing is impossible. The world has seen several women conquer the highest and toughest peaks. Bechendri Pal is the first Indian woman to scale Mt Everest. In 2013, Arunima Saha conquered this mountain. She is the first Indian woman amputee to scale Everest. Malavath Purna was just 13 years and 11 months when she achieved the feat in 2013. No doubt, Mohite and Sheetal were inspired by these women and now these two will draw others to not only attempt climbing the tallest and toughest mountains but also, to scale other insurmountable challenges. Every mountain that is conquered, every glass ceiling shattered and every male bastion that is breached will pave the way for more women to follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-s-women-mountaineers-break-yet-another-glass-ceiling-978900.html
26-04-2021||South||Two Covid-19 patients die due to glitches in oxygen supply in AP hospital||Two Covid-19 patients who are on ventilators with high flow oxygen died due to technical issues in supplying the life saving gas during wee hours of Monday in Government Hospital in Vizianagaram, official said. According to Ramana Kumari, District Medical and Health Officer, out of the 97 patients in the hospital who are on oxygen supply, 12 are on "High Flow Oxygen" due to their condition. "There was technical disturbance in the High Flow Oxygen at 2 to 3 AM due to which there were two deaths. Rest of the patients have been shifted to other hospitals," the official told P T I. She further said the technical issue with regards to the Oxygen High Flow is expected to be resolved by Monday afternoon. Vizianagaram has 3,832 active cases as of April 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-covid-19-patients-die-due-to-glitches-in-oxygen-supply-in-ap-hospital-979003.html
26-04-2021||South||TN to allow oxygen plants at Sterlite Copper to function for four months||An all-party meeting called by the Tamil Nadu government on Monday passed a resolution to operate oxygen plants at now closed Sterlite Copper factory in Thoothukudi for four months under the supervision of a committee headed by the District Collector. The meeting chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was attended by representatives from eight recognised political parties – AIADMK, DMK, Congress, BJP, CPI, CPI (M), PMK, and DMDK. The meeting was called days after the Supreme Court asked Tamil Nadu government why it cannot run the oxygen plants keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak. Principal opposition, DMK, was represented by its Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, and organising secretary R S Bharathi. AMMK and MDMK, which were not invited for the meeting, issued statements asking the Tamil Nadu government to take over the premises and operate the oxygen plants for “greater good.” The resolution passed at the end of the two-hour long meeting said it has been decided to reopen the oxygen plants for four months to produce oxygen through power supplied by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Corporation (TNEB). “At no stage, access will be given to copper smelter or the power plants inside the premises. The power supply by TNEB will be suspended after the said period,” the resolution read. The meeting also resolved that the oxygen produced at the two plants should be provided only to Tamil Nadu, and can be shared with other states only after the needs here are fulfilled. Only those people who are directly involved in oxygen production will be allowed inside the plant with identity cards, and the government will provide necessary security arrangements, the meeting resolved. The resolution also said a committee headed by the District Collector, Superintendent of Police, sub-collector, Environmental Engineer from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), two government officers who possess knowledge in oxygen production, and three representatives from anti-Sterlite protesters, NGOs, and public. Sterlite Copper was closed down by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018 following months of protests by locals and activists which was overturned by the National Green Tribunal the same year. The state government approached the Supreme Court seeking a stay on the NGT order. The apex court stayed the order of the NGT and allowed Sterlite Copper to approach the Madras High Court, which upheld the government order. The case is now in the Supreme Court with Sterlite Copper challenging the Madras High Court verdict. The company's plea to access the plant for maintenance purposes has not been entertained by the court so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-allow-oxygen-plants-at-sterlite-copper-to-function-for-four-months-979031.html
26-04-2021||South||Telangana Covid patient jumps to death from hospital building||A 45-year old coronavirus patient allegedly ended his life by jumping from the building of a state-run hospital in Nizamabad district in the early hours of Monday, police said. The man, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at the hospital jumped from the fifth floor of the hospital building at around 3 am reportedly due to fear and died on the spot, a police official said, based on preliminary investigation. A case was registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-covid-patient-jumps-to-death-from-hospital-building-979129.html
26-04-2021||South||Chaos unfolds at vaccination centres across Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a mad rush for vaccines against Covid-19, especially by elderly people, leading to utter chaos at vaccination centres across the state. On Monday, several aged people even fainted after waiting for a long time under the scorching sun at a mass vaccination centre in the state capital Thiruvananthapuram. The government authorities said that even those given token with a specific time for the vaccination were reaching the vaccine centres in the early hours of the day. This seems to be due to vaccine shortage concerns.   Health Minister K K Shailaja said that special arrangements would be made for the aged and differently-abled people at the vaccination centres. Guidelines in this regard were issued. Meanwhile, there were allegations that even as time slots for vaccination were given online, some vaccination centres used to issue separate tokens in the morning and this mismanagement led to the mad rush at vaccination centres early in the day.  Owing to the vaccine shortage, the fresh allocation of time slots for vaccinations was also temporarily stopped. The state now has a stock of only four lakh vaccines. So far, 58 lakh people in the state have received the first dose of the vaccine, while 10.45 lakh have received the second dose. The state government was also initiating steps to purchase vaccines. Top government officials are holding talks with vaccine manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chaos-unfolds-at-vaccination-centres-across-kerala-979152.html
26-04-2021||South||Covid-19 surge: Kerala shuts theatres, clubs and bars; govt concerned over UK and South African variants||Coronavirus restrictions in Kerala have been tightened further by banning all public meetings and shutting places like theatres, bars, liquor outlets, parks and sports complexes. The state's Covid-19 scenario is turning grim as around 40 per cent were found to be having genetically modified variants of the virus that spread faster. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters on Monday that the presence of UK and South African variants of the Covid-19 have being spotted in some places in Kerala and stringent containment measures would be initiated there. "The UK variant has been found mainly in North Kerala districts. During the first week of April, about 30 per cent were having the UK variant, seven per cent were having a double mutant variant and two per cent were having a South African variant. Experts fear that by this time, it would have spread further," he said.           An all-party meeting convened by the Chief Minister on Monday reached a consensus that the state should not go for a total shutdown now. But restrictions like night curfew and weekend shutdown would continue and maximum participation in events like marriages and at religious places will be restricted to 50 and 20 for funerals. Meanwhile, 21,890 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Monday and the test positivity was 22.71 per cent, slightly higher than that on Sunday. The number of active cases in the district also stands at 2.32 lakh. The all-party meeting also reached a consensus that there would not be any demonstrations on the counting day of the Assembly polls on May 2. Only officials, polling agents and media would be allowed at counting centres, that too with Covid-19 negative report or vaccination certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-surge-kerala-shuts-theatres-clubs-and-bars-govt-concerned-over-uk-and-south-african-variants-979196.html
26-04-2021||South||Differential price mechanism for vaccine inherently unfair, writes TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswami to PM Modi||Opposing the “differential price” mechanism of Covid-19 vaccine for state governments and Centre as “inherently unfair”, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday asked the Union Government to procure and supply the entire required quantity of vaccine for administering them to all groups. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Palaniswami quoted the Union Health Ministry's policy that vaccine for the age group of 18-45 would be procured by the state governments and said the price would be distinctly different from the price that the Government of India has been paying for the vaccines supply. “Some manufacturers have already announced a higher increased rate for procurement by State Governments. Such a differential price mechanism is inherently unfair since it places a higher financial burden on States,” Palaniswami told Modi. He said it is also iniquitous since the state governments have considerably less fiscal resources at their command than the central government. Further, since budgetary provision of Rs.35,000 crore has been made in the Budget Estimates for 2021-22 for the Covid-19 Vaccination programme, he said, states have a “legitimate expectation” that the Centre would supply the Covid-19 vaccine for phase 3. He asked the Centre to procure and supply the entire required quantity of vaccine for administering all groups including those in the age group of 18-45.   “Further, the Government of India could also explore alternative sources of supply of vaccine including possible imports to ensure that the vaccine rollout takes place across the country smoothly and expeditiously in the coming weeks,” he said. Last week, Palaniswami had written to Modi seeking a supply of 20 lakhs vaccines to be administered for those above 45 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/differential-price-mechanism-for-vaccine-inherently-unfair-writes-tn-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-to-pm-modi-979201.html
26-04-2021||State||Biocon subsidiary gets approval to market cancer drug Abevmy in Europe||Bengaluru-based pharmaceutical company Biocon Biologics has received approval from the European Commission to market breast, ovarian, cervical and renal cancer drug 'Abevmy'. The company got the approval for the Abevmy in two strengths — 100mg and 400 mg. Abevmy is a biosimilar of Bevacizumab. “The European Commission’s approval of our biosimilar Bevacizumab will enable us to offer this biologics therapy to cancer patients in the EU along with our partner Viatris,” Biocon Biolgics said in a statement. “The addition of biosimilar Bevacizumab will strengthen our portfolio of biosilimar for cancer in the EU which include biosimilar Trastuzumab and biosimilar Pegfilgrastim.” This approval comes a month after European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) approved the drug to be marketed as Abevmy. Abevmy is a biosimilar to Roche’s Avastin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/biocon-subsidiary-gets-approval-to-market-cancer-drug-abevmy-in-europe-979010.html
26-04-2021||State||Decentralise health administration, focus on smaller towns: HD Deve Gowda in letter to PM Modi||Former prime minister HD Deve Gowda has said that the central government is focusing on Covid-19 management keeping only big cities in mind while there is a danger lurking in non-urban areas and taluk centres. The JD(S) supremo said this in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, listing out 16 suggestions to manage the second Covid-19 wave that has posed a huge challenge to India’s health infrastructure. Gowda has pointed out the need for health administration and Covid-19 management to be decentralised by hiring more medical professionals at all levels on short contracts, along with establishing war rooms in all districts. "Further, there is cynicism about vaccines. Awareness needs to be created about the benefits of vaccines. Pricing also should be done keeping the poorest of the poor in mind. All barriers of identity should be dropped for the vulnerable sections for vaccination. The government must also take steps to soon establish vaccination production centres one in North and another in South India," he said. "While the government has announced vaccination for all above 18 years, the same should be extended for those between 12 and 15 years to enable them to attend classes from the next academic year," Gowda added. As several Covid-19 warriors have lost their lives, their family members should be provided government jobs on compassionate grounds, Gowda urged the government.   Gowda’s letter comes a week after another former prime minister Manmohan Singh wrote to Modi on managing the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decentralise-health-administration-focus-on-smaller-towns-hd-deve-gowda-in-letter-to-pm-modi-979101.html
26-04-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Karnataka imposes 2-week lockdown to tackle Covid-19||In your evening news brief, 14-day lockdown in Karnataka to tackle Covid-19 pandemic; free vaccines against Covid-19 for all between 18 and 45 years of age in Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu government passes resolution to operate oxygen plants at now closed Sterlite Copper factory in Thoothukudi for four months.  Here is the top news of April 26, 2021:   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a 14-day lockdown in the state starting Tuesday night to contain the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting on Monday where ministers pressed for lockdown-like measures to “break the chain” of the virus’ spread. Addressing a news conference after the Cabinet meeting, Yediyurappa said a curfew will be in place on all days of the week, akin to the weekend curfew. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced that Karnataka will provide free vaccines for all between 18 and 45 years of age as the state sees a massive rise in Covid cases. The vaccines will be free at government hospitals when the third phase of the vaccination campaign kicks off on May 1. As the state heads toward a lockdown, here's what's allowed, and what's not:  What will be open during the 2-week lockdown? Groceries and other essential shops can stay open every day from 6 am to 10 am in the morning. Hospitals as well will be open. Liquor shops can stay open but only for takeaway, Chief Minister Yediyurappa said. Who can step out? Essential workers, healthcare workers, and food delivery workers can carry out their work during the lockdown. Those involved in agriculture, the manufacturing sector, the construction sector, and garment workers can step out as well. Will buses and public transport ply? No. Public transport including buses and metro will not ply during the 2-week lockdown. “When people aren’t allowed to step out, why will buses ply?,” Yediyurappa said while announcing the lockdown. Can I order food on Swiggy, Zomato and other apps? Yes, food delivery executives are exempted from the lockdown and are permitted to pick up and deliver food during the next 14 days. Dear listener, stay safe. For more information regarding the lockdown please visit the Deccan Herald Website.   An all-party meeting called by the Tamil Nadu government on Monday passed a resolution to operate oxygen plants at now closed Sterlite Copper factory in Thoothukudi for four months under the supervision of a committee headed by the District Collector. The meeting chaired by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was attended by representatives from eight recognised political parties – AIADMK, DMK, Congress, BJP, CPI, CPI (M), PMK, and DMDK. The meeting was called days after the Supreme Court asked Tamil Nadu government why it cannot run the oxygen plants keeping in mind the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-imposes-2-week-lockdown-to-tackle-covid-19-979115.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||3 workers die, 9 injured in an accident in Chitradurga||Three daily wage workers died and nine others sustained injuries when a goods carrier overturned on Challakere road in Hiriyur taluk on Monday.  According to police, the deceased have been identified as Selvi (35), Deeepika (6) and Neelamma (29), residents of a Tamil colony in Vedavathy Nagar, Hiriyur town. The injured workers are undergoing treatment in taluk general hospital in Hiriyur town. The incident took place when the vehicle overturned as the driver lost balance. One worker died on the spot and the two others died while on their way to the hospital.  They were heading towards Challakere from Hiriyur town in a goods carrier. Hiriyur rural police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-workers-die-9-injured-in-an-accident-in-chitradurga-979008.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two-week 'close-down' in Karnataka starting April 27 night||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a 14-day 'close-down' in the state starting Tuesday night to contain the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting on Monday where ministers pressed for lockdown-like measures to “break the chain” of the virus’ spread. Yediyurappa had staved off the imposition of a lockdown to keep economic activities going. Addressing a news conference after the Cabinet meeting, Yediyurappa said a curfew will be in place on all days of the week, akin to the weekend curfew. “Grocery and other essential shops will be operational from 6 am to 10 am every day. That’s the only relaxation. After 10 am, all shops will be closed,” Yediyurappa said, adding that this will be applicable across Karnataka. Yediyurappa said that these measures were essential. "Covid case numbers in Bengaluru and surrounding areas have surpassed that of Maharashtra," he said. “If the situation does not come under control in two weeks, we might have to extend these strict measures.” While detailed guidelines for the restrictions will be issued by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar in a couple of hours, Yediyurappa said home delivery of food will be allowed and liquor shops will operate for takeaways only. Yediyurappa said deputy commissioners of all districts will have to ensure that the regulations are implemented and tahsidhars will be nodal officers at the taluk-level to reduce the spread of Covid in rural areas. Only goods transport vehicles will be allowed to ply and inter-state goods transport will be allowed. “Public transport services will not be operational,” Yediyurappa said. “When people aren’t allowed to step out, why will buses ply?” Karnataka has seen a surge in Covid cases over the past two weeks. Close to 35,000 new Covid cases were reported on Sunday, of which 20,733 were in Bengaluru. The Cabinet also decided that vaccines will be free for those aged 18-44 years at government hospitals, when the third phase of the vaccination campaign kicks off on May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-week-close-down-in-karnataka-starting-april-27-night-979033.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lockdown: Food delivery allowed, liquor shops to operate for takeaways only||The lockdown will begin on April 27 at 10 pm, with grocery stores allowed to open from 6 am to 10 am during those days. Speaking on the announcement of the lockdown, Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa said home delivery of food will be allowed and liquor shops will operate for takeaways only. However, exact details on availability of liquor is still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lockdown-food-delivery-allowed-liquor-shops-to-operate-for-takeaways-only-979051.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka 'close-down': What's allowed, what's not||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a 14-day 'close-down' in the state starting Tuesday night to contain the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken in a cabinet meeting on Monday morning as the state, and more worryingly its capital is the worst affected city by Covid-19 in the country. The state already had two lockdown-like curbs in place - a night curfew from 9 PM to 6 AM and a weekend curfew as well. As the state heads toward a lockdown, here's what's allowed, and what's not: What will be open during the two-week 'close-down'? Groceries and other essential shops can stay open every day from 6 am to 10 am in the morning. Hospitals as well will be open. Liquor shops can stay open but only for takeaway, Chief Minister Yediyurappa said. Who can step out? Essential workers, healthcare workers, and food delivery workers can carry out their work during the lockdown. Those involved in agriculture, construction and garment sectors can step out as well. Will buses and public transport ply? No. Public transport including buses and metro will not ply during the 2-week lockdown. “When people aren’t allowed to step out, why will buses ply?,” Yediyurappa said while announcing the lockdown. Will liquor shops be open? Yes, as mentioned earlier liquor shops will remain open but only for takeaway.  Can I order food on Swiggy, Zomato and other apps? Yes, food delivery executives are exempted from the lockdown and are permitted to pick up and deliver food during the next 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-close-down-whats-allowed-whats-not-979054.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to give free vaccines to all between 18 and 45 years of age||Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced that Karnataka will provide free vaccines for all between 18 and 45 years of age as the state sees a massive rise in Covid cases. The vaccines will be free at government hospitals when the third phase of the vaccination campaign kicks off on May 1. Karnataka on Monday also imposed a two-week lockdown as it has witnessed a big jump in Covid cases over the past two weeks. Close to 35,000 new Covid cases were reported on Sunday, of which 20,733 were in Bengaluru. Earlier on Monday, Delhi announced free vaccines for all in the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-give-free-vaccines-to-all-between-18-and-45-years-of-age-979063.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In a U-turn, BSY govt to sell 3,667 acres to JSW Steel||In a U-turn, the BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka Cabinet agreed to sell 3,667 acres of land to the Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Steel Ltd in Ballari, a deal the saffron party had opposed when it was in the Opposition.  This land deal had run into controversy in 2019 when the Congress-JD(S) coalition wanted to go ahead with the lease-cum-sale agreement. Briefing reporters, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that though the government had agreed to sell the land to JSW Steel, it will not let go of the company's pending dues to the Mysore Minerals Ltd (MML), a state-run company. According to Bommai, the lease-cum-sale deed was made in 2006 for 2,000.58 acres of land, following which, the government had allotted another 1,666.73 acres at Toranagallu, Kurekuppa, Moosenayakanahalli and Yarabanahalli villages in the Ballari district. At the end of the lease-cum-sale period, as the terms of the agreement were fulfilled by the company, the Cabinet decided to sell 3,667 acres to JSW, Bommai said. "However, elected representatives had protested the decision, citing (JSW Steel's) litigation with MML," Bommai said. The issue was referred to a Cabinet sub-committee headed by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar. The sub-committee recommended the government to execute the sale deed, Bommai said. The land will be sold as per the old lease agreement, Bommai said. While in the Opposition, the BJP had accused the Congress-JD(S) coalition of selling the land at a throwaway price of Rs 1.22-1.50 lakh per acre. On the protest staged by the BJP in 2019 over the decision, Bommai said that the situation was now different, adding that it was essential to encourage industry. In another decision, Bommai said the Cabinet decided to set aside Rs 493 crore to incentivise micro food processing units under the Centre's 'One District, One Product' scheme. The amount will be Karnataka's share of the scheme, being implemented over the next five years. Under the scheme, the state will provide 40% of the funds required while the Centre will provide 60%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-a-u-turn-bsy-govt-to-sell-3667-acres-to-jsw-steel-979154.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada producer Ramu passes away due to Covid-19||Ace Kannada film producer and actor Malashri’s husband Koti Ramu, who was being treated at MS Ramaiah Hospital in Bengaluru for Covid-19, passed away on Monday night. He was 53.  “He was admitted to the hospital four days ago after he contracted the virus. He breathed his last at around 8 pm,” Hanumanthu, the producer’s relative, told DH.  Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, Power Star Puneeth Rajkumar and several others condoled Ramu’s death. Ramu produced about 39 films in Kannada under the banner Ramu Enterprises. He ventured into the Kannada film industry as a distributor in the early 90s. He achieved great success with ‘Chaitrada Premanjali’.  He had a penchant for producing mostly action films. 'Goilbar' (1993) was his first film as a producer, while his last was ‘99’ (2019) a remake of Tamil film '96'. Films bankrolled by Ramu like 'Golibar' (1993), 'Lockup Death' (1994), 'AK-47' (1999), 'Kalasipalya' (2004) and 'Shivajinagara' (2014) became blockbusters. Due to the big budget of over Rs one crore for a film 25 years ago, he was popularly known as 'Koti' (crore) Ramu. He had invested in 'Mangalya Bandhana' (1993), which had Malashri in the lead role. The two fell in love and tied the knot after the film. The couple have a daughter, Ananya and son Aryan. Ramu's last rites will be held at Kodigehalli in Kunigal Taluk, Tumakaru, on Tuesday.   He produced many films of Malashri like 'Hello Sister' (1995), 'Lady Commissioner' (1997), 'Chamundi' (2000), 'Durgi' (2004), 'Shakti' (2011), 'Veera', 'Election' (2013) and 'Ganga' (2015).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-producer-ramu-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-979208.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CEC for scraping of Goa-Karnataka rail track doubling||The Central Empowered Committee, constituted by the Supreme Court, in its report has stated that it "does not find any justification for undertaking a project (doubling of the railway line between Tinaighat-Castlerock in Karnataka and Kulem in Goa) which will destroy the fragile eco-system of the Western Ghats". The CEC had examined the feasibility of three linear infrastructure projects - doubling of the railway line between Karnataka and Goa, Goa-Tamnar transmission project of laying electric lines and four-laning of existing NH-4A (between Anmod in Karnataka to Mollem in Goa) - within the boundaries of wildlife sanctuary and national park in the state of Goa. The report, which was submitted to the apex court on April 23, states that doubling of the railway line will only marginally enhance the capacity of the 'most inefficient section of the railway network' passing through ecologically sensitive and bio-diversity rich tiger reserve, including two wildlife sanctuaries and a national park. The Goa Foundation, which had pleaded with the Supreme Court to constitute CEC had claimed that the three linear projects would result in the diversion of about 170 hectares of forest land (128.28 hectares for the railway project, 31 hectares for the NH 4A project and 11.54 hectares for transmission project). A total of 37,000 trees in the world’s eight eco-sensitive zones is estimated to be felled in Goa alone. The CEC committee, headed by member-secretary Amarnatha Shetty, has recommended the apex court to revoke the permission granted by the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (SC NBWL) for doubling of the railway track, which is proposed to pass through 120.85 hectares of the protected area from the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary, Goa and Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary, Karnataka. The report has also rapped the standing committee of NBWL for gross underestimation of the requirement of virgin forest land for implementation of the project. It says during the implementation stage, 'much more than 120.87 hectares' of the estimated forest land is likely to be destroyed. "The increased number of trains and wider openings through the ecologically sensitive Western Ghats will further fragment the habitat and will make the movement of wildlife much more difficult and dangerous. It is bound to result in high casualties among the wildlife,” the report states. The CEC members argue that Goa port constitutes only 20% of rake movement from Goa to Karnataka, and the alternative ports like Krishnapatnam in the east have better rail connectivity to hinterlands of Karnataka. Wildlife conservationist Giridhar Kulkarni said CEC has taken a strong stand in favour of wildlife by not recommending railway doubling project within both Karnataka and Goa and they have considered the representations of the public very seriously. Four-lane highway The CEC has, however, proposed the apex court to consider approving the proposal of widening of NH-4A after the Goa PWD and National Highways Authority of India have incorporated the changes in the earlier plan. It has recommended an increase of animal overpass and underpass. CEC has also suggested conversion of plain terrain be converted to a 4-lane elevated road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cec-for-scraping-of-goa-karnataka-rail-track-doubling-979237.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 29,744 new Covid-19 cases, 201 deaths||Karnataka on Monday recorded 29,744 fresh coronavirus cases. Bengaluru Urban alone reported 16,545 cases on the day.  As many as 201 deaths were reported, with Bengaluru Urban recording 105 deaths. With this, the death toll has risen to 14,627.   The number of active cases in the state rose to 2,81,042. Ballari reported 18 deaths. Over 10,663 people were discharged from hospitals taking the total recoveries so far to 10,73,257. So far, Karnataka has seen 13,68,945 positive cases since the start of the pandemic. Among the total active cases, 1,815 patients are currently admitted in ICUs across the state. The positivity rate for the day stood at 17.87%, while the case fatality rate for the day was 0.67%. A total of 1,66,407 samples were tested on Monday. Mysuru reported 1,563 cases, Tumakuru 1,197, Mandya 929, and Kalaburagi 872 cases.  As many as 88,27,370 people have received vaccination in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-29744-new-covid-19-cases-201-deaths-979239.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC dismisses RGUHS writ pleas on fake marks cards||The Karnataka High Court has dismissed a batch of writ appeals, filed by the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), in connection with the disaffiliation of nursing colleges run by Bethel and Hosmat Group in Bengaluru city. The state government had disaffiliated the colleges, based on recommendations made by RGUHS, on the charges of making fake marks cards. A division bench, headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, however, clarified that it has not expressed any opinion regarding allegations, but was only on the question of law under section 48 of the RGUHS Act, 1994.  “The university, senate, academic council, syndicate, and the state government have not followed the procedure under section 48 of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Act, 1994 and had grossly violated the principles of natural justice,” the bench said in the order. The government order of disaffiliation was issued in October 2019. The RGUHS stated that during a surprise inspection carried out on March 7, 2018, prima facie it was found that the colleges were found indulging in manufacturing fake marks cards and making them available to the students. The petition, filed by the colleges and affected students, challenging the state government order, was allowed by a single bench. The RGUHS moved writ appeals challenging the single bench order. The division bench pointed out that the show-cause notice, issued on February 2, 2019, inviting reply has been an empty formality in as much as the reply of the colleges has not been considered or adverted to in the decision-making process.  The bench pointed out that there was neither an independent application of mind/ or inquiry by the senate as required under section 48 (5) of the RGUHS Act nor is there any independent opinion made known by the senate. “Even the acceptance by the government does not indicate any application of mind. There is a violation of section 48 (6) of the Act which requires the government, if necessary, to hold such inquiry and thereafter make its recommendation,” the division bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-dismisses-rguhs-writ-pleas-on-fake-marks-cards-979257.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Allow Karnataka garment factories with 50% staff: Employers' Association||The Karnataka Employers' Association (KEA) on Monday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to allow garment factories to work at 50% strength with strict Covid-19 measures.  The state government has decided to permit industrial activities, especially manufacturing, but not garment factories.  "Garment factories employ the maximum number of employees next only to agriculture. In Bengaluru alone, there are more than 8 lakh workers employed in this sector. Whilst other industries have been permitted to operate with minimum or 50% strength, permitting garment industries also to work on the same basis will help a large number of workers," KEA president B C Prabhakar said.  "The garment industry has already received a lot of orders with strict timelines to deliver. European markets have just opened and they have sent huge orders. If there is a delay in supply of finished goods to the buyers, it will result in huge penalty and losses and also it will result in employment loss," he said, adding that total closure could lead to an exodus of workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/allow-karnataka-garment-factories-with-50-staff-employers-association-979258.html
26-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC suspends hearing in tribute to Justice Shantanagoudar||The Karnataka High Court on Monday suspended hearings as a mark of respect for Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan Shantanagoudar, who passed away in Gurugram on Sunday. The principal bench in Bengaluru, the benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi and all district courts remained closed. “The cases which are listed for the day will be taken up on Tuesday, April 27, 2021,” the closure notification said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-suspends-hearing-in-tribute-to-justice-shantanagoudar-979270.html
26-04-2021||West||Maharashtra women cooks hit hard by curtailment of wedding functions||Women cooks, who used to earn a living by preparing food at marriage hall kitchens in Aurangabad, have been severely affected by the Maharashtra government's new order restricting the timings and number of people at wedding events in the wake of the Covid-19 surge. These women say they are staring at a dark future as they are hardly getting any food orders now from wedding caterers and are unable to meet their daily needs. They have now appealed to the government to provide them financial assistance. Hirabai Pawar (60), who is in this profession here since the last four decades and lives with her daughter-in-law and granddaughter, told PTI that she never experienced such a crisis in her life. "My daughter-in-law worked in a beauty parlour, but they are also shut now. Till last year, I used to earn Rs 200 to 400 a day, but now that has stopped. I need at least Rs 2,000 per month for my medicines," she said. Another local culinarian Jyoti Kathar also said she has no work and is in a dire situation. "My husband also does not have any income as the cloth shop where he worked is closed. Now, we cannot even provide milk to our two children as we have to curtail our expenses. They drink black tea now," she said. Kathar said amid the Covid-19 pandemic, they also had to shift their children to a government school as they were not able to afford the high fees of their private educational institution. Another city-based cook Jijabai Pawar (45) said she never went to school, but used to be proud of handling food preparations at big kitchens of marriage caterers. "I used to take charge of things even if the caterer was busy with other functions. But, now my earning has stopped and our family comprising seven members is surviving only on the salary of one of my sons. A major portion of his income goes in paying our house rent," she rued. Sharing similar woes, cook Sumanbai Suryavanshi (70) said she has been unable to pay her house rent for the last two months. "We live in Sanjay Nagar which was declared a Covid-19 hotspot last year. We took all care and none of my family members have got infected so far," she said. But, she is not getting any food orders now since the state government announced that marriage ceremonies may be conducted only as a single event not extending beyond two hours with maximum of total of 25 people attending the same. Cook Anita Khajekar said earlier when she used to work at marriage hall kitchens, she would bring the leftover food at home which would serve as her family's meal for the day. "Now, I neither have the job nor that food, while my grocery expenses have almost doubled," she said. Another local cook Kantabai Kale (70) said they have been suffering since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, but the government has not provided them any financial aid. "We heard the government has decided to help various stakeholders. The government should also look after us now," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-women-cooks-hit-hard-by-curtailment-of-wedding-functions-978998.html
26-04-2021||West||Fire at civic-run hospital in Pune; no casualty||A minor fire broke out in the parking area of a civic-run multi-speciality hospital in Pune on Monday morning, a fire official said. There was no report of any casualty, he said. The fire brigade received a call around 10.45 am about the blaze in the parking lot located in the basement of the Kamla Nehru Hospital here in Maharashtra, he said. Some empty saline bottles, plastic drums, brooms and other waste material kept in the parking area were gutted in the fire, he said. "After receiving the call, a fire tender was rushed to the spot and the blaze was extinguished," he said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, he added. The Kamla Nehru Hospital is a non-Covid medical facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-civic-run-hospital-in-pune-no-casualty-979027.html
26-04-2021||West||Everything tasted like sand, recounts Covid-19 patient who couldn't smell or taste anything for 10 months||Many individuals who recovered from Covid-19 are visiting experts with various complications such as shortness of breath, fatigue, pneumonia, brain inflammation, seizures, lung fibrosis, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). A team headed by Dr ChandraVeer Singh successfully treated an 18-year-old Amanjyot Kaur who reported a loss of taste and smell for 10 months after getting infected with Covid-19. A resident of Mira Road in Mumbai's far western suburbs, she exhibited symptoms such as loss of taste and smell, fever, in June 2020. The patient was admitted to the hospital and subsequently took treatment at home for Covid-19. The patient was back on track after 20 days. To her dismay, even after testing negative for Covid-19, she continued to experience loss of taste and smell. The patient didn’t pay attention to it earlier as she thought her senses may return in time. But, to her dismay, she was shocked when she could not taste or smell even after 10 months. “I was aware that loss of taste and smell are the common listed symptoms of Covid-19 and the senses return in a few days. But I was stressed, anxious and depressed when the senses did not return over months,” said Amanjyot. “Everything just tasted like sand. I would add spices to the food and even used aromatic herbs but nothing seemed to do the trick. I would constantly try to smell things, use perfumes so that I can get the fragrance, and try to smell foods. It is frustrating when people around you can smell and taste and you can’t. I thought I permanently lost my senses,” she said. The patient panicked and visited Wockhardt Hospitals, Mira Road where she received prompt treatment. Dr Singh, a consultant otorhinolaryngologist and head and neck onco surgeon, Wockhardt Hospital Mira Road said, “Many patients who test negative for Covid-19 may exhibit some or the other symptoms. This patient came with a loss of taste and smell for around 10 months. A complete loss of taste is called ageusia, which makes a person unable to detect any tastes. Temporary loss of smell or anosmia is when a person is unable to smell or recognize the smell.” He said that loss of taste and smell occurs due to inflammation and edema of the Olfactory nerve due to viral infection. “Usually, the patient recovers in 4 weeks. Hence, the patient was prescribed a nasal spray and systemic steroids medications, Vitamin C and D, and Vitamin A, supplements. Within 10 days after medication her senses of smell and taste came back. "With an increasing number of Covid patients, the number of post-Covid patients with loss of smell and taste is increasing. Although there is no treatment for long-lasting loss of smell and taste in patients, we have treated 5 to 6 patients successfully in our hospital,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/everything-tasted-like-sand-recounts-covid-19-patient-who-couldnt-smell-or-taste-anything-for-10-months-979035.html
26-04-2021||West||Gujarat doctors under govt bond asked to join Covid-19 duty||All MBBS graduates under government bond in Gujarat have been asked to immediately join duty in the wake of a shortage of doctors at Covid-19 hospitals in the state. The state government will initiate action under the Epidemic Diseases Act against the doctors who fail to join the "compulsory Covid-19 duty immediately", said a notification issued on Monday by state health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare. As per the notification, the number of beds in government hospitals has been considerably increased to cope up with the high influx of Covid-19 patients. However, there is an acute shortage of manpower to treat the coronavirus patients against the infrastructure created by the state, said the notification. "The state government urgently needs the services of doctors as coronavirus cases are increasing at an unprecedented pace," Shivahare said in the notification. "Around 1,000 such bonded doctors, who were already given appointments as Class-2 medical officers, are now required to join the duty immediately," the order said. Shivahare also instructed all the district collectors and municipal commissioners to take action under the Epidemic Diseases Act against the doctors who do not turn up to join the compulsory Covid-19 duty at their respective places. Doctors under bond comprise those who have recently completed their MBBS from government-run medical colleges. MBBS pass-outs of the Gujarat Medical Education & Research Society-run colleges also fall under this category. As per rules, they are required to serve a specific period in rural areas under bond with the government. Many such graduates prefer to pay the bond amount, instead of working in rural areas. Gujarat on Sunday recorded 14,296 new coronavirus cases, its highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out, the state health department said. This increased its infection tally to 4,96,033. The state also recorded its highest one-day Covid-19 fatality count of 157, which took the death toll to 6,328, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-doctors-under-govt-bond-asked-to-join-covid-19-duty-979059.html
26-04-2021||West||'Oxygen Express' with 3 tankers arrives in Maharashtra||A train carrying three tankers loaded with liquid medical oxygen arrived at Kalamboli near Mumbai from Jamnagar in Gujarat on Monday, railway officials said. The train, carrying about 44 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen, nearly 15 tonnes in each tanker, reached Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai at around 11.30 am, covering a distance of about 860 km in over 17 hours, they said. This is the second 'Oxygen Express' to arrive in Maharashtra, which is facing shortage of the liquid medical oxygen due to a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases. The first 'Oxygen Express' carrying seven tankers of the liquid medical oxygen reached the state from Visakhapatnam on April 23. Four of those tankers were offloaded at Nashik and three at Nagpur, considering the local need. Informing about the 'Oxygen Express' which arrived on Monday, Western Railway officials said the Ro-Ro (Roll on-Roll off) goods train carrying three tankers of the liquid medical oxygen on BWT wagons left from Hapa at Jamnagar in Gujarat around 6 pm on Sunday. After an overnight journey via Viramgam, Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Surat, the train entered Maharashtra in the morning, they said. "It is the first 'Oxygen Express' run by the Western Railway," WR's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, adding railway authorities provided an uninterrupted 'green corridor' to the train for swift movement. The three oxygen tankers are supplied by the Reliance Industries in Jamnagar, he said. "Necessary arrangements were made at the Hapa goods shed in a short time for the smooth movement of the train," he said. According to the Western Railway, authorities followed all safety parameters, keeping in mind the height of the gas tankers and monitored their pressure from time to time. "As liquid oxygen is cryogenic, there are many limitations, like the speed at which it can be carried, acceleration and deceleration and loading restrictions," Thakur said. On April 18, the Railways had announced it will run 'Oxygen Express' trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/oxygen-express-with-3-tankers-arrives-in-maharashtra-979071.html
26-04-2021||West||Bid to take credit for free vaccine in Maharashtra not good: Congress' Thorat tells NCP||Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Monday said the decision on free vaccine against Covid-19 for people of the state should be announced by the chief minister and an attempt by others to take credit for it was not good. Thorat's comments came a day after Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik said the state government will float global tenders for providing affordable and quality anti-Covid 19 vaccines for free to adult citizens below 45 years of age. The NCP shares power in the state with the Shiv Sena and Congress. Without naming the NCP, Thorat said a discussion on providing free vaccine was underway and it was not correct to make an announcement right away to get credit for it. "This is not good," the Congress leader told reporters. Notably, state Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar recently said global tenders will be floated to purchase affordable and quality vaccines for citizens in the state. Thorat said the Congress' stand over the vaccination process was clear. "Our party chief Sonia Gandhi said vaccines should be made available free of cost. But, the announcement should be made by the chief minister," he said. When the vaccination drive opens on May 1 for those above 18 years of age, the crowd at the inoculation centres will increase. "There may be chaos due to crowding, leading to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. I have spoken to the chief secretary and told him that a policy should be framed. A decision on this will be taken in two days," he said. The minister said it was the Centre's responsibility to make available the vaccine doses to all. "There were initial hiccups when the vaccination drive was opened for those aged above 45. Hence, a policy should first be framed for (opening the inoculation process for) those above 18 years," he said. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the state government will take a decision on providing free vaccine to citizens. The state government does not see the crisis as an opportunity to play politics, Raut told reporters. "The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is taking all steps to save each life. It doesn't need to indulge in politics in the time of crisis. The opposition can give constructive suggestions," the Rajya Sabha member said. He said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the state entire cabinet were working hard to fight the pandemic. "They are fighting for oxygen, ventilators and beds," he said. The Covid-19 cases in Mumbai are now coming down, Raut said, and expressed hope that the number of coronavirus cases will come down across the state in some days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bid-to-take-credit-for-free-vaccine-in-maharashtra-not-good-congress-thorat-tells-ncp-979082.html
26-04-2021||West||Vaccine politics rocks Maharashtra after NCP minister Nawab Malik's 'free shots' announcement||As Covid-19 cases soar, vaccine politics seems to have hit Maharashtra. The official announcement on free vaccines to all and the modalities is expected to be made by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray only after the weekly Cabinet meeting later this week. The inoculation drive for all above the age of 18 opens on May 1, which coincides with International Workers Day, which is also the Maharashtra foundation day. The Shiv Sena and Congress are unhappy after NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik, who is the Minority Affairs Minister, declared that the state government would provide free vaccination to all above the age of 18. On Sunday, Malik said: “The Chief Minister will make an announcement soon…Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the Finance Minister, has spoken about it….we will float tenders and get the best vaccine…we need to produce nearly 14 crore vaccine doses and two jabs are needed.” After Malik’s statement, Shiv Sena leader and state Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray tweeted: “the government of Maharashtra has decided to vaccinate its citizens free of cost. This is not something that we think of as a choice, but a duty that we consider of utmost importance: protecting the citizens from Covid.” However, he deleted the tweet and said in another tweet: “I have deleted the earlier tweet as to not cause confusion regarding the official vaccination policy of Maharashtra that would be fully ensuring fast, efficient vaccination and would leave nobody behind. The official policy of vaccination will be declared by the empowered committee and we must await its recommendation for a fair policy for all sections of society.  My apologies for the confusion if it all it may have caused." Meanwhile, state Revenue Minister and senior Congressman Balasaheb Thorat said the discussion of providing free vaccines was on and that it was not right to make an announcement or take credit for it. "This is not good," he said, without naming the NCP. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the three partners are not on the same page. “There is a lack of coordination among the allies,” he said. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the government will take decisions on providing free vaccines to citizens. “The government is taking every step to save each and every life.. it doesn't need to indulge in politics in times of crisis.  Opposition can give constructive suggestions.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccine-politics-rocks-maharashtra-after-ncp-minister-nawab-maliks-free-shots-announcement-979104.html
26-04-2021||West||Follow Covid-19 norms, then blame government: Bombay HC to people||Citizens should practice restraint and discipline amid the surge in Covid-19 cases before blaming the government, the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court said on Monday while passing several directions on the pandemic. A division bench of Justices Ravindra Ghuge and B U Debadwar directed that all persons, including public servants not on duty and doctors and paramedical staff, carry their Aadhaar cards while stepping out of their homes and also wear masks. "We as citizens should show some loyalty to our place and sensibility before blaming the government. Residents need to practice restraint and discipline," Justice Ghuge said. The court noted that schemes and systems are good but it is humans who destroy them and make them rotten.   "We see youngsters, girls and boys, loitering outside without any purpose. People are travelling on bikes on triples and sometimes even four persons without helmets and masks," the court said. The court said any person stepping outside shall have to wear a mask covering their nose and mouth. "Wearing a mask below the chin or exposing their mouth or chin shall also be booked as such people often turn out to be super-spreaders of coronavirus," Justice Ghuge said. The court said no member of any political party or an influential person shall use his influence to help a lockdown violator. The bench had last week taken up suo motu (on its own) cognisance of Covid-19 related issues like lack of oxygen, Remdesivir injections, people not following lockdown restrictions etc. The court said it had no intention to pass any order that would interfere with the government's policy of equal distribution of oxygen and Remdesivir injections. "There would be no grabbing of share of Remdesivir injections or oxygen supply to Aurangabad from other districts in the state. The government, both Union and State, has its policy of equal distribution and we do not intend to disturb it," the court said. Taking note of an order issued by the Aurangabad Divisional Commissioner asking private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to set up oxygen plants in their premises, the court asked authorities to grant permission to all such hospitals that want to set up oxygen plants. "However, we make it clear that such oxygen plants shall be state of the art so as to avoid disturbing incidents such as the one that occurred at a hospital in Nashik, and Virar," the court said. The bench also said authorities must ensure maximum vaccination of citizens as only this would reduce the number of Covid-19 cases in the future. The court directed Aurangabad Divisional Commissioner and municipal commissioners of all districts to keep a check at crematoriums and funeral ghats to ensure relatives of Covid-19 victims are not harassed or asked to pay bribes to carry out the final rites. The court asked authorities to provide rural primary health care centres with rapid antigen test facilities so that people living there are not forced to travel to cities to carry out RT-PCR tests. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on May 3. The court also heard a petition seeking criminal action against BJP MP Sujay Vikhe Patil for procuring 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injections from Delhi and distributing them in Ahmednagar. The court posted this petition for hearing on April 29 and asked the state government to respond to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/follow-covid-19-norms-then-blame-government-bombay-hc-to-people-979116.html
26-04-2021||West||Four Covid-19 patients die of oxygen shortage in Thane||At least four Covid-19 patients died at the Vedanta Hospital at Vartak Nagar in Thane city because of lack of medical oxygen supplies on Monday. However, the Vedanta Hospital administration has stated that the patients were in critical condition. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced a probe and called for a report. State Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde and Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said that a high-level probe has been ordered. Ahwad confirmed four deaths in the incident. According to him, the government has Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC) Commissioner Pankaj Ashiya to probe the incident and submit a report. "The state government is making all possible efforts to tide over the shortage by procuring medical oxygen from other states and oxygen-filling facilities via train, flight etc,"added Shinde. Senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya demanded the resignation of state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope over the incident. He, however, put the toll at six. “In Vedanta Hospital in Thane six persons died due to a defect in oxygen supply. Covid-19 patients death in hospitals in Maharashtra due to lack of oxygen and fire is becoming routine for the Thackeray Sarkar. Why Rajesh Tope is not sacked?,” he wanted to know. “It is a serious issue,” said BJP legislator Niranjan Davkare, adding that it needs to be ascertained whether the Vedanta Hospital administration or the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is responsible for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-covid-19-patients-die-of-oxygen-shortage-in-thane-979186.html
26-04-2021||West||Maharashtra, Mumbai see drastic drop in Covid-19 cases as break the chain initiative throws positive results||The stringent Break-the-Chain initiative seems to be showing results with cases in Maharashtra having dropped drastically below the 50,000-mark on Monday. In the last 24 hours, Maharashtra recorded 48,700 cases and 524 deaths. The state capital Mumbai reported 3,876 cases and 70 deaths. This is a drastic drop if one looks at last week’s figures when Maharashtra and Mumbai had been reporting an average of 65,000 and 7,000 cases, respectively.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the state achieved a milestone when it crossed the five-lakh mark for daily vaccination administered. “Over five lakh citizens vaccinated in a day in Maharashtra, and soon, the mark of 1.5 crore citizens vaccinated will be achieved,” Thackeray said. “Mumbai drops to 3,876 cases on 41,000 tests clearly we are turning around with ATM strategy of Assess Triage and Transfer and Management,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 Task Force.   The cumulative Covid-19 positive cases stand at 43,43,727 and deaths 65,284. During the day, 71,736 patients were discharged across the state, taking the total number of treated persons to 36,01,796. The state's recovery rate is 82.92 per cent. The case fatality rate is 1.5 per cent. Out of 2,59,72,018 test samples 43,43,727 have tested positive (16.72%) for Covid-19 till date.  Currently, 39,78,420 people are in home quarantine and 30,398 people are in institutional quarantine. As on Monday evening, there were 6,74,770 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mumbai-see-drastic-drop-in-covid-19-cases-as-break-the-chain-initiative-throws-positive-results-979233.html
26-04-2021||West||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane recommends Karnataka-like lockdown; CM Sawant rules out option||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday ruled out Health Minister Vishwajit Rane's plea to impose a Karnataka-like lockdown in the state, even as the state registered a record 38 deaths in the last 24 hours to the dreaded infection. While Rane maintained that people's lives were more important than the need to keep the economy chugging, Sawant on the other hand said that a lockdown would only be imposed if the Covid-19 situation in the state worsens. "In addition to the measures, Goa definitely needs to go under lockdown on lines of the other states like Maharashtra and Karnataka for a particular period. More than economic activities, the lives of the people matter to us," the Health Minister told reporters after a record 2,321 persons tested positive in the last 24 hours and 38 persons died after being infected by Covid-19. However, after a high-level meeting chaired by Sawant, Rane, and top Health Ministry officials, the Chief Minister ruled out a lockdown. "We have not decided on lockdown. We will crack down strictly now. Police have been instructed to take action to ensure that there are crowds for functions, including weddings. People should not complain that we have stopped their functions then. Before going to lockdown, we will have to stop functions," Sawant said. He also blamed the ongoing clearance of a backlog of suspect Covid-19 samples as the reason for the high infection tally on Monday. "The Covid case count is 2000-plus today because we have cleared the backlog. The second wave is very dangerous. Those who have symptoms should get admitted as soon as possible. We are providing all facilities. We have increased bed capacity. We have provided oxygen," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-health-minister-vishwajit-rane-recommends-karnataka-like-lockdown-cm-sawant-rules-out-option-979238.html
