27-04-2021||First Edit||Lockdown: Sad result of missteps||Starting tonight, Karnataka will go under a lockdown for two weeks. The spiralling number of Covid-19 infections in the state and especially in Bengaluru has prompted the Yediyurappa government to take this drastic step. The numbers are indeed alarming. On Sunday, Karnataka reported 34,804 new Covid-19 cases, while Bengaluru alone saw 20,733 new infections, its highest single-day infections since the pandemic’s outbreak last year.  Not only does Bengaluru have the second-most daily new infections in the country but also, it has the highest number (180,542) of active cases. Besides Bengaluru, the second wave has hit Tumakuru, Kodagu, Bengaluru Rural and Hassan with great ferocity. Understandably, the Yediyurappa government is worried.  It is unfortunate that it has come to this. Proponents of lockdowns will argue that they help contain the speed of the spread of the virus. While this may be true to some extent, the damage that lockdowns do to the lives and livelihoods of millions of people is also undeniable. Lockdowns impact the poorest people the most, daily wage earners and those working in the unorganised sector. A timely stringent enforcement of pandemic protocols, including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, would have been far more effective and less damaging than lockdowns. But wielding a big -- and somewhat blunt -- weapon to address the pandemic has become necessary due to a variety of reasons. Covid cases in Bengaluru fell steadily between October and February. So why are we in a more difficult situation today? The government declared victory against the virus too soon and let down its guard. It reduced testing of people. Officials who had been assigned to work on the pandemic were reportedly shifted back to their parent departments. Politicians were discarding their masks. This sent out a message to the masses that the pandemic was over. People thronged markets and weddings. It paved the way for deadlier variants of the coronavirus to infect people. Although the first pandemic wave laid bare the fragility of our health infrastructure, the government did not use the pandemic’s lean period to build up hospital capacities. This failure has resulted in patients having to run from pillar to post to get admitted to hospitals or access medicines and oxygen. The lockdown raises several questions. Public transport will not run, but the government has said that except for the garment industry, other manufacturing units will function as will the construction sector. But how will people make their way to work? Importantly, how will they transport patients to hospitals? There is a dire shortage of ambulances in the City and people are being fleeced by unscrupulous ambulance operators even when these services are free. The government must crack down on those who seek to profit from others’ misery.  And in the medium term, it will also have to take steps to mitigate the impact of lost livelihoods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/lockdown-sad-result-of-missteps-979317.html
27-04-2021||In Perspective|| A tale of three radicalisations||April 21 marks two years of the deadly Easter attacks in Sri Lanka led by Islamist groups like National Tauheed Jamaat (NTJ) and Jaamiyathul Millathu Ibrahim (JMI), drawing attention to the Islamic radicalisation in the island. Two years hence the attention is still on Islamic radicalisation. But what about other radicalisations in the island state? Post-independence Sri Lanka in fact witnessed three radical movements – Sinhala, Tamil and Islamic – that were primarily youth revolts. Sinhala radicalism was spearheaded by the JVP, firstly in the early 1970s and later in the late 1980s. Tamil radical movement that initially started in a moderate manner in the 1950s turned militant in the early 1980s, principally led by the LTTE. Islamic radicalism was in a non-violent mode since 1970s but got a taste of violence in the 1980s and the1990s in response to the LTTE’s anti-Muslim attacks in the east. But it surprisingly slipped into terrorism in 2019. A basic distinction, however, among these radical movements is while Tamil militancy was ethno-nationalistic, the other two were ideological. Irrespective of the nature of these movements, they all rose principally due to the inability of successive Sri Lankan governments to address the socio-cultural, political and economic grievances of the concerned community, perceiving them as just “law and order” problems. All three stories of radicalisation in the island state clearly suggest that a lack of moderate political parties to articulate in the interest of the communities at the right point in time led to the rise of radical groups to fill the vacuum. It is an important lesson in the understanding of the radicalisation process in any community: it is vital to encourage moderate politics to articulate grievances; suppression of the same would give rise to radicalism. Communities at large should get the confidence that their grievances articulated through moderate means are being heard and addressed. The involvement of external actors and networks, especially in the case of Tamil and Muslim radicalisations, has made the issue more complex. The external actors have their own interests and dynamics that tend to exploit internal faultlines for their own advantage. This is what is happening to Sri Lanka as well. Although radicalisation was evident and manifested in a violent form in all three communities, one common denominator remains: the way in which the Sri Lankan State handled the issue. Military means of handling radicalisations would trigger a cycle of violence and counter-violence. There is a need to adopt socio-economic and political measures as well. In the process, it is important that deradicalisation measures put in place for one community should not radicalise the others. The State machinery should not be perceived as biased towards or against any community. Healing wounds Radicalisation in Sri Lanka is not going to stop with Eelam Wars or Easter attacks. Demonisation of Muslims after the attacks and instituting more restriction in the name of security is going to further radicalise a section of the minority community resulting once again in a cycle of violence and counter-violence. History suggests that any nation-building process that is exclusivist in nature; that happens at the cost of ignoring the sentiments of minority communities is doomed to be a failure. Playing to the gallery of Buddhist hardliners is not going to help in the long-run. It will push the country back to the decades of the Eelam Wars. Yet another community should not take up arms. One community that has been left untouched by violent radicalisation is the Plantation Tamil community. Sri Lanka should be in a position to adopt success stories of de-radicalisation, especially reconciliation among the ethnic communities, and heal the wounds. In this regard, the role of civil society groups is significant. Governments should be in a position to recognise their unique contribution and rope them in the process instead of hindering their activities. Most importantly, religious leaders could play a key role of reconciliation through interfaith dialogue. The Sri Lankan case also suggests the importance of developing what Ray Oldenburg calls “third places” for building relations at the community level. The government could consider periodic orientation of those reintegrated ex-militants to make sure that they do not slip away from the right path. Role of external actors in the radicalisation and de-radicalisation process comes out clearly in the Sri Lankan case. Instead of going alone, Colombo should be in a position to build cooperative networks at bilateral, regional and global levels to counter radicalisation and violent extremism. Only through such cooperation at all three levels, support networks to radical groups could be stifled. Countries could also learn from each other’s success stories. (The writer is Associate Professor, Department of International Studies & History, Christ Deemed to be University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-tale-of-three-radicalisations-979321.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen plants to come up in Dakshina Kannada govt hospitals||There are plans to set up oxygen plants in government hospitals located across Dakshina Kannada district, Mangalore City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said. He was presiding over a meeting of oxygen suppliers and representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) at DC’s office on Monday. There is a need to ensure oxygen supply to the hospitals. The Covid patients should not suffer due to non-availability of oxygen. “To ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals, Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers (MCF) had agreed to set up oxygen plants in ESI Hospital in Mangaluru and government hospital in Bantwal under its CSR activity. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) will set up an oxygen plant for another taluk hospital. Two more oxygen plants will be set up in the taluk hospitals in the district. An action plan has been prepared to complete all the projects,” Kamath said. District Wenlock Hospital has a 6000-KL capacity liquid oxygen plant. An additional unit with a more storage capacity will also come up on the hospital premises. The work will be completed in 40 to 45 days, the MLA added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-plants-to-come-up-in-dakshina-kannada-govt-hospitals-979378.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former MP S B Sidnal passes away||Former MP Shanmukhappa Basappa (S B) Sidnal passed away due to age-related ailments at his residence in Belagavi on Tuesday. He is survived by two sons and a daughter. Sidnal had been elected from Belgaum Parliamentary Constituency for four consecutive terms -- in 1980, 1984, 1989 and 1991 elections -- as Congress candidate. His last rites will be conducted at Sidnal Farms, Sanikoppa village in Bailhongal taluk at 4 pm, family members informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-mp-s-b-sidnal-passes-away-979484.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Immersion of ashes banned in Srirangapatna||The immersion of ashes and other rituals have been banned from Tuesday evening, on the banks of River Cauvery and also at other places in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. It may be mentioned that with the rise in deaths due to Covid, there was a heavy rush of people at Paschimavahini in Srirangapatna, and also at other places to immerse the ashes of the deceased. With people from Bengaluru, Mysuru and other places thronging the place to immerse the ashes, the locals have expressed fear over the spread of Covid-19. As there were complaints from the locals, the taluk administration has banned immersion of ashes in the river. An official order will also be issued, said Tahsildar M V Roopa. Immersion of ashes has been banned at Sopanakatte, Paschimavahini, Cauvery Sangama, Gosai Ghat and other places till the lockdown is lifted. Action would be taken against those violating the norms, she warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/immersion-of-ashes-banned-in-srirangapatna-979625.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Curfew in place to ward off Covid second wave||Mysuru region has geared up for the 14-day curfew, implemented by the state government, as part of its war against the second wave of Covid-19, from 9 pm on April 27 till 6 am on May 12. However, all essential items will be available from 6 am to 10 am every day, during the next two weeks. The police personnel will ensure that the people follow the Covid curfew, along with additional forces like Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP), District Armed Reserve (DAR) and the City Armed Reserve (CAR). However, the personnel, both civil and traffic, above 55 years of age have been relaxed from duties, during the period, according to the officials. Barricades have been erected across roads, to check unnecessary movement of vehicles. Though there was no panic-buying of groceries and other items, like the previous lockdown, last year, people were seen lining up before supermarkets and departmental stores to purchase essential items. There were people at liquor outlets, though the government has permitted them to open from 6 am to 10 am. While hundreds of people are returning to Mysuru from other parts of the state, it is vice-versa also in Mysuru. Hundreds of people, including students and migrant labourers, were leaving to their respective native places, suspecting that the curfew might be extended, if the pandemic does not come under control. It may be mentioned that the government issued orders, suspending public transport like KSRTC buses, private buses and cabs from 9 pm on Tuesday, except for emergencies. The situation was similar in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts. In Mandya, the district administration has started a 24x7 helpline service for farmers and other labourers. The farmers can use the helpline for selling their crop, transport and market their produce. The farmers may contact the helpline for any problem, by calling 08232-225734. Similarly, the Labour department has started a helpline to support construction workers, organised and migrant workers. The contractors and owners should take all measures like providing food, accommodation, water and other facilities to workers. The labourers may call helpline 155214.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/curfew-in-place-to-ward-off-covid-second-wave-979626.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru dist reports highest-ever 2,042 Covid positive cases||Mysuru district reported the highest- ever of 2,042 new Covid-19 positive cases, besides nine deaths, on Tuesday. With this, the total Covid positive cases increased to 70,297 and deaths to 1,169. Among the 2,042 new Covid positive patients, 1,573 are contacts of earlier Covid patients, while 449 are with Influenza like illness and 20 are with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). As 679 patients were discharged on Tuesday, the total active cases in Mysuru district were 7,257. There was a spurt in positive cases in Hassan district with 738 cases reported on Tuesday. The total positive cases is 36,360. There are 4,898 active cases. Ten deaths were reported on the day taking the total to 536. Chamarajanagar reported 217 positive cases taking the total to 9,792. There are 1,770 active cases. Two deaths were reported and total death is 128. Mandya reported 737 cases. With this, the total increased to 27,240. There are 4,441 active cases. Total death is 193 with zero death on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-dist-reports-highest-ever-2042-covid-positive-cases-979627.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||No shortage of oxygenated beds in district, reiterates Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Tuesday reiterated that there was no shortage of oxygenated beds in hospitals in the district. The minister’s statement is contrary to the claims that those suffering from Covid-19 and other ailments are not getting admissions, oxygenated beds, ventilators and ICU facilities. Speaking to reporters after visiting JSS Hospital to study the situation at the hospital, Somashekar said, “Remdesivir is provided in sufficient doses to government hospitals and private hospitals where patients referred by the government hospitals are treated. It is supplied based on the demand to the hospitals registered with Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust. The problems in the remaining private hospitals will be solved in a couple of days.” “On Monday, 378 doses were received. For Tuesday, 2,000 doses of Remdesivir is needed. We have submitted details of requirements to the State government. We will get sufficient doses shortly,” the minister said. “We have sought 100 more oxygenated beds. The hospital management has responded positively. There is no shortage of oxygen in JSS Hospital. Other private hospitals have similarly earmarked 20% to 50% beds. All of them are cooperating to fight against the pandemic,” he said. “In Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, steps are taken to increase oxygenated beds. The oxygenated beds are not required for all Covid-19 patients. However, all patients are expecting oxygenated beds. The doctors will decide which patient needs an oxygenated bed and who needs a bed in the ICU,” he said. The minister requested Suttur seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami to provide around 500 beds in the hospitals of the Mutt to tackle the Covid crisis. Somashekar said that the JSS Hospital had already earmarked 411 beds to the patients referred by the Health department. He warned that stringent action would be taken against hospitals for charging more for beds, facilities and treatment. The minister appealed to the people to follow the guidelines during the 14-day curfew to check the spread of the virus. He chaired a meeting of district-level officers of all departments at the Zilla Panchayat Hall to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and to discuss course of action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-shortage-of-oxygenated-beds-in-district-reiterates-somashekar-979628.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysureans welcome curfew to check spread pandemic||A section of the citizens of Mysuru have welcomed the imposition of the curfew in view of checking the spread of Covid-19 infection. S Meghana, an entrepreneur and a resident of Basaveshwara Road, said, “Lockdown, due to Covid-19, last year, had Central regulations. However, the curfew now is imposed by the state government. Lockdown had uniform rules and restrictions. Now, in Karnataka, with a few relaxations, curfew seems not so effective, in controlling the spread of Covid.” “The government can issue guidelines and try their implementation to an extent. But, the responsibility of the people is more. They should adhere to the guidelines. In case of marriages, the government has allowed 50 persons. But, in most of the cases, we see more people. Thus, the government should have taken more stringent measures, rather than giving relaxations,” she said. Karthik Prasad, a businessman of Srirampura, said, “During Lockdown, construction activities were not allowed. This time, it is an advantage in terms of business. But, labourers’ gathering may be dangerous, in view of their health and safety. Imposition of a complete lockdown was necessary for at least 30 days. As there is an increase in Covid deaths, people should stay at home, following Covid norms.” Meenaz Anjum, a business development manager, a resident of Ragavendra Nagar, said, “Lockdown is necessary to check the spread of coronavirus. Although the government has taken this decision, after a lot of dilly-dallying, it is a wise decision. People should maintain social-distancing at public places and should not come out of their houses, with lame excuses. Let us all cooperate with the government, by following the rules, to break the chain of coronavirus.” Pranam Gowda, a financier and a resident of Allanahalli Layout, said, “The second wave of Covid seems graver than the first wave, as there is a scarcity of oxygen and huge demand for beds in hospitals. A complete lockdown was needed.” “The government should have taken a decision, earlier. But, better late than never. During lockdown, people survived without liquor shops, which was not necessary now. Since the present situation is worsening, people should not make excuses to come out of their houses,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysureans-welcome-curfew-to-check-spread-pandemic-979629.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||People urged to check breeding of mosquitoes||District Vector Borne Disease Control Officer Dr S Chidambara has urged the people to ensure that there is no stagnant water in pits, vessels and scrap materials, as cases of dengue, chikungunya and malaria, which spread due to mosquito bite, are being reported in Mysuru city and also in other parts of Mysuru district. Dr S Chidambara, also District Surveillance Officer said that mosquitoes breed in stagnant water and their breeding increases after rains due to availability of stagnant water. “People’s support and participation is needed to check the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes that spread dengue and chikungunya. Water stored in cement tanks, barrels and drums should be covered. Scrap materials like used tyres and coconut shells should be disposed of properly, so that water does not collect in them. Mosquito nets and mosquito repellants should be used as a precautionary measure,” he said. “As dengue can be fatal, no fever should be neglected. Whoever is suffering from fever should consult doctors in their neighbourhood and get appropriate tests done for treatment. The Health and Family Welfare department has formed a Rapid Task Force, to tackle the menace of mosquitoes and mosquito larvae. Its members will visit each household, to create awareness,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-urged-to-check-breeding-of-mosquitoes-979630.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid deaths in Kolar: 2 medical officers suspended||Two officers, including the district surgeon, have been suspended in connection with the death of five Covid patients at District SNR Hospital in Kolar. The deaths occurred on Monday. Soon after coming to know of the deaths, District In-charge and Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar rushed to the hospital to take stock of the situation. He ordered the immediate suspension of District Surgeon Dr S G Narayanaswamy and Resident Medical Officer, Dr Narayanaswamy, pending departmental inquiry.  The minister, who held an overnight meeting with medical staff took serious exception for not putting into use 40 ventilators supplied to the SNR Hospital. “It’s a herculean task to get even one ventilator in Bengaluru,” he fumed. “There have been some lapses in treating Covid patients at the district hospital. It is wrong to allow the family members of the patient stay in the ICU. I have not seen such facility in any other hospital,” Sudhakar said. The minister said that there had been no lapse in the supply of oxygen to the hospital. The patients passed away since they came to the hospital at the last minute, in a critical condition. He said he would monitor Covid situation in the district on a daily basis. Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan visited the district on Tuesday and held a meeting with the officials about the Covid situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-deaths-in-kolar-2-medical-officers-suspended-979655.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||400-day bar on tourists helped Bylakuppe Tibetan colony banish Covid-19 at borders||While the whole state is under a close down due to the second wave of Covid-19, the Tibetan settlement in Bylakuppe in Periyapatna taluk of the district, on Tuesday, successfully completed the 400th day of the lockdown initiated last year. The Tibetan settlement has been able to handle the raging second wave well compared to the rest of the state. There are around 37,000 Tibetans living in exile in five settlements across Karnataka. But the number of Covid positive active cases there are far less, a testimony to their diligence in following Covid norms. The Buddhist monks have extended their cooperation in following the guidelines. The lockdown will continue till normal days are back. Even though the government relaxed the lockdown norms in phases in October last year, bringing normalcy across the state, the authorities in the Tibetan settlement in Bylakuppe decided to continue keeping the Buddhist monasteries closed, to keep visitors away.  Monks’ movement curbed The Buddhist Monks Charitable Trust issued orders, banning the entry of tourists to the temple and also restricted the monks from moving around on the premises. This disappointed hundreds of tourists who used to visit the Buddhist temples, including the golden temple, where entry is free in normal times. Covid positive cases are negligible in the settlement as strict rules are being followed inside there since last year.  According to a settlement officer in Bylakuppe, they took all measures to help the Tibetans to keep Covid in check. The monasteries inside the settlements were closed for outsiders after the first lockdown was announced in March 2020. “We had plans to open them this year, but then we had the second wave. However, it is open for the monks. Wearing masks is made compulsory and those eligible have taken vaccination,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/400-day-bar-on-tourists-helped-bylakuppe-tibetan-colony-banish-covid-19-at-borders-979673.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress to set up helpline, control room for Covid care||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) will soon establish a helpline and a control room for Covid care in the state, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said Tuesday. The party leaders and volunteers will work in tandem to ensure beds, ambulances, medicines, and food for those in crisis. It will also depute doctors for consultation. Further, for those who have lost their loved ones, it will help with cremation arrangements, the Congress leader said. "The party will keep aside politics for now and will work to serve the people," he added. The initiative is based on directions issued by AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala. Interacting with the state leaders through a video conference, the party's national leader said the Karnataka government has failed to provide infrastructure for Covid care, be it an ambulance, medicine, or necessary infrastructure for cremation, he alleged.  At such a time, the Congress party has to step in and ensure that people get help on time, Surjewala urged the party members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-to-set-up-helpline-control-room-for-covid-care-979642.html
27-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||JSW land sale: Kumaraswamy slams BJP's 'double standards'||A day after the state cabinet approved the sale of land to JSW steel, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has accused the BJP of double standards. Reacting to the cabinet decision, Kumaraswamy said the BJP had organised dharnas and accused the JD(S)-Congress coalition government headed by him of receiving ‘kickbacks,’ when it was proposed to sanction land to the company. “The party today is ready to do what it opposed earlier. The BJP’s culture is to oppose things only for the sake of opposition. It is singing a different tune today,” the JD(S) leader said. Taking to Twitter, the former chief minister said minister Anand Singh, who was then in the Congress, had called Jindal, East India Company. “He had written a letter against Jindal to the then home minister. Today, he is part of the cabinet which gave approval to land being sanctioned to the company,” he alleged.  Also, back then, Congress leader H K Patil, who was part of the coalition, was against the proposal. He had released documents pertaining to the issue. “Where are those documents and why is he silent now?” Kumaraswamy said. As per norms, the lease-cum-sale based land has to be converted into an absolute sale deed. The coalition government had proposed the same. However, BJP kicked up a row for no reason. It seems like the BJP has finally understood the issue now, he remarked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jsw-land-sale-kumaraswamy-slams-bjps-double-standards-979651.html
27-04-2021||Main Article||Why is the BJP desperate to win the Bengal battle?||Many have been surprised by the vehemence and the consequent turbulence that the Bengal elections of 2021 have created. There is a clear desperation that the BJP seems to display. Why? What indeed is at stake? There are various theories, but what is of crucial significance is the attack on the culture of Bengal. Let us try to put it in perspective. Surely Bengal is not any more important in purely political terms than other similarly sized states within India. Why then this remarkable frontal attack? Why the battering of the Bengal fortress? The Prime Minister himself, no less, has been in Bengal every second day; his role as the administrative leader of the nation gone for a toss. Perhaps a promise had to be fulfilled, of a Congress-mukt Bharat. But in Bengal it is only the TMC, not the original ‘culprit’. Why then the desperation of trench warfare, as it were, that we have seen over the last two months in West Bengal?  Does the history of modern Bengal tell us anything? In West Bengal today, one woman, with just a couple of associates, has been fighting the “outsider”, represented by the prime minister, home minister, defence minister, a host of other ministers and the various turncoats who brought this situation to pass. It is perhaps apposite that it is happening in Bengal today, a reminder of the irruption of outsiders into Bengal and India, through Robert Clive, an East India Company employee. In June 1757, at Palashi, the East India Company defeated the Nawab of Bengal, Siraj-Ud-Daulah, with the help of a conspirator Mir Jafar, who belonged to the Nawab’s court, and a few others of his ilk. Robert Clive, incidentally, left India with an enormous personal fortune. But that is too distant a link. In 1905, Bengal was divided by the wily British, based largely on religious lines but the essentially non-religious culture of Bengal exploded in a frenzy of opposition to the partition. Some of the greatest patriotic writings of Bengal came in those times. Rabindranath Tagore wrote ‘Amar Shonar Bangla’, ‘my golden Bengal’, which today is the national anthem of Bangladesh. Dwijendralal Roy wrote ‘Dhana dhaanya pushpa bhora’ – the sentiment was that the land of his birth was ‘the queen amongst all nations’. Tagore also wrote ‘Banglar mati, Banglar jal’, a song praying for the unity of Bengal’s heart and soul. Clearly, the cultural ethos of Bengali intellectualism had retained its hold over religious thought. And yet, the disempowering of Bengal was not over. In 1911, at the Delhi Durbar, Emperor George V announced that the capital of India would be shifted to New Delhi. But the pride of Bengali intellectualism remained. It is that pride in that erudition that made the heart and soul of Bengal. As a Bengali, born and brought up outside Bengal, I was encouraged to read the literature of Bengal, as indeed were most Bengalis of our generation. Tagore, Sarat Chandra, Bankim Chandra, Bibhuti Bhushan, Jibanananda Das and Syed Mujtaba Ali, all gems of modern Bengali literature. There is no nonsense poetry like Sukumar Roy’s elsewhere in India. And certainly some of India’s best children’s literature came from Bengal. But literature was not all; art and, in time, cinema flourished. There was pride in Bengali thought; in its sensibility in “Bengaliness”. It is this culture that is now being invaded. Even Bengali cuisine, another aspect of Bengali pride, was attacked by some Hindutva forces three years ago, for relishing non-vegetarian food during Durga Puja. We now have had the election-time spectacle of what has been humorously called a shuttle service from Delhi to Kawlkata. The Prime Minister made only token visits to the south and even to Assam. But every second day, in Bengal, we have had the spectacle of speech after speech by the Prime Minister himself, even when polling was on in some nearby district. The Home Minister has virtually camped for days on end in Bengal, leading spectacular roadshows but reminding us, wrongly, that Tagore was born in Shantiniketan. What then can be the reason for such an onslaught? Was it to capture the land of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, who, at one time at the helm of the Hindu Mahasabha, joined forces with the Muslim League to become Finance Minister under Fazlul Haque? The same Shyama Prasad Mookherjee who started the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, the precursor to the BJP? But with the abrogation of Article 370, the BJP had fulfilled one dream of its founding father. What then? Perhaps more than a Congress-mukt Bharat, it is now the ambition of an Opposition-mukt India. And the TMC is one of the few stumbling blocks in its way. Political violence One of the characteristics of totalitarianism is its disdain for intellectual capacity; its anti-liberalism. Perhaps Bengal is the last bastion of liberal forces and a putsch is required. What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow, said an admiring Gokhale. Perhaps that cannot be allowed any longer? There has been criticism of the lumpenisation of Bengal, not entirely unjustified, but surely much of today’s India is not an epitome of “bhadro” behaviour. Certainly, the TMC is no innocent babe. But the BJP is not either. There has been political violence in Bengal in the past certainly, but the causes were different. Ultimately, the violence in Bengal’s electoral politics of 2021, unlike in the past, can only be explained by the desperate desire to control the intellectual capacity of the state and its people. In May 2019, BJP workers shattered, at the Presidency College, Kolkata, a famous statue of Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, the pool of knowledge as he was called, the greatest Bengali intellectual and social reformer of his time. That vandalism, surely, was no accident. ( The writer was formerly Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Government of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/why-is-the-bjp-desperate-to-win-the-bengal-battle-979320.html
27-04-2021||National||Gujarat gasps for oxygen: Needs 1,500 MT oxygen per day but gets 975 MT||Gujarat is getting only 975 metric tons (MT) medical oxygen for its coronavirus infected patients from the central government, which is monitoring and allocating medical oxygen to states, against the demand of 1000 MT. Ten days ago, the state government had shot off a letter to the central government seeking 1500 MT oxygen supply shortly in view of rising coronavirus cases in the state. The demand is yet to be materialised. The data reveals how the state is gasping for medical oxygen supply across the hospitals where, according to various reports, patients have been dying due to lack of oxygen.   The data was shared by the state government in an affidavit filed in Gujarat High Court on Monday in response to a suo moto public interest litigation. It said that out of a total of 1.21 lakh active coronavirus cases, as of Monday, nearly 42 per cent of them, over 52,000 patients, are on oxygen support. The cases include patients in ICU with ventilators, patients who are on ventilators without ICU and patients who are on oxygen support of different forms such as cannula, mask, BIPEP, among others. The affidavit stated that till April 24, the total consumption of medical oxygen in all hospitals in the state was 1,000 metric tons. On April 23, 1,000 MT oxygen got consumed against the production of 1,000 MT. The demand is increasing with every passing day in view of the daily rise in Covid-19 cases by four to six per cent, the affidavit has stated. In a letter dated April 16, addressed to Guruprasad Mohapatra, secretary to government of India, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, Gujarat chief secretary Anil Mukin has written, "A total of eight manufacturers are currently manufacturing 1,100 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the state... However, the current Covid-19 situation has warranted an increase in the oxygen demand that is unprecedented. Apart from meeting the requirements of the state, Gujarat is also supplying around 100 metric tonnes of medical oxygen to the neighbouring states (like Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh). Looking at the current demand and supply forecast, the state will require approximately 1,500 metric tonnes of medial oxygen shortly...."   The affidavit, filed by principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi, stated, "With this wave of Covid, the state has seen a drastic rise in demand for medical oxygen. While consumption of medical oxygen was 58 tons on 15.03.2021 it increased to 155 tons on 01.04.2021 and since then has been increasing derity 8-9% on average." The affidavit claims that the government had "anticipated well in advance the need for medical oxygen and strengthened the production facilities." "The State has created a mechanism for dynamically projecting need of medical oxygen for next week and is sharing information with government of India so that future shortfall can be organised from other states or from the planned import of oxygen by government of India. Given the constraint of medical oxygen across the country, the state government is working on oxygen use optimisation," the affidavit added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-gasps-for-oxygen-needs-1500-mt-oxygen-per-day-but-gets-975-mt-979304.html
27-04-2021||National||Amid Covid catastrophe, world responds to India's distress call||Oxygen generators from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Raw material for coronavirus vaccines from the United States. Millions in cash from companies led by Indian American businessmen. As a second wave of the pandemic rages in India, the world is coming to the rescue. But it is unlikely to plug enough holes in India’s sinking health care system to fully stop the deadly crisis that is underway, and the health emergency has global implications for new infections worldwide, as well as for countries relying on India for the AstraZeneca vaccine. “It’s a desperate situation out there,” said Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, the founder and director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, adding that donations will be welcome, but may only make a “limited dent on the problem.” In the early months of 2021, the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi acted as if the coronavirus battle had been won, holding huge campaign rallies and permitting thousands to gather for a Hindu religious festival. Now, Modi is striking a far more sober tone. He said in a nationwide radio address on Sunday that India has been “shaken” by a “storm.” Patients are suffocating in the capital, New Delhi, and other cities because hospitals’ oxygen supplies have run out. Frantic relatives have appealed on social media for leads on intensive-care unit beds and experimental drugs. Funeral pyres have spilt over into parking lots and city parks. Now, Modi appears to be looking to the rest of the world to help India quell its seemingly unstoppable coronavirus wave. A global coronavirus surge, largely driven by the devastation in India, continues to break daily records and run rampant in much of the world, even as vaccinations steadily ramp up in wealthy countries. More than 1 billion shots have now been given globally. On Sunday, the world’s seven-day average of new cases hit 774,404, according to a New York Times database, higher than the peak average during the last global surge, in January. Despite the number of shots given around the world, far too few of the global population of nearly 8 billion have been vaccinated to slow the virus’s steady spread.  Vaccinations have been highly concentrated in wealthy nations: 82% of shots worldwide have been given in high- and upper-middle-income countries, according to data compiled by the Our World in Data project. Only 0.2% of doses have been administered in low-income countries. On Monday, India broke the world record for daily coronavirus infections for a fifth consecutive day, reporting nearly 353,000 new cases. And it added 2,812 deaths to its overall toll of more than 195,000, which experts say may be a vast undercount. Earlier this month, Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine-maker, made a direct appeal to President Joe Biden on Twitter, asking him to “lift the embargo” on raw material used to make Covid-19 vaccines.   Tim Manning, the White House Covid-19 supply coordinator, said Monday on Twitter that the US Defense Production Act, which Biden invoked in March, did not equate to an embargo. “Companies are able to export,” Manning tweeted. “In fact, companies that supply our vaccine manufacturing export their product all across the world.” “There is just more global manufacturing happening everywhere than the suppliers can support,” he added. Facing increased pressure, the White House said Sunday that it had removed impediments to the export of raw materials for vaccines and would also supply India with therapeutics, test kits, ventilators and personal protective gear. “Just as India sent assistance to the United States as our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, we are determined to help India in its time of need,” Biden said on Twitter. The Biden administration then said Monday that it would share up to 60 million AstraZeneca doses from its stockpile with other countries in the coming months, so long as they clear a safety review being conducted by the Food and Drug Administration. The US surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy, who announced the plan on Twitter, did not specify which countries would receive those doses. Members of Congress had lobbied Biden to donate the AstraZeneca vaccine to India, since there is no shortage for Americans who want to be vaccinated with the three vaccines that have been authorized for emergency use. The extent of support the president offers India could lay the foundation for a Biden-Modi relationship at a time when the United States and China are both jockeying for influence with India and greater access to its enormous market. Biden’s response to India at its time of crisis has come under scrutiny, raising questions of how far the administration has actually moved away from former President Donald Trump’s “America First” foreign policies. The Serum Institute did not respond to questions about the White House’s announcement. Between bouts of the pandemic, when Modi’s government thought the worst was behind it, India enacted a policy of vaccine diplomacy, selling or donating 66.4 million doses. In late March as the domestic caseload began to creep upward, Modi suddenly stopped exports, crippling the vaccination campaigns of other countries reliant on made-in-India vaccine. The Indian government is now holding back nearly all of the 2.4 million doses produced daily by the Serum Institute, one of the world’s largest producers of the AstraZeneca vaccine. So far, only the US has offered to fill some of the shortage. Still, vaccine shortages have hobbled India’s effort to protect its people. Only about 2% of the population has been fully inoculated. Several other countries have also stepped up to offer support to India. Britain pledged medical equipment, including 495 oxygen concentrators (devices that can extract oxygen from ambient air and provide it to patients) and 140 ventilators. France and Australia are considering sending oxygen supplies. Even Pakistan, with which India has fought several wars and maintains chilly relations, has offered X-ray machines, ventilators and other aid, its foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, said. Two Indian American businessmen — the chief executive of Microsoft, Satya Nadella, and the Google chief, Sundar Pichai — have both said that their companies will provide financial assistance to India. “Devastated to see the worsening Covid crisis in India,” Pichai wrote on Twitter, pledging $18 million to aid groups working in the country. Indian officials have also been making direct requests of other countries. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, India’s external affairs minister, tweeted last week about his meeting with Margrethe Vestager, the European Commission executive vice president who oversees digital policy. On Sunday, the European Union announced that it would provide oxygen and medicines. “The EU is pooling resources to respond rapidly to India’s request for assistance via the EU Civil Protection Mechanism,” Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, said on Twitter. Jaishankar’s spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on the assistance promised to India, but experts said it could only do so much. In many cases, India has lagged behind other countries with its preparedness measures and ability to scale up care, triaging resources like oxygen that reach patients just in time or not at all. “Early and aggressive investments were absolutely necessary,” said Krishna Udayakumar, an associate professor of global health and director of the Duke Global Health Innovation Center. Unlike the United States and Britain, which signed advance purchase agreements for millions of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine beginning in May last year, India waited until January, and then only bought 15.5 million doses produced by Serum and pharmaceutical company Bharat Biotech — a drop in the ocean for a country of nearly 1.4 billion people. India had indicated as early as September, at the height of the first wave, that it would rely heavily on Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, signing a deal to buy 100 million doses. But Sputnik won’t be available in India until next month at the earliest. If India were to dramatically ramp up its vaccine manufacturing capacity and give emergency authorization to other vaccine-makers, it could potentially curb the worst effects of the second wave. “This is the only long-term solution,” Laxminarayan said. “India has the capability to do it, if the country puts its mind to it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-catastrophe-world-responds-to-indias-distress-call-979342.html
27-04-2021||National||Two Army soldiers killed in avalanche in Siachen||Two soldiers were killed after an avalanche hit an army post in Siachen, Ladakh, sources said. They said an avalanche hit the patroling party in sub-sector Haneef on Sunday afternoon, trapping a group of soldiers and porters "The soldiers were rescued  but two of them later succumbed. Other soldiers and porters who were also in the area when the avalanche struck are stable and out of danger," the sources said. This was the third incident at Siachen this month. Earlier, on April 14, a junior commissioned officer was killed. Hundreds of soldiers have died at Siachen, considered as highest battlefield in the world, due to the harsh weather conditions since India moved its troops into the area in the mid-1980s following conflict with Pakistan over the disputed region. At Siachen glacier, which is at the height of around 20,000 ft in the Karakoram range, soldiers have to battle frostbite and high winds. Avalanches and landslides are common at the glacier and temperatures can drop to as low as minus 60 degrees Celsius during winters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-army-soldiers-killed-in-avalanche-in-siachen-979347.html
27-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Vote for PM-CARES-funded 551 oxygen plants!||The Centre on Sunday approved setting up 551 dedicated pressure swing adsorption oxygen generation plants at government-run district hospitals, with instructions to make them operational as soon as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-vote-for-pm-cares-funded-551-oxygen-plants-979349.html
27-04-2021||National||Govt appoints Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth on RBI board||The Reserve Bank on Monday said the government has appointed Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth on the central bank's board. Seth replaces Tarun Bajaj, who was appointed as Revenue Secretary earlier this month. A 1987-batch Karnataka cadre IAS officer, Seth assumed charge of the Department of Economic Affairs last week. "The Central Government has nominated Ajay Seth, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India as a Director on the Central Board of Reserve Bank of India vice Tarun Bajaj," the RBI said in a statement. The nomination of Seth is effective from April 24, 2021, and until further orders, it said. In addition to the Economic Affairs Secretary, the other government nominee director on the central board is Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-appoints-economic-affairs-secretary-ajay-seth-on-rbi-board-979353.html
27-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 27||India on Tuesday reported 3,23,144 new coronavirus infections, the lowest since April 21. This is the sixth day in a row that India reported over 3 lakh single-day Covid-19 cases. Coronavirus in India: Total number of active cases: 28,82,204 as of April 27, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,92,311 as of April 27, 2021   No. of people discharged: 1,45,56,209 Total Vaccination: 14,52,71,186 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-27-979361.html
27-04-2021||National||Import of mosquito killer racket banned if price below Rs 121||The government on Monday banned imports of mosquito killer racket if the price is below Rs 121 per racket, a move aimed at discouraging inbound shipments of the product. A notification regarding this has been issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). "Import policy of mosquito killer racket....is revised from 'free' to 'prohibited' if CIF (cost, insurance, freight) value is below Rs 121 per racket," DGFT said in a notification. In another notification, the Directorate imposed curbs on imports of melon seeds. Now, the product has been put under a restricted category, which means an importer would need to seek licence or permission from the DGFT for the imports. "Import policy of melon seeds....has been revised from 'free' to 'restricted' subject to the revised policy condition," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/import-of-mosquito-killer-racket-banned-if-price-below-rs-121-979364.html
27-04-2021||National||Medical supplies flow into India as Covid-19 deaths near 2L||Vital medical supplies poured into India on Tuesday as hospitals starved of oxygen supplies and beds turned away coronavirus patients, while a surge in infections pushed the death toll towards 200,000. Supplies from Britain, including 100 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators, arrived in Delhi, said Reuters partner ANI, while France is sending oxygen generators able to provide 250 patients with a year's supply of the gas, its embassy said. Even China, locked in a year-long military standoff with India on their disputed Himalayan border, said it was trying to get medical supplies to its neighbour. "We will encourage and guide Chinese companies to actively cooperate with India...," embassy spokesman Wang Xiaojian said in a statement on its website. The first "Oxygen Express" train pulled into New Delhi, the capital, carrying about 70 tonnes of life-saving gas from an eastern state, but the crisis has not abated in the city of 20 million at the epicentre of the latest wave of infections. The shortage of oxygen is the main concern, said Dr K. Preetham, an administrator at the Indian Spinal Injuries Centre. "For seven days, most of us haven't slept," he told Reuters. "Because of the scarcity, we are forced to put two patients on one cylinder." India's 323,144 new cases over the past 24 hours stood below a worldwide peak of 352,991 hit on Monday, while 2,771 deaths took the toll to 197,894. Fewer infections were largely due to a drop in testing, said health economist Rijo M John of the Indian Institute of Management in the southern state of Kerala. "This should not be taken as an indication of falling cases, rather a matter of missing out on too many positive cases," he said on Twitter. Kumbh crowds Delhi is in lockdown until May 3, a measure adopted by the southern state of Karnataka and the worst-hit state of Maharashtra, although some states had been set to lift curbs this week. The uneven curbs, complicated by local elections and mass gatherings such as the months-long Kumbh Mela, or pitcher festival, could drive breakouts elsewhere. About 20,000 devout Hindus gathered on the banks of the Ganges river in the northern city of Haridwar on the last auspicious day of the festival for a bath they believe will wash away their sins. "We believe Mother Ganga will protect us," said a woman on the riverbank, where Reuters images showed people bathing with few signs of distancing measures, despite calls to be careful. Tuesday's turnout was low, however, said Sanjay Gunjyal, a police official handling the arrangements, compared to the hundreds of thousands in previous weeks, as the crisis prompted many monk groups to limit participants to "symbolic" numbers. India has turned to its armed forces for help fighting the crisis as new infections have topped 300,000 since April 21. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged all citizens to get vaccinated amid the "storm" of infections. But in some of the worst-hit cities, bodies were being cremated in makeshift facilities in parks and parking lots while television channels showed images of bodies crammed into an ambulance in the western city of Beed as transport ran short. 'Worse before it gets better' India has converted hotels and railway coaches into critical care facilities, but experts warn the next crisis will be a shortage of healthcare professionals. "Unfortunately beds do not treat patients - doctors, nurses and paramedics do," said Devi Shetty, a cardiac surgeon and chairman of the Narayana Health chain of hospitals. The Indian Medical Association said private hospitals would have to shut in Surat, a centre of the diamond trade in the western state of Gujarat, if they did not get oxygen supplies soon. "We fear a law-and-order situation might ensue," it added. Companies ranging from conglomerates such as Tata Group and Reliance Industries Ltd to Jindal Steel and Power have stepped forward to help supply medical oxygen. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has warned that the Indian economy, the world's sixth largest, could falter as a result of the spike in cases, creating a drag for the global economy. "We expect that this could get worse before it gets better," said its vice president, Myron Brilliant. Australia halted direct passenger flights from India until May 15, joining a growing list of nations adopting curbs to keep out more virulent variants. Vaccine uncertainty  India, with a population of about 1.3 billion, has a tally of 17.64 million infections, but experts believe it runs much higher. Vaccine demand has outpaced supply, partly because of a shortage of raw materials and a fire at a facility making the AstraZeneca shot. Supply uncertainty could force the western state of Maharashtra to postpone the inoculation of those aged between 18 and 45, a government official said. India had planned to allow vaccination for all adults from May. India is negotiating with the United States, which has said it will share 60 million doses of AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine with other countries. "Major lobbying is on...to secure as much as possible," a senior official participating in the talks told Reuters, adding that Modi had been assured of priority for India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-supplies-flow-into-india-as-covid-19-deaths-near-2l-979373.html
27-04-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases dip slightly with 3.23L new infections, 2,771 deaths||India's new coronavirus cases stayed above 300,000 for a sixth consecutive day on Tuesday, while its armed forces pledged urgent medical aid to help battle the staggering spike in infections. Over the past 24 hours, India recorded 323,144 new cases, below Monday's worldwide peak of 352,991, with overrun hospitals continuing to turn away patients due to a shortage of beds and oxygen supplies. It reported 2,771 new deaths, but health experts believe the tally runs significantly higher. "Please note that a huge fall in daily cases ... is largely due to a heavy fall in testing. This should not be taken as an indication of falling cases, rather a matter of missing out on too many positive cases!" Rijo M John, a professor and health economist at the Indian Institute of Management Kerala, said in a post on Twitter. Several countries, including Thailand, Singapore, Bangladesh and Britain, have taken steps to curb travel from India to prevent more virulent virus variants from entering their borders.  The situation in the world's second-most populous country is "beyond heartbreaking", World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. India has called on its armed forces to help tackle the devastating crisis. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said late on Monday that oxygen would be released from armed forces reserves and retired medical personnel would join health facilities that are struggling under the strain of cases. Nations including Britain, Germany, and the United States have pledged urgent medical aid, while Indian Americans in US Congress and the technology sector have also joined forces to boost aid. The United States has said it will share 60 million doses of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine with other countries. "Major lobbying is on at this point of time to secure as much as possible for India," a senior Indian official part of ongoing negotiations told Reuters, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been assured that India would be given priority. "At this juncture even harshest critics of India are pushing the U.S. regime" to aid India, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-dip-slightly-with-323l-new-infections-2771-deaths-979381.html
27-04-2021||National||'Oxygen Express' with 70 tonnes of oxygen reaches Delhi||The first Oxygen Express train for Delhi carrying around 70 tonnes of the life-saving gas reached the national capital early Tuesday morning, officials said. This oxygen will now be disbursed by the Delhi government to various hospitals, they said. "#OxygenExpress has reached Delhi from Raigarh, Chhattisgarh with Oxygen for patients in the capital. Indian Railways is leaving no stone unturned in our collective fight against Covid-19, & ensuring sufficient availability of life-saving resources across the country," tweeted Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Earlier, the railways had said that it has chalked out plans to transport medical oxygen from Angul, Kalingnagar, Rourkela and Raigarh to Delhi and NCR region, however, there is no information on the second train to the capital city. Delhi recorded the highest single-day rise in its Covid-19 death toll with 380 more people succumbing to the infection on Monday, while the positivity rate stood at over 35 per cent, according to the bulletin issued by the city health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-express-with-70-tonnes-of-oxygen-reaches-delhi-979388.html
27-04-2021||National||May Lord Hanuman's blessings be always upon us in fight against Covid: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday invoked Lord Hanuman’s blessings, hoping it would help the country in the “continuing fight” against the Covid-19 pandemic. Greeting the people on Hanuman Jayanti, Modi tweeted: "The holy occasion of Hanuman jayanti is the day to recall the spirit of compassion and dedication of Lord Hanuman. I wish that his blessings are always upon us in the continuing fight against the Covid pandemic.” हनुमान जयंती का पावन अवसर भगवान हनुमान की करुणा और समर्पण भाव को याद करने का दिन है। मेरी कामना है कि कोरोना महामारी के खिलाफ जारी लड़ाई में निरंतर उनका आशीर्वाद प्राप्त होता रहे। साथ ही उनके जीवन और आदर्शों से हमेशा प्रेरणा मिलती रहे। Hanuman is a central figure in the epic Ramayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-lord-hanumans-blessings-be-always-upon-us-in-fight-against-covid-pm-modi-979413.html
27-04-2021||National||Goa court to pronounce verdict in Tarun Tejpal case on May 12||A sessions court in Goa on Tuesday said it will pronounce the verdict in the Tarun Tejpal case on May 12. The former Tehelka editor-in-chief is accused of sexually assaulting a female colleague inside a luxury hotel elevator in Goa in 2013. The additional district court was to pronounce the verdict on Tuesday. Judge Kshama Joshi adjourned the verdict to May 12. Public prosecutor Fransisco Tavares said the judge made the announcement without citing a reason for the verdict postponement. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-court-to-pronounce-verdict-in-tarun-tejpal-case-on-may-12-979432.html
27-04-2021||National||How states are using triage centres to manage the Covid-19 situation||Amid a raging fresh wave of Covid-19 in India, many states are adopting a 'triaging scheme' that involves public sector healthcare bodies and teleconsultation services to help patients find doctors without physically going to hospitals.  States including Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra are using triaging to tackle the potent coronavirus wave that has brought India to a halt. What is triaging? Triage is a method of prioritising patients' care by assigning degrees of seriousness to their illnesses with and without medication. It helps in deciding the order of treatment especially when there is a large number of cases of a particular disease.  Triage centres help in determining whether a Covid patient should be admitted to a hospital, placed under home quarantine, or admitted to a Covid care center. This in turn decreases the burden on hospitals and healthcare workers and makes resources available for those who require it. In Kerala, all Covid-related facilities and consultations are being provided for free by the government. Tamil Nadu has set up triage centers where patients with Covid-19 are being screened to determine the best plan of treatment based on their symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-states-are-using-triage-centres-to-manage-the-covid-19-situation-979435.html
27-04-2021||National||Oxygen shortage: Government imports 20 cryogenic tankers, allocates them to states||The Centre has imported 20 cryogenic tankers of 10 MT and 20 MT capacity and allocated them to states to address the shortage of oxygen tankers in the country as it deals with spiralling cases of Covid-19. As mapping of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from manufacturing plants to different states is a dynamic process and transportation of medical oxygen through cryogenic tankers is becoming a bottleneck in making available LMO from the eastern part of the country to other parts, 20 cryogenic ISO containers of capacity 20 MT and 10 MT have been imported to augment the transportation of oxygen, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways in consultation with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade under the overall guidance of the Empowered Group-II have mapped the allocation of these containers to suppliers in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi, the ministry said in the statement. India is struggling with a second wave of coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-shortage-government-imports-20-cryogenic-tankers-allocates-them-to-states-979436.html
27-04-2021||National||Oxygen supply: Delhi hospitals say situation better, reopen admissions||After days of scrambling for oxygen, hospitals in Delhi on Tuesday said they are in a comparatively better situation in terms of supply and have reopened admissions. Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital, medical facilities across the city and its suburbs put out desperate pleas for help on social media and other platforms last week, flagging their dwindling stock of oxygen. Dr D K Baluja, medical director of Jaipur Golden Hospital said the hospital has enough supply to last the day. "We are in a very comfortable situation today. The daily requirement of oxygen is 3.6 metric tonnes and we have about six tonnes available which will last for the entire day. It is quite a comfortable situation." The hospital also thanked the Delhi government and the Indian Railways for supplying oxygen to it. "We thank @JSPLCorporate @Indianrailway18 for the O2 supplied overnight. We also thank the Delhi government @CMODelhi for the emergency O2 top-up through INOX that we received last night. Together we will overcome this crisis," it said in a tweet. Last week, 20 patients died at the Jaipur Golden Hospital as it ran out of life-saving oxygen. Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director of Batra Hospital said they have reopened admissions. "Thankfully, at present, there's no crisis relating to oxygen supply. Our stock can last up to six to seven hours. The hospital's daily requirement is eight metric tonnes and it has 270 patients admitted currently," he said. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which repeatedly sent out SOS last week over oxygen shortage as lives of hundreds of patients at the facility hung by a thread, received two tonnes of liquid medical oxygen this morning, according to an official. The hospital official asserted that they are in a better situation as compared to "the last few days". Twenty-five Covid-19 patients at the high-profile Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had died last week. Sources said "low pressure oxygen" could be the likely cause of the deaths. Officials at Fortis Healthcare said the situation is stable now and admissions are on. However, an official of a private hospital said the crisis is still there. After days of running around, healthcare facilities now know who to contact for a refill and from where help will arrive, the official said requesting anonymity. The first Oxygen Express train carrying around 70 tonnes of medical oxygen reached Delhi early this morning, officials said. This oxygen will now be disbursed by the Delhi government to various hospitals, they said. PTI GVS/SLB DIV DIV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-supply-delhi-hospitals-say-situation-better-reopen-admissions-979437.html
27-04-2021||National||Oxygen tankers from Thailand arrive in India||Another consignment of containers for the transportation of medical oxygen has arrived in India from Thailand, the Union Home Ministry said on Tuesday. This is the third consignment of empty oxygen containers flown to the country in the Indian Air Force's (IAF) transport aircraft by the home ministry amidst a surge in Covid-19 cases and a subsequent increase in demand for medical oxygen. "Some glimpses of airlift of oxygen containers from Bangkok by IAF last night. The airlift is being coordinated by MHA. It will enhance oxygen availability amid current Covid19 surge," a home ministry spokesperson said in a tweet, sharing pictures of the oxygen containers being loaded into an IAF aircraft. The first consignment of empty oxygen containers was airlifted from Singapore on Saturday. Another batch of containers was brought from Dubai on Monday. All three aircraft carrying the containers landed in West Bengal. From there, they were taken to oxygen generating sites to be filled up and for onward transportation to the high-demand areas, mostly through special trains. India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds as the number of cases rises. The country's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 1,76,36,307 on Tuesday with 3,23,144 more people testing positive for the viral disease. The death toll climbed to 1,97,894 as 2,771 more fatalities were reported, according to Union health ministry data. Since Friday, the home ministry has been coordinating efforts to deploy empty oxygen tankers and containers at various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of life-saving oxygen. The central government is trying to source oxygen from different parts of the country and making it available to the worst-hit states by running special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-tankers-from-thailand-arrive-in-india-979456.html
27-04-2021||National||SC extends limitation period to file cases owing to Covid-19||The Supreme Court decided to extend the period of limitation of filing cases in various legal fora until further orders in view of hardships faced by litigants due to the alarming Covid-19 situation. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna agreed to a plea for relaxing the limitation period. "We have witnessed the second wave of Covid-19 for the past few weeks. It is an alarming situation, which has put litigants to hardship thus all limitation period which was relaxed till March 13, 2021, and all periods of limitation ending on March 14, 2021, should be extended till July 15, 2021," the bench said. Attorney General K K Venugopal, however, asked the court to extend the period of limitation until further orders. An application was filed by SC Advocates-on-Record Association seeking restoration of the previous order of the top court passed in March 2020, whereby it had suo motu directed suspension of the limitation period in view of the pandemic. The bench had then directed to extend a period of limitation, which was ending on March 15, 2020, to "obviate any difficulty and to ensure that lawyers or litigants do not have to come physically to file such proceedings in respective courts or tribunals across the country including this court". A period of limitation has been prescribed under the general law of limitation or under special laws for filing appeals. However, on March 8, 2021, the court disposed of the Suo Motu matter, saying that, "Though we have not seen the end of the pandemic, there is a considerable improvement. The lockdown has been lifted and the country is returning to normalcy. Almost all the courts and Tribunals are functioning either physically or by virtual mode".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-limitation-period-to-file-cases-owing-to-covid-19-979465.html
27-04-2021||National||Budding poet pens poems to feed the hungry||“You need a customised poem (in Tamil) for Rs 20? Contact me and the money will be spent in feeding the poor,” reads the Instagram profile of Kavin Kumar, a software engineer with Wipro, who calls himself a budding poet. True to the words written on his profile page, the 24-year-old from Tiruchirapalli in Central Tamil Nadu has distributed over 2,200 food packets to the poor and homeless during the weekends since the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020. As Kavin began posting pictures of him feeding the poor, requests flooded his Instagram direct message (DM) with people asking for customised poems for their parents, wife, girlfriends and children. Some Good Samaritans even sent money to Kavin asking him to use them for feeding the needy, without expecting him to pen poems for them. His Instagram id is malalai_kavingan (budding poet.) “It began as a hobby immediately after I joined work. People started asking me for poems, and I charged them Rs 20. I was just doing it for friends and decided to open an Instagram account. That decision of mine is now helping me provide food packets to the needy,” Kavin told DH from Tiruchirapalli, also known as Trichy. With around 36,000 followers on his Instagram page, Kavin says he earned Rs 70,000 so far and has spent everything on feeding the poor. “I began distributing food packets at Teppakulam in Trichy and at one point, we had 150 persons standing in a queue. That prompted me to pen more poems so that I get more money to be spent on buying food packets,” Kavin added. As Kavin spent most of his weekends distributing food packets, he was down with Covid-19 last year. That did not deter him from continuing with his service after recovering. “My mother is a healthcare staff and she encouraged me to keep going. The best part is many began contacting me after getting convinced that I am in fact helping the poor using the money I get. Some would just give money and not expect any poems,” Kavin added. Narmadha from Chennai, who asked Kavin to write a poem for her late mother who succumbed to mouth cancer, said the “budding poet” gives a patient hearing to his customers. "What he wrote was not just a poem. It is a voice of love between me and my mother which I had missed to convey to her," she told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budding-poet-pens-poems-to-feed-the-hungry-979467.html
27-04-2021||National||Gujarat govt announces new curbs, night curfew in 9 more cities||The Gujarat government on Tuesday decided to impose night curfew in nine more cities of the state in a bid to stem the spread of coronavirus. With this, the night curfew is now being enforced in 29 cities of Gujarat. The state government also announced new restrictions in these 29 cities, including closure of restaurants, swimming pools, cinema halls, shopping complexes and water parks, till May 5. It also announced curbs on APMCs, public transport, religious gatherings, funerals and marriage functions across the state. The night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am was already in place since April 7 in 20 cities, including Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara. "Now, the state government has decided to enforce the night curfew in nine more cities - Himmatnagar, Navsari, Veraval, Valsad, Porbandar, Botad, Viramgam, Chhotaudepur and Palanpur - from April 28," an official release said. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani took the decision during a high-level meeting on Tuesday after taking into consideration Union Home Ministry's latest guidelines to control the spread of the coronavirus, it said. Informing further about the new curbs, the release said while essential services and factories will continue to function in these cities, the government has ordered closure of restaurants, swimming pools, cinema halls, shopping complexes and water parks in these 29 cities till May 5. Other establishments like beauty parlours, gardens, salons, gyms, auditoriums and malls would also remain shut in these cities, it said.   Besides all the APMCs (agriculture produce market committees) across the state will also remain closed, and only market yards trading in vegetables and fruits will be allowed to function. All religious places in the state will also remain shut for the public, and only 20 people will be allowed at a funeral, the release said, adding that the upper limit for marriage gatherings is 50. Public transport buses across the state would function with 50 per cent capacity, it added. Gujarat's Covid-19 tally crossed the 5 lakh-mark on Monday to reach 5,10,373 with the addition of 14,340 new cases, the highest rise in a single day so far. With a record 158 fatalities in a day, the Covid-19 toll in Gujarat rose to 6,486, as per the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-announces-new-curbs-night-curfew-in-9-more-cities-979470.html
27-04-2021||National||Indian Navy trains non-medical personnel for Covid-19 emergency||In view of surge in Covid-19 cases, the Southern Naval Command of the Indian Navy is training its non medical personnel to work as force multipliers in times of emergencies. "Indian Navy starts training of non-medical personnel as Battle Field Nursing Assistant (BFNA) at INS Venduruthy under #SNC consequent to the resurgence in Covid19 pandemic", a Defence spokesman said in a tweet on Tuesday. He said currently 80 Indian Navy personnel are being trained every week to augment the BFNA team, so as to be battle ready to assist the civil society in its fight against Covid-19. They are trained in primary nursing, he said. Last year, the Covid core working group of Southern Naval Command had prepared a Training Capsule for BFNA to train non medical personnel. This included basic concepts of hand hygiene, donning and doffing of PPE, concept of biomedical waste management and carriage of casualty. Simple strategies for infection prevention were also dealt with in this course, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-trains-non-medical-personnel-for-covid-19-emergency-979473.html
27-04-2021||National||SC asks Centre to respond on oxygen, vaccine, health infra to fight Covid-19||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought to know from the Centre status of Oxygen requirement and supply, availability of health infrastructure, and essentials like medicines, and vaccines, required to tackle the raging second wave of Covid-19 pandemic across the country. Taking up a Suo Motu matter, a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said, "During the national crisis, the Supreme Court can't be mute spectator. Our intention is not to interdict the High Courts taking up similar matter." The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, clarified the object of the proceedings before the top court was not to supplant the High Courts or to take over from High Courts what they are doing.  "The High Courts are in a better position to monitor what is going on within their territorial boundaries," the court said. On April 22, the top court registered a Suo Motu case as the caseload of Covid-19 surged beyond record 3.14 Lakh and over 2,104 deaths. However, the development was seen as a move to interdict various High Courts from putting the Centre and respective States over dock on handling the situation. On Tuesday, the top court put specific queries to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and fixed the matter for consideration on Friday. During the hearing, the court appointed senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora as amici curiae after senior counsel Harish Salve withdrew on the last date, following "aspersion" cast on his appointment. Among other queries, the court asked the Centre to explain the rationale behind the differential pricing, fixed by manufacturers of Covid vaccine, for the Union government and States, after the West Bengal government's counsel raised the issue. The bench also explained to Mehta, "We are not entering the domain of the executive and only making suggestions... if vaccination is open to above 18 from May 1, we need to know how you are going to meet the increased surge in demand." The court also asked the States to send a response on availability of health infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-on-oxygen-vaccine-health-infra-to-fight-covid-19-979487.html
27-04-2021||National||Dalai Lama contributes to PM-CARES Fund to strengthen India’s fight against Covid-19||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Tuesday announced to make a contribution to the PM-CARES Fund to strengthen India’s fight against the “alarming Covid-19 surge”. "I have been following the continuing challenge that the Covid-19 pandemic has been posing across the world, including in India, with concern," he said in a statement. "At this critical time, during this alarming Covid-19 surge, I have asked the Dalai Lama Trust to make a donation to the PM-CARES Fund as a token of our solidarity with fellow Indian brothers and sisters," he added. "May I take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation for all the efforts that are being made to tackle this devastating pandemic, especially by those courageously working on the frontline. I pray that the pandemic threat will end soon," the spiritual leader said. With 3,23,144 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The Centre had set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund in March 2020 with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the Covid-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-contributes-to-pm-cares-fund-to-strengthen-india-s-fight-against-covid-19-979492.html
27-04-2021||National||'Shooter Dadi' Chandro Tomar contracts coronavirus, admitted to hospital||Octogenarian shooter Chandro Tomar, nicknamed 'Shooter Dadi', has tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to a hospital due to difficulty in breathing. The Twitter page of the 89-year-old legendary shooter, hailing from the Baghpat village in Uttar Pradesh, posted the development. "Dadi Chandro Tomar has tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to a hospital due to breathing problem. God protect all - Family," a tweet on her page read. Chandro was already 60-plus when she picked up the gun for the first time but went on to win many national competitions, even inspiring a Bollywood movie on her life. She is believed to be the oldest woman sharp shooter in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shooter-dadi-chandro-tomar-contracts-coronavirus-admitted-to-hospital-979496.html
27-04-2021||National||Government spent Rs 39 crore on Covid-19 isolation coaches, but states are not using them||A year ago, the Narendra Modi government announced converting 5,601 train coaches as Covid-19 treatment facilities with much fanfare but it appears that states are not keen on availing it as it is not conducive for patients. Around Rs 38.33 crore were spent to convert these "idle coaches" as isolation coaches, according to RTIs filed by DH, though an official statement on Monday evening said only 169 out of the 5,601 coaches are presently in use in various states. In December, the RTIs had said, 813 coaches were provided to states by the Railways as requisitioned by them -- Delhi 503, Uttar Pradesh 270 and Bihar 40 as on December last year. Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, states are, however, not enthusiastic to utilise them as the coaches do not have AC and in scorching summer, they are not preferred even by healthcare professionals. On January 12, the Delhi government in a separate RTI response said that only 856 people were treated in Covid-19 coaches in the national capital till then. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare does not have details of people who were treated in Covid-19 coaches. When it comes to spending on converting the coaches, there was no uniform pattern – RTIs showed that the expenses fluctuated between as low as Rs 6,752.63 per coach in the Nagpur Mechanical Engineering department to Rs 1.22 lakh per coach in Eastern Railways. The aim of converting train coaches to isolation coaches was to augment quarantine and isolation facilities, anticipating that there could be a shortage of hospital beds. A senior Railways official told DH that they have now stationed 4,000 Covid-19 care coaches with 64,000 beds, in various stations in the country, keeping in mind the rush for hospital beds due to the surge in cases. However, the official did not respond to queries on why states are reluctant in seeking coaches. In Delhi, 50 coaches with 800 beds are deployed at Shakurbasti station and Anand Vihar Terminal. At Nandurbar in Maharashtra, 21 coaches with 378 beds are positioned while at Bhopal station, 20 coaches have been positioned. In Punjab, 50 coaches and in Jabalpur 20 coaches will be deployed soon. However, states are not impressed. A senior Delhi government official said that they are not using the coaches now though people are still scrambling for hospital beds. "Delhi is not using any of those coaches. These coaches are non-AC ones and this summer, it will be trouble for patients. At present, we also cannot use it due to shortage of oxygen," the official said. Though states are not that enthused, around 100 responses received to RTIs filed by DH with the Railway Board, Railway Zones and Divisions showed that there were plans to convert 20,000 coaches with 5,000 to be initially converted into isolation coaches. The decision to convert coaches was taken at a video conference meeting held on March 25 last year, the first day of lockdown, while the mention of 20,000 coaches comes in a letter written to all Railway Zonal General Managers five days later. While the initial target was set at 5,000, it was increased to 5,601 by April 6, indicating abrupt changes in plans. While on March 31, 290 coaches were earmarked for conversion in North Central Railways, it was reduced to 130 on April 2 last year while the targets for Southern and East Central Railways were increased the same day. Another change was for Northern Railways, which was intimated on April 6 that its target has been revised from 370 to 520. An official statement issued on Monday evening said that 169 Covid-19 care coaches are in use in different parts of India now. The official statement said new demand for Covid-19 coaches has come from Nagpur district. At Nandrubar in Maharashtra, 57 patients are currently utilising the facility, of which 1 patient was shifted, while 322 beds are still available. In UP, though coaches have not yet been requisitioned by State Govt, 10 coaches each are placed at Faizabad, Bhadohi, Varanasi, Bareli & Nazibabad totalling a capacity of 800 beds (50 coaches).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-spent-rs-39-crore-on-covid-19-isolation-coaches-but-states-are-not-using-them-979501.html
27-04-2021||National||India dismisses Australian paper's criticism of Modi's handling of Covid-19 as 'malicious report'||India on Monday dismissed an Australian newspaper's criticism of PM Narendra Modi-led government's handling of the Covid-19 crisis as a 'malicious report' and asked it to issue a rejoinder. "Urge The Australian to publish the rejoinder to set the record straight on the covid management in India and also refrain from publishing such baseless articles in future," the Indian High Commission in Australia wrote on Twitter, with a photo of a letter sent to the newspaper. Countering the criticism in The Australian's report, the letter hailed India's vaccination drive as the biggest in the world, and stated that the country has upgraded its diagnostics infrastructure. On April 25, The Australian tweeted, "arrogance, hyper-nationalism and bureaucratic incompetence have combined to create a crisis of epic proportions in India, with its crowd-loving PM basking while citizens suffocate. This is the story of how it all went so terribly wrong". The article begins by referring to one of Modi's rallies in West Bengal, where he said "I’ve never seen such huge crowds", as the country reported increasingly high number of daily cases and deaths. Reacting to the report, many Twitter users, unamused by the apparent obsession with optics over the situation, shared images of mass cremations and slammed PM Modi's rallies in West Bengal. Don’t lower the standard of Indian foreign office! Ridiculous that in this hour of crisis our foreign office is more concerned about its global image than its own citizens who are dying outside hospitals in the national capital! Just shameful! Shame on you, HCI Australia..shame. Dear Mr Dore,Today YOU stand on the side of TRUTH. India is with you. Every citizen struggling and dying thanks you for your honest report. 🙏 do not budge from the TRUTH, which you have put forward. Is this what a “restricted election campaign” looks like?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-dismisses-australian-papers-criticism-of-modis-handling-of-covid-19-as-malicious-report-979502.html
27-04-2021||National||France to send oxygen generators, containers as part of Indian-solidarity mission||France on Tuesday announced that it is sending to India oxygen generators, liquid oxygen containers, ventilators and other medical supplies by air and sea to support the country in its fight against surging coronavirus cases.   The French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs said it is carrying out an "exceptional solidarity mission" to assist Indian people following a call for support by French President Emmanuel Macron. "France and India have always stood by each other's side in difficult times. This solidarity is at the core of our strategic partnership and the friendship between the Indian and the French peoples," it said. India is reeling under a devastating wave of coronavirus infections and hospitals across the country are facing acute shortage of beds, medical oxygen and other supplies due to rising Covid-19 cases. The US, Germany, Britain, Australia, Singapore, Israel and several other countries as well as the World Health Organisation and the European Union have already announced urgent medical assistance to India to help it deal with the situation. "At the request of the President of the French Republic, the French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs is fully mobilised to carry out an exceptional solidarity mission in support of the Indian people, who have been severely affected by the Covid-19 epidemic," the ministry said. "Coordinated by the ministry's Crisis and Support Centre and carried out by the Embassy of France in India, the mission will involve shipping by air and sea freight by the end of this week," it said in a statement. French ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said the "massive solidarity mission" is being supported by the European Union and French companies present in India. "This massive solidarity mission, initiated at Prez @EmmanuelMacron's request, is supported by French companies present in India and the EU. It aims to both respond to the emergency and boost the long-term resilience of India's healthcare system," he said in a tweet. The French foreign ministry said the medical supplies will include eight oxygen generators, each capable of uninterrupted supply of oxygen for a 250-bed hospital for nearly 10 years. "Each unit can uninterruptedly supply a 250-bed hospital. Its oxygen output can fulfil the needs of 15 critically ill Covid-19 patients in an ICU (or 30 patients in the ICU of a conventional hospital) or 150 patients on oxygen therapy in a conventional hospital facility. These oxygen generators also include ramps for filling oxygen cylinders," it said. The ministry said five containers of liquid medical oxygen are being sent as part of the first instalment, adding they are capable of supplying medical oxygen to up to 10,000 patients per day. France is also sending to India 28 ventilators and their consumables, as well as 200 electric syringe pumps. The ministry said the supplies are being sent in response to the needs expressed by India's authorities and they are intended to not only to address the emergency but also to significantly boost capabilities of Indian hospitals to "treat the sick and fight the pandemic". It said the package is part of the support announced on Sunday by the European Union under its Civil Protection Mechanism. On Friday, French President Macron expressed solidarity with India and offered his country's support to it. "I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no-one. We stand ready to provide our support," Macron said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-to-send-oxygen-generators-containers-as-part-of-indian-solidarity-mission-979510.html
27-04-2021||National||Senior Congress leader M Satyanarayana Rao passes away||Senior Congress leader and former minister M Satyanarayana Rao died here on Tuesday, party sources said. He was unwell for some time and breathed his last undergoing treatment at the state-run NIMS hospital here at around 2.45 am, they said. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and two sons. Meneni Satyanarayana Rao (88), popularly known as MSR, was born in Vedhira village of Karimnagar district. From 1969 to 1971 MSR took part in the Telangana movement. He served thrice as an MP, was the President of Pradesh Congress Committee in united Andhra Pradesh, was the General Secretary of AICC and was also a minister in Y S Rajashekhar Reddy cabinet. "As a Telangana supporter, MP, minister in the joint state and chairman of the Road Transport Corporation, MSR has displayed a special style and is known as a straight man in politics," Telangana Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao recalled, according to a release from the CM's office. Rao extended his deepest condolences to the family members of the bereaved family. The Chief Minister instructed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to make arrangements to conduct MSRs cremation with official honours. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs GKishan Reddy, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee President and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, Telangana BJP unit President and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar were among several others who mourned MSR's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-congress-leader-m-satyanarayana-rao-passes-away-979511.html
27-04-2021||National||Rush to hospitals, big gatherings worsen India Covid crisis: WHO||Some people in India are rushing unnecessarily to hospital, exacerbating a crisis over surging Covid-19 infections caused by mass gatherings, more contagious variants and low vaccination rates, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday. "Currently, part of the problem is that many people rush to the hospital (also because they do not have access to information/advice), even though home-based care monitoring at home can be managed very safely," WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told Reuters by email.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rush-to-hospitals-big-gatherings-worsen-india-covid-crisis-who-979514.html
27-04-2021||National||Vajpayee's niece, ex-MP Karuna Shukla dies of Covid-19||Congress leader and former MP Karuna Shukla died of coronavirus in Raipur, her family members said on Tuesday. The niece of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee died at a private hospital on Monday night, they said. Shukla (70) was a member of the 14th Lok Sabha and represented the Janjgir-Champa Lok Sabha constituency in Chhattisgarh. She quit the BJP in 2013 claiming the party was under a grip of power politics. After having ended her 32-year-long association with the BJP, she joined the Congress in 2014 and contested the Lok Sabha election that year from the Bilaspur constituency but was defeated by BJP's Lakhan Lal Sahu. She contested the 2018 Assembly election from Rajnandgaon and was defeated by former chief minister Raman Singh. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed grief over the demise of Shukla. "My aunt Karuna Shukla is no more. The ruthless coronavirus snatched her away. I continued to get her blessings," Baghel tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vajpayees-niece-ex-mp-karuna-shukla-dies-of-covid-19-979516.html
27-04-2021||National||AIIMS move to discontinue contact tracing of exposed healthcare workers flayed by IMA||The IMA on Tuesday slammed the decision by the AIIMS here to discontinue contact tracing of exposed health care workers and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts, saying they can spread coronavirus infection to many while providing treatment. In a letter to the Union health Secretary, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said the order stating that  if the HCW is symptomatic will be tested and if positive only 10 days quarantine is permitted is an absolute infringement on basic right of the HCW as a citizen to get minimum care and support and sought that the order be revoked. The MoHFW guidelines mandate minimum 17 days quarantine and rest after symptomatic cold, it said. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi issued an order recently discontinuing contact tracing of exposed healthcare workers and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts amid the current Covid1-19 situation citing insufficient resources and shortage of staff. "When the HCW is exposed to Covid positive patient and get asymptomatic Covid he is still a carrier and can spread infection to many in the pretext of executing treatment to poor patients. Not testing their disease status at the pretext of shortage of staff is lethal to fraternity and community," the doctors' body said. Citing the AllMS order, various other hospitals are also following this now, the IMA said, "If you tax and over stretch the existing staff, we will land up in acute crisis." "IMA is looking forward to have your compassionate empathy towards the working HCW in the AIIMS and other health care institutions and revoke this order to provide early testing, comprehensive assured treatment opportunity for healthcare workers by allotting separate dedicated beds for them and handle with empathy towards HCW, suffering with the Covid disease," the body said. The IMA further drew attention to the impending manpower shortage and sought that the NEET PG and INCET PG exams be conducted on a war-footing so that postgraduates and junior doctors can join service.  A total of 1.78 lakh doctors are waiting for the exams, and till the exams are over they will not join the service, it said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-move-to-discontinue-contact-tracing-of-exposed-healthcare-workers-flayed-by-ima-979517.html
27-04-2021||National||SC says it can't be mute spectator in national crisis, doesn't intend to supplant HC cases on Covid-19||Terming the massive resurgence of Covid-19 cases a "national crisis", the Supreme Court Tuesday said it cannot remain a mute spectator and made clear that its suo motu proceeding on devising national policy for Covid-19 management is not meant to supplant high court cases. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said high courts are in a better position to monitor the pandemic situation within their territorial boundaries. There is a need for top court's intervention on certain national issues as there might be matters related to coordination between states, it said. “We are playing a complementary role, if High Courts have any difficulty in dealing with issues due to territorial limitations, we will help,” said the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. Last Thursday, the bench took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases as also mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with the distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.   Observing that oxygen to patients infected with the virus is said to be an “essential part” of treatment, the top court had said it seemed that a certain amount of “panic” has been generated due to which people have approached several high courts seeking relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-it-cant-be-mute-spectator-in-national-crisis-doesnt-intend-to-supplant-hc-cases-on-covid-19-979518.html
27-04-2021||National||Indians face frantic struggle for Covid-19 medication as cases rise||Manish Aggarwal celebrates with weary relief after laying his hands on precious doses of Covid-19 medication for his sick father -- a huge victory as thousands across the country have not been as lucky. He has been waiting in line outside a small pharmacy in Delhi for eight hours to secure Remdesivir, and is rewarded with just two of the recommended six doses. "Finally, it's a victory!" he exclaims. But not everybody is as fortunate. In the same queue in the south of the Indian capital are more than 100 people with loved ones in hospital. Only 30 people receive the medicine. Scuffles break out every few minutes as people try to jump the queue. Three armed policemen are stationed nearby for crowd control. The officers keep telling those gathered that no more tokens -- pieces of paper with a scribbled number on them -- for Remdesivir will be distributed today as stocks have run out, and they ask them to try somewhere else. India is struggling with a catastrophic surge in coronavirus infections as well as severe shortages of medical supplies, with hospitals and crematoriums overwhelmed. "This government has failed us so much that those who can normally survive also die," says an exhausted Vinod Kumar, who has been waiting since 6 am. He has also had to battle to obtain oxygen for his sick relative. As evening falls and the medical supplier -- one of the few places in Delhi where Remdesivir is sold at its retail price -- shuts up his shop, some people outside start crying. They include a brother and sister in their teens who have been driving around looking for medication for their sick and hospitalised father. Despite India's status as the "pharmacy of the world", the biggest producer of generic drugs has been unable to meet the demand for antiviral medication such as Remdesivir. Many doctors say Remdesivir is not essential for the treatment of Covid-19, but hospitals have been prescribing it anyway. Due to the shortages, families are being asked to procure it on their own. Many resort to the black market where the drug is sold for anywhere between $300 and $1,350 for a single vial. The usual price is between $12 and $75. "When I asked someone for six injections, he said, 'I can give you 600, you just need to pay me 60,000 rupees ($800) per injection,'" says Aggarwal. His fight is not over -- tomorrow he has to hit the streets again in search of more, until all six doses of Remdesivir are administered to his father. "Our patients are suffering in the hospital and we are suffering on the road," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-face-frantic-struggle-for-covid-19-medication-as-cases-rise-979521.html
27-04-2021||National||Set up medical panel to see if breath analyser test necessary during Covid-19, Delhi HC asks DGCA||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the DGCA to set up a medical committee to examine whether breath analyser tests of pilots and cabin crew was to be conducted or blood tests would suffice as an alternative. Justice Prathiba M Singh said the committee should keep in mind the safety of passengers as also of pilots and cabin crew in deciding whether conducting such tests would be advisable during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation passed an order on April 27, stating that 10 per cent of flight crew and cabin crew members involved in domestic operations should be subjected to random pre-flight breath analyser test. The regulator said that the new testing protocol, a temporary measure, would be valid till May 17. The court directed the committee to place its report before the next date of hearing on May 5. Meanwhile, DGCA shall implement the new protocols starting from Wednesday, April 28, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/set-up-medical-panel-to-see-if-breath-analyser-test-necessary-during-covid-19-delhi-hc-asks-dgca-979524.html
27-04-2021||National||Singapore’s trade bodies raising funds to support India in combating Covid-19||Singapore’s two leading trade organisations have launched a new relief fund to support India in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as the country is battling an unprecedented second wave of a deadly contagion. The Singapore Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI), and the Little India Shopkeepers Association (LISHA) are jointly coordinating efforts by the community to support India. SICCI has opened an 'INDIA COVID RELIEF FUND' account with DBS Bank with its chairman Dr T Chandroo making a clarion call on the community at large for contribution. Chandroo said: “We want to stand side by side with India as this is a crisis of historic proportions and would require our immediate and urgent assistance. I am making a clarion call to the Singapore community at large to support this initiative undertaken by SICCI and LISHA.” The two trade bodies, in a joint statement issued on Monday night, said that the Covid-19 pandemic is having an unprecedented impact on the people of India, leading to multiple crises across the country. In the light of these challenges, Singapore SICCI and LISHA are jointly raising monetary support to help India manage the immense pressure on its health services, the statement said. Both SICCI and LISHA are taking the lead in coordinating community efforts to provide support to India. SICCI has also reached out to the partners of India's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare through the High Commission of India in Singapore to gather information on their most immediate and most urgent priorities. "We have also received requests from YWAM (Youth with a Mission), HHL Lifecare, Gilead Pharma and several other organisations which are mobilising support on the ground to help India overcome the crisis," Chandroo said. SICCI’s and LISHA’s initial appeal is focused on emergency response to help protect the most vulnerable from direct impact due to the rapid spread of the contagion, and to scale up life-saving protection and assistance in priority states and hospitals in India. SICCI, which has some 500 corporate members with international networks, and LISHA, representing almost all small businesses in Singapore's Little India shopping precinct, hope to harness the support of the community to provide the necessary assistance that India requires. As of now, Indian hospitals urgently need ventilators and oxygen concentrator devices, the two associations said. Having set up the relief fund account, SICCI and LISHA are the central coordinating and focal point in Singapore for the mobilisation of resources required by India. A virtual command centre has been organised for the community to get in touch with SICCI Cares at Mobile/Whatsapp: 96541346, 62222855 (Ms Gowri or Ms Pamela). Donations will be updated on the Telegram Channel and the Website, the statement added. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. On Tuesday, the Union Health Ministry said that India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307 with 3,23,144 people testing positive in a day, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent. The death toll increased to 1,97,894 with 2,771 daily new fatalities, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-s-trade-bodies-raising-funds-to-support-india-in-combating-covid-19-979527.html
27-04-2021||National||SC asks UP govt to furnish medical records of arrested Kerala scribe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to furnish medical records of arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, by Wednesday as it was alleged that he was chained to a cot in a Mathura hospital after contracting Covid-19 infection. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna sought medical details of the scribe even as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta refuted the charge of shackling of the accused. Making a preliminary objection, Mehta contended that he was in jail and the chargesheet has also been filed against him under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Eight persons filed a plea for bail and a journalist association also filed a habeas corpus petition. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to the UP CM Yogi Adityanath for release of Kappan. Several MPs from Kerala and wife of the scribe also shot off similar letter to the Chief Justice of India. In his contention, Mehta, appearing for the UP government, said, "The petition is not maintainable. He is not in illegal detention. He is in custody under judicial order of a sessions court." Appearing for Kerala Union of Working Journalists, advocate Wills Mathew contended Kappan fell in the washroom on April 20. On the next date, he was tested positive and admitted to hospital. But he has been chained and could not go to the washroom. He asked the court to allow Kappan to speak to his wife through video conferencing and release him from the chain. The court asked Mehta to produce the medical records by Wednesday. "We will hear the entire matter on Wednesday," the bench said. In February, this year, the top court allowed Kappan to visit his mother in Kerala for five days as it was contended that she was critically ill and may not survive long. Kappan, arrested on October 5, 2020 while on his way to Hathras, has been found associated with the Popular Front of India, which is a "reincarnation" of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), the Uttar Pradesh police claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-up-govt-to-furnish-medical-records-of-arrested-kerala-scribe-979529.html
27-04-2021||National||These states account for 69.1% of new Covid-19 cases||Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, reported 69.1 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases registered in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. With 3,23,144 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, the country's total tally of cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, it said. Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan are also among the 10 states that reported 69.1 per cent of the new cases. "Cumulatively, more than 28 crore tests have conducted so far, while the cumulative positivity rate is 6.28 per cent," the ministry said. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 48,700. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 33,551 new cases and Karnataka with 29,744 new cases. India's total number of active cases has reached 28,82,204 and comprises 16.34 per cent of the total infections. There has been a net increase of 68,546 cases in the total active cases in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Kerala cumulatively account for 69.1 per cent of the country's total active cases. Out of the total cases in the country, active cases constitute 16.43 per cent and recoveries 82.54 per cent, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate currently stands at 20.02 per cent, it said. "The national cumulative fatality rate (CFR) has been falling and it currently stands at 1.12 per cent," the ministry said. In a span of 24 hours, a total 2,771 deaths were reported.   Ten states account for 77.3 per cent of the new deaths and these include Maharashtra with the highest 524 fatalities and Delhi with 380 fatalities, it said. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,45,56,209 with 2,51,827 patients recuperating in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 79.70 per cent of the new recoveries, according to the ministry. On vaccination against Covid-19, it said that the cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 14.5 crore. The ministry said that 14,52,71,186 vaccine doses have been administered through 20,74,721 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.   These include 93,24,770 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 60,60,718 HCWs who have taken the second dose, and 1,21,10,258 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 64,25,992 FLWs have taken the second dose. Besides, 5,05,77,743 and 87,31,091 beneficiaries above 60 years of age have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 4,93,48,238 and 26,92,376 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose respectively. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh account for 67.3 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far in the country, the ministry said. More than 31 lakh vaccine doses were administered in a span of 24 hours and as on Day-101 of the vaccination drive (April 26), 31,74,688 vaccine doses were given. The ministry said that 19,73,778 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 22,797 sessions for the first dose and 12,00,910 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccines against the Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-states-account-for-691-of-new-covid-19-cases-979531.html
27-04-2021||National||Bhutan to send India liquid oxygen to fight Covid-19||Bhutan has agreed to supply 40 MT of oxygen to the Assam government, which is trying to augment its emergency supplies in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases. A statement issued by the Embassy of India at Thimphu said on Tuesday that the liquid oxygen would be supplied from a new plant being set up at the Motanga Industrial Estate in Samdrup Jongkhar district by M/S S.D. Cryogenics Gases Pvt. Ltd., a Bhutanese company. "Every day 40 metric tons of liquid oxygen produced in the plant will be exported to Assam using cryogenic tankers," it said. The oxygen plant has domestic investment of 51% by M/S D.S. Cryogenics Gases Pvt. Ltd. and FDI component of 49% by Meghalaya Oxygen Pvt. Ltd, an Assam based Indian company. "The provision of oxygen by Bhutan will augment India's efforts to win the fight against Covid-19 and save precious lives. This is a practical manifestation of the uniquely close and friendly ties between India and Bhutan," said the statement. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday told reporters in Guwahati that Bhutan agreed to resume work in the plant after Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar talked to Bhutanese authorities. "Work on the plant was on hold due to Covid-19. But Bhutan king agreed to allow workers to resume work and make it operational as early as possible. It is likely to take about a month to make the plant operational," Sarma said. Assam health department on Tuesday signed three MOUs with three companies at Bongaigaon, Silapathar (in Assam) and Dimapur (in Nagaland), which would ramp up the state's capacity by another 10.5 MT per day. "With this our daily oxygen production capacity will reach 66 MT/day. The manufacturers will supply at rates fixed by National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority," Sarma said. Assam's oxygen requirement on Monday stood at 20 MT per day. The minister on Monday assured that the state would not face a shortage of oxygen supply for at least 15 days and efforts are on to make sure that oxygen supplies are sufficient in the future too.      The total number of active Covid-19 positive cases in Assam increased to 19, 923 with 3,132 new cases reported on Tuesday. The state conducted 62,628 tests, of which 5% tested positive.  The state reported 18 deaths on Tuesday of which five were in the Kamrup Metro district (Guwahati).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhutan-to-send-india-liquid-oxygen-to-fight-covid-19-979536.html
27-04-2021||National||Time for armed forces to rise to occasion: Bipin Rawat on Covid-19||As India battles a devastating wave of coronavirus, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Tuesday called upon the armed forces to rise to the occasion and support the civil administrations across the country in dealing with the pandemic, as well as creating mitigation facilities in a time-bound manner. In a message, Gen Rawat said timely support at this juncture is important. "This is the time for the armed forces to rise to the occasion and support the civil administration in creating Covid mitigation facilities in a time-bound manner. Timely support at this juncture is important," he said. "Our men and women in uniform have the will and dedication to break barriers and walk the extra mile, always and every time," Rawat said. The message by the Chief of Defence Staff came a day after he briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about various measures undertaken by the armed forces to deal with the second wave of the pandemic raging across the country. "We can and we will. Well done and carry on, we still have long distances to travel,” Gen Rawat said. The three services as well as other wings of the defence ministry have been extending support to various state governments and union territories in dealing with massive spike in coronavirus cases. Since Friday, the Indian Air Force airlifted empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. The IAF has also been transporting essential medicines as well as equipment required by the designated Covid-19 hospitals in various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-for-armed-forces-to-rise-to-occasion-bipin-rawat-on-covid-19-979546.html
27-04-2021||National||IAF pilot alleges sexual harassment by senior officer, moves J&K High Court||A woman pilot of Indian Air Force (IAF) has filed a petition in Jammu and Kashmir High Court alleging sexual harassment by her senior officer. Accepting the petition, Justice Sanjeev Kumar of the High Court has issued notice to defence ministry and the IAF, who are supposed to respond within four weeks, according to a report in Bar and Bench. The matter will come up for hearing on May 10. The petitioner has alleged that the accused officer, a Flight Commander, repeatedly demanded sexual favours from her and passed objectionable comments against her. She has also accused that the officer touched her from behind and said: "Le tuje touch kiya ab kaise karegi apne aap ko sanitise? (I have touched you, how will you sanitise yourself now?)". In the plea, the woman officer has also mentioned the unfair manner of inquiry by the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC). The harassment started when the lady officer was posted at the Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Squadron in Jammu, where her husband is serving the IAF as an officer. “The respondent tried to cross his limits and he passed a lewd and sexually coloured remark/comment isko hath lagao toh current lagta hai. Petitioner firmly told him not to pass such lewd comments,” the plea stated. The victim officer has also sought a direction to the ICC to hold a fair inquiry and also prayed for the transfer of the accused person so that he does not harass her and other witnesses. The strength of women officers serving the IAF as on 1 September 2020 was 1,875.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-pilot-alleges-sexual-harassment-by-senior-officer-moves-jk-high-court-979571.html
27-04-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: ECI bans victory processions on or after counting day||Funeral pyres burned in parking lots, families ran from pillar to post for hospital beds and patients gasped for oxygen on Tuesday as the vicious second wave of Covid-19 ground remorselessly on. On the occasion of Hanuman Jayanthi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought the blessings of the popular deity in the country's fight against Covid-19. Modi has received a lot of flak for his handling of the crisis, especially for continuing to campaign hard until recently in the Assembly elections in West Bengal, where the Bharatiya Janata Party is desperate to notch up its first win. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged the Central Government to focus on vaccines, oxygen and other health services amid the pandemic instead of "spending on PR and unnecessary projects". His remarks were made in reference to the government's decision to go ahead with the Central Vista project amid the current crisis. Spine-chilling newspaper images of dead bodies being burned at a parking lot of a crematorium in Gurgaon circulated on social media, and one journalist quoted a tweet that said: "If anyone has contacts at crematoria in Delhi/Gurgaon and can get a slot today or tomorrow, please message me."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-eci-bans-victory-processions-on-or-after-counting-day-979579.html
27-04-2021||National||China says its South Asian Foreign Ministers' meet on Covid-19 is 'open' to India||China, which is hosting a meeting of Foreign Ministers of some South Asian countries to deal with the Covid-19 situation, said on Tuesday that the virtual conference is open to all countries in the region, including India. Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh are invited to the virtual Foreign Ministerial level meeting being hosted on Tuesday by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. India, Maldives and Bhutan are conspicuously absent from the meeting. Asked why India has not been invited to the meeting, Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a media briefing that "China follows the spirit of openness and inclusiveness". "This meeting is open to South Asian countries, including India. We welcome the participation of all countries," he said. This meeting is part of China’s cooperation with South Asian countries and regional and international cooperation to fight the coronavirus pandemic, he said. "We follow an open attitude and we are open for the participation of other South Asian countries,” Wang said. About China’s offer of extending support and assistance to India, which is currently experiencing a virulent second wave of coronavirus attack, Wang said, "China has expressed early on its willingness to provide India with support and help". "We are promoting Chinese companies to meet India’s procurement demands for oxygen concentrators and other anti-epidemic supplies. We are ready to work with India through multiple ways to provide assistance. We believe India will finally defeat the virus,” he said. China reported the first Covid-19 case in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019 and since then the deadly disease has snowballed into a pandemic, affecting more than 147,925,000 people and over 3,122,300 deaths worldwide. About Tuesday’s meeting the spokesman said, "as we speak, the virus is still spreading across the world. Against such a backdrop, China proposed to hold a video conference to demonstrate regional resolution to fight against Covid-19, deepen practical cooperation, consolidate momentum for economic recovery and safeguard outcomes and livelihood improvements”. "We hope that it will be a successful one and inject a new impetus to regional efforts to vanquish the virus and realise steady development,” he said. "This meeting extends existing efforts by China at relevant South Asian countries to jointly fight Covid-19 and jointly resume socio-economic development,” he said, adding that it also stands as an integral part of international, regional anti-epidemic cooperation. "The meeting will be held under the principles of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation. Other interested countries are welcome to participate,” he said. On China’s organising the meeting of the South Asian countries to combat Covid-19, Wang said that since the outbreak of Covid-19 China, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh have been “standing together, providing assistance to one another and contributing to regional response”. Since July 2020, China has hosted a series of meetings on combating Covid-19 including one meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nepal, Vice Foreign Ministers of China, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh and another fighting coronavirus and poverty alleviation at Director-General level of all the six countries, Wang said. "The meetings effectively enhanced cooperation among countries to fight the virus and resume economic activities," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-its-south-asian-foreign-ministers-meet-on-covid-19-is-open-to-india-979580.html
27-04-2021||National||No surplus Covid-19 vaccine doses to send to India right now, says UK||The UK is currently moving through its domestic priority lists for Covid-19 vaccines and therefore has no surplus doses to share with countries in need such as India at this stage, Downing Street said on Tuesday. In reference to India’s devastating second wave of the pandemic, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesperson said the process is kept under constant review, while the country sends an assistance package made up of 495 oxygen concentrators, 120 non-invasive ventilators and 20 manual ventilators to India to meet the supply shortages over the course of the week. The first tranche of 100 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators arrived in New Delhi early on Tuesday. “We committed in February to sending excess doses from the UK’s supply to the COVAX procurement pool and to countries in need, once they are available,” the UK PM’s spokesperson said. “Right now we are moving through the UK prioritisation list for our domestic rollout and don’t have surplus doses, but we keep this under constant review. We recognise that no one is safe until we’re all safe in this pandemic which is why the UK has contributed GBP 548 million to COVAX and sent vital medical supplies to India,” the spokesperson said. The COVAX facility refers to the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access global initiative aimed at equitable access to vaccines led by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and the World Health Organization (WHO). The latest update from Downing Street comes as it emerged that the US is to export around 60 million doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, with India expected to be among the biggest recipients of the consignment after talks between US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With 3,23,144 people testing positive for the coronavirus in a day, India's infection tally climbed to 1,76,36,307 on Tuesday. The death toll mounted to 1,97,894 with 2,771 new fatalities. Several efforts are on within the Indian diaspora in the UK to fundraise for essential supplies such as oxygen concentrators and coordinate distribution of across India’s struggling hospitals through a series of emergency appeals, including by charities such as the British Asian Trust and British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-surplus-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-send-to-india-right-now-says-uk-979589.html
27-04-2021||National||India better prepared for Covid-19 this year, says Harsh Vardhan||India is better prepared mentally and physically this year with more experience to beat the Covid-19 pandemic as compared to 2020, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. He made while inaugurating a series of blood donation camps at 13 locations in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh through a webinar in the presence of Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, a health ministry statement said. The camps are being organised by the Competent Foundation with the help of various associations, NGOs and blood banks in wake of fulfilling the blood requisition due to Covid-19 pandemic, it said. Addressing the webinar, Vardhan appreciated the efforts of the foundation to organise blood donation camps with more strength and expansion for fulfilling the blood requirement due to the pandemic.  He exhorted people to at least donate blood once a year on their birthdays as it is a big help for humanity.  He said that in his opinion, donating blood is even more pious than visiting revered holy places, the statement said. Vardhan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the largest vaccination drive in the world in January, which is now being accelerated further as the vaccination of young people is about to begin from May 1. He also said that in 2021, the country is better prepared mentally and physically with more experience to beat the pandemic as compared to last year, the statement stated. He appreciated the fact that this blood donation camp has been set up following all Covid protocols, guidelines and SOPs.  He said that the blood donation drive is being done before vaccination of youth which is commendable as after being vaccinated it is advisable to not donate blood for 2 months. President of Competent Foundation Sanjay Tandon said this year the foundation decided to organise blood donation camps beyond Chandigarh tricity in 13 different locations across the region with more strength in the wake of fulfilling the blood requirement during the Covid pandemic, the statement stated. He appealed that in the middle of coronavirus epidemic, blood donation has become more important because supply of blood has become extremely difficult.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-better-prepared-for-covid-19-this-year-says-harsh-vardhan-979592.html
27-04-2021||National||Solar scam accused Saritha Nair gets 6 years RI in cheating case||Saritha S Nair, a key accused in the infamous solar power scam in Kerala, was sentenced to six years rigorous imprisonment by a local court in Kozhikode in Kerala on Tuesday. Saritha is the second accused in the case. The sentencing of the prime accused and her accomplice Biju Radhakrishnan was not pronounced as he could not turn up due to a Covid-19-related quarantine. The cheating case involving Saritha and Biju came to light several years ago and she had later made sexual allegations against many in the then government, including then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, leading to a major political row in Kerala. Saritha was involved in many cases pertaining to the solar scam and she was out on bail. She has now been convicted in the case pertaining to cheating a Kozhikode-based industrialist of Rs 42 lakh in 2012 by promising investment in a solar power project. She failed to appear before the court for hearings despite several notices and so, was arrested last week. Saritha was also allegedly involved in a recent job scam by collecting a huge amount of money from job seekers offering employment in government institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/solar-scam-accused-saritha-nair-gets-6-years-ri-in-cheating-case-979593.html
27-04-2021||National||Krithi Karanth becomes first Indian woman to be chosen as a 'Wild Innovator'||Dr. Krithi K Karanth, Chief Conservation Scientist at Bengaluru-based Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS), has been chosen as the first Indian and Asian woman for the 2021 'WILD Innovator Award'. This award given by the 'WILD ELEMENTS Foundation' brings together a coalition of innovators, advocates and partners to "disrupt the status quo and identify solutions to global sustainability and conservation," a CWS statement said on Tuesday. The Foundation's distinctive approach to addressing climate change is the "Power of Three," recognising the interconnectedness of animal-kind, humankind, and plant kind for the future planetary wellness of our shared home, it said. As part of its flagship programme the Foundation has partnered with 'WILD Innovators', the premier science and conservation experts, driving cutting-edge work in the field around the world, and 'WILD Advocates', celebrities and influencers who value and promote the importance and vital interdependence of people, animals, plants, and our shared environment, the statement said. "This partnership will enable influencers to authentically learn about and uplift community led-solutions to environmental issues while also sharing their own platforms to increase the reach of changemakers on the frontlines," it said. The other winners are Richelle Thomas (USA), Abigail Williams and Jayne Goss (United Kingdom), Erika Allen and Laurell Sims (USA), AnnaSophia Robb, Genesis Butler (USA), Sheila Funnell (Kenya), Rosamira Guillen (Colombia), Resson Kantai Duff (Kenya), Dr. Adriana Verges (Australia), and Dominique Goncalves (Mozambique). "Innovators were invited to apply for a $100,000 two- year grant to create and deploy an initiative that aligns with the mission of the Foundation, as well as access to partnership opportunities with other 'WILD ELEMENTS Foundation' stakeholders such as intergovernmental organisations, partners, board members, funders," it was stated. "I am deeply honoured to be chosen as a Wild Innovator and this award will enable us at the Centre for Wildlife Studies to scale our conservation intervention programmes Wild Suraksha, Wild Shaale and Wild Seve," said Dr. Krithi Karanth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/krithi-karanth-becomes-first-indian-woman-to-be-chosen-as-a-wild-innovator-979599.html
27-04-2021||National||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi approves conversion of Ajmer Sharif Dargah rest house into Covid-19 care centre||Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday approved a proposal to convert an Ajmer Sharif Dargah rest house into a temporary Covid Care Centre. In a letter written in response to Dargah Committee president Amin Pathan's request of converting the rest house into a 'Corona Care Centre', Naqvi said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, it is the moral and humanitarian duty of every institution in the country to provide full support for the health and well-being of the people in this challenging time. Approving the proposal to convert the Ajmer Dargah rest house into a Covid care centre and hand it over to the Rajasthan government, the minister asked the dargah committee and its people to cooperate fully with the state government in the fight against coronavirus. On Monday, the minority affairs ministry had decided to give Haj Houses to state governments for utilisation as temporary care centres for Covid-19 patients. "It has been decided to give Haj Houses in different states of the country to the state governments to utilise them as temporary 'Corona Care Centre'," Naqvi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-approves-conversion-of-ajmer-sharif-dargah-rest-house-into-covid-19-care-centre-979600.html
27-04-2021||National||Enforcing Covid-19 norms is responsibility of state authorities: EC||Facing flak over its alleged failure to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during poll campaigns, the Election Commission on Tuesday said enforcing provisions of the law to fight the pandemic is the responsibility of state disaster management bodies. The commission also asserted that it has continuously directed state and district authorities to enforce instructions of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The poll panel underlined that on "no occasion" it takes over the task of a state disaster management authority (SDMA) for enforcement of instructions issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Election Commission's (EC) remarks came a day after the Madras High Court made harsh observations against it for failing to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour during poll campaigns. Elections have been held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The last of the eight phase West Bengal polls is on Thursday. Counting for votes for all the assembly elections is on May 2. The commission in a statement said while it will comply with all directions of the high court, on April 30, during the next hearing, it will apprise the bench of all the steps already taken by the poll panel for free, fair and safe elections. It also said "statements being attributed to the Hon’ble High Court in certain sections of media" do not find mention in the order which was finally passed. The EC was apparently referring to the oral observations made by the bench against it. Referring to the petition that was moved in the Madras High Court to ensure "Covid safe" counting on May 2, the statement said that similar petitions concerning Covid-19 compliant behaviour during ongoing elections were filed, and the EC had already responded to them. The commission gave out "legal and factual positions" to drive home the point that it did everything possible at its end to ensure "Covid safe" polls, it said. The poll panel said enforcement of Covid-19 measures is the responsibility assigned to a state disaster management authority. These measures include lockdowns, restriction or curtailment on public gatherings, and the authority's officers follow the Disaster Management Act, 2005, it said. Public gatherings under the Act were not stopped during this (election campaign) period by the state authority, the EC said. Whatever was prescribed, the EC directed all to adhere to it and in case of violation to book offenders under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the statement said. The EC continuously directed the state and district authorities to enforce the prevailing instructions of the NDMA and SDMA, it said. Last year, amid lockdown and other enforcement measures under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the commission completed the electoral exercise in Bihar, the statement said. The Bihar assembly elections were held in October-November last year. "The enforcement under the 2005 Act has to be ensured by the concerned SDMA and notified authorities under the Act. The commission has always emphasised in its August 21, 2020 and all subsequent instructions that the state authorities shall ensure Covid (norms) compliance in the matter of public gatherings for campaign purposes," it said. The EC pointed out that it reiterated its instructions on February 26 this year while announcing the poll in the four states and the union territory, including Tamil Nadu. "The campaign ended in April. Fortunately, the second wave of Covid-19 was yet to be visible fully by that time. Polling was conducted following all prescribed Covid appropriate measures on April 6 which witnessed good electoral participation with full compliance of norms by all concerned," it said. The EC said these submissions were made before different high courts wherever opportunity was afforded to the commission and found favour in their orders. The statement pointed out that Tamil Nadu ordered lockdown restrictions in view of the second Covid surge from April 20, 16 days after the campaign period was already over in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcing-covid-19-norms-is-responsibility-of-state-authorities-ec-979602.html
27-04-2021||National||Medical oxygen in any country not unlimited, augmenting measures being taken: Centre to Supreme Court||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that medical oxygen in any country cannot be unlimited and with the active and constant supervision of the Prime Minister it is augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing to provide relief to Covid-19 patients. The government said oxygen supplies available at any given time in the country are to be distributed to all the states, especially those which are critically burdened with high number of active Covid-19 cases, in a balanced manner. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the sheer magnitude of this unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases itself bring with it certain inbuilt limitations in terms of available resources which need to be professionally augmented and utilised.   Further, the centre said to deal with shortage of medical oxygen, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is in the process of commissioning 162 PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption technology to generate oxygen at local level) plants across the country on a war footing.   In its 200-page affidavit, filed in the suo motu case on distribution of essential supplies and services during Pandemic, the Centre said "any singular/isolated deviation in such plan for a particular State (either under a judicial order or otherwise) without keeping in mind the national availability and ever changing requirements of each State is bound to have a cascading effect on oxygen supply to other States”. The affidavit was taken on record by a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, which posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.   “It is also pertinent to note that the medical oxygen in any country cannot be unlimited. While the government started all out efforts to augment oxygen resources and procure more and more oxygen from all available sources, these supplies available at any given time in the country are to be distributed to all the states, especially those which are critically burdened with high number of active Covid cases, in a balanced manner,” the government said. It said, “The Central Government, with active and constant supervision and direct involvement of the Prime Minister and the Home Minister, is augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing evolving and implementing innovative measures”. The affidavit filed by additional secretary, MHA, said ever since the onset of the current wave of pandemic, there is an unprecedented and rapid rise in the number of active Covid cases in several states across the country with an almost unabated surge in the growth rate of such cases. “It is submitted that the medical oxygen is a critical component in the treatment of Covid affected patients, especially in the second wave. The entire available capacity of oxygen in India was utilised for supply for industrial as well as medical purposes in the form of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO),” it said. It said the “unexpected and exponential” surge in the number of active Covid cases across several States in the second wave has resulted in a scenario wherein there has been an increasing demand for medical oxygen, especially from the States with a high burden of active Covid cases.   “It is pertinent to note that while the demand in Maharashtra is expected to be beyond available production capacity of the State, states like Madhya Pradesh do not have any production capacity to meet their demand for medical oxygen. Besides, there is also a trend of increasing demand in other oxygen producing states themselves”, the Centre said. It said to give clarity and assurance to the States on oxygen supplied over the next few weeks of surge in cases, an exercise for mapping of sources of supplies to the medical oxygen demand of the critically affected states was undertaken by different departments and States were requested to provide these progressive projections forecast for requirement for medical oxygen as on April 20, April 25 and April 30, respectively. “Accordingly, based on the aforesaid projected requirements of these critically affected states, 4880 MT, 5619 MT and 6593 MT were mapped in an indicative framework, for the supply of medical oxygen to these 12 States for meeting their projected demand as on 20th April, 25th April and 30th April, respectively and was duly approved vide order dated April 15, 2021,” it said. The centre, however, said by its very nature, this plan and mapping framework cannot be static as it needs to be dynamically changed if any sudden change takes place in the surge of infection in any particular State.   It said after some apprehensions were raised by some States on disruption in supply of oxygen; the MHA has issued orders to the State /Union Territory governments and authorities to ensure uninterrupted movement of medical oxygen between the states.   Regarding commissioning of PSA Plants, the Centre said that these plants established in hospitals, especially in far flung areas enable the hospitals to become self-sufficient in generation of oxygen for their needs and thereby, reduce the burden on the medical oxygen supply grid across the country. “It is submitted that 38 plants have already been installed and another 21 plants will be installed by April 30, 2021. A further 105 plants will be installed by May 31, 2021 and thereafter increasing to 156 plants by June 30, 2021. Besides, 500 more PSA plants are planned to be installed in the hospitals in district headquarters to enhance oxygen generation in smaller cities and towns,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-oxygen-in-any-country-not-unlimited-augmenting-measures-being-taken-centre-to-supreme-court-979605.html
27-04-2021||National||Narendra Modi's aunt dies during Covid-19 treatment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's aunt Narmadaben Modi who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection died at the civil hospital here on Tuesday, the family said. Narmadaben (80) lived in the New Ranip area of the city with her children. "Our aunt Narmadaben was admitted to the civil hospital some ten days ago after her condition deteriorated following coronavirus infection," said Prahlad Modi, the prime minister's younger brother. "She breathed her last at the hospital today," he told PTI. Her husband Jagjivandas, brother of the prime minister's father Damodardas, had died many years ago, said Prahlad Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modis-aunt-dies-during-covid-19-treatment-979608.html
27-04-2021||National||SC order a miscarriage of justice, riddled with errors: Cyrus Mistry in review petition||The Shapoorji Pallonji Group has moved the Supreme Court seeking a review of its March 26 judgement that rejected the group's case against the Tatas, saying the judgement has "patent errors", strikes at the core of the Companies Act and is a complete miscarriage of justice on the right of minority shareholders front. The Mistrys are saying the reasoning behind the apex court judgement, authored by a three-judge bench headed by the then chief justice S A Bobde, is so egregious that it warrants a review. The judgement is contrary to both the Companies Act, 2013 and the statues because it justifies the Tata group breaching its own articles of association while removing Cyrus Mistry as chairman, thus leaving the whole judgement inherently contradictory, it said. This review petition seeks to set right the errors apparent on the face of the record because if these are unaddressed, it will significantly impact the rights of all other minority shareholders and erode statutory protections accorded to them under the Companies Act, says the petition filed on April 24. These patent errors not only lead to miscarriage of justice but also strike at the core of the legal safeguards guaranteed under the new 2013 companies law, it said. The petition follows the March 26 Supreme Court order that dismissed all pleas of the SP Group and set aside the NCLAT order of December 2019 that reinstated Cyrus Mistry as the chairman of Tata Sons. The review petition, which is yet be admitted, lists out what it calls several "patent errors" in the judgement. Listing out contradictions in the judgement, the petition says, on one hand, it held that removal of a director "can never be oppressive or prejudicial", but on the other it held that where the removal is oppressive, relief can be granted -- but not to this petitioner.  This is relevant because if one of these two approaches is to be accepted, then SP Group's complaints will fall within the formulation of the law even as laid down in the judgment, says the petition. The judgement also terms the fact-findings by NCLAT to be perverse by ignoring them all together, even as it acknowledged that the legal standards have to be met before a court of law can interfere with such findings. What is more, even the Tatas did not seek to call any of the NCLAT findings as perverse, notes the petition. The judgement says Mistry was not a managing director of Tata Sons but only the executive chairman and therefore shareholders' resolution was not required for his removal, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-order-a-miscarriage-of-justice-riddled-with-errors-cyrus-mistry-in-review-petition-979610.html
27-04-2021||National||Pandemic aid begins to arrive in Covid-stricken India||The first emergency medical supplies arrived in India on Tuesday as part of a global campaign to staunch a catastrophic wave in the latest pandemic hotspot, with the United States also pledging to export millions of AstraZeneca vaccine doses. Crates of ventilators and oxygen concentrators from Britain were unloaded at a Delhi airport early Tuesday, the first emergency medical supplies to arrive in the country where infection and death rates are growing exponentially. The explosion in infections in India -- more than 3,20,000 new cases were recorded there on Tuesday alone -- has driven a surge in global cases to 147.7 million and the virus has now killed more than 3.1 million people worldwide. In New Delhi, AFP images showed smoke billowing from dozens of pyres lit inside a parking lot that has been turned into a makeshift crematorium. "People are just dying, dying and dying," said Jitender Singh Shanty, who is coordinating the cremation of around 100 bodies a day at the site in the east of the city. "If we get more bodies then we will cremate on the road. There is no more space here." Despite India's status as the "pharmacy of the world", the biggest producer of generic drugs has been unable to meet the demand for antiviral medication such as Remdesivir. Many doctors say Remdesivir is not essential for the treatment of Covid-19, but hospitals have been prescribing it anyway. "This government has failed us so much that those who can normally survive also die," said one exhausted man, Vinod Kumar, as he waited in line for medication. The United States, France, Germany, Canada, the EU and the World Health Organization have all promised to rush supplies to India. On Monday, President Joe Biden announced the United States would send up to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine abroad. While Washington has not decided yet which countries will be the recipients, India appears to be a leading contender after Biden spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "India was there for us, and we will be there for them," Biden tweeted after the call with Modi, referencing India's support for the United States when it was enduring the worst of its Covid crisis. And the EU said the first shipment of aid from the bloc's member states to India would be delivered "over the coming days", with more expected to follow. The initial assistance included 365 ventilators and 700 oxygen concentrators from Ireland, 120 ventilators from Sweden, 58 ventilators from Luxembourg, 80 oxygen concentrators from Romania, and thousands of doses of Remdesivir from Belgium and Portugal. At the same time, many countries are shutting their borders to travellers from India. Belgium became the latest, also banning travel from Brazil and South Africa, similarly hit by fast-spreading coronavirus variants. Spain said it will impose a 10-day quarantine on all travellers arriving from India from Wednesday. Australia has also cut all passenger air travel with India, suspending flights until at least May 15, leaving a host of high-profile cricketers stuck there after playing in the lucrative Indian Premier League, which attracted criticism for continuing during the crisis. In Fiji, an outbreak of the Indian variant has forced the capital into lockdown after the island nation had avoided infections for a year, with health officials saying they fear a "tsunami" of cases. While there are still no signs of the pandemic abating globally, some western countries are nevertheless tentatively starting to ease lockdowns that have strangled their economies for more than a year as their inoculation campaigns gather momentum. Italy -- the first European country to be hit by the pandemic in early 2020 and still one of the worst affected -- reopened its bars, restaurants, cinemas and concert halls on Monday. Italy's lower chamber of parliament overwhelmingly approved the government's 222.1-billion-euro ($270-billion) EU-funded pandemic recovery plan just days before the deadline to submit it to Brussels. Germany, Europe's biggest economy, upgraded its growth forecast for 2021 to 3.5 per cent from 3.0 per cent previously as vaccinations finally begin to gather pace. "This is the year when we will really see a trend reversal," said Economy Minister Peter Altmaier. But in the sports and entertainment sectors, the pandemic continues to take its toll. Audience figures for this year's Oscars plummeted by more than half to a record low of 9.85 million viewers, broadcaster ABC said. In Japan, officials and organisers insist the Olympic Games will go ahead in three months' time, despite a new virus state of emergency in Tokyo and several other regions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-aid-begins-to-arrive-in-covid-stricken-india-979620.html
27-04-2021||National||'False narrative' that nothing was done after first Covid-19 wave, Centre to SC||The Centre has refuted suggestions that "nothing" was done after the first wave of coronavirus pandemic and it was caught unawares by the second surge, asserting that all-out efforts are being made on a war footing to make available enough oxygen to hospitals and augment the production of Remdesivir. This was stated in an affidavit submitted before the Supreme Court by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the case related to the “distribution of essential supplies and services during the pandemic”, official sources said. The MHA said there has been a “false narrative” that after the onset of the Covid pandemic, during its peak impact and thereafter “the nation did nothing and is caught unawares in the second surge”. Referring to the sudden scarcity of medical oxygen in some parts of the country following a surge in Covid-19 cases, the MHA said the central government started all-out efforts to augment oxygen resources and procure more and more oxygen from all available sources. These supplies available at any given time in the country are to be distributed to all the states, especially those which are critically burdened with a high number of active Covid cases, in a balanced manner. It is submitted that the sheer magnitude of this unprecedented surge itself brought with it certain inbuilt limitations in terms of available resources which need to be professionally augmented and utilised. The central government, with active and constant supervision and direct involvement of the Prime Minister and the Home Minister, is augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing evolving and implementing innovative measures, the MHA said. Resultantly, more and more medical oxygen is generated and is being made available every day, keeping in mind not just existing requirements but potential future requirements. These efforts include augmenting oxygen supply from all available sources within India and also importing oxygen from other countries using not only the diplomatic channels but also personal intervention of the political executive, it submitted. Referring to Remdesivir, the MHA said due to the sudden surge in Covid cases recently, the demand in the country for Remdesivir Injection required for Covid-19 therapy has suddenly increased. The ministry submitted that there was very limited demand for Remdesivir during the preceding months, immediately before the second surge, due to which the production levels of the seven companies manufacturing it fell. The total installed capacity of the seven licensed manufacturers of Remdesivir as on April 1, 2021 was 38.80 lakh vials per month but actual production was around 27 lakh vials per month. In light of the increased demand for Remdesivir and its shortages reported from certain parts of the country, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has immediately approved 31 additional manufacturing sites on April 12, 2021 in addition to 22 manufacturing sites of these seven manufacturers to enable them to enhance their manufacturing capacity. Presently, there are a total of 53 manufacturing sites of the seven manufacturers of Remdesivir approved by CDSCO which are having a total production capacity sufficiently expandable to around 90 lakh vials of Remdesivir injectable formulations per month. Immediately upon the second surge, several of the additional sites of the seven companies have already started production and the current production is about 74 lakh vials per month. The MHA submitted that the remaining additional sites of the said seven companies who have been permitted to manufacture Remdesivir are expected to get operational by May 2021, bringing the total production capacity to about 90 lakh vials per month. Generally, it takes about 20 days for each batch to be manufactured, tested and released for supply and there has been a constant increase in production and supply of Remdesivir on a war footing, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/false-narrative-that-nothing-was-done-after-first-covid-19-wave-centre-to-sc-979634.html
27-04-2021||National||In 'catastrophic' India, illness is everywhere||Crematoria are so full of bodies, it’s as if a war just happened. Fires burn around the clock. Many places are holding mass cremations, dozens at a time, and at night, in certain areas of New Delhi, the sky glows. Sickness and death are everywhere. Dozens of houses in my neighbourhood have sick people. One of my colleagues is sick. One of my son’s teachers is sick. The neighbor two doors down, to the right of us: Sick. Two doors to the left: Sick. “I have no idea how I got it,” said a good friend who is now in the hospital. “You catch just a whiff of this…..” and then his voice trailed off, too sick to finish. He barely got a bed. And the medicine his doctors say he needs is nowhere to be found in India. I’m sitting in my apartment waiting to catch the disease. That’s what it feels like right now in New Delhi with the world’s worst Covid-19 crisis advancing around us. It is out there, I am in here, and I feel like it’s only a matter of time before I, too, get sick. India is now recording more infections per day — as many as 350,000 — than any other country has since the pandemic began, and that’s just the official number, which most experts think is a vast underestimation. New Delhi, India’s sprawling capital of 20 million, is suffering a calamitous surge. A few days ago, the positivity rate hit a staggering 36% — meaning more than one out of three people tested were infected. A month ago, it was less than 3%. The infections have spread so fast that hospitals have been completely swamped. People are turned away by the thousands. Medicine is running out. So is lifesaving oxygen. The sick have been left stranded in interminable lines at hospital gates or at home, literally gasping for air. Although New Delhi is locked down, the disease is still rampaging. Doctors across this city and some of Delhi’s top politicians are issuing desperate SOS calls to India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, on social media and on TV, begging for oxygen, medicine, help. Experts had always warned that Covid-19 could wreak real havoc in India. The country is enormous — 1.4 billion people. And densely populated. And in many places, very poor. What we’re witnessing is so different from last year, during India’s first wave. Then, it was the fear of the unknown. Now we know. We know the totality of the disease, the scale, the speed. We know the terrifying force of this second wave, hitting everyone at the same time. What we had been fearing during last year’s first wave, and which never really materialised, is now happening in front of our eyes: A breakdown, a collapse, a realisation that so many people will die. As a foreign correspondent for nearly 20 years, I’ve covered combat zones, been kidnapped in Iraq and been thrown in jail in more than a few places. This is unsettling in a different way. There’s no way of knowing if my two kids, wife or I will be among those who get a mild case and then bounce back to good health, or if we will get really sick. And if we do get really sick, where will we go? ICUs are full. Gates to many hospitals have been closed. A new variant known here as “the double mutant” may be doing a lot of the damage. The science is still early but from what we know, this variant contains one mutation that may make the virus more contagious and another that may make it partially resistant to vaccines. Doctors are pretty scared. Some we have spoken to said they had been vaccinated twice and still got seriously ill, a very bad sign. So, what can you do? I try to stay positive, believing that is one of the best immunity boosters, but I find myself drifting in a daze through the rooms of our apartment, listlessly opening cans of food and making meals for my kids, feeling like my mind and body are turning to mush. I’m afraid to check my phone and get another message about a friend who has deteriorated. Or worse. I’m sure millions of people have felt this way, but I’ve started imagining symptoms: Is my throat sore? What about that background headache? Is it worse today? My part of town, South Delhi, is now hushed. Like many other places, we had a strict lockdown last year. But now, doctors here are warning us that the virus is more contagious, and the chances of getting help are so much worse than they were during the first wave. So many of us are scared to step outside, like there’s some toxic gas we’re all afraid to breathe. India is a story of scale and it cuts both ways. It has a lot of people, a lot of needs and a lot of suffering. But it also has a lot of technology, industrial capacity and resources, both human and material. I almost teared up the other night when the news showed an Indian Air Force jet load up with oxygen tanks from Singapore to bring to needy parts of the country. The government was essentially airlifting air. However difficult and dangerous it feels in Delhi for all of us, it’s probably going to get worse. Epidemiologists say the numbers will keep climbing, to 500,000 reported cases a day nationwide and as many as 1 million Indians dead from Covid-19 by August. It didn’t have to be like this. India was doing well up until a few weeks ago, at least on the surface. It locked down, absorbed the first wave, then opened up. It maintained a low death rate (at least by official statistics). By winter, life in many respects had returned to something near normal. I was out reporting in January and February, driving through towns in central India. No one — and I mean no one, including police officers — was wearing a mask. It was like the country had said to itself, while the second wave was looming: Don’t worry, we got this. Few people feel that way now. Modi remains popular among his base, but more people are blaming him for failing to prepare India for this surge and for holding packed political rallies in recent weeks where few precautions were enforced — possible superspreader events. “Social distancing norms have gone for a complete toss,” one Delhi newscaster said the other day, during a broadcast of one of Modi’s rallies. In India, as elsewhere, the wealthy can pad the blow of many crises. But this time, it’s different. A well-connected friend activated his entire network to help someone close to him, a young man with a bad case of Covid-19. My friend’s friend died. No amount of pull could get him into a hospital. There were just too many other sick people. “I tried everything in my power to get this guy a bed, and we couldn’t,” my friend said. “It’s chaos.” His feelings were raw. “This is a catastrophe. This is murder.” I take few risks except to get food for my family that can’t be delivered. I wear two masks and cut wide berths around as many people as I can. But most days pass with the four of us marooned inside. We try to play games, we try not to talk about who just got sick or who’s racing around this besieged city looking for help they probably won’t find. Sometimes we just sit quietly in the living room, looking out at the ficus and palm trees. Through the open window, on long, still, hot afternoons, we can hear two things: Ambulances. And birdsong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-catastrophic-india-illness-is-everywhere-979652.html
27-04-2021||National||Work closely with states to set up oxygen plants: PM to officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday directed officials to work closely with the state governments to set up oxygen plants and ensure rapid upgradation of the health infrastructure. The Empowered Groups (EG) on boosting oxygen supply, medical infrastructure, covid management and communication strategies briefed the Prime Minister about the pandemic situation in the country. The Prime Minister stressed on the need to ensure that specific guidelines and strategies made regarding Covid management were properly implemented by the relevant agencies in the states, an official statement said. The EG on oxygen supply informed the Prime Minister about increasing allocation of oxygen to states. They told the Prime Minister that the production of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in the country had increased from 5,700 MT/day in August 2020 to 8,922 MT as on April 25. The domestic production of LMO was expected to cross 9,250 MT/day by the end of April. “The Prime Minister instructed the officials to work closely with state governments to start the Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) Oxygen plants at the earliest. The officers also apprised the Prime Minister that they were encouraging States to also set up PSA oxygen plants.   Last week, the government had approved setting up 551 PSA oxygen plants at government hospitals across districts through the PM CARES fund. The Prime Minsiter was also briefed about the functioning of the Oxygen Express Railways Service as well as the domestic and international sorties undertaken by IAF to transport oxygen tankers. The meeting was attended by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, and other senior officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-closely-with-states-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-pm-to-officials-979676.html
27-04-2021||National||ECHS polyclinics permitted to hire additional staff for Covid-19 duty||The government on Tuesday granted permission to the medical facilities run by the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme to hire additional contractual staff to run the polyclinics, including in Bengaluru during night hours. “Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved temporary hiring of additional contractual staff over and above the authorisation in 51 identified high-pressure Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) polyclinics across the country to tide over the current Covid-19 crisis,” the Defence Ministry said. The approval was given as part of a policy decision to augment military health infrastructure in view of the coronavirus crisis in the country. “The contractual staff, including one each of medical officer, nursing assistant, pharmacist, driver and chowkidar for identified ECHS polyclinics, will be hired through station headquarters for night duty, beyond normal working hours, for a period of three months,” the ministry said. IAF sorties continue: The Indian Air Force continued its sorties for ferrying cryogenic oxygen cylinders to bridge the shortfall of the lifesaving drug across the nation. IAF transport aircraft ferried six empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai to Panagarh, four from Bangkok to Panagarh for re-filling and distribution to states. IAF aircraft also ferried empty oxygen containers from Baroda to Ranchi, Hindan to Panagarh and from Pune, Bhopal, Indore, Jaipur to Jamnagar for re-filling. After refilling, the containers will be ferried back to the states either by road or by the Oxygen Express run by the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/echs-polyclinics-permitted-to-hire-additional-staff-for-covid-19-duty-979681.html
27-04-2021||National||How to register for Covid-19 vaccine for 18 years and above: A detailed guide||Online registration for vaccination against Covid-19 for those aged above 18 will begin on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app from April 28. Vaccination for those above 18 will begin May 1, 2021. Regardless of government or private centre, every individual has to register on the CoWIN portal to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Here is a step-by-step guide on how to register on CoWin for your Covid-19 vaccine:  Step 2:  Enter the OTP and the next step involves filling in details that include Name, Date of Birth etc. Ensure no errors at this stage.  Step 3: Next, a government Photo ID needs to be chosen on the portal. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID, Passport, Driving License and PAN Card are some of the key documents that can be used. Enter the corresponding identification number without any errors.  Step 4: After this stage, choose the vaccination centre, it can be either a private or a government entity.  Step 5: Select the date and time for the options. Sometimes, if you can't find the required slot, check for subsequent days or choose a different vaccination centre.  Step 6: An appointment confirmation letter will be generated, carry that and a Photo ID (physical copy) to the vaccination centre at the designated time and date. Can I reschedule my appointment? There is an option to change the time slot but before the scheduled day. If you miss your appointment, you can choose another day and time by clicking on the “Reschedule” tab. When can I book my appointment for my second vaccine dose? Once you receive your first shot, there is no need to register again for the second dose. The system will schedule an appointment for you automatically on the 29th day following your first dose at the same vaccination centre.  How many people can register using a single login id? Up to four people can be registered using a single phone number but four different Photo IDs need to be uploaded. What are the other registration options? Besides self-registration, the government provides two other options: on-site registration and facilitated cohort registration. Walk-in registration is available and in the case of the other, the local officials will aid those who are unable to opt for the other two. Other things you need to know — You cannot donate blood for a month after getting a vaccine dose. — You need to follow all Covid-19 protocols such as wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and washing your hands regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-coronavirus-vaccine-corona-cowin-portal-login-aarogya-setu-app-covishield-covaxin-979685.html
27-04-2021||National Politics||Assembly elections: EC bans victory processions on and after May 2 results||The winners of Assembly polls in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry will not be allowed to take out victory rallies, the Election Commission (EC) ordered on Tuesday, even as it sought to pass the buck to state disaster management authorities after the Madras High Court held it responsible for the second Covid-19 wave in the country. The poll panel also ordered that not more than two persons would be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or his/her authorised representative while collecting the certificate of election from Returning Officers at the counting centres on May 2 — the day of counting of votes. The Madras High Court on Monday observed that the EC was “singularly responsible” for the second wave of Covid in the country as it failed to enforce safety protocols during electioneering. The court also observed that EC officers should be booked for murder. The EC, however, said on Tuesday that the responsibility of enforcing measures to contain the pandemic — like lockdown, restrictions on or curtailment of public gatherings — was assigned to State Disaster Management Authorities (SDMAs), which did not stop public gatherings under the Disaster Management Act 2005 during the period when Assembly polls were held. The EC directed everyone to adhere to whatever was prescribed by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). On no occasion does the EC take over the task of SDMAs for enforcement of Covid protocols, it stated. The EC recalled that it had conducted Assembly polls in Bihar in October-November last year amidst the lockdown. It noted that its own August 2020 guidelines had emphasised that state authorities should ensure compliance to protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-elections-ec-bans-victory-processions-on-and-after-may-2-results-979391.html
27-04-2021||National Politics||BJP welcomes EC's order banning victory processions over poll results||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday welcomed the Election Commission's order banning victory processions during and after counting of votes in states where assembly polls have been held. "I welcome the decision of the ECI banning celebrations and processions of electoral victories. I have directed all state units of BJP to strictly adhere to this decision. All karykartas of BJP are using their energies to help the ones in need in this hour of crisis," Nadda said in a tweet. भारतीय जनता पार्टी चुनाव आयोग द्वारा परिणामों के बाद विजय जुलूस पर प्रतिबंध के फ़ैसले का स्वागत करती है।मैंने भाजपा की सभी राज्य इकाइयों को इस निर्णय का पालन करने का निर्देश दिया है। हमारा हर कार्यकर्ता पूरी ऊर्ज़ा के साथ इस संकट की घड़ी में आम जन की सेवा में निरंतर लगा रहेगा। The EC has taken the decision to check the spread of coronavirus, official sources said. The counting of votes will be held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-welcomes-ecs-order-banning-victory-processions-over-poll-results-979440.html
27-04-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi seeks unity in leadership against Covid-19, calls handling of pandemic 'complete disaster'||As the second coronavirus wave ravages India, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi sought unity in leadership to fight the Covid-19 pandemic effectively. She said the fight against the coronavirus was a 'us vs corona,' and not amongst ourselves. Gandhi's criticism of the government comes as the daily Covid-19 infections continue to remain above three lakh. The rising cases and an acute shortage of life-saving medicines and medical oxygen has mounted pressure on the Modi-led administration to act swiftly even as Covid-related deaths near 2,00,000, which is also an underestimate, according to health experts. Besides delay in action, PM Modi and the BJP have been under attack for continuing elections rallies in the poll-bound states, particularly In West Bengal where the cases have spiraled. Gandhi also admitted it was not wrong to say Congress also held election-related events amid Covid-19. Gandhi further said the assembly elections were prioritised over the pandemic. "The entire focus has been on the Assembly elections instead of rising to the occasion to provide leadership and management of the huge upsurge in disease," she said. She also said that there were enough warnings of a new wave of the pandemic. She accused the government of not preparing for a surge in cases, and not revamping health infrastructure to bear the burden. "They have failed on every single front and yet, even as their political opponent, I don’t feel a sense of retribution. I feel deeply, deeply saddened and very angry at what they have done – or more accurately not done," she told the publication. Extending support to the government in the fight against Covid-19, Gandhi said the Congress was ready for cooperation and working together. "We have to fight this battle together as a nation. The Modi government must realise that the battle is against Covid, not against the Congress or other political opponents," she said. On former PM Manmohan Singh's letter to Modi over suggestions on vaccination, Gandhi said she was saddened by the Union government's "contemptuous response." She said Congress writing to the government was a help-offering and that she would be ready to work with the government side by side to deal with the pandemic. In response, the government has announced vaccinations for all adults beginning next month. The vaccine policy, which allows states to procure jabs directly from manufacturers, has come in attack from the Opposition for being discriminatory. Gandhi asserted that vaccination should be free for all and claimed that government is complicit in profiteering over the vaccine. "No other country in the world has such an insensitive and discriminatory vaccine policy. Tragically, we have a situation where we have one nation and five vaccine prices from two vaccine manufacturers," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-seeks-unity-in-leadership-against-covid-19-calls-handling-of-pandemic-complete-disaster-979466.html
27-04-2021||National Politics||Future generations won't forgive you, Priyanka tels Adityanath on Covid-19 crisis||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Tuesday wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, alleging low testing for Covid-19, a shortage of oxygen beds and a sluggish vaccination drive in the state, which is battling a "terrible" second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. In her letter to Adityanath, the Congress general secretary also alleged coronavirus patients and their attendants were scrambling for beds, medicines and oxygen in the state to no avail. Uttar Pradesh Monday reported 249 coronavirus deaths, the highest single-day fatality count so far, and 33,574 fresh cases. The infection has killed 11,414 people in the state till Monday, "If you don't employ the entire resources of the government with determination in this hour of crisis, the future generations will never forgive you," she said in her letter, in which she has also made 10 suggestions on fighting the raging pandemic. She said the second wave of the pandemic is at its peak in many cities of Uttar Pradesh and "is now spreading to villages". "The biggest concern is that the rate of coronavirus cases is rising, while testing is very low. A large number of cases are not being reported," Gandhi alleged in her letter in Hindi. She said the war against Covid-19 rests on four pillars of testing, treatment, tracking and vaccination. "There is no testing in rural areas and people in the urban areas also area facing a lot of difficulties in getting their tests done. Test reports do not come for several days. In a state with a population of over 23 crore, there are only 126 government test centres and 115 private centres," she said. She said another big concern area was an alleged lack of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and an acute shortage of medicines and their massive black-marketing. "The Ayushman card scheme has failed, it is not being honoured by any hospital. People are being forced to pay three-four times more for oxygen, Remedesivir and other life-saving drugs," she said, adding it is difficult for the poor and middle class to get treatment in such a scenario. She also alleged people have to face a lot of difficulties at crematoriums and death figures are also being "underreported". "This game of underreporting deaths is being played every day in every district, in every town of UP," she said, asking, "It is being done on whose directions?" People are not getting wood for the cremation of bodies and families have to wait for 12 hours for an ambulance to take their deceased loved ones to cremation ground, she claimed. On vaccination, she said the pace of immunisation was "sluggish" in the state as it has inoculated "less than 1 crore people in five months". "Uttar Pradesh will need at least Rs 10,000 crore to vaccinate 60 per cent of the state's population, while it has allocated only Rs 40 crore. I urge you (CM) to explore the possibility of manufacturing vaccines in Bharat Immunological and Biological Corporation in Bulandshahr," she suggested. She added, "Whatever may be your motive behind the order to book people who are exposing the truth of this pandemic and confiscate their property, please first focus your attention on trying to control this deadly virus." She said the state government should announce an economic package for the welfare of all health workers and frontline workers, and also re-notify all the closed Covid-19 hospitals and care centres. It should immediately increase the availability of oxygen-beds, she said. All medical personnel and paramedical staff retired from territorial service should be recalled to work in hospitals near their homes, she said. "Increase the number of RT-PCR tests. It should be ensured that at least 80 per cent of the tests are through RTPCR. Open new testing centers in rural areas and purchase of adequate test kits and appointment of trained staff," she said. Covid kits should be distributed in villages with the help of Anganwadi and Asha workers, she added. She also suggested granting ‘ambulance status’ to oxygen tankers for faster transportation and demanded financial assistance for the poor, the laborers, street vendors and migrant workers. She demanded relief for shopkeepers, small businesses and said that government should encourage people, parties and institutions to come forward to help them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/future-generations-wont-forgive-you-priyanka-tels-adityanath-on-covid-19-crisis-979540.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Truce holds in Kashmir, giving shell-shocked residents uneasy peace||The guns have gone silent, schools have reopened and the bunkers are empty along Pakistan's restive ceasefire line with India, but even as residents in Kashmir relax thanks to an uneasy truce, they fear fighting may erupt again soon. For months, a precarious peace has been welcomed by conflict-wary Kashmiris along the so-called Line of Control (LoC) -- the boundary that divides the disputed region between Pakistan and India. The surprise truce announced in late February brought an end to years of violence along the frontier that saw thousands of skirmishes rattle the Himalayan territory, where the two sides have used artillery, mortars, and small arms. "Life before the ceasefire was very miserable," Kashif Hussain, the deputy commissioner of Poonch district in Pakistani Kashmir, told reporters on a military-escorted visit to the area. But education has since resumed, health facilities reopened and people can move around, he said, providing "a very positive effect on the psychological life of the people". The deal effectively reinstated an earlier ceasefire signed by the two sides in 2003 that had been trampled by thousands of violations in recent years. Pakistan's military said the original deal had largely held until 2016, when tensions exploded in Indian-administered Kashmir, resulting in a surge in violence between the two sides. As fighting along the LoC raged, ties between the rivals went into freefall with India repeatedly accusing Pakistan of sending infiltrators across the frontier, while Islamabad lambasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government for stoking Hindu nationalist sentiment against Muslims. The two sides came close to another all-out war after an attack by a Pakistan-based militant group inside Indian Kashmir in 2019 led to tit-for-tat air strikes. But even after stepping back from the brink, fighting along the LoC escalated, reaching an apex last year with thousands of clashes reported. But the damage from the coronavirus and slowing economies in both countries -- along with a geopolitical tug of war -- appears to have convinced India and Pakistan to halt for the time being. "Both countries have an interest in cooling tensions right now," said Myra MacDonald, the author of multiple books on the conflict. "Because of Covid, but also because India faces problems on its disputed frontier with China, while Pakistan has to address both its own economic difficulties and the fallout of the US withdrawal from Afghanistan." The truce appears to be holding, with the Pakistan military telling AFP there had been "no significant" ceasefire violations since the deal was signed. For residents living near the ceasefire line, the end of fighting has brought back a sense of normality after years of strife. "Schools were closed. Kids who used to go to mosques also got confined to their houses," said Tooba Imitiaz, who fled her home two years ago but recently resettled in Poonch. "There were a lot of psychological problems. Our children would start shouting 'mortar, mortar' when they even hear a small thud." The Pakistan military said about 1.5 million residents live along the ceasefire line under their control, where they have long relied on a network of community bunkers and homemade shelters to weather the perennial bouts of unrest over the years. The ridges and valleys bisected by the LoC continue to host tens of thousands of troops armed with heavy weapons, with some outposts between the rivals just a few dozen metres (yards) apart. But even as fighting has come to a halt, residents said they are still wary of the deal -- and fear fighting could flare at any time. "We think it is temporary," said Sameer Begum, 60, who has lived most of her life in the shadow of the LoC. "We can't trust the enemy. We can't trust them, they can start it any time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/truce-holds-in-kashmir-giving-shell-shocked-residents-uneasy-peace-979446.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Kumbh Mela: Seers keep last Shahi Snan a symbolic affair||The last 'shahi snan' at the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar on Tuesday was a subdued affair with seers keeping the ritual symbolic in view of a nationwide surge in Covid-19 cases. Till 10:45 am, around 670 seers took the royal bath and some more are expected to take it in the day at Har ki Pairi on the banks of the Ganga, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 17 had appealed to sadhus to observe the remaining duration of the Kumbh only in a "symbolic" manner. Following this different 'akhadas' (sects) had agreed to keep their participation symbolic. Crowds at the ghats of the Ganga started thinning down drastically since last week after the key 'akhadas' of seers began pulling out of the Maha Kumbh, one of the largest religious gatherings in the world, citing the spike in coronavirus case numbers. Many spots wore a deserted look on Tuesday at the Kumbh which will formally close only on April 30. Uttarakhand reported 5,058 Covid-19 cases on Monday with Dehradun registering 2,034 cases and Haridwar 1,002 cases. By 10.45 am, 600 seers of the Joona, Agni, Avahan and Kinnar 'akhadas' had taken a dip in the river followed by 70 seers of the Niranjani and Anand 'akhadas' on Chaitra Purnima, Zonal Officer (Intelligence) of Haridwar Sunita Verma said. Seven more akhadas will converge at 'Har ki Pairi' during the day for a symbolic 'snan', the officer said. Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat, Inspector General (Kumbh Mela) Sanjay Gunjyal and Senior Superintendent of Police, Kumbh Mela, Janmejay Khanduri reviewed the arrangements at Har ki Pairi before commencement of the bath on Tuesday. Talking to reporters, Rawat thanked the seers for scaling down the shahi snan in response to the prime minister's appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kumbh-mela-seers-keep-last-shahi-snan-a-symbolic-affair-979458.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||'Kadha': The new welcome drink in times of Covid-19||One may have seen wedding guests being welcomed with flower petals, cold drinks and glasses of juice but at a marriage ceremony in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, about 300 kilometres from here, the wedding party received a different kind of reception. Instead of flower petals and soft drinks, the guests were given masks and were served piping hot 'kadha' (decoction prepared with Ayurvedic herbs to boost immunity). Ayurvedic doctors claim that the 'kadha', which contains medicinal herbs like 'Tulsi' (holy basil leaf), cinnamon, black pepper, dry ginger and some other herbs, boosts immunity and helps fight Covid. According to the reports, the wedding guests were requested to wear the masks to avoid infection. The hosts, while offering the guests 'kadha', insisted on them on having it even though it was a little 'bitter'. "We are sorry but it is essential....please put the masks on and drink the decoction....it will keep you safe," the host, Harat Lal Chaurasia said. Chaurasia said that he received full cooperation from the guests and that no one complained. "Everyone today is worried about his safety....Varanasi has been reporting a large number of Covid cases so we must take every precaution," he added. The guests too concurred and said that the people would have to adapt to the existing situation. There were, however, dishes of different variety for the guests, who were also allowed to dance but not without following social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kadha-the-new-welcome-drink-in-times-of-covid-19-979532.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Centre raps Delhi govt for failure to resolve logistical issues to procure oxygen||The Centre has rapped the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government for its alleged failure to arrange tankers for transportation of oxygen for the city's hospitals and said proactive actions by it could have "avoided tragic incidents". In a hard-hitting letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also claimed that the Delhi government's efforts to resolve logistical issues for procuring oxygen have "not been up to the mark" at a time when other states and union territories have been making earnest and professional efforts on the matter. Bhalla wrote the letter on April 25. However, on Tuesday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. Kejriwal said the scrambling for oxygen witnessed last week amid a surge in Covid-19 cases has been addressed and the situation has improved significantly in the past two days. In the next month, the Delhi government will set up 44 oxygen plants at various hospitals, including 21 that will be imported from France. The Centre will install eight oxygen plants by April 30, Kejriwal said during an online briefing. The chief minister said the Centre has provided five oxygen tankers to Delhi. Highlighting various steps taken by the central government like stopping oxygen supply to industries, uninterrupted movement of oxygen tankers, airlifting of tankers from abroad, the union home secretary said all state governments and UTs have been making diligent and continuous efforts at their level for the last few days to arrange tankers for the allocated quantity of medical oxygen and a specially designated virtual group was formed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) for facilitation. "However, Delhi government has hardly been able to arrange any tankers so far though many crucial days have passed since the government of India made allotment of oxygen," Bhalla's letter said, urging the Delhi chief secretary to urgently take immediate action in this regard as is being done by chief secretaries and other officials of other states and UTs. The home secretary said presently, there is no shortage of medical oxygen supply and Delhi had been allocated 480 MT on April 21 after consultation with officers of the Delhi government. "However, it has been brought to my notice that Delhi has received less supply than its actual allocation made by the government of India largely due to logistical issues which are not at all addressed by the state government," he said. Bhalla said the Delhi government had directed INOX, one of the main suppliers of oxygen, to supply 98 MT to 17 hospitals situated within Delhi, while INOX was supplying 105 MT to 45 hospitals situated within Delhi for a long time. Furthermore, alternative arrangements for the remaining 28 hospitals were not properly tied up by the Delhi government, he claimed. "As a result, some of these hospitals have been complaining about the severe shortage of medical oxygen and one hospital mentioned that some persons died because of it. "This could have been avoided had proper, effective, and meaningful consultations with various stakeholders, especially the suppliers and recipient hospitals, had been done well in time by the Delhi government," Bhalla said. Highlighting that most of the hospitals in Delhi were converted into Covid-19 facilities in view of the sudden and alarming rise in cases, the home secretary said such hospitals by very nature of their earlier functioning, did not have the adequate storing capacity to store the oxygen supplied as per their present requirements since in their earlier functioning most of them did not need more quantity of oxygen. For the same reasons, he said, their oxygen dispensing infrastructure also may not have been up to the requirement, especially for the augmented oxygen supply required for Covid-19 patients. Bhalla said a virtual meeting with all hospitals in Delhi, taking stock of their respective capacities and infrastructure, guiding them to suitably augment their storage and pressure facilities to the required level with the help of experts of the field "would have avoided tragic incidents". "Such things are to be immediately taken up proactively and on a war footing with the state government taking the initiative. "In these difficult times, it is extremely important that the central government and the governments of various states and UTs work in tandem to tackle this COVID crisis and minimise human suffering. Therefore, I will request you to take urgent, effective, innovative and result-oriented measures like Chief Secretaries of other states and UTs have taken," the home secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-raps-delhi-govt-for-failure-to-resolve-logistical-issues-to-procure-oxygen-979538.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||AAP govt’s system failed; black marketing of oxygen cylinders, medicines going on: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday slammed Delhi Government, saying its entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines for treating Covid-19 patients was going on unabated in the national capital. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said we are surprised that the orders issued by the Delhi government did not take into consideration all the suppliers of the medical oxygen. As various local hospitals complained shortage of supply, the court, at one point, said if the Delhi government could not fulfill its responsibility, it may ask the Union government to take over. The court directed the Delhi government to file a report on all the deaths that have taken place in hospitals and nursing homes on account of shortage of oxygen. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said it can devise new system as it was involved in distribution of oxygen cylinders. "We don't know about the new system, but your system has failed," an anguished bench said. "Mr Mehra, you will have to bring your house in order. If you cannot, please tell us. We will ask the officials of central government to take over," the bench said. Various hospitals complained of shortage in oxygen supply and of medicines, the court told Mehra, "This is a mess which you're not being able to solve." "Our confidence is being shaken in the manner everything is being handled. You are administrators and you should know how to exercise your powers. In today's situation, none can take public for a ride," the bench said. Mehra said the Delhi government was trying to formulate a process so that hospitals knew about the entire status of supply 72 hours prior. Taking a strong view on allegations against a re-filler company, the court asked the Delhi government to take over the plant, saying, “We don't want anyone to act like vultures in these times.” The court said the Delhi government has to pull up its socks to look into the aspect of supply of oxygen. "Even after supplying tons and tons of oxygen, no account is being maintained," it noted. "This is what is leading to an artificial shortage on one hand and black marketing on the other hand," the court added, directing strict action against such oxygen re-fillers who did not act as per request of supply. The court also directed for creating an online portal indicating the correct position with regards to the position of Remdesivir on real time to maintain transparency. It also told the Delhi government not to issue unnecessary circular creating problems for the hospitals in getting essential supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-govt-s-system-failed-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-medicines-going-on-delhi-hc-979541.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Marriage assistance scheme comes as a boon for poor brides in Jammu and Kashmir||Launched in 2015, Jammu and Kashmir government’s state marriage assistance scheme (SMAS) has come as a saviour for thousands of poor brides in the union territory (UT). The SMAS for poor girls is a social assistance scheme meant for those unmarried identified girls of the UT living below the poverty line (BPL) who may not find themselves in a position to marry due to financial constraint. Widening its endeavour to reach out to the poor section of society, the government under this scheme is lending a helping hand to the poor families who couldn’t afford to marry off their daughters. Under the scheme, an unmarried girl above 18 years of age belonging to the BPL family receives Rs 25,000 cash assistance and the cost of five grams of gold at the time of her marriage. Since its inspection in December 2015, more than 36,300 persons have been benefited under the scheme with the cumulative financial assistance of Rs 144.30 crore provided to the beneficiaries. “To find a suitable match always for a girl always remains a tough task but for a poor man more cumbersome is expenditure a marriage incurs,” said Abdul Ahad (name changed), a resident of south Kashmir’s Shopian. In 2018, he came to know about the scheme from a friend and wasted no time in completing formalities. “I was not financially well and getting my daughter married was a huge challenge for me. But in 2019, with the assistance from the government finally, I could achieve my dream,” the relieved father said. During the 2020-21 financial year, the J&K government under the scheme, which is being run by the social welfare department, has sanctioned 8254 cases and provided assistance of Rs 32.78 crore. The highest number of marriage assistance cases were sanctioned for the Kulgam district of the Kashmir division with disbursement of Rs 4.20 crore. The norms for availing benefit under the scheme are that the prospective beneficiary girl should be above 18 years of age, and should be an identified poor girl in the survey list available with the concerned officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/marriage-assistance-scheme-comes-as-a-boon-for-poor-brides-in-jammu-and-kashmir-979547.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Corpses wait in 20-hour queues for last rites at Delhi crematoriums||Under the high tin roof, 50 funeral pyres burned fiercely on Tuesday, the hot air filled with smoke, fine ash and muted sobs of shell-shocked famlies.   Nearby, lying unattended on the floor, and in scores of parked vehicles, more corpses awaited their turn, which relatives were told would come 16 to 20 hours later.  Shaking Delhi's spirit and soul, an unimaginable tragedy is unfolding at New Delhi's crematoriums struggling to cope with the deluge of the dead arriving at frightening pace.   "I have not seen such a bad situation ever before in my life. People are moving with the dead bodies of their loved ones from pillar to post ... almost all Delhi crematoriums are flooded with dead bodies," Vineeta Massey, the owner of Massey Funerals, told PTI.    By official count, 3,601 people have died this month, of them 2,267 in the last seven days alone in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which is terrorising and tormenting the city. In all of February, the death toll was 57, and in March 117.  As if the trauma of losing a loved one to the virus so suddenly is not enough, there is more grief in store for relatives who are not even able to give them a proper send-off. They arrive at crematoriums with bodies, only to be turned away. They drive to another facility, and yet another, traversing the city with the mortal remains in personal cars or ambulances, desperately seeking a graceful exit for their father, mother, son or daughter from the material world. The trauma is no less for the relatives of those who died of non-Covid causes but are being swept up in the collective national tragedy driven by the pandemic.   Aman Arora, a young entrepreneur from West Delhi's Ashok Nagar, lost his father M.L. Arora to a heart attack on Monday afternoon.  "We rushed him to many private hospitals when he started feeling discomfort in his chest but he was not even checked by the medical staff there. They demanded that we produce a Covid-negative report. He eventually passed away," said Aman.   On Monday afternoon, Aman was told by the staff in west Delhi’s Subhash Nagar crematorium to wait until Tuesday morning to perform the last rites.    When Aman realised there was no point in pleading, he arranged for a refrigerator to prevent his father's dead body from decaying.   "What could I have done when there was no space? We kept the body in a rented fridge and have come early today (Tuesday)," said Aman, waiting for his turn as many other people milled around silently with dead bodies lying on the floor.   Outside, ambulances and  cars honked and competed for parking space but inside all one could hear was the crackling of dry wood from the burning pyres -- all 50 of them roaring simultaneously.   A few sobs arose over the sound of the fires,  and one could hear the unemotional intonations of instructions being given by the crematorium staff.   "Apna dead body uthao aur udhar line mein ja ke khade ho jao (Pick up your dead body and go stand in line)," said a young staffer.   A woman in her 40s was so stunned she couldn't make out what was 'nabhi' (navel) or 'chhati' (chest) when a staff member asked her to place sandalwood sticks on the body of her father who had died of Covid. The body was still packed in a white sack, which was placed on the pyre without opening. Holding the sandalwood sticks in trembling hands, she moved around the body before being helped by someone. "I didn't even see the face of my father," wailed the woman, who was alone.       Manmeet Singh, a 40-year-old assistant professor, also carried his father Gurpal Singh's dead body in his car to the Subhash Nagar crematorium on Monday afternoon. But the staff politely told him his father couldn't be cremated because the pyre chambers were already full and the CNG crematorium at the centre could only accommodate two bodies at one time. It takes about 90 minutes to dispose of one body in a CNG chamber and a PTI correspondent counted 24 bodies waiting in queue for a slot.   With no option left, Manmeet left for the MCD crematorium in Pashchim Vihar about six kilometres away and luckily got space with the help of an MCD inspector. "If you can't provide oxygen to the patients in hospitals, then at least provide some space in the cremation ground so that people leave the world comfortably," said Manmeet.   The ground at the crematorium was full of filth and covered with leftovers of the previous cremation. It was muddy and rotten fruits were scattered all over. Plastic bags, sacks, buckets, mugs littered the ground. But none of that mattered to the relatives. What mattered was enough space to light  a pyre. According to rules, said a senior official at the Delhi Health Department, if somebody dies of Covid-19 in hospital, the district administration has to arrange a hearse van, and the hospital is supposed to deploy staff for the disposal of the dead body at the crematorium and graveyard.  But the crush of the dead has made it impossible for hospitals to provide hearses. So relatives are simply taking the bodies in their vehicles.  "If family members move with the body of their loved ones in their personal vehicles, there are chances of being infected," another government official said.    Ajeet, a staff member at the MCD crematorium, told PTI they have created more than 100 extra makeshift chambers in an adjacent space to accommodate the increasing number of dead people -- both Covid-19 and natural deaths.   "I can't move my arms, I am dead tired. The whole day we arrange for cremation and then in the night we have to take care of the pyres, so that the fire consumes the bodies properly," said Ajeet. The chaos at the crematoriums has raised questions about the Delhi government's preparedness for the second wave, which Chief Minister Arvind Kerjriwal said, had left the healthcare system on the brink of collapse. Many deaths have also been attributed to a severe oxygen shortage for the last 10 days.   The fixing of responsibility will happen later. But for now, "this is the time for us to build solidarity and enough compassion for the poor people fighting the pandemic," said Harsh Mander, a former IAS bureaucrat who is now a civil rights activist.  "The wealthy and the influential thought that they have an escape route to all this but this pandemic told us that we are all in this together," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corpses-wait-in-20-hour-queues-for-last-rites-at-delhi-crematoriums-979578.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||HC raps Delhi govt over creating 100-bed Covid facility for judges, family||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rapped the Delhi government for creating a 100-bed Covid health facility for treatment of judges and their family members at a five-star hotel here, saying "it is unthinkable and we never asked for preferential treatment". "When people aren't getting beds, you are passing such orders? Is it to appease us? You can't create special facility like this. We never asked for it," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told senior advocate Rahul Mehra appearing for the Delhi government. The court took Suo Motu cognisance of the media reports stating that the Delhi government has created a special facility at Ashoka Hotel here for judges and their families. The circular was issued on April 25 by the Delhi government, inviting strong criticism on social media. "Can we as an institution say that create a special facility for us? Will this not be blatantly discriminatory that people can’t get treatment and there is a facility in five star hotel for us," the bench asked the counsel. The court asked the Delhi government counsel to ensure that the Ashoka hotel order was withdrawn or it would quash the circular. Mehra, for his part, contended the media had done wrong and played mischief. "Your order is worded wrong. Media is not wrong in pointing this out," the bench said. The court said it had not made any such request that a facility should be set up at a particular hotel. "Our concern was with regard to judicial officers in lower judiciary who have to hold court. We have already lost two judicial officers," the bench said. The bench told Mehra that perception was going out that we asked for special booking or that the Delhi government did this to appease us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-raps-delhi-govt-over-creating-100-bed-covid-facility-for-judges-family-979583.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Crematoriums in India at breaking point as Covid-19 toll mounts||The Delhi crematorium where Sanjay acts as a priest is dealing with so many bodies from India's Covid-19 nightmare that it has been forced to expand into an adjacent car park. "I have lost count," he told AFP of the number of dead brought to the facility. "We start at sunrise and cremations continue past midnight," he says next to burning pyres and smouldering piles of ash. Families mourn silently on the roadside of this low-income neighbourhood as they wait the turn of their relatives wrapped in white cloth and garlands of yellow marigolds. Wailing ambulances regularly bring more bodies. People in homes overlooking the crematorium live with the stench of burning bodies and the cries of grieving families. India's hospitals are being stretched to breaking point by an explosion in coronavirus cases with people dying outside their doors or at home due to a lack of beds, drugs and oxygen. Crematoriums are working overtime, their chimneys cracking and iron frames melting from constant use. Wood is reportedly in short supply in places and some families are told to bring their own to burn. Many crematoriums and graveyards say the official death toll from the virus comes nowhere close to reflecting the additional number of bodies they are dealing with. For the past three days the crematorium in the Seemapuri area of northeast Delhi has been performing more than 100 funerals a day, and has run out of space. "We tried to accommodate cremations on the walkways and wherever we could find space but the bodies were coming endlessly," coordinator Jitender Singh Shanty, in a yellow turban, blue hazmat suit and lanyard, told AFP. "We had to request authorities to allow us to extend the facility to the parking lot," the Sikh says, orange flames licking up off pyres behind him as night falls. Shanty says they have cremated around 600 bodies since the beginning of the month and that families now have to wait hours to perform the last rites. "If things don't improve then we might be forced to perform the cremations on the road as there is no space left now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crematoriums-in-india-at-breaking-point-as-covid-19-toll-mounts-979596.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||J&K records highest daily spike of 3,164 Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths||Covid-19 continues to show a steep rise in Jammu and Kashmir with the Union Territory (UT) reporting its highest single-day spike ever on Tuesday with 3,164 positive cases and 25 deaths. According to the daily media bulletin, with 3,164 new Covid-19 cases, the tally has reached 1,66,054. Along with that, 25 more fatalities were reported in the UT, taking the death toll to 2,197, it said. For the first time, Srinagar district recorded cases in four figures with 1,144 persons, including 27 travelers, testing positive for the coronavirus. Another capital city of the UT, Jammu reported 489 positive cases while Baramulla, Budgam, Anantnag and Bandipora districts reported 185, 165, 139 and 111 positive cases. Rest 14 districts of the UT all recorded positive cases in double digit mark. On April 25, the UT had reported 2,381 Covid positive cases which was the highest number in the UT since the pandemic erupted last year in March. Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. The active case count has surged to 22,283, comprising over 13.41% of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 1,41,574. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37,372 cases and 478 deaths. On April 1, the UT had registered 461 cases, taking the total number of active Covid-19 patients to 2,874. Just 27 days later, the total number of patients has risen by nearly eight times to 22,283. The UT has also recorded 203 deaths in the 27-days of April. Officials said that the vaccination drive in the UT was being sped-up and more doses were requested for from the Centre, however there was no shortage of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-records-highest-daily-spike-of-3164-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-979603.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh to set up 1000-bed hospital next to Bina Refinery||With transportation of oxygen emerging as a challenge, Madhya Pradesh now plans to set up a 1,000-bed Covid Care Centre next to Bina Refinery. The Refinery, operated by a subsidiary of BPCL, has promised to ensure the supply of oxygen to the facility. "Bina Refinery in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district has started setting up a 1,000-bed temporary hospital near its plant site," Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. “The refinery has adequate oxygen generating capacity, but we do not have any system to transport this oxygen to another site. So we decided to set up a temporary hospital near the refinery itself,” Chouhan said. Bina Refinery is owned and operated by Bharat Oman Refineries Limited, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL). Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 13,590 fresh coronavirus positive cases, its highest daily spike. According to the Union Health Ministry, the spike in Madhya Pradesh was 5.6 times the maximum cases the state reported in a single day during the first wave. During the first wave, the highest number of cases reported in a single day was 2,391 on September 24 last year. The state's caseload stands at 4,46,811, including 4,788 deaths, 75 of which took place in the last 24 hours. During the second wave, Covid-19 cases began to rise in Madhya Pradesh from late March and have shot up sharply in the past fortnight. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chouhan on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Chouhan said the state government was implementing Modi’s suggestion of creating micro-containment zones to curb the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-to-set-up-1000-bed-hospital-next-to-bina-refinery-979616.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi people struggle to get RT-PCR tests as Covid cases rise||Septuagenarian Aqsa Hussain writhed in pain as she lay on the bed in her first floor apartment in east Delhi with fever and body ache. Her son Siraj, too had symptoms of Covid-19 and could not step out of their home to get their throat swabs tested for the infectious disease. A few apartments down the lane, Indira Kaur too faced a similar predicament – unavailability of home collection service to test for Covid-19. Those who managed to get their swab samples collected had to wait for at least four days to get their report – all the while facing the uncertainty of testing positive for Covid-19. An official at SRL Pathlabs said the laboratory was overwhelmed with the number of people seeking Covid-19 tests and some of their technicians too had contracted the disease. Another issue the diagnostic laboratories were facing was updating of the test reports on the government portal. Hussain finally managed to convince a technician at a private hospital to collect the swab sample for the Covid-19 test from her residence, but had to wait for four days to get the results. “With great difficulty I could get an appointment for an RT-PCR test at a private hospital and got the reports after three days,” said Kaur, in her late forties, who was suffering from throat pain and fever. Both Hussain and Kaur had begun treatment for their symptoms after consultation with the doctors and the medicines as per Covid-19 protocol could begin only after the reports came in. For Nishant, an architect in neigbouring Noida, sourcing an oxygen cylinder for treatment at home for himself proved to be a tough task. After frantic phone calls, he could find help in one of the nearby apartment complexes where the clubhouse was turned into Covid Care Centre with oxygen support. Nishant managed to find a hospital bed for himself after nearly 24-hours with the help of some of his friends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-people-struggle-to-get-rt-pcr-tests-as-covid-cases-rise-979633.html
27-04-2021||North and Central||Horrible tragedies unfold at New Delhi's crematoriums as bodies pile up||Mayak Katri has been waiting for the past 6 hours at outside crematorium in Sarai Kale Khan, in West Delhi, with the body of his father to cremate, who died due to Covid-19. Like him, there were over a two dozen ambulances waiting in queue to cremate bodies for the past several hours. Ambulances with blaring sirens keep coming to crematorium. Inside, crematorium staff were struggling to cremate bodies. At a time, a dozen or more bodies were cremated. After finding crematorium staff struggle, many relatives also joined them, to arrange firewood to prepare funeral pyres. "I am working for the 10 days without proper rest. We are tired," says Sonu, who was assisting for cremation. More than two dozen staff are running here and there to arrange funeral pyres as relatives of dead are crying. Those waiting in queue are losing patience as the wait is getting longer and longer. They criticise the government for not making arrangements for quick cremation. Indeed, a horrible tragedy is unfolding at New Delhi's crematoriums as they are struggling to cope with the deluge of the dead arriving at an unprecedented rate. "I have never seen these many bodies coming to crematoriums. For curiosity, I went inside. Many young people have died. You can't explain the situation in words," Shivapal Yadav, who stays near by Sarai Kale Khan crematorium. Several times, crematorium staff turn bodies away, which force people to drive to another crematorium. In many places, people are bringing mortal remains in personal cars due to non-availability of ambulances. With deaths due to Covid-19 increasing, the government authorities have been preparing new pyre platforms in parking lots, empty grounds and even green belts abutting some major facilities. New platforms have been built in parking lots in several crematoriums, including Sarai Kale Khan, Ghazipur and Wazirabad. In some crematoriums, authorities have allowed for mass cremation in open places. In many crematorium in the city, it was virtually chaos. Lying unattended on the floor, and more corpses awaited their turn, in many places which relatives were told would come 16 to 20 hours later. Nigambodh Ghat, the main crematorium of the city, was used to cremate around 30-40 bodies in March, is now cremating 200 bodies in a day. Even though several bodies are coming from hospitals, an equal number of bodies have also started coming directly from where they must have died due to various reasons. "The Covid-19 pandemic virtually created havoc in the city," says Dharam Singh who is waiting outside crematorium to cremate his relative body. The situation is same in the city's burial grounds. In several places, burial grounds facing several space crunch. By official count, 3,601 people have died this month, of them 2,267 in the last one week alone in the second wave of the Covid-19. In all of February, the death toll was 57, and in March 117.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/horrible-tragedies-unfold-at-new-delhis-crematoriums-as-bodies-pile-up-979668.html
27-04-2021||Oasis||Wisdom as freedom||Can gender equality be bought with money? Can a rich woman buy the quality of life she desires?  When the sage Yagnavalkya decided to retire to the forest, he wanted to pass on his considerable wealth to his heirs. His wife Maitreyi, a woman of learning in her own right, asked him if the money would make her immortal. The sage said no, but it would make her a rich woman. This did not mean much to her. Of what use was money if it did not enable her to understand what her husband knew. She asked him to teach her. The enlightened sage was happy to do so. He took her through the various common objects of attachment. Husband, wife, child, money, status, power and everything the senses perceived and desired. Acquiring and controlling these possessions left no time to understand that their existence was transitory. Though these desires varied across people, the basic functions of the sense organs in everyone were the same: sight, hearing, smell, taste, and touch. Yagnavalkya went on to subtler things that were not visible but existed all the same. The music of a musical instrument did not manifest itself till action was performed. Yet its existence was accepted. When a lump of salt dissolved in water it ceased to exist in the physical sense, but its essence, the saltiness, remained. Similarly, consciousness consisted of pure wisdom. Even when the physical form of the body where it resided ceased, consciousness dissolved into the elements it came from and continued to exist. It did not grow with the body and did not cease with the body.  The senses ceased with the body, consciousness left the body but did not cease.  Maitreyi was bewildered and said so. Yagnavalkya explained that the only reality is the wisdom consciousness is made of and merges into. The senses and desires are illusion and not enduring. Understanding this liberates one from desire, and the fear of the loss of what is desired. Such a life is defined by freedom and not by the shackles of desire. It cannot be known, seized or bound. This was what he understood as immortality and was going away to renounce all desire. Having said so he left for the forest. The good woman let him go.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/wisdom-as-freedom-979326.html
27-04-2021||Panorama||Our negligence has earned us the Covid wrath: Dr Rakesh Mishra||The Hyderabad based CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology is a premier science institute in the country, also involved in Covid-19 research since last year. In this interview with DH’s Prasad Nichenametla, CCMB Director Dr Rakesh Mishra throws light on the emergence of the virus strains in the country and the reasons behind the catastrophic second wave. Excerpts: We are amidst an unprecedented health crisis. What has caused this explosion in Covid-19 cases now heading towards four lakh per day? The biggest contributor is our Covid-19 inappropriate behaviour. Viruses tend to mutate as they keep getting weaker over time. The UK variant and the Indian double variant might be a little more infective but the viruses have not gained the ability to fly faster, or travel through mosquitoes. The only way the SARS-CoV-2 still can infect is when we drop our guard, especially in crowded interactions. Infections increased among the younger lot, as students mingled cheerfully with friends in schools, colleges after being restrained for months at home. And election rallies, religious gatherings, weddings, open bars, restaurants have accelerated the virus pace. What do you expect when people sit inside a theatre for three hours? The last couple of months the public behaviour is as if the virus got scared away by the vaccine news. When the fact is we are far behind in vaccine coverage of our population. How many Indian origin mutant strains were discovered till now? And how lethal they are? Three variants are of India origin -- B.1.617, B.1.618, and one sub-lineage of B.1.617 B.1.617 is popular as double mutation and the sub-lineage of 617 is known as triple mutation. This triple mutation is localized in Maharashtra constituting about 10 % cases. Triple variant is not given a specific name as it is similar to double variant with only one change in the virus spike protein. B.1.618 is in Bengal, and is stable there for several months, in about 20 % cases. Over time, B.1.618 might disappear, with B.1.617 taking its place as it is expresses itself faster than B.1.618 One of the mutations in double mutant Covid-19 virus is L452R, first found in California. The Indian strain developed another known mutation – E484Q, and became a double mutant. Double mutant is not a case of two viruses from two regions coming together. And when this double mutant developed another change at 382 position, it came to be referred as triple mutant. This double-triple nomenclature would be misleading, since each of these variants show over 15 mutations. More mutations does not mean the virus strain has become more dangerous. The Indian double mutant was first traced in October but our neglect over the past few months gave it an advantage. There is a lot of anxiety about this mutant strain B.1.617, the Indian variant. Is this the major cause of the second wave in the country? Not at all. Commonly known as the Indian variant, the B.1.617 was found in only around 35% cases in Maharashtra. The virus samples sequenced at CCMB showed B.1.617 in only 2% cases in Telangana and 5% in Andhra Pradesh. In Delhi and Punjab, it is the UK variant which is more prevalent. Unfortunately, there is not much genome sequencing of the virus samples in many states, but it seems in different regions, different variants are thriving. The Indian variant is only as infectious as the UK variant. We are in an advanced stage of the second wave, but still the majority of cases are not of UK, double or triple variant type. From all the samples sequenced till now, the UK variant is found in 12-15% and the double variant in about 20%. So in about 70% cases, it is different strains. The Covid-19 virus has expanded its footprint, but fortunately none of these variants are more dangerous in terms of symptoms, deaths, or in their reaction to vaccines. People should note that no virus, be it from China, UK, or India, can beat the strategy of wearing masks. Since viruses have the habit of mutating constantly, how important is genome sequencing in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic? Genome sequencing, the process of determining the DNA sequence of an organism, helps us chart a particular virus strain’s journey like the UK variant carried from London to Delhi and Punjab. A constant genome surveillance tells us about the spread, mortality caused by a variant and if it is ignoring the vaccines. We need to keep testing every international passenger and sequence the positive samples. Such an effort at the Hyderabad international airport has helped prevent UK variant spread in AP and Telangana. Passengers determined by CCMB as infected by the UK variant were kept in single room isolation. We also need to keep analysing samples from hospitals, areas reporting case burst, deaths apart from cases of reinfection, new symptoms, post-vaccine dose. Weekly surveillance in towns, villages, with samples covering all localities for sequencing, would give us an update on the virus transformations. What should the governments have done to have avoided the tragic events evident today? What measures would avoid, or lessen a third wave intensity? Restrictions should have continued, with social distancing, compulsory masks and constant testing, tracing and treatment of the positive cases. Election rallies, Kumbh melas could have been avoided. And in this past one year, we did not go much ahead in our health infrastructure improvement. However, the central government took a good, daring decision approving the vaccines for emergency use even when there was criticism stating lack of enough data on vaccine safety, efficiency (in Covaxin case).  We can say government could have done several things but we as public should have been careful. The bottom line in winning the war on virus is our Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Let us remember that our negligence has earned us this wrath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/our-negligence-has-earned-us-the-covid-wrath-dr-rakesh-mishra-979323.html
27-04-2021||Panorama||The Alphonso mango wars||Call it the end of a delightful hegemony or new challengers emerging, but a revolution of sorts has happened in the Konkan region -- they have become rich grounds of cultivation of the King of Mangoes -- Alphonso (Hapus). The original growing areas of Indian Alphonso: Devgadh, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Thane in Maharashtra, have severe competition from the Alphonso grown in Northern Karnataka areas including Mundgod, Haliyal and Dandeli.  Alphonso mangoes are traditionally cultivated in Maharashtra, growers from the Konkan coast acquired Geographical Indication Tag in 2018 and Devgadh Hapus got its own GI tag in 2020. “This recognition has made them even more special and worth more. Now, with Karnataka growers also turning in crops grown in North Karnataka orchards to the Alphonso market every year, the prices are coming down during the peak Alphonso period. Though this did not have any effect on the trade both domestic and export, it did make a dent in quality assessment by the consumer. The exporters and domestic market functionaries have begun repacking the Maharashtrian Alphonso consignments with few pieces of Alphonso grown in Karnataka to balance the cost, demand and supply factors,” says Madhav Lele of Lele Alphonso Mango orchards in Devgadh.  Karnataka’s Alphonso farming has brought down the prices of mangoes from Rs. 1,600-1,800 for a box of 12 Alphonso mangoes to Rs 1,200 at the beginning of the season to Rs 300 to 350 in the peak season. Not only the price, but the distribution of Alphonso mangoes has spread to all parts of Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.  These orchards began taking shape in Mundgod, Haliyal, Dandeli and also Kolar about six years ago and now they are in full bloom and the output has surprised the market functionaries. Over 22,000 hectares have been brought under Alphonso cultivation in North Karnataka and in Kolar districts and according to the Horticulture department. This move towards Alphonso cultivation was unprecedented and in the next five years or so, Karnataka might have one lakh hectares under Alphonso cultivation.  Horticulture activists from the Uttara Kannada district are also engaged in another fight over the expansion of the Alphonso variety. “As a result of this directionless growth, farmers are replacing other traditional varieties of mangoes such as Kalishad, Pairi, Dilshad and wild mangoes of Uttara Kannada district. This is not a healthy development when it comes to conservation of fruit diversity,” B V Patil an advocate for local varieties of mango said.  A legal battle between the two Alphonso growers in Karnataka and Maharashtra is in the offing. “Alphonso grown in Devgadh and Ratnagiri have GI tags. Any other area in the country growing Alphonso is not authorised. The debate is on if Alphonso is a generic name or a brand name. It is not just Karnataka, even in areas bordering Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, farmers have switched to grow Alphonso in addition to Benisha and Neelam. In Andhra Pradesh and eastern Karnataka, the growers of Alphonso from Madanpalli sell Alphonso. Agents from Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mangaluru pick up stock from Mandis in Madanpalli. We cannot stop Aphonso growing as a brand, but the traders must not infiltrate Alphonso mangoes grown in different areas into the basket of brands that have GI tags,” said the counsel of Konkan Hapus Amba Utpadak Ani Vikrate Sangh. However, the Karnataka growers made a strong point, “no grower has claimed that they are selling either Devgadh or Rathnigiri Hapus (Alphonso). After we deliver our produce to the APMC or the private mandis, we do not track the movement of our mangoes,” says a farmer in North Karnataka. The All India Mango Growers Association (AIMGA) in Uttar Pradesh had also a similar piquant situation in the case of its famous Langra mangoes which is also now cultivated in Bhagalpur in Bihar, and in the case of Banganpally of Andhra Pradesh which is cultivated in Kerala.  (The writer is a senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-alphonso-mango-wars-979324.html
27-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Uninvited guests||A few kittens always find a way to disrupt my sleep in the afternoon and at night. One day, I bought mackerel fish and kept the plastic container on the kitchen platform. To my surprise, when my wife went to the kitchen, she found that three mackerels were missing another had a bite taken out of it. Mackerels were my favourite fish and I had informed my wife to make a "Reshado fry". I turned to my wife and said "Darling, the kittens have already made a "reshado" now. My wife with a beaming smile said, "Very well, didn't you know that kittens frequented our house, why did you not keep the fish in the fridge? I had already paid Rs.250/- for the mackerel, I told her if I kept the fish in the fridge, wouldn't my electricity bill go up by another fifty rupees? To this, she said, "You are penny wise and pound foolish. To save fifty rupees, you have already spend Rs.250/- on the fish." Next week, on her birthday, I brought a pineapple-flavoured cake kept it in the dining room and went to wash my car to take my wife for a candle-lit dinner. When I came back, the birthday cake had diminished to half its size. The kittens had eaten the birthday cake as if they caught the scent of my wife's birthday. The cats celebrated the birthday as uninvited guests. To my wife, I chimed that she hadn't been praying to our dead ancestors, therefore, these unfortunate things happened. "Who says, my mother-in-law?" she inquired. I asked her, "Did you invite your mother-in-law for your birthday?" "No, I was going to celebrate with you and my children, if the mother-in-law wants to greet me, let her come as an uninvited guest like those kittens," she said. The maid apprised her, "Why is he going to the city bakery again?" My wife replied, "must be to buy another birthday cake for his "sweet heartthrob" from his college." The maid burst out laughing. Minutes later, I went to purchase another birthday cake in the city bakery. To my annoyance, the salesgirl said, "there is no more cake available in our store, they are sold out." Adding, "today is my friend Angela's birthday, I bought a cake for her. I can give that cake to you." So, I bought that cake and presented it to my darling wife. The same afternoon, surprisingly, I saw the salesgirl, with a flower bouquet, which she gave to my wife and wished her a 'Happy Birthday'. My wife was her teacher!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/uninvited-guests-979322.html
27-04-2021||Second Edit||Take steps to hire fresh medicos||At a time when healthcare infrastructure is virtually crumbling under the weight of the second wave of the pandemic and the government is running short of trained personnel, about 7,000 medical students who graduated this year in Karnataka have been left twiddling their thumbs. While postgraduate students are literally being slave-driven in Covid hospitals with no additional remuneration, it is unfortunate that undergraduates are denied an opportunity to render their service when it is needed the most. This deadlock has arisen because of a rule that makes it mandatory for all medical students passing out of the state to mandatorily serve in rural areas for a year, failing which they will not be able to obtain their degrees, register as doctors or practice. Though this rule is not new, the Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012, made it mandatory not just for government college students but also for those in private institutions under management and NRI quotas to serve in rural areas. The objective of the legislation is no doubt noble as it aims to provide quality health care in villages, which are deprived of basic medical facilities. While in the past, the rule could not be strictly implemented due to various reasons including court orders, this year the government is firm on executing them. But the problem lies with indecisiveness of the health department as it has not issued appointment letters to these students to enable them fulfil their legal obligations. Besides, all colleges have also been directed not to release their marks sheets. Students intending to pursue post-graduation are required to submit a Rs 30-50 lakh bond, promising to complete rural service after their studies. Almost three months have elapsed since the students graduated and they are neither able to practice on their own, nor serve in rural areas. Had the government issued the relevant orders on time, they would have by now completed almost one-fourth of their one-year term. The delay has been blamed on various reasons including lack of funds to pay the new appointees, legal hassles and indecision on part of the health minister and officers. While the legislation is well-intentioned, its haphazard implementation has put the students in the lurch. The government should immediately issue appointment orders to the budding doctors as it would only be criminal to allow thousands of trained medical hands go waste when the country is facing a health emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/take-steps-to-hire-fresh-medicos-979318.html
27-04-2021||South||Vedanta's Sterlite Copper plant in Tamil Nadu gets SC nod to manufacture medical oxygen||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed Vedanta to operate its oxygen production unit on a standalone basis at the Thoothukudi Copper plant, as the corporate giant contended that it wanted to help the national cause amid a massive upsurge in Covid-19 cases. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said the order was passed only in view of the national need for oxygen and it would not create any equity in favour of Vedanta. As counsel from various parties argued with each other, the bench said, "We are in a crisis. There cannot be political bickering in this court. We have to support the nation as a court. It is a national calamity." A plea by Vedanta against the closure of the copper plant is pending adjudication separately. The company led by senior advocate Harish Salve submitted the oxygen plant can produce up to 200 MT within 10 days with a staff of 250 people. Tamil Nadu, represented by senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan and Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan said after an all-party meeting a day ago, the government was agreeable to let Vedanta reopen the plant for access to its oxygen production unit, temporarily for four months.   The court, however, did not agree to the contention by Tamil Nadu that the oxygen produced in the plant should be meant for the use of the State. The Centre said it should be allowed to make the allocation. "Nation stands together in this moment. At present, Tamil Nadu's oxygen demands are met. In case of any future need, they can approach us for changes," the bench said. The apex court also said, "Vedanta shall not be allowed to enter and operate the copper smelting plant under the garb of this order. The role of the committee to be nominated by the state government has to be an oversight committee. Before allowing any worker to enter, Vedanta has to submit a list of technical and non-technical staff who are absolutely essential to run the plant with the committee and those names will be approved and will be allowed entry."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vedantas-sterlite-copper-plant-in-tamil-nadu-gets-sc-nod-to-manufacture-medical-oxygen-979426.html
27-04-2021||South||Kerala's #VaccineChallenge is witnessing some novel gestures||While Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) is being flooded with contributions following the '#VaccineChallenge' on social media, Rs. 2 lakh contributed by a 63-year-old man hailing from Kannur district in North Kerala stands apart. Chaladan Janardhanan, a beedi worker has just Rs. 850 left in his bank account now, as he contributed the remaining Rs. 2 lakh to CMDRF for the vaccine challenge. Janardhanan is being showered with appreciations for his gesture. Janardhanan, a resident of Kuruva in Kannur city, has been into beedi making right from his youth and worked for nearly four decades in Kerala Dinesh Beedi, a workers' cooperative. His wife died last year following illness and two children are settled. It was Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's assurance that the Kerala government would provide Covid-19 vaccine to all free of cost that prompted Janardhanan, who is a staunch CPM supporter, to contribute his entire savings for the #VaccineChallenge. Meanwhile, an artiste turned police official involved in creating sketches of wanted persons in cases, has offered sketches to those who contribute Rs. 800 as the cost of two vaccines. P P Rajesh of Manimala in Kottayam district had made similar offers for pooling funds to the CMDRF during the floods. Rajesh, who is working as an assistant sub-inspector, has already drawn over 50 sketches and many are still pending. The #VaccineChallenge was initiated by some social media groups and the CPM backed it. The contributions crossed Rs. 2 crore in two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-vaccinechallenge-is-witnessing-some-novel-gestures-979614.html
27-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu has reported most Covid-19 vaccine wastage: Centre||Tamil Nadu has reported the maximum wastage of Covid-19 vaccines among states amounting to 8.83% of the total 65.28 lakh doses allocated to the state. Assam ranks second, having wasted 7.7% doses of the 24.81 lakh doses allocated to the state for the vaccination drive against Covid-19, according to the data released by the Health Ministry. Manipur wasted 7.44% of the 4.17 lakh doses allocated to the state followed by Haryana (5.72% of the 41.02 lakh), Punjab (4.98% of the 33.36 lakh), Bihar (4.95% of the 76.5 lakh), Rajasthan (4.24% of the 1.34 crore), Nagaland (4.13% of 3.26 lakh) and Meghalaya (4.01% of the 3.93 lakh). Gujarat has wasted 3.61% of the 1.27 crore vaccine doses allocated to the state, while Maharashtra has wasted 0.22% of the 1.58 crore doses allocated to it. Karnataka has wasted 0.14% of the 94.47 lakh doses allocated to the state. In percentage terms, Lakshadweep wasted the maximum 9.76% of the 45,710 doses allocated to it. As per the vaccination policy, 10% wastage of doses is permitted but Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed to states to keep the wastage of vaccines at the minimum. The ministry said it had allocated 15.65 crore doses of vaccines to the state governments and union territories so far of which a little over one crore doses were still available with the states. The ministry said an additional 86 lakh doses of vaccines would be supplied to the state and UT governments over the next three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-has-reported-most-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-centre-979631.html
27-04-2021||South||Will only produce medical oxygen: Sterlite Copper||Vedanta-owned Sterlite Copper on Tuesday said it was committed to making its entire production capacity available for the sole purpose of producing medical-grade oxygen at its two oxygen plants inside the now closed copper smelter in Thoothukudi. “We have put together a plan towards achieving a safe, sustainable roadmap to activating our oxygen manufacturing facilities. We will extend our full cooperation to the oversight committee that will be set up under the guidance of the Hon'ble Supreme Court,” the statement read. “We are focused on swiftly meeting the critical need for oxygen in keeping with all necessary precautions and urgency. We are committed to making the entire production capacity available only for the purpose of producing medical-grade oxygen, and are already working with experts on how best to resolve the logistics of dispatching this to critical areas as per the needs of the government,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-only-produce-medical-oxygen-sterlite-copper-979653.html
27-04-2021||South||Kerala's home delivery of liquor move facing stiff resistance||A move to introduce home delivery of liquor in Kerala is facing stiff resistance at its initial stages itself. After new restrictions were imposed due to the Covid-19 surge in the state, the Kerala State Beverages Corporation, which is the sole wholesale distributor of liquor in Kerala, started working on a proposal to introduce home delivery of liquor. But various anti-liquor forums like the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council have strongly opposed the move. It is important to note that liquor sale is a major source of revenue for the government. Government sources said that amendments in the rules would be required to allow home delivery of liquor. Since it is a policy matter, a decision would require detailed deliberations. Hence, only the upcoming government in the state can take a call on the matter. The Beverages Corporation was looking to start with home delivery of premium brands at major cities and a proposal was being prepared. Liquor outlets in Kerala are closed from Tuesday as part of the restrictions to curb Covid-19 spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-home-delivery-of-liquor-move-facing-stiff-resistance-979667.html
27-04-2021||South||India's first 3D printed house comes up at IIT-M campus||India's first 3D printed house built on an area of about 600 square feet has come up at the campus of the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) here. Constructed by Tvasta, a deep tech start-up founded by IIT-M alumni, the 'Concrete 3D Printing' technology can be a major boost to affordable construction in India as it significantly reduces, cost, time and utilises eco-friendly materials. The single-storey house at the IIT-M campus has a functional space comprising of a single bedroom, hall, and kitchen, with the entire ensemble being designed, developed, and realised by Tvasta’s indigenous ‘Concrete 3D Printing’ technology. Building a house through the technology takes just five days against the conventional method of four to six months. The house was developed in collaboration with Habitat for Humanity’s Terwilliger Center for Innovation in Shelter. Inaugurating the first 3D printed house, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said India definitely needs such solutions which do not require much time. Conventional housing requires timing, material, logistics, transporting of material, and so on. But if this technology can produce houses in different locales at five days per house, it would not be a big challenge to build 100 million houses by 2022,” she said. Tvasta’s primary market would be the Indian subcontinent with the focus on providing construction-related 3D Printing services and solutions for such Government welfare programs. “This technology is the first to be beneficiary-led in the construction industry. The machine for constructing this house can be rented, like bore wells rented by farmers. It provides for large-scale, high quality and also, price assurance for the customers,” Prof Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, said, Tvasta’s ‘Concrete 3D Printing’ is an automated manufacturing method for constructing three-dimensional real-life structures (at all realisable scales), the company and the institute said. Adithya VS, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Tvasta Manufacturing Solutions, said this technology can enable deep personalisation of construction for the ultimate target segment – the individual. “3D Printing can ensure that affordable, good quality housing is available to all Indians with a technology that is built in India and symbolises Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-first-3d-printed-house-comes-up-at-iit-m-campus-979669.html
27-04-2021||South||In Kerala, Covid-19 active cases rise by 255% in two weeks||Raising the alarm bells, Kerala has witnessed a 255 per cent increase in the number of  Covid-19 active cases over the last two weeks. On Tuesday, the state reported a whopping 32,819 new Covid-19 cases. The test positivity rate also increased to 23.24 per cent. The number of active coronavirus cases in the state is now 2,47,181, while it was just 26,201 on April 1 and 63,650 on April 15. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the situation is highly alarming. Experts have warned that the presence of UK, South African and double mutant variants of the coronavirus in the state could lead to the fast spreading of the virus and the death rate may also go up proportionately. Stringent measures like lockdown would be required if the situation worsens further. The state is also initiating steps to ensure the availability of oxygen to patients without delay. The number of oxygen beds in hospitals is being increased and oxygen beds are being provided at first-line treatment centres also. "A buffer stock of oxygen was also being created," said Vijayan. A recent analysis showed that the double mutant variants of the virus have been found in around ten of the 14 districts in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-kerala-covid-19-active-cases-rise-by-255-in-two-weeks-979678.html
27-04-2021||South||Under DMK rule, Sterlite plant will be sealed after the temporary period is over: Stalin||Contending that the DMK agreed to allow oxygen plants inside Sterlite Copper factory in Thoothukudi only on “humanitarian grounds”, party chief M K Stalin on Tuesday asserted that the entire copper smelter will be “sealed” once the period allowed by the Supreme Court to operate the plants is over. In a statement, Stalin also accused the “care-taker government” of not explaining the resolution passed at an all-party meeting chaired by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday. The all-party meeting had resolved to allow operation of the plant under the supervision of a committee that will have members from anti-Sterlite protesters and locals. The meeting also said the oxygen produced at the plants should be transported to other states only after meeting the demands of Tamil Nadu. “During the hearing, the Supreme Court has said that the oxygen produced will go to the central pool and will be allotted to states based on the need. This is because of the failure of the care-taker government in explaining the resolution passed at the all-party meeting,” Stalin said. Contending that the right approach would be to supply oxygen to other states once Tamil Nadu's demands are met, he asked the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) to intervene immediately and inform officials of the state government and advice them accordingly. “Once the DMK government assumes office, the Sterlite factory will be sealed completely after the temporary time period is over,” Stalin added. The clarification by the DMK came after it was criticised for not raising its voice against Sterlite Copper running the plant. Activists and environmentalists wanted the government to run the plant. Meanwhile, anti-Sterlite protesters expressed disappointment at the Supreme Court verdict, saying they have no “trust” in the words of Vedanta, the company that owns Sterlite Copper. “We are extremely unhappy with the decision of the all-party meeting and the court allowing access to the plants to Sterlite Copper. We are not in a position to trust any expert because we have had several issues in the past. Sterlite Copper has been violating every establish practice,” Prof. Fathima Babu, one of the first to move courts against the Vedanta-owned company, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/under-dmk-rule-sterlite-plant-will-be-sealed-after-the-temporary-period-is-over-stalin-979683.html
27-04-2021||South||Isha Foundation offers school premises to Tamil Nadu govt as Covid care centres||Isha Foundation founder and spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Tuesday offered premises of Isha Vidhya schools to the Tamil Nadu government to be converted as Covid Care centres. The schools are in Coimbatore, Erode, Salem, Nagercoil, Thoothukudi, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Dharmapuri districts. “We are offering premises of #IshaVidhya schools to Tamil Nadu government as #COVID care centres with a bed capacity of 990. I appeal to the community to unite in strengthening the hands of the administration to overcome this challenge,” he wrote on his verified Twitter handle. Last year, Vasudev had contributed Rs 11.54 crore to Isha’s community outreach efforts in villages around the Yoga Centre in Thondamuthur near Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isha-foundation-offers-school-premises-to-tamil-nadu-govt-as-covid-care-centres-979684.html
27-04-2021||State||Cops play role of a good Samaritan in shifting woman in labour pain to hospital||Mangaluru Rural ASI Harish and Constable Vijay Kumar patrolling the highway noticed a broken down car on the road. On enquiry, police were told that Siddik of Guruvayanakere was shifting his wife Shahida Banu, who was suffering from labour pain, to a hospital in Mangaluru for delivery when the car refused to go further due to technical snag. The police without thinking twice shifted the pregnant woman in a police vehicle. The timely help from police to the pregnant woman came in for praise from all quarters. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar felicitating both ASI Harish and Constable Vijay Kumar said; “The police personnel helped the woman to reach AJ Hospital. The woman delivered a baby boy. Both the mother and baby are healthy.” “I appreciate both the personnel for their timely help. If they had not shown the concern and lent a helping hand, then both the mother and her child would have been in trouble,” he said. 10 police test Covid-19 positive Meanwhile, the Commissioner said that 10 police personnel in Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate jurisdiction had tested positive for covid-19. Of the 10, two are in hospital while the rest are in home isolation. “The condition of all the staff are stable. I have been calling and verifying their condition daily,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cops-play-role-of-a-good-samaritan-in-shifting-woman-in-labour-pain-to-hospital-979380.html
27-04-2021||State||Election for two local bodies underway in Karnataka||Amid restrictions imposed by the government to cut the chain of Covid-19, the elections to Bhadravathi City Municipal Council and Thirthahalli Town Panchayat are being held on Tuesday. Many voters are yet to step out of their homes for the polling to 34 wards of Bhadravathi City Municipal Council. The town has 1,26,613 voters. Of them, 60,881 are male and 64, 714 are female. As many as 139 polling stations have been set up. Of them, 23 are sensitive, 54-hyper-sensitive and 62 are general polling booths. As many as 648 government employees have been deployed on poll duty. Of them, 167 are presiding officers, 167 are assistant presiding officers and 314 are polling officers. Security arrangements have been made to ensure smooth and fair conduct of polls. Two DySPs, four circle police inspectors, 15 police sub-inspectors, 34 assistant sub-inspectors have been deployed on election duty. In total, 250 police personnel are on poll duty. One Karnataka State Reserve Platoon, four district armed reserve platoon have also been deployed on duty.  Thirthahalli TP The elections to 15 wards of Thirthahalli Town Panchayat are also being held on the same day. The town has 11,845 voters. Of them, 5,734 are male while 6,111 are female.  There are 15 polling stations and 72 government employees have been deployed on poll duty. BJP has fielded candidates in all 15 wards, while Congress has fielded 13 and extended support to two independents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/election-for-two-local-bodies-underway-in-karnataka-979477.html
27-04-2021||State||ULB elections: 51.03% polling in Thirthahalli, 36% in steel town||Despite surge in Covid-19 cases, voters are showing interest in exercising their franchise in the ongoing elections of 15 wards of Thirthahalli town panchayat on Tuesday. According to district administration, of the total, 11, 845 voters, 6044 exercised their franchise till 1:00pm and the polling percentage was 51.03%. It is likely to improve in a few hours. But the response from voters is not highly encouraging in the elections to 35 wards of Bhadravathi city municipal council. The poll percentage till 1:00pm was 36.32. Of the total voters-122,974, 44, 661 voters cast their votes tillo 1:00pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ulb-elections-5103-polling-in-thirthahalli-36-in-steel-town-979482.html
27-04-2021||State||BJP candidate Mangala Angadi tests Covid-19 positive||BJP candidate for the by-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency Mangala Angadi has tested Covid-19 positive and was in home isolation. Angadi in a tweet on Tuesday confirmed that she had undergone a test for Covid-19 and has tested positive, but was asymptomatic and has quarantined herself at home. "Those who have come in my contact during the last few days should get themselves tested and available medical advice," she said. ಕೋವಿಡ್ ತಪಾಸಣೆಗೆ ಒಳಪಟ್ಟಾಗ ಪರೀಕ್ಷಾ ವರದಿ ಪಾಸಿಟಿವ್ ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಸೋಂಕಿನ ಯಾವುದೇ ಲಕ್ಷಣಗಳು ಕಂಡುಬಂದಿಲ್ಲ, ಆದರೂ ವೈದ್ಯರ ಸಲಹೆ ಮೇರೆಗೆ ಹೋಂ ಕ್ವಾರೈಂಟೈನ್ ಆಗುತ್ತಿದ್ದೇನೆ. By-election for Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency was necessitated after former union minister Suresh Angadi husband of Mangala Angadi had tested positive for Covid-19 in the month of September last and had succumbed to the pandemic. Voting for the by-election was held on April 17 and counting has been scheduled on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-candidate-mangala-angadi-tests-covid-19-positive-979572.html
27-04-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Ahead of lockdown, chaos and panic buying in Karnataka||In your evening news brief, BCCI says it would do everything to ensure foreign players competing in the IPL reach their respective countries seamlessly once the tournament ends; TikTok plans to allow European researchers and policymakers to see how its teams moderate content, and rush at railway stations and bus terminus in Karnataka before lockdown begins in the state.  Here is the top news of April 27, 2021:   Hours before the stringent lockdown to contain Covid-19 in Karnataka came into effect on Tuesday, people flocked to railway stations, central bus terminus and waited in serpentine queues at toll plazas on national highways to board vehicles to reach their homes. There was a mad scramble at vegetable markets and grocery shops in all major cities to stock up on essentials. Health Minister K Sudhakar said there will be no curbs on the movement of people to get Covid-19 vaccines. Sudhakar told reporters that even if the lockdown was in place, there would be skeletal movement of vehicles for essential services.   The BCCI on Tuesday said it would do everything to ensure that foreign players competing in the IPL reach their respective countries seamlessly once the tournament ends, a day after three Australians quit the event amid an upsurge of Covid-19 cases in India. Andrew Tye (Rajasthan Royals) and the duo of Kane Richardson and Adam Zampa (both Royal Challengers Bangalore) withdrew as apprehension set in after a couple of weeks went by smoothly for the league held in front of empty stands across six venues. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Tuesday said cricketers competing in the IPL will have to make their "own arrangements" to return home after his country banned all flights from India in the wake of a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.   TikTok plans to allow European researchers and policymakers to see how its teams moderate content, how its recommendation technology works and how it handles data as it seeks to address concerns over the privacy and safety of its young users. The social media app said on Tuesday it would open a European Transparency and Accountability Centre, at first virtually and later at a facility in Ireland expected to open next year.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-ahead-of-lockdown-chaos-and-panic-buying-in-karnataka-979573.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Curbs won’t affect vaccination drive, assures Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar||With Karnataka entering a two-week “close-down” starting Tuesday night, Health Minister K Sudhakar said there will be no curbs on the movement of people to get Covid-19 vaccination. The minister’s clarification came in the wake of concerns that people will be unable to step out for vaccination during the lockdown.  Sudhakar told reporters that even if the lockdown was in place, there would be skeletal movement of vehicles for essential services. “Vaccination is part of medical and essential services. The police will not stop those going to vaccination centres or to hospitals,” he said. “Further, doctors have said that the ideal gap between two doses would be six to eight weeks. In fact, this can be stretched up to 10 weeks, according to practising doctors as it will benefit the person more,” he pointed out. Those above 18 years, for whom vaccinations are scheduled from May 1, will have to register on the Co-WIN portal from April 28, Sudhakar said. “We will later update about the inoculation date after placing the indent for the vaccine with producers. Depending on the delivery of the vaccine from producers, we will decide on the vaccination date,” he said. Free jabs at govt hospitals The Cabinet on Monday decided to provide Covid-19 vaccines free of cost at government hospitals for those aged 18-44 years. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the Health & Family Welfare Department will come up with guidelines on the vaccination drive soon. Karnataka will order one crore doses of the Covishield vaccine at a cost of Rs 400 crore. The state will need 6.5-7 crore doses for people in the 18-44 age group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/curbs-won-t-affect-vaccination-drive-assures-karnataka-health-minister-k-sudhakar-979333.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'No decision to cut Karnataka govt employees' wages' ||The Karnataka government has no plans of cutting the wages of government employees. While there have been speculations on social media on Monday that the government is planning to withhold one month's salary of all government employees, this is far from true, according to the Karnataka State Government Employees Association.  Responding to rumours that were afloat on social media, association president CS Shadakshari said as per practice, the state government usually consults the employees association before taking such decisions. "There have been no such discussions until now. Hence, this is just a rumour. The association requests the employees not to pay heed to it," an official statement from the association read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-decision-to-cut-karnataka-govt-employees-wages-979337.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||As infections rise, when will Karnataka witness its Covid-19 peak?||Experts on Monday differed on the possible peaking of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. While two of them opined that cases will plateau in early May, IISc professors, however, cautioned that cases are likely to hit the 10-lakh mark by the end of May with the peak unlikely till early June. Prof Dr Giridhar R Babu, member of the TAC on Covid-19 and Sanjeev Mysore, convener of Jeevan Raksha Project, said the state is likely to hit the peak in the next 12 days. The projection by IISc’s Prof Shashikumar Ganesan and Prof Deepak Subramani, indicated that the number of active cases in Karnataka will go up from the current 2.9 lakh to 11 lakh by May 31. “Prior to the curfew orders, we were hoping that the peak for Bengaluru could be around latter part of the second week in May. However, with the state government waking up to the threat and imposing Covid curfew will definitely have an impact on the spread of the disease. Due to this, Bengaluru may witness peak load of cases by the end of May first week and subsequently the curve is expected to plateau,” he said. However, he cautioned that it would depend on how the government will open up the sectors. “If you throw open everything, then the cases may again surge and if it is in a phased manner, the curve will be more or less steady,” he added. The projection of next six weeks of cases by a data-driven approach adopted by Prof Shashikumar Ganesan, chairman of the department of Computational and Data Sciences (CDS) and Prof Deepak Subramani, IISc, indicated tough days ahead. As per the projection, even with a 15-day total lockdown (not the liberal “curfew”), the number of active Covid cases in Karnataka will go up from the current 2.9 lakh to 11.6 lakh (including 6.2 lakh from Bengaluru alone) by May 31, if the state goes for unlock mode. Without a lockdown, it would be double the number, well over 22 lakh (including 10.69 lakh from Bengaluru) The chart showed that a 30-day lockdown will help contain the active case number at 5.29 lakh by May 31. The numbers, the experts said, are based on scenario analysis which takes into account variables such as severity of the infection, age distribution in the population, vaccination levels, sero-prevalence at different locations and time. Prof Ganesan said there were several variables at play in the second wave. “First, the Covid appropriate behaviour has come down. Secondly, unlike the last-year’s lockdown that cut the interstate travel, we will have trains and domestic fights. Thirdly, the crucial contact tracing has weakened, which allows many cases to slip through and multiply,” he said. He said the lockdown in March could have effectively put brakes on the surging cases and prevented the high stress on health infrastructure. Sanjeev Mysore, convener of Jeevan Raksha Project, echoed Dr Babu’s optimistic view and said the state is likely to hit the peak in the next 12 days. “Human behaviour, emotions and fear play a vital role in pandemic. Last couple of weeks people have witnessed sufferings, especially in media. This has significant impact on their Covid appropriate behaviour. Along with this, the state government has initiated stringent measures to curb the spread of virus. In this backdrop, I believe we are edging towards the peak and should start seeing southward movement of daily cases not later than mid May,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-infections-rise-when-will-karnataka-witness-its-covid-19-peak-979338.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ahead of Covid lockdown, chaos and panic buying in Karnataka||Hours before the stringent lockdown to contain Covid-19 in Karnataka came into effect on Tuesday, people flocked to railway stations, central bus terminus and waited in serpentine queues at toll plazas on national highways to board vehicles to reach their homes. There was a mad scramble at vegetable markets and grocery shops in all major cities to stock up on essentials. The government decided to impose a 14-day lockdown following the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 to contain the spread of the virus, which has grown alarmingly. Holding their luggage, families and students swarmed the KSRTC bus stand at Majestic in the heart of the city. The scene was a stark reminder of previous year's panic among people during lockdown to get to their hometowns and villages. The government said no public transport services such as metro train and buses will operate other than the city buses on contractual services to ferry employees of a few companies engaged in the manufacturing and food processing sector, a Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation officer told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ahead-of-covid-lockdown-chaos-and-panic-buying-in-karnataka-979461.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CBI files supplementary chargesheet against former Karnataka minister Roshan Baig in IMA scam case||The CBI filed a supplementary chargesheet against former Karnataka minister Roshan Baig on Tuesday in connection with the Rs 4,000-crore I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) ponzi scam case, officials said. In its chargesheet filed before a special CBI court in Bengaluru, the central agency has also named the then MD of IMA Group Mansoor Khan, the company, Baig's company Daanish Publications and others. "It was alleged that the accused former minister received several crores of rupees from IMA funds for election expenditure. It was further alleged that the accused was also utilising the said funds for day-to-day expenditure, including salaries of employees of his firm. It was also alleged that the accused has spent the funds for various social and cultural activities in his constituency to increase his popularity," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said in a statement. The IMA scam pertains to over Rs 4,000 crore collected by IMA Group from over a lakh gullible investors in the name of providing attractive returns on investment following Islamic ways. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has alleged that the money was diverted to Baig, a minister in the erstwhile Congress government led by Siddaramaiah, so that the IMA Group could continue its illegal activities, officials said. The CBI had registered four cases in connection with the scam and earlier filed three chargesheets and three supplementary chargesheets against 33 accused, including Khan, company directors, several revenue and police officials.  "It was alleged that the said Group had raised unauthorised deposits & cheated the public by failing to repay the principal and as well as the promised returns. These funds were allegedly diverted for acquiring properties, paying bribe amounts, etc. Several properties, including moveable & immovable, were identified and attached under KPIDFE (Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments) Act, 2004 by the competent authority," Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cbi-files-supplementary-chargesheet-against-former-karnataka-minister-roshan-baig-in-ima-scam-case-979590.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 31,830 fresh Covid-19 cases, active cases cross three lakh-mark||Karnataka on Tuesday registered 31,830 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the total number of active cases in the state beyond three lakh. Out of the total cases, Bengaluru accounted for 17,550 cases. Mysuru emerged as the second major Covid hotspot with 2,042 infections and nine deaths. Another 1,196 infections were reported in Tumakuru, 907 in Ballari, 772 in Kalaburagi, and 737 in Mandya. Other than Bengaluru and Mysuru, 18 fatalities were reported from Ballari, seven from  Kalaburagi, six from Ramanagara, five each from Bidar, Dharwad and Hassan districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-31830-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-cases-cross-three-lakh-mark-979623.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka colleges told to start online classes||The Karnataka department of collegiate education has directed the colleges under its jurisdiction to start online classes for undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the 2021-22 academic year. In a circular, the department said, “Following the lockdown announced by the state government, the teaching staff of state government, aided and unaided private degree colleges offering undergraduate, postgraduate and other courses to conduct online classes from home (work from home) considering the academic interest of the students. Later following the directions of the principals of respective colleges, the staff can resume working.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-colleges-told-to-start-online-classes-979641.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka liquor stores, APMC mandis open from 6 to 10 am||The Karnataka government has permitted liquor stores and microbreweries can sell alcoholic beverages between 6 and 10 am during the lockdown period. According to an order issued by the Excise Department, only takeaways will be allowed till the early hours of May 12, when the current lockdown period is expected to end. The government has also allowed the operation of APMC mandis and establishments, dealing with construction materials, between 6 and 10 am in the morning. Though liquor stores were allowed to operate as per the guidelines issued on Monday, April 26, a detailed order regarding the sale of liquor was issued by the Excise Department on Tuesday. The employees of the MRP outlets and other liquor stores are mandated to wear gloves and masks, and social distancing measures should be implemented strictly. The department has set a two-litre limit for takeaways at microbreweries. The order will not be applicable to liquor stores inside malls and supermarkets. The licence holders of the establishments will be held responsible for any violation of the guidelines issued by the government, the department said in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-liquor-stores-apmc-mandis-open-from-6-to-10-am-979645.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stop IPL, turn Chinnaswamy stadium into Covid hospital, Karnataka MLC demands||Even as some of the cricket players have been pulling out of IPL in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) should cancel IPL games, Congress MLC Prakash Rathod has demanded on Tuesday. "Bubble fatigue has taken a toll on the mental status of players. Is it necessary to continue IPL games when the country is witnessing highest number of covid cases in the entire world? The scenes of bodies being burnt in open places have caught the eye of the world," he said in an official statement. Questioning the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA), Rathod sought to know why the association was "adamant" to host IPL games in Bengaluru. The government must take measures to convert Chinnaswamy Stadium into a huge Covid hospital. It should also immediately urge BCCI and KSCA to cancel IPL events in Bengaluru, the legislator demanded. Not just cricket, it was about time that the government suspended all sports activities in the state until normalcy was restored, Rathod further urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stop-ipl-turn-chinnaswamy-stadium-into-covid-hospital-karnataka-mlc-demands-979646.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||16 cases of double mutant Covid variant in Bengaluru||At least two districts in the state — Bengaluru and Kalaburagi — have the double mutant Covid variant B.1.617. As many as 16 of these cases are in Bengaluru. These were detected in four clusters, which includes single households and apartments. While the Dasarahalli zone has two cases, west zone has five, south zone has four and Bommanahalli zone reported five. “While a few are in home quarantine, others are in hospitals. One of them is from Nepal and had visited Maharashtra. We have received the data only in the afternoon. We have communicated the same to the respective zones,” a BBMP official said.    Dr V Ravi, state nodal officer for genetic sequencing of SARS-CoV-2, said this is the same as the double mutant virus found in Maharashtra and that these patients had a travel history of visiting Maharashtra.   “There are more samples for which confirmation will be provided by Wednesday. So far, more than 300 Covid samples have been sequenced in the state. These samples are from the community and hence, have obviously spread to the community,” Ravi said.  Kalaburagi deputy commissioner V V Jyotsna confirmed there were four cases in the district. “We had sent 15 samples to the specialised laboratory about two months ago for genomic sequencing of Covid-19 virus. It has confirmed the double-mutant virus in four samples. There is nothing to worry as the treatment protocol is the same and all the patients with the strain have been isolated and are being treated,” Jyotsna told DH. Double mutation refers to B.1.617’s mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein’s coding sequence at E484Q and L452R. The double mutant’s data is yet to come both in terms of epidemiology and cell culture. It is a variant under investigation.  “If there is a new variant, the centres dedicated to isolate these patients should be pressed into action. It is also important to understand if this can be neutralised by sera from vaccines. NIV has shown that Covaxin is effective against the double mutant. We do not have data on its infectivity or if it affects one age group with more virulence than the other,” Ravi said. Similar tests are underway for Covishield.  The virus takes two weeks to be isolated and five days for a neutralisation test, he said. 6 with SA strain Also, the number of Covid patients with the South Africa strain has increased from three to six in Karnataka. They are international travellers. While the South Africa variant has been restricted to a few, the UK variant has spread in the community, especially in Punjab and Delhi. Karnataka has 46 patients with the UK strain of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/16-cases-of-double-mutant-covid-variant-in-bengaluru-979647.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HM Basavaraj Bommai seeks public cooperation for lockdown||While Karnataka went into a second lockdown beginning Tuesday night, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai appealed to the public for cooperation.  The success of the lockdown is entirely dependent on self-regulation on part of the public. Everyone must realise that their health is invariably linked to that of others around them, the minister said. Maharashtra has been able to curtail the cases owing to lockdown in that state. Karnataka must do the same to bring the crisis under control, he added. He reiterated that the government will take strict action against those violating the norms. The government will ply a few buses dedicated to help the public access essential services, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hm-basavaraj-bommai-seeks-public-cooperation-for-lockdown-979648.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC for a scheme for vaccination of persons with disability||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to evolve a scheme to ensure that persons with benchmark disabilities and their caregivers are vaccinated during the drive commencing from May 1, 2021. The court asked the government to ensure that persons with disabilities do not stand in the queue for vaccination. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said that the state government should give necessary instructions to the District Disability Welfare Officers/authorised officers to receive requests from persons with benchmark disabilities regarding registration and vaccination either through SMS or email or WhatsApp. The state government has been directed to file a memo regarding steps taken on May 12, the next date of hearing. The petition is filed by the Karnataka Rajya Vikalachetanara Rakshana Samithi. Viswesh Sekhar, counsel for the petitioners, contended that persons with disabilities have to be provided prioritized health facilities both in terms of the Act and Rules framed there under. Section 25 (1) (c) of Rights of Persons Disabilities Act, 2016 gives statutory right of priority in health care to persons with disabilities. Similarly, rule 29 (6) of Karnataka State Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules 2019 calls upon the District Level Committee (DLC) headed by the deputy commissioner to undertake any other function assigned by the state government. The petitioner association has claimed that persons with disabilities are at greater risk of discrimination in accessing healthcare and life-saving procedures during the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-for-a-scheme-for-vaccination-of-persons-with-disability-979649.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ensure allocated oxygen supply to Karnataka: HC to Centre||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the union government to take immediate steps to supply 802 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen per day, that is allocated to the state. This direction was passed after the state government submitted the union government’s communication dated April 24, 2021, assuring the supply. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar heard the issues surrounding surging cases of Covid-19. The bench said the shortfall in supply of oxygen and Remdesivir drug was “alarming.” During the hearing, Dr H M Prasanna, president of PHANA (Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association) submitted before the court that there is a shortage in supply of both oxygen and Remdesivir. He said while 50% of the required oxygen was being supplied, only 25% of the required Remdesivir drug was being made available to private hospitals. The state government filed a memo that as per projections, by April 30, as against a requirement of 1,471 metric tonnes of oxygen to cater to 3,24,944 active cases, only 812 metric tonnes of oxygen (domestic production capacity) was available. This means the state has a shortfall of more than 600 metric tonnes per day. The government said there was a requirement of 1,142 metric tonnes of oxygen as on April 25 to cater to 2,52,367 active cases. The central government has agreed to allocate 802 metric tonnes per day, it submitted. The bench directed the central government to take steps to supply allocated oxygen to the state. On bed availability, the bench asked the advocate general as well as the counsel for the central government to speak to the concerned authorities to get some portion of the beds at the Command Hospital and other hospitals for Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru.   The bench observed that there has been no substantial increase in the number of beds available in Bengaluru city. During the hearing, it was informed that 3,490 HDU (high dependency unit), 418 ICU (with ventilator) and 497 ICU beds are available, while the numbers stood at 3,180 HDU, 391 ICU with ventilator and 496 ICU beds on the last date of hearing. The next hearing on matters relating to Covid-19 pandemic has been posted to Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ensure-allocated-oxygen-supply-to-karnataka-hc-to-centre-979650.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Visvesvaraya Technological University exams postponed, students head home||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has postponed its examinations. In a circular, the university's registrar (evaluation) said that the fresh dates of the examinations will be intimated later. Principals of engineering colleges should take care and inform the students, he said. The students have been demanding that the examinations be postponed in the wake of a two-week lockdown announced by the government. Till late on Monday, they could not get any information from the university and had continued to stay in hostels and rented accommodations. The students rushed to the bus stand to catch the first available buses towards their hometowns as the information of examinations being postponed reached them on Tuesday. The bus stand witnessed a large influx of students proceeding towards respective platforms and inquiring for buses for their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/visvesvaraya-technological-university-exams-postponed-students-head-home-979654.html
27-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Appellate authorities told to decide on Karnataka transport employees' suspension within 2 weeks||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the appellate authorities of the state transport corporations to decide on the matters pertaining to suspension of employees within two weeks. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said while the negotiations should continue between the government and the union, it is necessary for the four transport corporations to function as far as possible for the benefit of the public amidst the pandemic. The bench was hearing a batch of petitions filed seeking intervention of the court in the wake of the strike by the transport employees. The counsel for the union claimed that many of the employees have been transferred even after the strike was called off following the observations by the court. The court said the employees will have to submit a common appeal to their respective corporations furnishing all particulars of the suspended employees. The corporations will have to forward the same to the respective appellate authorities, the bench said. The bench also said that in matters filed pertaining to the transfer of employees, the appeals will have to be considered within 10 days’ time and various appeals challenging the dismissal of employees will have to be considered within two months’ time. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi told the court that as per the instructions received by him, eight of the nine demands, excluding pay revision, have been considered by the government. The bench said that in the event the negotiations between the union and the government do not meet the expected results, the court will consider appointing a retired judge to mediate. Further hearing on the PILs will be taken up on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/appellate-authorities-told-to-decide-on-karnataka-transport-employees-suspension-within-2-weeks-979657.html
27-04-2021||West||Mumbaikars flock for vaccines as 30% centres remain closed||With the fear of a shortage of vaccines probably weighing on their minds, people queued up in scorching heat outside vaccination centres in Mumbai on Monday to receive anti Covid-19 jabs, a day after the civic body observed the fresh stock will ensure smooth vaccination only till April 28. Earlier this month, 75 of the 120 vaccination centres across Mumbai, including a jumbo Covid-19 facility in business district BKC, had suspended inoculation due to a shortage of doses. Long queues were seen outside several government and civic-run vaccination centres in the megapolis though only 94 of the total 135 Covid-19 vaccination centres remained functional, sources said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said only 94 vaccination centres remained functional, including 12 run by the government, 40 by private (hospitals) and 42 by the civic body on Monday. "31 of the 94 centres administered both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines to people," the BMC tweeted. The Mumbai civic body on Sunday said it received 1.5 lakh Covishield vaccines and 8,000 doses of Covaxin, and all the vaccination centres in the city will be functional on April 26. As per the BMC data, a total 45,326 people were inoculated during the day with 42,006 of them receiving Covishild shots and 3,320 Covaxin including 2,233 beneficiaries who received the second doses. Of the total 135 vaccination centres in Mumbai, 75 centres are private, 42 are run by the BMC while 17 are operated by the state government. According to civic sources, some inoculation centres like NESCO in Goregaon, Dahisar Jumbo centre, Kandivali Shatabdi, Sion Hospital and BKC jumbo centre saw long queues since early morning. Several people waited in scorching heat for their turn to receive jabs. Meanwhile, the BMC has appealed to private centres equipped with cold storage facilities, sufficient manpower and space to apply for setting up vaccination centres. Currently, essential services workers, frontline workers and the citizens above 45 years of age are allowed to receive doses of vaccines. In the next phase of vaccination beginning May 1, all people between the age group of 18 to 45 years will become eligible for inoculation. According to the BMC estimate, Mumbai has a population of 90 lakh of people above 18 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbaikars-flock-for-vaccines-as-30-centres-remain-closed-979343.html
27-04-2021||West||Leopard family reunited again in Maharashtra ||In a repeat incident, Wildlife SOS and the Maharashtra Forest Department rescued a pair of male leopard cubs that were previously reunited with their mother in Otur village located in Junnar tehsil of Pune district. The lost cubs were identified by their unique microchip number and were once again reunited with their mother It turned out that the mother-leopard had moved her cubs to a neighbouring sugarcane field after the successful reunion operation by Wildlife SOS and the MFD, earlier this month. Sugarcane farmers were gathering the last of their harvest when they stumbled upon the two leopard cubs in the field. The local communities living in the areas surrounding Junnar, have been trained in preliminary rescue protocols as human-leopard interaction is very high. The farmers did not waste another second and reached out to the MFD, who were quick to reach the spot along with a team from the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Center. Wildlife SOS veterinary doctor, Dr. Nikhil Bangar conducted a thorough on-site medical examination and was surprised to find that they were the same cubs that were previously rescued by the team. Dr. Nikhil Bangar, Wildlife Veterinary Officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “We were able to identify them with the help of the microchips consisting of a unique identification number, that were implanted before the first reunion operation.” Post-checkup, the team worked quickly and efficiently to set up an installation where the cubs were placed safely, close to where they were found. Camera traps set up by the team captured the mother-leopard slowly approaching the field around midnight. Relieved to see her cubs safe and sound, she carefully lifted them by the scruff of the neck and relocated to a safer location." Kartick Satyanarayan, Co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Wildlife SOS works closely with the Forest Department to raise awareness about these issues in man-leopard conflict prone villages which has now brought about a considerable and positive change in the attitude of people towards leopards and other wild animals. In this month alone, our team has successfully reunited over 15 leopard cubs with their mothers.” Harvest season in Maharashtra often coincides with leopard cub season, which puts both humans and these elusive wild cats in a rather sensitive and conflicting situation. The sugarcane fields provide a suitable shelter for the leopards to breed in and to nurture their cubs, so chances of such encounters are higher during the pre-harvest and harvest seasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-family-reunited-again-in-maharashtra-979357.html
27-04-2021||West||Pregnant tigress brutally killed in Maharashtra ||In one of the most shocking incidents of poaching, a tigress with four fetuses in her womb was brutally killed in the jungles of Pandharkawada in Yavatmal district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. The poachers had chopped off both her front paws to extract the claws. The incident took place in Mukutban ranges – and has shocked the wildlife community and officials. The crime took place on Sunday and came to light on Monday evening. Satpuda Foundation’s founder and wildlife conservationist Kishor Rithe brought out the issue before the public and called for strict action against the culprits.  Rithe, a member of the State Board for Wildlife, said this is a horrible incident of death of a tigress that he had never seen in recent times. It is learned that the tigress was using an underground den that had a small opening. The miscreants must've seen the tigress entering the hide and blocked the opening with bamboo sticks and other material and put it on fire to suffocate the tigress. “To ensure her death, they poked the sharp bamboo sticks or metal rods inside the hide which caused further injuries. Not only this, but the criminals also cut her paws after her death. From the crime scene bamboo sticks, clutch wires have been recovered,” he said. “What is more shocking that the tigress was pregnant and a month away from delivering four cubs which now succumbed to death along with her,” he said. Rithe said that he had never come across such brutal killing. “The only incident in the past 30 years which I remember was when a tigress was electrocuted in Melghat during 2004 when she had aborted three cubs due to massive electric shock. Today’s incident is crueler. Certainly does not suit the rich tradition of Maharashtra where we worship Maa Durga. We must condemn it,” he said. Researcher and conservationist Varad Giri said: “We are losing the pride of our nation... A pregnant tigress brutally killed in Yavatmal District, Maharashtra. Heart wrenching episode.  Strong actions against culprits are expected.”  As the news came in, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife), Pandharkawada, Subhash Puranik, Range Forest Officer, Mukutban, Vijay Ware, Honorary Wildlife Warden. Dr Ramzan Virani, representative of National Tiger Conservation Authority, Delhi and Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), Nagpur, Prakash Mahajan, visited the spot.  Veterinary doctors Dr Chetan Patond from Pench Tiger Project, Dr Arun Jadhav from Wani, Dr S S Chavan of Zari, Dr D G Jadhav of Mukutban and Dr V C Jagde carried out the post-mortem. The autopsy report is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pregnant-tigress-brutally-killed-in-maharashtra-979360.html
27-04-2021||West||Bodies of 22 Covid-19 victims put in one ambulance in Maharashtra||The bodies of 22 Covid-19 victims were stuffed in one ambulance while being taken to a crematorium at Beed in Maharashtra, with the district administration citing lack of medical transport vehicles as the reason for it. The incident took place on Sunday when the bodies, kept in the mortuary of the Swami Ramanand Teerth Rural Government Medical College at Ambajogai in Beed, were being transported for the last rites. "This happened because the hospital administration does not have enough ambulances," the medical college's Dean, Dr Shivaji Sukre, told PTI on Tuesday. He said they had five ambulances during the first wave of Covid-19 last year. Out of them, three were later withdrawn and the hospital was now managing the transportation of Covid-19 patients in two ambulances. "Sometimes, it takes time to trace the relatives of a dead patient. The bodies from the Covid-19 centre at Lokhandi Sawargaon village are also sent to our facility as they don't have a cold storage," the official said. He said they wrote to the district administration on March 17 to provide them three more ambulances. "To avoid the chaos, we have also written to the Ambajogai Municipal Council to conduct the last rites of the victims between 8 am and 10 pm and the bodies will be sent to the crematoriums from the hospital ward itself," he said. Meanwhile, BJP MLC Suresh Dhas alleged that the hospital and the local civic body were passing the blame on each other. Talking to a TV channel, the legislator from Ashti in Beed said, "There is no control left and the government is not acting swiftly. The state administration has permitted ambulances to be provided from the MLA fund, but the technical sanction for it is given from Mumbai." Ambajogai Municipal Council's chief officer Ashok Sabale said it was the responsibility of the medical college to transport the bodies to the crematorium on Mandwa road (designated for the last rites of Covid-19 victims). "Our teams are there at the crematorium for conducting the last rites. A meeting was held on Monday over the issue during which the medical college dean said they do not have enough ambulances. If it is the case, didn't they have any review mechanism? Why didn't they act on it?" Sabale asked. Municipal council president Rajkishor alias Papa Modi also expressed concern over the incident and said the same day, eight more bodies were transported in another ambulance for cremation. "We are going to provide one ambulance to the medical college and another two will be made available from the district administration," he said. The official said the local medical infrastructure is "stressed" as critical patients from nearby districts are also brought to Ambajogai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bodies-of-22-covid-19-victims-put-in-one-ambulance-in-maharashtra-979404.html
27-04-2021||West||Gujarat issues fresh Covid restrictions, night curfew extended to more cities: What is allowed, what is not||The Gujarat government on Tuesday said the night curfew to curb the spread of Covid-19 will be extended to more cities -- Himmatnagar, Palanpur, Navsari, Valsad, Porbandar, Botad, Viramgam, Chhota Udaipur, and Veraval. The curfew will be imposed between 8 pm and 6 am starting April 28 and ending May 5. With the latest restrictions, nearly all prominent cities in the state are under night curfew. What remains open and what is now allowed? Take a look: Will grocery, kirana, essential stores be open? The Chief Minister's Office said all essential services such as medicines, groceries will continue to remain open. However other public places shall remain closed. Will public transport be available? Public transport in the state limited to 50 per cent seating. What about weddings and funerals? Weddings shall have only 50 guests while funerals can include 20 Will malls, cinema halls and gyms be allowed to operate? "Malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, auditoriums, gyms, swimming pools, water parks, public gardens, salon, spas & other amusement activities will be closed in all 29 cities. All APMCs will be closed, only APMCs associated with vegetables & fruits can be continued," the order said.  What about religious places? Religious places shall also be closed for all except for the priests. Will restaurants be open? Can I order on Swiggy, Zomato? Restaurants will be closed for dining and only takeaway services are permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-issues-fresh-covid-restrictions-night-curfew-extended-to-more-cities-what-is-allowed-what-is-not-979427.html
27-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: Social group ensures dignified farewell to Covid-19 victims||A social welfare group is working round-the-clock with the Pune civic body to give a dignified farewell to Covid-19 victims, irrespective of their religion, and claimed to have performed the last rites of over 1,200 victims since the pandemic began last year. The organisation comprises about 40 members, including some auto-rickshaw drivers and mobile technicians, in the age group of 22 to 64 years. A senior group member said their workload has increased during the current second wave of Covid-19. "We have been helping conduct the last rites of Covid-19 victims, irrespective of their religion, for the last 14 to 15 months. So far, we have buried or cremated over 1,200 victims in Pune city and adjoining villages in the Maharashtra district," Ummat Foundation member Javed Khan told PTI. "Many a times, family members or relatives are unable to come, but we ensure that the last rites are conducted with all respect and as per their tradition," Khan said. He said the number of deaths due to Covid-19 has increased in the second wave of the viral infection, and their group members are now working 24X7. Two days ago, they got a call about the death of an elderly member of a Brahmin family, which was in isolation after contracting the viral infection, he said. "Our volunteers in PPE kits reached there with a body bag, brought the mortal remains to a crematorium and conducted the last rites as per their rituals," he said. Sharfuddin Shaikh (64), the oldest member of the group, said their work was all about "humanity" and the objective was to give the dead person a decent farewell in the absence of relatives and loved ones. "On many occasions, when family members of the deceased cannot make it to the crematorium or burial ground as they are in quarantine, we arrange video calls for them while performing the last rites," he said. Shaikh said that late Sunday evening, they received a call from Talegaon town, located about 35 km from here, about a Covid-19 victim's death. "Since the family members were unable to perform the burial, they requested us to help them. We rushed to the hospital, collected the body, performed the burial in Talegaon and returned to Pune city around 3 am on Monday," he said. Asked how they are managing while fasting during the holy month of Ramadan, Shaikh said theAlmighty was providing them strength to continue the humanitarian work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-social-group-ensures-dignified-farewell-to-covid-19-victims-979509.html
27-04-2021||West||Maharashtra may get supply of 'Covishield' only after May 20: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the state may receive its supply of the 'Covishield' vaccine only after May 20. Talking to reporters here, Tope said the availability of anti-Covid-19 vaccines is still a challenge and the state needs a week's quota delivered at one time in order to vaccinate a maximum number of people. "The Serum Institute of India (SII) has informed the state government that it can supply the 'Covishield' vaccine only after May 20," he said. The Centre has relaxed its Covid-19 vaccination strategy in the third phase under which the country's large 18-plus population will get inoculated from May 1. The Pune-based SII, the world's largest vaccine maker in terms of volume, has announced a price of Rs 400 per dose for its 'Covishield' vaccine for state governments and Rs 600 per dose for private hospitals. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. Both the vaccines are available to the central government at a rate of Rs 150 per dose. The Centre on Monday asked the two companies to lower the price of their Covid-19 vaccines, amid criticism from various states which accused the firms of profiteering during such a major crisis. Tope said, "We are hopeful of the Centre's intervention in the matter of vaccine pricing. Hopefully, the prices will be reduced further." He said Maharashtra alone needs 12 crore vaccine vials to inoculate the population of 5.71 crore in the age group of 18 to 44. "The state government sent letters to the SII and Bharat Biotech two days ago, asking about the schedule of vaccine supplies in such large quantities, and is awaiting their reply," he said. Tope said going by the current vaccine prices announced by these companies, the state will have to spend Rs 7,500 crore to inoculate 5.71 crore people. In such a situation, the state will have to bear the cost of inoculating the economically weaker sections, he said. "The state health department has prepared a note with various options for the immunisation drive, the costing and how to roll it out. The state cabinet will come up with policy after discussions," the minister said. The state government is expected to hold the cabinet meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-may-get-supply-of-covishield-only-after-may-20-rajesh-tope-979563.html
27-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra government set to decide on various issues||At a critical stage of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government is set to take a call on various issues such as extension of the lockdown, opening up of vaccination for people above the age of 18 from 1 May itself, and setting aside funds for dealing with the pandemic. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is holding a series of formal and informal discussions ahead of the weekly Cabinet meeting scheduled on Wednesday. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government may also have to set aside Rs 7,000 crore-plus for purchase of vaccines. “Various issues are to be discussed in the Cabinet meeting, the three parties – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – will give their opinion and we will arrive at a final decision, particularly on giving the vaccines for free, or whether to open up from 1 May or later,” said Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios. "I have signed the necessary file, the Cabinet and Chief Minister, who is the head of MVA, would take a final call," he added. Meanwhile, Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the Cabinet meeting would also decide on how to go about the lockdown. “In Mumbai, there has been some reduction in cases but in the rest of Maharashtra the situation is not the same…we will discuss to take an appropriate decision,” he said. On the issue of vaccination drive, state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said: “Availability of vaccines is a big question; we can spend, but there are limited manufacturers who can supply.” Tope said Maharashtra plans to float a global tender to procure vaccines since two domestic manufacturers, Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, have not yet responded to the state’s query for supply of 12 crore vaccine doses. Meanwhile, Principal Secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas shot off letters to SII CEO Adar Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella pointing out that if the state goes for inoculation of the age group of 18-44, then about 12 crore doses would be needed. “In this context, we would like you to inform us as to how many doses you would be in a position to supply to the Maharashtra government for the next six months beginning May, 2021. Please also inform us about the procurement price per dose and other conditions, if any,” he said in letters to the chiefs of the two vaccine makers. According to senior officials, only those beneficiaries who can afford the vaccine dose should pay for it, while the state government will bear the cost for the poorer people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-government-set-to-decide-on-various-issues-979597.html
27-04-2021||West||Karnataka lockdown won't impact essential goods supply in Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||Police in Goa have been instructed to ensure smooth supply of essentials ferried by transport vehicles from Karnataka, amid a lockdown in the Southern state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. Sawant also said that he had spoken over phone to Karnataka deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who said that the 14-day lockdown announced by Karnataka did not impose restrictions on transportation of essential goods. "I have spoken to Karnataka deputy CM. They have not imposed a ban on transport vehicles. So the essential supplies which are brought here from Karnataka will not be disrupted," Sawant said. "The administration has been instructed to ensure that supply of goods from other states is not disrupted along the border," Sawant said. A food deficit state, Goa relies on Maharashtra and Karnataka for supply of vegetables, milk, fruits, grain and other essential goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/karnataka-lockdown-wont-impact-essential-goods-supply-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-979617.html
27-04-2021||West||HC pulls up Maharashtra govt for failing to submit Remdesivir data||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday expressed displeasure at the Maharashtra government's failure to provide proper information on district wise allocation of Remdesivir injections and the number of vials it had procured from the Centre and manufacturers. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote was informed by the state government that it had, as per earlier directions of the court, reviewed its requirement of Remdesivir injections and placed a request with the Union government to increase the allocation for ten days. When the state argued that the Centre had not sent as many vials as per the state-wise chart it had prepared, the HC bench admonished the state for not pursuing the same with the Centre. Assistant Solicitor General A U Aurangabadkar told the court that the state could place its order directly with the concerned manufacturer, to which the bench said the Central government's directive was specific and ought to be followed in letter and spirit by all states, including Maharashtra. It also said the state government was not forthcoming with specific information sought by the court. The court sought to know what efforts had been taken by the state nodal officer to ensure procurement as well as equal and uninterrupted supply of Remdesivir injections, and asked the state government to file an affidavit on this issue on the next date of hearing on April 29. The court said the government should issue district wise allocation of the injections. The bench was also informed about the state government planning to import Remdesivir from Bangladesh, Singapore, Hong Kong etc. The bench asked Nagpur collector to immediately set up a control room of 30-40 officials in 8-hour shifts comprising experienced administrators, officials from FDA, doctors from government and private hospitals to oversee allocation of beds, oxygen cylinders as well as district and centralised distribution of Remdesivir. The collector informed the court that Nagpur would be getting 110 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen from Bhilai steel plant from Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-pulls-up-maharashtra-govt-for-failing-to-submit-remdesivir-data-979621.html
27-04-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 66,358 new Covid-19 cases, highest death toll of 895||A day after daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra fell below the 50,000-mark, the tally shot up on Tuesday to 66,358 and posted the highest one-day death toll of 895. However, the coronavirus outbreak in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region seem to be under control. While Mumbai reported 4,014 new cases and 59 deaths, MMR reported 10,031 new Covid-19 cases and 118 deaths. The Covid-19 case tally in Maharashtra is 44,10,085 cases and the toll stands at 66,179. The total number of active cases in the state is 6,72,434, according to the Public Health Department. On Wednesday, the weekly cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will review the pandemic situation and take a call on the extension of lockdown. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis shot off a letter to Thackeray expressing concern over the reduction in RT-PCR testing. “Looking at the gravity of the second wave, I want to bring to your notice some statistics regarding the testing. In Mumbai, an average of 40,760 testing per day was done between April 19 and April 26,” he said. Fadnavis also compared Mumbai’s testing figures with that of Nagpur and Pune. Nagpur has a population of 40 lakh and conducted 26,792 testing average per day and Pune with a population of 68 lakh has conducted 22,000 tests per day on average. “Mumbai, which has four times more population, conducts only 40,000 tests averagely per day. With 40,000 tests in Mumbai, the actual picture can be ascertained and it would make it difficult in future to handle the situation again,” Fadnavis said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-66358-new-covid-19-cases-highest-death-toll-of-895-979643.html
27-04-2021||West||Gujarat oxygen crisis killed more than Covid-19 did in 3 days, says Congress||The Congress on Tuesday claimed that more people died due to oxygen shortage than due to coronavirus infection in Gujarat in the last three days. The ruling BJP denied the allegation and said there was enough medical oxygen and more will be made avaialble. Talking to reporters, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda sought registration of an FIR against the "rulers". "This is a man-made and government-made disaster. Urgent steps must be taken to restore adequate supply of oxygen to hospitals. "People are dying because of apathy and mismanagement of the government. A case of culpable homicide must be lodged against the rulers," he said. The government had assigned district collectors the responsibility of ensuring oxygen supply to hospitals, but hospital owners and relatives of patients are forced to stand in queues to get oxygen cylinders, he said. "Due to such mismanagement and wrong policies of those in power, 66 Covid-19 patients have died in the last three days because of oxygen shortage. More patients have died due to oxygen shortage than due to coronavirus," Chavda claimed. Gujarat has several industrial units which produce industrial oxygen, but the state government did not give permission to use these plants to produce medical oxygen, he alleged. People are forced to buy Remdesivir in black market because the state government sent the stock produced by Gujarat-based companies to other states like Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, the Congress leader alleged. Responding to the allegations, Minister of State for Home Pradeepsing Jadeja said the Congress was "power hungry" and was misleading people. "While the government is working tirelessly to save people's lives, the Congress, instead of helping people, is indulging in low-level politics. Allegations levelled by Chavda are baseless and unfounded," Jadeja said in a statement. "From 41,000 hospital beds on March 15, we now have over 93,000 beds across Gujarat. The BJP government distributed five lakh Remdesivir injections in April alone. Adequate oxygen is available and we have already planned to set up 11 PSA oxygen plants in near future," he added. Gujarat on Tuesday reported its highest daily spike of 14,352 coronavirus cases and a record 170 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-oxygen-crisis-killed-more-than-covid-19-did-in-3-days-says-congress-979682.html
