28-04-2021||First Edit||Hanuman’s birthplace, needless fight||While the battle over the birthplace of Lord Rama was in the name of two communities, the fight for the birthplace of his ardent devotee and follower Hanuman is between two states in the country. Though the latest flare-up of the dispute is between two states, there are contending claims from other states too, like Maharashtra, Haryana and Jharkhand. There are places which are considered to be the birthplace of the god in all these states, and even within Karnataka, Gokarna is in contention. The controversy got a fresh boost recently when the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) claimed that the Anjanadri hills where Hanuman, according to legends, was born, is one of the seven hills where the Venkateswara temple is situated. A committee appointed by the TTD has claimed that there is literary, mythological, epigraphical, scientific and geological evidence to prove that Hanuman was born there.  But the proponents of the Hampi theory cannot be expected to accept the TTD claim. Kannada lore, scriptures, literature and legends have for centuries considered the Anjanadri hills at Anegundi near Hampi as Hanuman’s birthplace. The idea is deeply etched in the popular mind. But isn’t it unnecessary and even ridiculous to fight over the origins and domicile of a god who is worshipped everywhere in the country and is even present in other countries? Gods exist in the collective mind and are real because they are universal, without being tied down to a place and to a point in time. It does not make sense to look for Hanuman’s nationality and for evidence to prove it, just as it is wrong to take Lord Rama or Lord Krishna back to Ayodhya or Mathura and locate them there. No god is exclusive to a place, and is limited by it. It is because he belongs to and is owned by Hampi, Tirupati, Nashik and all other places across the country that he made his leap to godhood, and is everyone’s god. Hampi’s Hanuman, Tirupati’s Hanuman, Nashik’s Hanuman and other Hanumans are all equally genuine and real, and can co-exist. It is his devotees who find it difficult to accept each other’s Hanuman, and fight over him. It is senseless to fix his birthplace with its latitude and longitude on the map, because his birth is actually in the unmapped regions of the mind which are common to all humans. Hampi, Tirupati, Ayodhya, Mathura and all other nativities are in that region and to look for them on the map is to deny the divinity of gods. There is many a Hanuman, like Rama’s devotee, warrior, speed king, yogi, grammarian and musician. Let him be from many places too so that he is everyone’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/hanuman-s-birthplace-needless-fight-979689.html
28-04-2021||In Perspective||Higher education in post-Covid India||The ongoing Covid-19 crisis has changed life as we know it not just for every human being around the world but for all educational institutions too. Whether it is our health systems, our governments, our economy, or our own personal lives — everything is now different. Ordering food, banking, paying our taxes, receiving scholarships, entertainment, tourism, acquiring information, processing it — everything has altered. More importantly, the crisis has also left a generation of people feeling insecure, uncertain and inadequate in how they have managed themselves, institutions and countries.  Mankind has never felt more vulnerable, unsure and incompetent to this extent ever before. Skills that we had acquired over decades, knowledge and experiences of people and institutions have all been rendered irrelevant. All of a sudden, we are now being exposed to a growing demand of acquiring new skill sets, new knowledge, new ways of interpreting the acquired knowledge — all of this in time frames that are highly condensed and capsulated. Existing institutions of higher learning can no longer be seen as relevant if they continue to prepare the next generation of students with skills that are both fossilised and inadequate. We need a new generation of thinkers, academicians, sector leaders, and administrators to ask themselves the difficult question of how to operate in such a dynamically altering system. The higher education system is struggling to deal with the demands of the students that are constantly increasing in a situation where the capacities of academicians are not proportionally expanding. Balancing the budgets is an ongoing nightmare. New regulations emerging by the day only drive more bureaucracy into the system. One needs to see the current Covid-19 crisis not just as a challenge to be grappled with, but as an extraordinary opportunity that has presented to all of us. Students now need to prepare themselves for a world that is not just demanding newer skillsets but a completely new mindset — a mindset that allows them to acquire newer knowledge in different forms, applying it in situations where they've never been tested before, and ensuring that their knowledge and skills are socially useful and financially rewarding. They need to appreciate that despite the novelty of tech-driven education, the relevance of physical environments, immersive experiences and transacted classroom learning can never be totally dispensed with. Social networks and social skills that one builds in university settings are for life and their value is immeasurable.  Academicians and teachers have to discover the content that they can transact both in classroom environments and virtual spaces in a meaningful and hybridised manner. They need to unlearn old habits, learn new technologies, change their own mental models and see themselves, the students, and the academic ecosystems in a new light. They need to demonstrate humility, the eternal quest for learning and adapt to newer demands on a real-time basis. Administrators and education leaders have to get accustomed to brick-and-mortar facilities being used less and less. They need to balance the expanding technological requirements with ensuring optimal utilisation of existing physical infrastructure. They need to ensure that they can recruit talent that can deliver to today's demands while inspiring trust and confidence in students entering their institutions. Managing all the stakeholders in this ever-changing environment is going to demand visionary, courageous leadership willing to take immeasurable risks, and drive innovation and experimentation on a sustained basis. All this is easier said than done. In a country where higher education has been driven traditionally by both the Government of India and respective states, one has to learn how to negotiate, being a ‘conforming non-conformist’. The good news is the National Education Policy (NEP) — a well-thought-out policy that has come out at the right time. All that is needed is the political will and stability to ensure that this is translated into action soon. In conclusion, the world is now going to see a new generation of young entrepreneurs and leaders who will redefine the concept and purpose of human development. This will be the generation that will teach everyone how to combine personal aspirations with public action. It is this Gen-Next that will enable us to understand how one can generate private profits while addressing societal needs. The next generation of Indian universities has to gear up to live a life where hybridised ecosystems are going to be the norm and meet these needs of the youth. Universities that understand and master this will be the ones that will survive and thrive. The rest will have to face an exit. (The writer is founder & Chairman of GRAAM and is a visiting professor at Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/higher-education-in-post-covid-india-979691.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka districts fear a flood of Covid-19 cases||As overcrowded buses handled an exodus of people from Bengaluru to towns and rural interiors of Karnataka, officials at many districts expressed concern over the local health infrastructure’s ability to meet the surge. By the time the close-down curbs came into effect, it is estimated that lakhs of people left the city for their hometowns. “We have run about 2,000 additional buses, most of them to north Karnataka, Mysuru and coast on Tuesday. More buses are on standby if needed,” a senior official from KSRTC told DH. The surge in fares of private buses also reflected the increase in demand. The exodus, however, has come as a headache for district-level officials, especially those managing the pandemic with limited infrastructure. Data released by the government shows an increase in active cases contributed by districts from 36.76% to 44.86% within the last seven days. On April 20, Karnataka reported 21,794 cases of which Bengaluru contributed the lion’s share of 63.23%. On Tuesday (April 27), Bengaluru’s share fell to 55.13% as districts started reporting more cases. An official from Chitradurga told DH that the 700 beds will hardly suffice for the cases being reported locally. “The flood of people poses a major threat due to the high positivity rate in Bengaluru, which means cases may spread to taluks and even villages. A new system of contact tracing right at the village level has to be taken up to quarantine and test people arriving from the state capital,” he said. To a question, Health Commissioner K V Thrilok Chandra acknowledged the difficulty in implementing a robust contact tracing system. “Due to high positivity rate, contract tracing has become difficult. We are advising districts to take up enhanced surveillance measures. We have already told them to increase Covid Care Centres to reduce burden on hospitals,” he said. Even for districts that have better health infrastructure, the increase in caseload is a big challenge. Dakshina Kannada district health officer Dr Kishore Kumar said the administration was well prepared to handle the increase in number of cases but managing the cases at village level will be a challenge. “Even before lockdown, people were coming to Dakshina Kannada from Bengaluru and Mysuru but their numbers were steady. We have more than 4,000 beds and are prepared to handle even the present rush. But when it comes to ventilators and oxygen, there will be challenges if the case load overwhelms the system. We are launching a portal to provide information on such facilities,” he said. An official from Davangere said that of the 1,882 beds in the district, 507 have been occupied. “Many people from neighbouring districts and even Bengaluru are seeking our beds. They get a local test done and provide the address of a relative to get the beds. For us, the real worry is about the containing of the disease at village level. Though we have set up committees at gram panchayats, we are likely to face a problem when it comes to quarantining and isolating the primary contacts,” the official said. An official from Mandya said they were setting up more Covid Care Centres to cater to the possible increase in cases due to arrival of people from Bengaluru. “We are stuck between Bengaluru and Mysuru both of which have high positive rate. We are focusing on educating the Covid patients about requirement of oxygen and Remdesivir,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-districts-fear-a-flood-of-covid-19-cases-979686.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Immersion of ashes banned at Srirangapatna||The immersion of ashes and other rituals have been banned from Tuesday evening, on the banks of River Cauvery and also at other places in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. With the rise in deaths due to Covid, there was a heavy rush of people at Paschimavahini in Srirangapatna and also at other places to immerse the ashes of the deceased. People from Bengaluru, Mysuru and other places thronged the place to immerse the ashes as locals expressed fear over the spread of Covid 19. After complaints from the locals, the taluk administration has banned the immersion of ashes in the river. An official order will also be issued, said Tahsildar M V Roopa. Immersion of ashes has been banned at Sopanakatte, Paschimavahini, Cauvery Sangama, Gosai Ghat and other places till the lockdown is lifted. Action would be taken against those violating the norms, she warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/immersion-of-ashes-banned-at-srirangapatna-979727.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four die in accident in Ballari district while returning home during Karnataka 'close-down'||A total of four people including a medical student died on the spot in an accident that took place near Shiraguppa in Ballari district at 1.45 am on Wednesday. They were returning to their native place following the 14-day state-wide curfew imposed on Tuesday night to break the chain of the rising Covid-19 spread. The deceased have been identified as Basavaraj Bhimarao Bellur (52), a Commercial Tax Inspector in Ballari; his son Bhimarao Bellur (30), a medical student; Sunil Shivaraj Patil (30), working with a private firm; and car driver Revanasidda Basavaraj Koradampalli (30). They are all residents of Chimmaedalayi and Koradampalli villages of Chincholi taluk. The mishap occurred when a lorry hit the car while they were returning from Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-die-in-accident-in-ballari-district-while-returning-home-during-karnataka-close-down-979763.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||'No shortage of oxygen, beds, Remdesivir in Dakshina Kannada'||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V on Tuesday said that there was no shortage of beds, oxygen and Remdesivir for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across the district. “Total beds reserved in government and private hospitals in the district is 4,816. Of these beds, 783 are occupied. As many as 4,033 beds are available. Among 783 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals, 83 are at Wenlock Hospital,” he told reporters. There was a shortage of Remdesivir in private hospitals for the past two days, the DC said, adding that 1,000 vials of Remdesivir received by district administration were distributed among private hospitals. Rajendra said that the vaccines would be sufficient for two days. “The government has promised to send vaccine vials soon. The available 15,000 doses will be used for two to three days. With the available vaccines, camps can’t be conducted. We have appealed to the government on sending vials as the number of people receiving the jab has increased drastically in the district,” he said.  He added that the district administration would not be issuing special passes to people to commute during the 14-day lockdown (that will be in force until 6 am on May 12). “Those who are engaged in permitted activities as per government guidelines should produce their identity cards to officials. Those involved in activities including electricity maintenance, internet and other essential services should produce identity cards issued by their employers,” he said. The district administration had arranged KSRTC buses on routes identified for the benefit of the staff working in Wenlock District Hospital and other government hospitals. Similarly, private hospitals had been asked to arrange transportation facilities for their employees. “The district administration is planning to introduce home delivery of groceries and other essential items in the city in association with Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC),” he said. The DC said all shops selling essential commodities would be allowed to open between 6 am and 10 am.   Bed management Dr Rajendra said that the district administration, Mangaluru Smart City Limited and MCC are working on bed management software and applications to get day-to-day updates on the availability of beds in hospitals, which will be ready within two to three days. Those in need can dial the central control room to get details on beds. Further, Mangalore One mobile application will also have a distress call facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-shortage-of-oxygen-beds-remdesivir-in-dakshina-kannada-979853.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Crowds in Mysuru vegetable market ahead of lockdown||With a complete lockdown from 10 am, a large number of people were seen thronging the Dodda Kere Maidana vegetable market, where farmers will sell vegetables directly to consumers, in Mysuru on Wednesday morning. The sales of liquor were high as wine stores will be closed after 10 am during the lockdown. The wine stores are allowed to perform business between 6 am and 10 am as per the guidelines issued by the state government. The city police visited the market to inspect if people are following the Covid-19 protocol. The police warned action against those violating Covid-19 norms. However, the movement of people and vehicles was less compared to normal days. Except essential shops, all other businesses remain suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/crowds-in-mysuru-vegetable-market-ahead-of-lockdown-979877.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru Police arrest 7 for abduction, rescue victims||In a swift action, the police arrested seven persons for allegedly abducting two men for ransom and rescued the victims. Ahammed Ashraf and Javed were the victims of this crime. The arrested are Ahammed Iqbal (33), Yakub M (33), Umar Nawaf (25), and Naushad (27) from Macchampady, Shamsheer (30) from Bandyod, Sayyed Mohammed Kausar (41) and Sheikh Mohammed Riyaz (25) from Mangalpady. The police seized three cars, two swords, one dagger, a 120-gram necklace, land documents, the key of a bike, and 10 mobile phones from the accused, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar told media persons on Tuesday. One among the arrested men, Umar Nawaf, had tested positive for Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment in a hospital. The remaining will be produced before the magistrate, the Commissioner added. The victims Ahammed Ashraf and Javed Ahmmed Iqbal had promised a three-fold increase in the money invested in MCT Trading company, which deals in cryptocurrency and forex trading. They had collected Rs 27 lakh from prime accused Ahammed Iqbal. Iqbal had also collected Rs 5 lakh from Yakub. Ahammed Iqbal was supposed to receive Rs 99 lakh, but Ashraf had paid only Rs 10 lakh to Iqbal. When the duo failed to pay the money as promised, Iqbal decided to kidnap them and extort money. Initially, he had contacted Nappate Rafeeq, who is involved in many extortion cases and had settled in a foreign country. As Rafeeq had demanded an exorbitant fee, Iqbal instead contacted Ahammed Ashraf of Macchampady through Yakub in order to kidnap Ahmmed Ashraf and Javed. Accordingly, Ashraf was kidnapped from K C Road, while Javed was kidnapped from Hosangady in Manjeshwara, and were locked in a house at Paivalike in Kasargod district. Later Ahammed Iqbal contacted Ashraf and Javed's family members through internet calls and demanded ransom, property documents and gold ornaments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-arrest-7-for-abduction-rescue-victims-979889.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi: Less traffic, shops shut as lockdown kicks in||After a gap of two days, a curfew-like situation returned to Hubballi on Wednesday, on the first day of the two-week Covid curfew imposed in the state to curb Covid-19. Grocery shops, vegetable sellers and liquor shops were allowed to do business till 10:00 am, but the crowd in markets was lesser than that on Tuesday. Medical shops, hospitals and shops selling construction materials were also open till 10:00 am, while hotels were open for parcel service throughout the day. The main vegetable market at Durgadabail (MG Market) was closed, while citizens purchased vegetables at other areas like Giranichawl, Keshwapur, Sarafgatti, and Old Hubballli in the morning. After 10:00 am, vehicular movement came down drastically. Police placed barricades near major junctions and closed the road between Court Circle and Sangolli Rayanna Circle. Announcements were also made asking citizens not to venture out unnecessarily. Police stopped private vehicles near Chennamma Circle and other areas and checked the reason for their movement. Police Commissioner Labhu Ramu inspected the situation and stated that guidelines issued by the government were being implemented strictly. North-Western Karnataka Road transport Corporation (NWKRTC) suspended the bus service, while only a few auto-rickshaws were seen moving. Many passengers who arrived by trains made their own arrangements to reach their destinations, while few experienced inconvenience in the absence of bus service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-less-traffic-shops-shut-as-lockdown-kicks-in-979965.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru lockdown: Students, workers crowd bus stand, railway station||“I was staying in a hostel in Kulashekar and was pursuing my studies in a school. After the government announced the lockdown, my parents reached Mangaluru to take me back to my village fearing that the lockdown will continue even after 14 days,” said Sangeetha from Vijayapura, who is a Class 10 student. This is not the story of Sangeetha alone. Many students, who were staying in hostels in Mangaluru, are returning to their native villages in buses and trains. Ramisha, a nursing college student from Chikkamagaluru, had arrived in Mangaluru via bus and left for her native place in Kannur, Kerala via train. She said, “Holiday had been declared for colleges. So it is better to return to my house and stay safe rather than stay in the hostel.” Many medical students hailing from Kerala and studying in Shivamogga had arrived in Mangaluru in rented vehicles in order to board trains to their native villages. Though construction workers were permitted to work during the lockdown, they are in no mood to listen. Even on Tuesday, the KSRTC bus stand in Bejai was packed with labourers and their families, who were mentally prepared for the homeward journey. Velamma and Saraswathi, working at a construction site in Deralakatte, said, “We do not want to face any hardships that we had experienced during the previous lockdown. We are eager to return to our villages. When everything is back to normal, we will return to Mangaluru.”  The women said, “When the lockdown was announced a year ago, we had to struggle to find food and had to walk for many kilometres in order to catch a vehicle and reach our villages.” “As a precautionary step, we have booked tickets this time,” said Velamma and Saraswathi, who have been working in Mangaluru for the past 17 years. “My husband is a mason and we do not want to face any inconveniences during the lockdown,” said Gauramma, who was returning with her husband and three children to her village in Gadag. Construction workers from Kushtagi, Koppal and other districts also left the city to their respective villages. KSRTC Mangaluru Divisional Controller Arun S said, “Additional buses were being operated  depending on the number of passengers to various destinations.” MLA arranges special buses Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja arranged transport facilities to help natives of Beltangady taluk, stranded in Bengaluru, reach their villages. The MLA besides going public about the facility in social media had shared the contact numbers of coordinators on social media. The transport arrangements were made on Monday and Tuesday, sources added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-lockdown-students-workers-crowd-bus-stand-railway-station-979969.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC seeks report on Somanatha temple rules violation||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V directed Assistant Commissioner (AC) to submit a report on the violations committed by Somanatha temple management committee at Someshwara near Ullal. The committee members were accused of organising Brahmarathotsava-Rathotsava without taking prior permission from the district administration and bursting firecrackers grandiosely, thereby violating the guidelines at Somanatha Temple on Monday night. A large number of people had gathered for the celebrations held on account of Temple’s Brahmakalashotsava. Already, a case was booked under Epidemic Diseases Act against the temple committee. The AC has been directed to submit the report to the police. The DC said all the 500 temples across DK district were asked to conduct rituals without the devotees. Even after serving notice twice, the Somanatha Temple committee members had gone ahead inviting a huge gathering. The officials have been directed to look into sections under the Habitual Offenders Act as well. “Actions will be initiated after discussing with the City Police Commissioner. The police will decide on the charge sheet and under what sections cases to be booked. If there were any loopholes on the part of executive officer of the temple, then disciplinary action will be initiated against him as well. The report from EO of the Temple is also sought,” the DC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-seeks-report-on-somanatha-temple-rules-violation-979971.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Love drives budding Kannada actress, live-in partner to kill her brother||A promising Kannada actress and her live-in partner allegedly killed her brother and disposed of the body in a jungle, for objecting to their relationship, police said. The young actress was allegedly in a relationship with a small-time realtor, which her brother opposed, the Dharwad Superintendent of Police P Krishnakant said on Tuesday. "Rakesh was a major hurdle to her love affair.. Hence he was murdered and the body burnt," Krishnakant told reporters. According to police, a charred and badly mutilated torso packed in a plastic bag was found dumped in the Devaragudihal forest area on April 12. Subsequently, a case was registered and special teams were formed to nab the culprit. The teams gathered lots of inputs and finally learnt that Rakesh Katve, a housekeeper in a bar, was missing. Probe revealed that the victim's sister Shanaya Katve was in a relationship with Niyaz and has been living with him as a paying guest. Further inquiry in the case led to the arrest of Shanaya Katve, Niyaz, his three friends who have been remanded in police custody. During interrogation it was found that Niyaz's family members were also involved in the crime. "Prima facie, it looks like a case of love affair. We have not come across their affiliation to any organisation but our investigations are on," Krishnakant said. Shanaya has worked in a yet-to-be released film 'Chhota Bombay'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/love-drives-budding-kannada-actress-live-in-partner-to-kill-her-brother-980078.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Day One: Police strive to implement Covid curfew in Mysuru region||The police personnel strived hard to implement the Covid Curfew in the Mysuru region, including Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts, that were abuzz with activities for over four hours, beyond the 6 am to 10 am relaxation. Except on the main roads, the curfew rules were not followed in full. Even on some main roads, like Dr Rajkumar Road in Mysuru, private vehicles plied at will. Autorickshaws were available every few metres. Most of the scooters and motorbikes ferried over three riders. While a few autos ferried up to 10 passengers. However, KSRTC buses have been suspended till May 12. On the same Dr Rajumar Road, a milk booth was half open. Besides, a couple of tea shops were open from the backdoor. At least two dentist clinics, one beauty parlour, one interior designer, one vegetable and fruit shop and one photo studio were open on the road. A fruit stall was open at Triveni Circle, off the same Dr Rajkumar Road. The police swung into action by 9.30 am, asking the vendors and shopkeepers to shut down. They were also reprimanding those who were not wearing masks and not following social distancing. However, the cities and towns went into holiday mood, with most of the people staying indoors. Barricades were erected at main junctions, preventing vehicular movement. Vehicle riders avoided such blockades. At a few vantage points, the police personnel were checking the identity cards of those moving on vehicles. Some of them were given warnings. However, hospitals, pharmacies and medical services were functioning. Though the government had given permission for liquor outlets to open from 6 am to 10 am, there was not much crowd on Wednesday. There was rush to buy liquor on Tuesday evening. Wine shop owners hope that the customers will return on Thursday. Police Commissioner Chandragupta made rounds of the city. He instructed to the personnel not to allow any unnecessary movement and check identity cards to ensure that the reason is genuine. Most of the production industries function on skeletal staff, while construction activities were normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/day-one-police-strive-to-implement-covid-curfew-in-mysuru-region-980189.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hospital installs oxygen unit to prevent shortage||A private hospital in Hassan has found an alternative to solve the oxygen shortage crisis, especially when there is a rise in the number of Covid-19 patients. Mangala Hospital in Hassan city has installed an oxygen generator, to purify naturally available oxygen to treat the patients. Equipment worth Rs 50 lakh was brought from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu. This can produce around 6,000 litres of liquid oxygen. All the beds in the hospital are fitted with oxygen facility, to ensure that no patient dies due to non-availability of oxygen. Mangala Hospital chief Dr Ashok Gowda said, “We require around 50 oxygen cylinders every day. As the number of Covid positive cases increased, the price of oxygen cylinders were hiked. Besides, there was shortage. We had to spend Rs 7 lakh for oxygen supply every month. To ensure that no patient dies of oxygen shortage, the oxygen unit has been installed. We can also save money spent on procuring oxygen cylinders.” “The naturally available oxygen is purified by the unit and stored for use, which will be of great help during emergencies. At present, the hospitals are using artificial oxygen produced in factories for medical treatment. This will have 70% oxygen and around 30% nitrate,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hospital-installs-oxygen-unit-to-prevent-shortage-980191.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tulsidas Hospital to isolate Covid-19 infected persons||With cases of Covid-19 going out of control in Mysuru, the city will get an additional 100-bed hospital to treat the patients. The works, to convert the renovated Seth Mohandas Tulsidas Maternity Hospital, are under progress and are likely to be completed in a few days. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, who inspected the works, said, “The hospital is being converted in association with Kaveri Hospital, under the leadership of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev.” A total of 100 oxygenated beds will be arranged at the hospital. The authorities concerned are working day and night, to establish the facility. Necessary equipment have arrived and 50% of the facilities will be provided by MUDA. The hospital will be ready within a few days, he said. Somashekar said, “At present, facilities to establish 70 oxygenated beds are in place and the capacity will be increased to 100 beds.” He said, “The state government has sent 20 Dura cylinders to the district. We have demanded for additional 100 ventilators, which will be received soon. The government has already sanctioned the ventilators.” Somashekar said, “Private hospitals have demanded for Remdesivir and 998 Remdesivir vials have been sanctioned. The medicine will reach the district soon. Mysuru is receiving the highest medicine in the state, after Bengaluru.” The minister said that the people need not pay an additional amount for Remdesivir and the district has sufficient medicine. He warned of action against the misuse of medicine for money. There are sufficient beds, ventilators, oxygen and medicines. People need not be afraid over Covid deaths. We are receiving patients from Hassan, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu under critical conditions. Thus, a few deaths are reported. We have taken all measures to contain the spread of Covid and to treat the infected, he said. “Suttur Mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami has agreed to give 100 oxygen beds. JSS Hospital has already given 28 beds and remaining will be arranged in two days,” he said. “The district administration has convened another meeting with private hospital heads in connection with Covid management. The private hospitals are supportive and have reserved 50% beds for Covid patients as per the protocol. But again, the authorities will be requested for further support,” he said. MP Pratap Simha, Additional Deputy Commissioner B S Manjunatha Swamy, MUDA Commissioner D B Natesh and Dr Chandrashekar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tulsidas-hospital-to-isolate-covid-19-infected-persons-980192.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youth instils confidence among Covid patients through yoga||In an effort to instil confidence among Covid patients, a yoga instructor has been teaching breathing techniques and yoga, helping them to manage stress and for speedy recovery at the Covid Care Centre in KR Pet, Mandya district. The young yoga instructor, Allama Prabhu, visits D Devaraj Urs Backward Communities Welfare department's hostel, where more than 50 Covid patients are under quarantine. Wearing PPE kit, Prabhu teaches yoga and breathing techniques (pranayama) to the quarantined persons for more than an hour. Speaking to DH, Allama Prabhu said, "Covid patients are confined to a place for several days, resulting in lack of enthusiasm and anxiety. They are taught to practice yoga to overcome this and also to have a control on breathing. I have been teaching them simple yoga, asking them to continue even after recovery. Besides, awareness is created on wearing mask, social distancing and others." Tahsildar M Shivamurthy lauded Prabhu for his efforts to instil confidence among Covid patients, at a time when even family members fear to come near them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-instils-confidence-among-covid-patients-through-yoga-980193.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Minister, district admin fail to manage Covid situation’||MLA Sa Ra Mahesh on Wednesday said that District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar has failed to manage the Covid-19 situation and the district administration is unsuccessful in providing health care. In a press conference here, Mahesh said that even after one year of the outbreak of Covid, the authorities have failed to manage the situation. He sought details of the recruitment of doctors, nurses and establishment of ICUs and ventilators after the outbreak of the pandemic. “As per the information available, the district has only 150 ventilators. No ventilator is functioning in taluk hospitals. No one should do politics in connection with Covid,” he said. The health minister and the professionals had alerted about the second wave of Covid. But, the authorities did not prepare to handle the situation. No patient would have died, if there were sufficient ventilators. Accept the truth and take measures to save lives, he told the minister. Targeting Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, the MLA said that serving the people is not like getting publicity, by changing a car tyre. He was referring to a video of the DC trying to change the tyre of her car, that had gone viral on the social media. Besides, there was friction between the KR Nagar MLA and the DC over a few issues a couple of months ago. MLA Ashvin Kumar, JD(S) city president K T Cheluvegowda, Mayor Rukmini Madegowda and corporators Shoba and Ashwini were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-district-admin-fail-to-manage-covid-situation-980194.html
28-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Assure adequate compensation for the poor, Siddaramaiah urges Centre||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah urged the Central government to extend the free rice scheme to 10 kgs per person for six months and compensation of Rs 10,000 for all the poor families affected by the lockdown in Karnataka. In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Siddaramaiah said, "The eventual fallout due to lockdown (in Karnataka) is highly concerning as the state government has failed to address the livelihood concerns." Apart from ensuring food grains and compensation, he urged the Centre to expand MNREGA work on demand basis and increase wages across the country. "There will also be huge dependency on agriculture and hence, the government should reduce the prices of fertilisers to make agriculture economically viable," he said.   Accusing the Centre of permitting 'immoral profiteering' of vaccine manufacturers, Siddaramaiah said that the Centre's approach on vaccination raised doubts on the budgetary commitment of the Centre to set aside Rs 35,000 cr for vaccination. "How and where will this allocated amount be spent if state governments and private hospitals have to procure the vaccines by paying the manufacturers? I strongly urge the Central government to be the sole procurer of the vaccines and distribute it to the states free of cost," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/assure-adequate-compensation-for-the-poor-siddaramaiah-urges-centre-980197.html
28-04-2021||Main Article||Timeline to appoint judges||Last week, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India headed by the then Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant laid down a timeline for the central government to approve the appointments of high court judges within a prescribed time, in the case of M/S PLR Projects Pvt Ltd v. Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd & Ors. This is an admirable initiative that will be helpful to avoid the problem of delay in judicial appointments that has become a headache for the collegium. It will protect the independence of the judiciary and will also strengthen the primacy of the Supreme Court collegium in judicial appointments. After this order, it will be very difficult for the Centre to delay the appointments of judges as the new timeline fixed by the Supreme Court becomes the law of the land as per Article 141 of the Constitution, and now the government will be duty-bound to follow it as per the mandate of Article 144 of the Constitution. In case of violation of these directions, the court will have an option to initiate contempt proceedings against the violators. As per the existing constitutional practice, the Supreme Court collegium headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) and consisting of his two senior-most colleagues has the conclusive power to recommend the appointments of the judges of the high courts to the President. In this process, the central government has limited scope and it is bound to act on the recommendation of the Supreme Court collegium. For appointing a judge of the high court, the high court collegium headed by the chief justice of the concerned high court and consisting of the two senior-most judges of the high court initiates the proposal and sends its recommendations to the Union Law Minister, the state government concerned, and the Supreme Court collegium for completing further process. Thereafter, the central government checks the antecedents of the recommended persons through the Intelligence Bureau and sends its inputs to the Supreme Court collegium, which takes a final decision by consensus. If the Supreme Court collegium approves the high court collegium’s recommendations, it sends such recommendations to the President, who issues the formal warrant of appointment as per Article 217 of the Constitution. Notably, as no timeline was prescribed in any judgement of the Supreme Court relating to the judges’ appointments, the central government had some scope to delay the process to complete certain administrative formalities like collecting necessary information through the Intelligence Bureau and other intelligence agencies. During this process, the Centre delayed the appointments of some persons who did not fall in line with its ideology or thinking. As a result of this tendency, the vacancies of judges could not be filled up on time. Admittedly, around 416 vacancies of judges are lying vacant in the different high courts in the country today. Due to this shortage of judges, many high courts are facing huge arrears of cases and are unable to give speedy justice to people. As per the data submitted to the Supreme Court, 45 recommendations for high court judges’ appointments are pending with the central government for more than six months. Not only this, six names reiterated by the Supreme Court collegium a second time are also awaiting appointment. In addition to this, 196 recommendations are under process with the central government for judges’ appointment to different high courts in the country. Around 220 recommendations for existing vacancies need to be made by the high court collegiums soon. The issue of vacancies of judges in the high courts came up before the Supreme Court during the hearing of a petition seeking transfer of a case from the High Court of Orissa due to the lawyers’ strike there. The court gave the following directions to expedite the process of judicial appointments: (1) The Intelligence Bureau (IB) should submit its report/inputs within 4-6 weeks from the date of recommendation of the high court collegium, to the central government; (2) It would be desirable that the central government forward the file(s) recommendations to the Supreme Court within 8 to 12 weeks from the date of receipt of views from the state government and the report/input from the IB; (3) It would be for the government to thereafter proceed to make the appointment immediately on the aforesaid consideration and undoubtedly if the government has any reservations on the suitability or in the public interest, within the same time it may be sent back to the Supreme Court collegium with the specific reasons for reservation recorded. If the Supreme Court collegium, after consideration of the aforesaid inputs, still reiterates the recommendation(s) unanimously (Cl. 24.1), such appointment should be processed and it should be made within 3 to 4 weeks. It would have been better if the court could also have said something about the working of the high court collegiums that start the appointment process of high court judges. They should also improve their working system. The high courts should initiate the proposals well in advance before the retirement of judges. The apex court has timely laid down these directions to expedite the appointment process of high court judges in the country. It was much needed given the state of vacancies and arrears of cases in the high courts. The judicial appointment process is a collaborative process that should be undertaken to protect the collective interests and dignity of the judiciary. This timeline will also minimise the executive’s interference in judicial appointments which is the need of the hour. However, the collegium should also bring more transparency and accountability in its functioning. (The writer is Advocate, Supreme Court of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/timeline-to-appoint-judges-979692.html
28-04-2021||National||Jairam, Tharoor demand virtual meetings of Parliamentary panels||Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday renewed their demand for virtual meetings of Parliamentary standing committees. "I am requesting this once again for the umpteenth time. Speaker Lok Sabha Om Birla and Chairman Rajya Sabha M Venkaiah Naidu, please allow virtual meetings of the standing committees," Ramesh, chairman of the Standing Committee on Science & Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, said. Ramesh was supported by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, the chairman of the standing committee on Information Technology, who said the last meeting he had convened had to be cancelled for want of quorum. "There are so many issues of utmost public importance that need to be discussed urgently," Ramesh said. Tharoor said he "strongly agreed" with Ramesh and had made the request for allowing virtual meetings of standing committees last year. "We are stymied because virtual participation is not allowed and physical meetings are impossible in the present circumstances," Tharoor said. The Budget Session of Parliament was adjourned on March 25, two weeks before its scheduled closure due to the spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jairam-tharoor-demand-virtual-meetings-of-parliamentary-panels-979705.html
28-04-2021||National||Covid-19 overwhelms India: 'People are just dying, dying and dying!'||Bodies of Covid victims lay burning Tuesday in funeral pyres cramming New Delhi's sidewalks and car parks amid an explosion of new cases, as foreign aid began arriving in the surging hotspot India in efforts to keep the pandemic at bay. While rising vaccinations in the United States have allowed the country that was once the worst hit by coronavirus to relax its mask-wearing in some locations, India is suddenly in the overwhelming grip of the crisis. Crates of ventilators and other oxygen devices from Britain were unloaded at a Delhi airport Tuesday, the first emergency medical supplies to arrive in the country where infection and death rates are growing exponentially. The United States has also pledged to export millions of AstraZeneca vaccine doses, while President Joe Biden hailed the "stunning" progress his nation by contrast has made to get the pandemic under control. The explosion in infections in India -- 350,000 new cases were recorded there on Tuesday alone -- has driven a surge in global cases to 147.7 million and the virus has now killed more than 3.1 million people worldwide. In New Delhi, AFP images showed smoke billowing from dozens of pyres lit in a car park that had been turned into a makeshift crematorium. "People are just dying, dying and dying," said Jitender Singh Shanty, who is coordinating more than 100 cremations per day at the site in the east of the city. "If we get more bodies then we will cremate on the road. There is no more space here," he said, adding: "We had never thought that we would see such horrible scenes." Despite India's status as the "pharmacy of the world", the biggest producer of generic drugs has been unable to meet the demand for antiviral medication such as remdesivir. Many doctors say the drug is not essential for the treatment of Covid-19, but hospitals have been prescribing it anyway. "This government has failed us so much that those who can normally survive also die," said one exhausted man, Vinod Kumar, as he waited in line for medication. The US, France, Germany, Canada, the EU and the World Health Organization have all promised to rush supplies to India. On Monday Biden announced the United States would send up to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine abroad. While Washington has not decided yet which countries will be the recipients, India appears to be a leading contender after Biden spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "India was there for us, and we will be there for them," Biden tweeted, referencing India's support for the United States when it was enduring the worst of its Covid crisis. France also said it would send eight oxygen production units, oxygen containers and respirators to India. And the EU said the first shipment of aid from the bloc's member states to India would be delivered "over the coming days." The initial assistance included 365 ventilators and 700 oxygen concentrators -- machines that purify the air supply by removing nitrogen -- from Ireland, 120 ventilators from Sweden, 58 ventilators from Luxembourg, 80 oxygen concentrators from Romania, and thousands of doses of remdesivir from Belgium and Portugal. At the same time, many countries are shutting their borders to travellers from India. Belgium became the latest, also banning travel from Brazil and South Africa, similarly hit by fast-spreading coronavirus variants. Spain said it will impose a 10-day quarantine on all travellers arriving from India beginning Wednesday. Australia has also cut all passenger air travel with India, suspending flights until at least May 15, leaving a host of high-profile cricketers stuck there after playing in the lucrative Indian Premier League. In Fiji, an outbreak of the Indian variant has forced the capital into lockdown after the island nation had avoided infections for a year, with health officials saying they fear a "tsunami" of cases. While there are still no signs of the pandemic abating globally, some western countries are tentatively starting to ease lockdowns that have strangled their economies for more than a year as their inoculation campaigns gather momentum.   "While we still have a long way to go in this fight... we've made stunning progress because of all of you, the American people," Biden said Tuesday. "Cases and deaths are down -- down dramatically from where they were when I took office." Italy -- the first European country to be hit by the pandemic in early 2020 and still one of the worst affected -- reopened its bars, restaurants, cinemas and concert halls Monday. Italy's lower chamber of parliament overwhelmingly approved the government's 222.1-billion-euro ($270-billion) EU-funded pandemic recovery plan just days before the deadline to submit it to Brussels. Germany, Europe's biggest economy, upgraded its 2021 growth forecast to 3.5 per cent from 3.0 per cent previously as vaccinations finally begin to gather pace. "This is the year when we will really see a trend reversal," said Economy Minister Peter Altmaier. But in the sports and entertainment sectors, the pandemic continues to take its toll. In Japan, officials and organisers insist the Olympic Games will go ahead in three months' time, despite a new virus state of emergency in Tokyo and several other regions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-overwhelms-india-people-are-just-dying-dying-and-dying-979729.html
28-04-2021||National||Bullets fired as groups clash at Gujarat oxygen refilling unit||A man fired three bullets from his revolver in the ground during a clash between two groups who had assembled for refilling oxygen cylinders at a plant in Gujarat's Kutch district, police said on Tuesday. The incident occurred on Monday night after some persons got agitated over a vehicle blocking the way to an oxygen refilling plant in Mota Chirai village near Bhachau town and clashed with another group of people waiting at the outlet, they said. During the clash, a man, identified as Rajbha Jadeja, took out a revolver and fired three rounds in the ground to intimidate people of the other group, a Bhachau police station official said. A police constable, who was at the site, moved quickly and brought the volatile situation under control, he said. The police official said people had assembled outside the plant of a private company that supplies oxygen to hospitals for treating coronavirus patients. An FIR was lodged against seven persons, two of them unnamed, at the Bhachau police station under various IPC sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) and 146 (rioting), and relevant provisions of the Arms Act and the Disaster Management Act (which is in force due to Covid-19 outbreak), he said. No arrest has been made yet and further investigation was underway, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bullets-fired-as-groups-clash-at-gujarat-oxygen-refilling-unit-979735.html
28-04-2021||National||Arguing over numbers won't bring back the dead, focus on those suffering now: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said it was pointless to argue over Covid-19 fatality figures as the dead won’t come back to life, and the focus should be on helping those suffering now. Khattar was replying to questions on the alleged under-reporting of deaths due to coronavirus -- at many places the scenes at crematoriums and burial grounds do not reflect the official numbers. “The kind of difficult situation we are going through, we don't have to play with data. Our entire focus should be on how people will recover and how we can provide them relief,” he told reporters here on Monday. “And those who have died will not come back by creating a furore over it,” he said at one point, arguing that there was no point in getting into a debate on whether the official number of deaths was correct. The opposition Congress was quick to slam his remarks with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala saying, "These can only be the words of a merciless ruler.” “There is a need to make a noise over every death which is the result of the government's inefficiency, so that the deaf BJP government can hear the echo," he said. Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi also condemned the CM’s comment. “These remarks are shameful. I strongly condemn the thinking of the chief minister,” the Congress leader tweeted. Khattar had visited Rohtak, Panipat, Hisar and Faridabad to review the supply of oxygen and other facilities for Covid patients. “We will do everything possible so that lives are saved. Whether the deaths are less or more, there is no point getting into this debate,” he said. “Whether we are able to set the systems right is the question. From our side, we are setting the systems in place,” he added. Khattar said nobody had expected this kind of a situation. “Who knew this pandemic will come, neither you knew nor we. To fight this, we need everyone's cooperation including yours, mine, the patients'. Therefore, these issues should not be the topic of any controversy.” The CM was asked to comment on the PGIMS hospital in Rohtak briefly stopping admission to new Covid-19 patients on Sunday night after facing a "shortage" of medical oxygen. He said that oxygen pressure in the government facility had dipped and if they had started taking more patients they would not have been able to take care of those already admitted. Khattar said things were quickly sorted out and the admissions restarted on Monday. Haryana on Monday recorded its biggest single-day jump in Covid-related fatalities with 75 deaths, and reported yet another big rise in infections with 11,504 new cases. The state has over 80,000 active cases after a coronavirus surge in April. The demand for medical oxygen has also risen several-fold in recent days, and deaths due to its alleged shortage taken place in Hisar, Rewari and Gurgaon. The state government had ordered probes in these cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arguing-over-numbers-wont-bring-back-the-dead-focus-on-those-suffering-now-khattar-979736.html
28-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Luckily people are fixated on crematoria!||India's hospitals are being stretched to breaking point by an explosion in Covid-19 cases with people dying outside their doors or at home due to a lack of beds, drugs and oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-luckily-people-are-fixated-on-crematoria-979740.html
28-04-2021||National||Hope Biden asks Pfizer CEO to allow India develop its vaccines: Congressman Ro Khanna||With millions of lives at stake amid a rapid spread of Covid-19, Indian-American Congressman Ro Khanna said he hoped President Joe Biden would call the Pfizer CEO to let India produce its vaccine at least for six months or a year. Khanna, who represents Silicon Valley in the US House of Representatives, has been an ardent supporter of the move by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organization (WTO) for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver of Covid-19 vaccines. "Allow India to develop that vaccine, and this is good in your own long-term interests. It's good for the United States and our interests with the role with India and the rest of the world," Khanna told the media. Major pharma companies like Pfizer and Moderna and organisations like the US Chambers of Commerce are opposing such a move. A day earlier, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai spoke with the CEOs of Pfizer and AstraZeneca regarding the TRIPS waiver, which is slated to come up before the WTO on May 5. "I do know there are very senior people in the administration who are supportive of it. We are making the case to the White House. And my hope is that the President would at least call the Pfizer CEO and say, look, your long-term strategy in India, a huge market, just in your economic interest, at least waive it for six months or a year," Khanna said. Microsoft founder and eminent philanthropist Bill Gates in a media interview on Monday opposed the move. Asked about it, Khanna said, "I rarely think Bill Gates is wrong, but this is a case I hope he will engage. The point that Bill Gates made about manufacturing capacity being restricted is absolutely correct. But what I said is why not have a global fund, $25 billion, to help with manufacturing capacity and then allow the vaccine recipes to be shared." "You're not going to have a lack of quality control. I think it is patronising to say that 100 other nations can't have a regulatory process to make sure that manufacturing is safe. They can and the World Health Organization can," he added. "No one is asking Pfizer to manufacture these vaccines, no one is saying they need to do it for free. It's important to understand, they will get paid. They will be able to sell it. The reason they're not doing it would be pure greed," Khanna said. The United States government gave a $2 billion guarantee to Pfizer to purchase vaccines. "If it weren't for that, Pfizer would have never been able to do what they did. Our NIH gave the IP that allowed Moderna to develop the vaccine," he argued. "What we're now saying is that they should share the vaccine recipe with over 100 countries who want to do the manufacturing. They're willing to do the manufacturing themselves, they need to have contract manufacturing. Pfizer would still get paid. Moderna would still get paid. But it is just wrong, morally wrong, strategically wrong for them not to share the vaccine recipe, which was developed with US taxpayer support," Khanna further said. He applauded Biden for committing to help India in its fight against the virus. "But we also ultimately need to get vaccines to India. The president has said that he will release the AstraZeneca vaccine, which Americans are not going to use after it's deemed safe. But more important is Pfizer and Moderna need to license the vaccine recipe to allow India and other countries to manufacture it," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-biden-asks-pfizer-ceo-to-allow-india-develop-its-vaccines-congressman-ro-khanna-979749.html
28-04-2021||National||Outpour of bipartisan support from US lawmakers to Biden for extending help to India to fight Covid-19||In an outpour of support during India's moment of crisis, American lawmakers applauded President Joe Biden for all help he was extending to save lives of people suffering from Covid-19, and urged him to do more. "The US maintains a moral obligation to assist our ally India as they face severe challenges posed by Covid-19. We must take every necessary step to ensure the Indian people receive the aid and assistance they need in order to emerge from this crisis," Congressman Brad Sherman, a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said on Tuesday. "My heart goes out to the people of India and neighbouring nations as they fight an uphill battle with Covid. I'm glad that the White House is providing these life-saving vaccines, but we will need a strong, coordinated global response in the days ahead," Congresswoman Carolyn Boudreaux said.   Congressman Michael Waltz Press said India is an essential ally in America's global competition with China. "Its strength is important to stability in Asia and the United States. We must do what we can to help them curb their new wave of Covid cases," he added. Congressman Bill Foster said while America continues to make progress in battling this pandemic, the critical situation in India can't be ignored. Several other American lawmakers have also come out in support of India as its people battle one of the gravest challenges to its public health system. "I am glad to see President Biden taking action to aid the people of India as they experience a devastating surge of Covid-19. This will save lives and bring relief to millions of Indian-Americans who are worried about the health and safety of their loved ones in India," Congressman Steven Horsford said. The United States and India have both suffered tremendously from Covid-19, and the countries will crush this virus together, he added. Congressman Joe Morell said the US has a moral obligation to help its global partners fight back against the Covid-19 pandemic. "I stand alongside President Biden, the Congressional India Caucus, and our local Indian American community to support increased aid to India during their time of need,” he said. Senator Robert Menendez, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, too came out in support of India. "Pursuing vaccine equity doesn't just advance our economic & health security – it's a moral imperative. As a bastion of innovation & champion for marginalized people everywhere, the U.S. must lead efforts to guarantee immunization access to EVERYONE at home & abroad,” Menendez tweeted. Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said he was pleased the US will be sending its AstraZeneca supply to India and other countries in need of it as he had urged earlier. "This is the compassionate choice and the smart one because it only takes one of India's many variants of Covid-19 to derail the US progress," he said. Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Chair of the House Appropriations subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Chair of the House Appropriations Committee, praised Biden's plan to distribute 60 million AstraZeneca doses to countries in need in the coming months. The White House on Tuesday welcomed the decision of Gilead to expand the availability of remdesivir, a key therapeutic medicine used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, in India. "We welcome generosity from the private sector to support the people of India. Ending the pandemic will require the partnerships with governments, industry, private citizens, non-governmental organizations and multilateral institutions," tweeted National Security Council of the White House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/outpour-of-bipartisan-support-from-us-lawmakers-to-biden-for-extending-help-to-india-to-fight-covid-19-979752.html
28-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 28||India touched the grim mark of 2 lakh Covid-19 deaths with 3,293 more deaths recorded on Wednesday. The country logged a rise of 3,60,960 single-day Covid cases, resuming its upward trajectory again after a day of a slight dip. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,79,97,267 as of April 28, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,01,187 as of April 28, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->   No. of people discharged: 1,48,17,371  Total Vaccination: 14,78,27,367 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-april-28-979767.html
28-04-2021||National||With 3.6 lakh new infections, 3,293 fatalities, India sees biggest rise in single-day cases, deaths; toll crosses 2L||India touched the grim mark of 2 lakh Covid-19 deaths with 3,293 more deaths recorded on Wednesday. The country logged a rise of 3,60,960 single-day Covid cases, on the upward trajectory again after a day of a slight dip. The nation's total infection tally has climbed to 1,79,97,267, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll mounted to 2,01,187 with 3,293 new fatalities, the data updated showed. The active case count has increased to 29,78,709. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 28,27,03,789 samples have been tested up to April 27 with 17,23,912 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 3,293 new fatalities include 895 from Maharashtra, 381 from Delhi, 264 from Uttar Pradesh, 246 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Karnataka, 170 from Gujarat, 131 from Jharkhand, 121 from Rajasthan and 100 from Punjab. The total 2,01,187 deaths reported so far in the country include 66,179 from Maharashtra, 15,009 from Delhi, 14,807 from Karnataka, 13,728 from Tamil Nadu, 11,678 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,082 from West Bengal, 8,630 from Punjab, 7,800 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,782 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Experts believe the official tally vastly under-estimates the actual toll in the country of 1.3 billion. In the capital, New Delhi, ambulances lined up for hours to take Covid-19 victims to makeshift crematorium facilities in parks and parking lots, where bodies burned on rows of funeral pyres. Coronavirus sufferers — many struggling for breath — flocked to a Sikh temple on the outskirts of the city, hoping to secure some of the limited supplies of oxygen available there. Police said a fire early on Wednesday at a hospital on the outskirts of Mumbai killed four people and injured several more. Accidents at hospitals have been of grave concern for the country which is running short of beds and oxygen supplies. Last week a fire broke out at a hospital treating Covid-19 patients and a leaking oxygen tank at another hospital led to the deaths of 22 people. Supplies of life-saving oxygen and equipment have begun arriving in New Delhi, including ventilators and oxygen concentrators from Britain, with more dispatched from Ireland, Germany and Australia. Several countries have suspended flights from India, taking steps to keep out more virulent variants of the virus. US President Joe Biden said he had spoken at length with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, including as to when the United States would be able to ship vaccines to the country and said it was his clear intention to do so. "I think we'll be in a position to be able to share, share vaccines as well as know-how with other countries who are in real need. That's the hope and expectation," he told reporters at the White House on Tuesday. Across the country, 1,48,17,371 people have recuperated from the disease so far. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-36-lakh-new-infections-3293-fatalities-india-sees-biggest-rise-in-single-day-cases-deaths-toll-crosses-2l-979769.html
28-04-2021||National||Family members of deceased Covid patients create ruckus at Jaipur hospital||Four Covid-19 patients died at a private hospital following which their family members created ruckus at the facility alleging there was no staff to change oxygen cylinders, police said on Wednesday. Station House Officer of Kalwar police station, Gurudutt Saini, said oxygen was available but no staff was available to replace the cylinders at the hospital.  "Four Covid patients died at the hospital on Tuesday night. Their family members gathered and alleged that that there was no staff to change oxygen cylinders which led to the deaths," he said. The police official said family members of the deceased created ruckus in the hospital but were later pacified. No case has been registered, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/family-members-of-deceased-covid-patients-create-ruckus-at-jaipur-hospital-979778.html
28-04-2021||National||150 districts with Covid-19 positivity rate of over 15% may go under lockdown: Report||A lockdown may be imposed in districts with Covid-19 positivity rate of over 15 per cent. These measures were recommended in a high-level meeting on Tuesday night, but a final decision on this is yet to be taken. The Centre will consult the respective states before announcing a lockdown, the report said. A senior official told the publication that "stringent lockdown measures" in districts with a very high positivity rate were "essential" to break the virus' chain of transmission. India on Tuesday reported a record 3.6 lakh new cases, and also saw its biggest daily death toll at 3,293 deaths, pushing the cumulative death toll past the 2-lakh mark. A number of states have announced lockdown-like measures, with Nagaland the most recent to adopt such a strategy. Karnataka, which is among the worst affected states in the country, is under a 'close-down' till May 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/150-districts-with-covid-19-positivity-rate-of-over-15-may-go-under-lockdown-report-979793.html
28-04-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine: Registration for above 18 to start at 4 pm today||All those aged above 18 can register themselves on the CoWIN portal or using the Aarogya Setu app to get vaccinated against Covid-19 starting 4 pm on Wednesday, the Union Health Ministry said as the government gears up to launch the third phase of vaccination drive from 1 May. "Registration for the newly eligible category for Covid-19 vaccination opens today at 4 pm on cowin.gov.in and Aarogya Setu app," the ministry tweeted. After registration, taking an appointment to get a Covid-19 vaccine jab would be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 44 years as walk-ins will not be allowed initially, officials had said. Those above 45 years can still avail the facility of on-site registration to get vaccinated, they said. As India witnesses a surge in coronavirus cases, it has decided to allow everyone above 18 years of age to get vaccinated from May 1. "An increased demand is expected once the vaccination is opened for all. For the purpose of crowd control, registering on CoWIN portal and making an appointment to get a vaccine will be mandatory for those aged between 18 and 45 years. Walks-in will not be allowed in the beginning so that there is no chaos," an official had said.   The inoculation process and documents to be provided to get the jab remains the same.   "Registration of citizens in 18-44 age group will start with only online registration on COWIN from April 28 onwards," the ministry had  said.  Also, from May 1, the types of anti-coronavirus vaccine and their prices will be displayed on the CoWIN portal for citizens to make an informed choice at the time of booking an appointment at a private vaccination centre. While those aged 18 to 44 years will be eligible to receive vaccination on payment from any of the private Covid vaccination centres (CVCs), citizens below 45 years shall also be eligible to receive a jab from a government CVC in a state or Union Territory which decides to lower the minimum cut off age for eligibility. As provided in the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy document, all priority groups, such as healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens above aged 45 years or more (as on 01.01.2022), shall continue to be eligible for vaccination free of cost from government CVCs, or on payment from private CVCS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-registration-for-above-18-to-start-at-4-pm-today-979801.html
28-04-2021||National||Did Centre help Bharat Biotech in developing Covaxin?||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has been surrounded by controversies since the start of the vaccination process in January this year. At first, it was the 'questionable' emergency approval of the vaccine, then its pricing announced last week. And now, it is chairman Krishna Ella's comments regarding the role of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its vaccine's development. The vaccine maker on Saturday announced that its vaccine will cost Rs 600 per dose for states and Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. The company seems to be going against its own word, as Ella in 2020 had said that Indian vaccines including Covaxin, would cost less than a bottle of water. To add to its trouble, Ella said in an interview last week that no government funding was used for Covaxin's development, even in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, wherein the company spent close to Rs 350 crore. In a response to the Lok Sabha, MoS Ashwini Kumar Choubey said that over Rs 25 crore of the ministry's budget was engaged in work "related to development of vaccine candidates and pre-clinical studies". It is not mentioned in the reply how much of this was earmarked for Covaxin. The company has said that it will supply more than 50 per cent of its production to the Centre at Rs 150 per dose, while the higher rates for states and private entities are required for R&D funding.  "As a company, we would like to have the maximum price possible. So, we want to recover as much as possible. All clinical trial costs and all other costs, and then put it back for R&D. We need the cash," Ella told NDTV. In addition to this, the Department of Biotechnology awarded a grant of Rs 65 crore early April to help Bharat Biotech's Biosafety Level (BSL) 3 facility online, but the details of this grant are also shrouded in secrecy. IE reported that the Finance Ministry changed rules that would allow the Health Ministry to pay the company Rs 1,500 crore in advance for doses of Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-centre-help-bharat-biotech-in-developing-covaxin-979827.html
28-04-2021||National||Covid-19: ICMR issues FAQs for patients with hypertension, diabetes and heart diseases||"People with hypertension, diabetes or heart diseases are at no greater risk of getting the infection than anyone else," ICMR clarified while adding that some of the people with diabetes, hypertension and heart diseases, including heart failure, may develop more severe symptoms and complications and need extra care. ICMR said that while people with diabetes are not at higher risk for acquiring the infection, some individuals could be prone to more severe disease and poorer outcomes once infected. They are advised to follow a healthy diet and exercise routines alongside regular testing of sugar levels. "When diabetic patients become sick, they may require frequent monitoring of blood glucose and adjustment of drugs including insulin, small frequent meals and adequate fluids." For those with hypertension and high blood pressure, it has been advised to control all risk factor levels by avoiding smoking and drinking. ICMR said that some form of regular physical activity (modified according to social distancing norms) should be followed. Hailing paracetamol as one of the safest medicines to take, ICMR also busted myths on medicines and advised what medications to continue, and which ones to avoid. The statement clarifies that blood pressure medicines do not exacerbate the symptoms of Covid-19 and that stopping them could be more harmful.  "After review of available information, there is no evidence that the two group of drugs- ACE inhibitors (eg. Ramipril, Enalapril, etc) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) (eg. Losartan, Telmisartan, etc.) increase the susceptibility or severity of Covid-19. These drugs are very effective for heart failure by supporting your heart function and controlling high blood pressure. It may be harmful to stop these medications by yourself. This can worsen your heart condition." ICMR said that all prescribed medications should be taken regularly despite showing symptoms and should only be stopped on the advice of doctors. "Continue with your blood pressure, diabetes and heart disease medications in case you are unable to visit your doctor. Medications to control cholesterol (statins) should be continued." For fever, the release stated that NSAID pain killers like Ibuprofen were found to worsen Covid-19 symptoms and were harmful to patients at risk of heart failure. These drugs can increase the risk of kidney damage and should only be taken if prescribed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-issues-faqs-for-patients-with-hypertension-diabetes-and-heart-diseases-979840.html
28-04-2021||National||The Lead: What do industrial corridors mean?||In today's episode, Research scholar Krishnan Thakar speaks about the industrial corridors and what they mean for our country.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to DH Radio. Today we are joined by Krishana Thakar, who is a research scholar, to talk about industrial corridors and what they mean for our country. Hi, Krishnan, welcome to DH Radio. Krishnan Thakar: Hi, Ahmed. Thank you so much. Ahmed: What are these industrial corridors and what fuelled their need? Krishnan: Industrial corridors are these large pathways of industrial activity primarily manufacturing. For example, the Delhi-Mumbai corridor, which is the first industrial corridor in India, which came up in 2007. Tune in to know more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-what-do-industrial-corridors-mean-979852.html
28-04-2021||National||Singapore dispatches first consignment of oxygen cylinders to India to support fight against Covid-19||The Singapore government has sent a consignment of oxygen cylinders to support India's Covid-19 pandemic response, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said on Wednesday. The Republic of Singapore Air Force is transporting the cylinders on board two C-130 aircraft from Singapore to West Bengal, according to a report by Channel News Asia. Second Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr Maliki Osman handed over the two planeloads of oxygen cylinders to India’s High Commissioner P Kumaran at Paya Lebar Air Base on Wednesday morning. “We have all witnessed in the past year how this pandemic is a transboundary threat,” Maliki said at the air base. “It gives no regard for country, nationality or race. This is exactly why we must work collectively to support each other,” the Channel quoted him as saying. Singapore and India share a close relationship, Maliki said, thanking the Indian government for continuing to work with Singapore throughout the pandemic by “keeping supply chains open and essential goods flowing”. “While our contribution is modest, we hope that it will bring comfort and relief to those in need and encourage those on the frontline in India, who are working tirelessly, to fight on. “I have no doubt that the fighting spirit of the Indian people will prevail,” Maliki said. Singapore investment firm Temasek has also sent medical equipment while India's Tata Group donated four cryogenic oxygen cylinders sourced from Singapore. That consignment landed in West Bengal over the weekend. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll stands at 2,01,187, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-dispatches-first-consignment-of-oxygen-cylinders-to-india-to-support-fight-against-covid-19-979903.html
28-04-2021||National||IAF airlifts 9 cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai, Singapore||The Indian Air Force (IAF) airlifted nine cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai and Singapore and has brought them to the Panagarh air base in West Bengal, according to an official statement issued on Wednesday. These containers were brought on Tuesday, it said.  In addition, the IAF's C-17 aircraft on Tuesday also airlifted two cryogenic oxygen containers from Indore to Jamnagar, two from Jodhpur and Udaipur to Jamnagar and two from Hindon to Ranchi, it said. "IAF's C-17s have airlifted six cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai to Panagarh Air Base. Another C-17s brought three oxygen containers from Singapore to Panagarh Air Base," the statement said. The IAF also airlifted eight cryogenic oxygen containers from Hyderabad to Bhubaneswar, two from Bhopal to Ranchi and two from Chandigarh to Ranchi, it said. India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds in view of a rising number of Covid-19 cases.   Since last Friday, the IAF has been airlifting empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients.  The IAF has also transported essential medicines as well as equipment required by designated Covid hospitals in various parts of the country. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 1,48,17,371, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.12 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. PTI DSP    http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-airlifts-9-cryogenic-oxygen-containers-from-dubai-singapore-979906.html
28-04-2021||National||Canada to provide 10 mn dollars to India to support fight against Covid-19: PM Trudeau||Canada will provide 10 million dollars to India to support the country in its fight against the unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has announced. Addressing a press conference, Trudeau said that Minister of Foreign Affairs Marc Garneau had “direct conversations” with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar about how Canada can best help, including the donation of extra medical supplies. “We are also ready to provide 10 million dollars through the Canadian Red Cross to the Indian Red Cross,” the Prime Minister said. This will support everything from ambulant services to buying more Personal Protective Equipment locally, he said. “If you want to donate to the emergency efforts on the ground, go to redcross.ca… As a world, we are in this fight together,” Trudeau said. About the talks between the Foreign Affairs Ministers of both the countries, he said: “We are there to support in any ways we can, and those conversations are very much ongoing”. “It’s something that Canadians are extremely concerned about as we see the terrible and tragic images coming out of India. “We know that we need to be there for our friends. And indeed, we need to be there for everyone around the world because we don’t get through this pandemic anywhere until we get through it everywhere,” Trudeau said. Earlier, Foreign Affairs Minister Garneau said on Twitter that he spoke to his Indian counterpart Jaishankar about the Covid-19 situation in the country and conveyed Canada’s solidarity with the people of India. “This morning, I spoke with @DrSJaishankar to convey Canada’s solidarity with the people of India as they face this deadly wave of #Covid19. Canada is exploring all options to support India’s urgent needs. We are ready to assist,” he said in a tweet. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll stands at 2,01,187, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/canada-to-provide-10-mn-dollars-to-india-to-support-fight-against-covid-19-pm-trudeau-979922.html
28-04-2021||National||War-rooms and oxygen: India's IT companies scramble to handle Covid-19 surge||India's giant IT firms in Bengaluru and other cities have set up Covid-19 "war-rooms" as they scramble to source oxygen, medicine and hospital beds for infected workers and maintain backroom operations for the world's biggest financial firms. Banks including Goldman Sachs and Standard Chartered , who run much of their global back office operations from large office parks in Bengaluru, Chennai or Hyderabad, have put in place the infrastructure to vaccinate thousands of employees and their families, when age restrictions are lifted on May 1. Workers at huge technology service providers Accenture and Wipro say teams are working 13-14 hours daily, under growing pressure and struggling to deliver on projects as staff call in sick and take time off to care for friends and relatives. They play down any threat of a collapse in operations - but at stake if the surge continues is the infrastructure put in place by the world's biggest financial companies in cost-cutting drives that have left them deeply-reliant on the big Indian offices. "Employees have contracted Covid-19 since the second wave began, causing severe pressure for projects that are nearing deadlines," said one employee at Accenture, asking not to be named because he was not authorised to speak to the media. Five other sources at Accenture confirmed the growing issues with pressure of work. Accenture said it was providing some medical care and covering the cost of vaccinations for its employees but did not comment on the impact on productivity. Wipro did not immediately respond to requests for comment. India's second wave of infections has seen at least 300,000 people test positive each day for the past week, overwhelming healthcare facilities and crematoriums and driving an increasingly urgent international response. Asia's IT capital Bengaluru, desperate to calm a daily infection rate five times higher than in last year's first wave, on Monday ordered a full lockdown that allows ordinary residents to leave their homes only briefly between 6 am and 10 am. Local IT managers say they struggled to get global chiefs outside India to recognise the seriousness of the outbreak. COVID-19 'WAR ROOMS' India's gigantic IT and call centre service industry employs more than 4.5 million people directly and relies substantially on thousands of graduates under the age of 30. They are paid a fraction of western salaries and had largely ridden out the Covid-19 pandemic working from home until the relaxing of restrictions in recent months spurred companies to call more employees back to the office. Managers at Goldman Sachs' massive complex in Bengaluru, for example, told staff in early March to prepare to return to full-scale office working. Chief Executive Officer David Solomon said then that the bank owed it to its incoming class of analysts and interns to have them come to work in offices for at least part of the summer. The company quickly U-turned, sending all but essential employees home on March 27 as cases began to rise.   New strains of the virus have since sent India's case numbers soaring to global records and brought more infections among younger Indians. But all 15 of the large companies Reuters spoke to this week said that they now had vaccination schemes in place and several outlined Covid-19 "war-rooms" they had launched to support staff and secure oxygen and other supplies. "The problem was that those outside India were anxious not to be seen to be jumping the queue," says a senior manager who runs a workforce of more than 600 staff at a global bank in Bengaluru, asking not to be named. "The India CEO and others here said: we don't care what it looks like, people are dying."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/war-rooms-and-oxygen-indias-it-companies-scramble-to-handle-covid-19-surge-979925.html
28-04-2021||National||Indian naval ship with Covid-19 essentials despatched to Lakshadweep||Sustaining its efforts in the fight against Covid-19, Indian Navy is continuing with its mission of "Oxygen Express" in order to render support to the administration of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep. A Defence release said 41 oxygen cylinders (collected from the islands) were refilled and embarked onboard Indian Navy hired vessel, Meghna here for onward delivery to the Lakshadweep and Minicoy Islands. The operations are being progressed under the supervision of the Naval Officer-in-Charge at Lakshadweep under the aegis of Headquarters Southern Naval Command in coordination with the Lakshadweep administration. The vessel is expected to reach the islands by today or tomorrow and would again carry back empty Oxygen cylinders on its return voyage. This is in pursuant to the Government of India and the Indian Navy's efforts to provide a sustained supply of Oxygen to the islands, the release said. According to sources, over two thousand cases have been reported from the islands. Earlier, INS Sharda had undertaken transfer of essential medical supplies to the various islands of Lakshadweep, including Oxygen cylinders, RADT kits, PPE, masks and other items to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, the Southern Naval Command has also started Battle Field Nursing Assistant (BFNA) training for preparing non-medical personnel to assist the medical staff in case the cases surge overwhelmingly. A defence spokesman said 80 personnel are being trained every week to meet the urgent requirements of the Navy and civil administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-naval-ship-with-covid-19-essentials-despatched-to-lakshadweep-979933.html
28-04-2021||National||Govt with vision essential, not Central Vista project: Rahul Gandhi||The Central Vista project is not essential now, but a central government with a vision is, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday as the country saw a record single-day rise of over 3.60 lakh coronavirus cases. India's death toll also crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. "Central Vista- not essential. Central Government with a vision- essential," he said in a tweet. The Central Vista revamp project, which was announced in September last year, envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, and it is targeted to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat, a part of the project, is likely to be built by 2024. In another tweet, Gandhi lauded the common people for helping each other. "By helping each other, the common people show that to touch someone's heart one need not touch one's hands. Keep helping," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#TogetherStronger".   Gandhi asked people to continue helping each other and expose the reality of the "blind system". The second wave of the coronavirus infection has put huge pressure on the public health system, with hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen, beds, medicines and equipment. Gandhi and the Congress have been critical of the government's response to the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-with-vision-essential-not-central-vista-project-rahul-gandhi-979949.html
28-04-2021||National||Ten states account for over 78% of new Covid-19 deaths in India||Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are among the 10 states that account for 78.53 per cent of the new Covid-19 deaths reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The country saw 3,293 people losing their lives in a span of 24 hours, the highest in a single day so far, pushing the death toll to 2,01,187. Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh are the other states in the list of 10. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (895). Delhi follows with 381 daily deaths.The fatalities further include 264  from Uttar Pradesh, 246 from Chhattisgarh, 180  from Karnataka, 170 from Gujarat, 131 from Jharkhand, 121 from Rajasthan and 100 from Punjab. "The National Mortality rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.12 per cent," the ministry said. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan accounted for 73.59 per cent of the new cases reported in a day. A record single day rise of 3,60,960 new cases have been registered in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 66,358. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 32,921 while Kerala reported 32,819 new cases.  India's total active caseload has reached 29,78,709 and now comprises 16.55 per cent of the country's total cases. A net increase of 96,505 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal cumulatively account for 71.91 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,48,17,371  with 2,61,162 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 79.01 per cent of the new recoveries. The cumulative number of Covid19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 14.78 crore. Cumulatively, 14,78,27,367 vaccine doses have been administered through 21,18,435 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 93,47,775 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 61,06,237 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,22,21,975 FLWs who have received the first dose and 65,26,378 FLWs  have taken the second dose. Besides, 5,10,85,677 and 93,37,292 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first dose and 5,02,74,581 and 29,27,452 individuals aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first and second dose. More than 25 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours. As on Day-102 of the vaccination drive (April 27), 25,56,182 vaccine doses were given. A total of 15,69,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 22,989 sessions for first dose and 9,87,182 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-states-account-for-over-78-of-new-covid-19-deaths-in-india-979951.html
28-04-2021||National||BioNTech seeking details on heart inflammation reports, says CEO||German biotech startup BioNTech is seeking details of reports from Israel of cases of heart inflammation among people receiving the Covid-19 vaccine it is making with Pfizer, Chief executive Ugur Sahin said on Wednesday. Sahin said the reports appeared to be anecdotal, and added that monitoring by public health authorities in countries like the United States or Germany showed no unusual incidence of such symptoms. "We have no evidence until now of any accumulation of this heart muscle inflammation," Sahin told an online briefing hosted by Germany's foreign correspondents' association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biontech-seeking-details-on-heart-inflammation-reports-says-ceo-979972.html
28-04-2021||National||New Zealand to give 1 million NZ dollars to Red Cross to assist India in Covid fight||New Zealand will give 1 million NZ dollars (about USD 7,20,365) to the Red Cross to assist India as it grapples with a Covid-19 surge, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta announced on Wednesday. The assistance was announced as India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, “We stand in solidarity with India at this difficult time, and commend the tireless efforts of India’s frontline medics and healthcare workers who are working hard to save lives,” said Mahuta. “Aotearoa will contribute NZ $1 million to the International Federation of the Red Cross to assist India while they respond to the current surge in Covid-19 cases," The New Zealand Herald quoted her as saying. Aotearoa is the Maori name for New Zealand. The International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC) is working directly with the local Indian Red Cross Society to provide oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, and other crucial medical supplies. The IFRC is also looking at scaling up emergency operations across India by providing an intensified ambulance and blood service and distributing personal protective equipment and hygiene kits to communities in need. “We believe a contribution to an international organisation that has a reputation for delivery is the most practical assistance we can make to India at this time,” said Mahuta. “We will continue to monitor the situation and stand ready to assist the Indian government. We extend our deepest sympathies to the whanau (Maori-language word for extended family) and friends of those who have had their lives cut short by this terrible virus,” she said. New Zealand earlier this month had imposed a temporary ban on travellers coming from India, including its citizens, from April 11 to 28 due to a surge in Covid-19 cases among visitors to this country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-zealand-to-give-1-million-nz-dollars-to-red-cross-to-assist-india-in-covid-fight-979985.html
28-04-2021||National||India's devastating Covid-19 second wave shows why vaccine hoarding may backfire on rich nations||By Bhuma Shrivastava and Chris Kay For months, developed economies have hoarded Covid-19 vaccines and the raw materials needed to make them. Now, they’re being forced to act as an explosive outbreak in India raises the risk of new virus mutations that could threaten the wider world. Under mounting criticism for dominating vaccine resources, the US said this week that it will help India by sending items needed to manufacture vaccines as part of an aid package. European countries are also pledging help as new cases in the South Asian country smash world records. President Joe Biden’s administration is separately vowing to share its stockpile of AstraZeneca Plc vaccines — which the US hasn’t even approved for use — and meeting with drug companies about boosting supply and waiving intellectual property protections on Covid-19 shots, a shift India and South Africa have been pushing for. The moves show a growing realization that the vaccine nationalism many wealthy nations have embraced has the potential to backfire, prolonging the global pandemic. While those countries have been cornering supplies of the first vaccines for their world-leading rollouts, places like India have run short, allowing the virus to run wild. Some scientists have linked the nation of 1.3 billion people’s second wave to a more virulent strain, with the out-of-control outbreak providing a petri dish for further mutations to evolve that could challenge the vaccines now being distributed from the UK to Israel. The pink countries are trying to prevent the yellow countries from making vaccines that would save thousands of thousands, possibly millions from unnecessary deaths. “There is certainly potential for new variants to emerge in a country the size of India that could pose a threat elsewhere,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, founder of the New Delhi and Washington-based Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy. “It is in the world’s interest to ensure that India exits the pandemic at the earliest, and vaccination is the only way.” While viruses undergo changes all the time, not all are significant. But some new strains in other parts of the world have ignited concerns because they could be more contagious. Earlier this year, data showed that AstraZeneca’s vaccine was less effective against one variant that emerged in South Africa. India’s variant — a strain named B.1.617 — is already raising alarms. It has two critical mutations that make it more likely to transmit and escape prior immunity that has been built up, Anurag Agrawal, the director of India’s Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s genomics institute, told Bloomberg last week. Rakesh Mishra, the director of the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, one of the labs working to sequence virus samples in India, said this variant appears to be more infectious, but it isn’t likely to cause more deaths. Also, the AstraZeneca vaccine and another from India’s Bharat Biotech International Ltd. have been shown to be effective against it in preliminary data, he said. India’s health ministry hasn’t confirmed if this variant is more transmissible, and a spokesperson for the federal health ministry could not be immediately reached. And at the rate infections are occurring in India, B.1.617 won’t be the only or last variant of concern out of India’s second wave. “I fear there may be more trouble coming,” said William Haseltine, a former Harvard Medical School professor and HIV researcher who now chairs think tank Access Health International. “There are already second and possibly third-generation variant of the B.1.617 circulating in India. These may be more dangerous than is the B.1.617 variant itself.” India’s second wave is certainly more destructive. Hospitals and crematoriums are cracking under pressure, while Indians are begging on social media for everything from oxygen cylinders to drugs. Almost 3,000 people are dying every day, with experts saying that figure likely underplays the real toll. The daily death rate is almost double what it was at the height of the first wave, stoking speculation the new variant, or other mutations, are to blame. Brazil, another developing country that has struggled to ramp up vaccines, suffered from a virus strain that’s said to be responsible for a much higher Covid death rate. “We are fighting a virus that is not standing still,” Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive officer of Moderna Inc., told reporters at a briefing held on Friday by a number of vaccine makers and industry bodies. “If you think about the variants that are emerging, the UK, Brazil, South Africa and now we are hearing about the double mutant variant in India, there are more appearing everywhere. I’m worried deeply about the next six months.” Public health experts now see a ramped-up vaccination effort as key to quelling outbreaks like the one in India. But despite being home to the world’s largest vaccine industry, India’s immunization drive has slowed in recent weeks and many states are warning that their supplies have almost dried up. The shortages have partly been blamed on bottlenecks related to a few key items, with Adar Poonawalla — the chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India Ltd., the country’s biggest vaccine producer and AstraZeneca’s manufacturing partner — increasingly pointing to the US Poonawalla has repeatedly called on the US to release shipments of critical raw materials, saying the US invoking the Defence Production Act to curb exports of some ingredients and bolster its own industry is one of the main reasons behind the slowdown in shots.   “It’s the shortage of critical input materials that is becoming a real bottleneck,” Rajinder Suri, chief executive officer of the Developing Countries Vaccine Manufacturers’ Network, said at Friday’s briefing. “If anyone of the components is missing, the entire chain comes to a grinding halt. The problem is that most of these materials are coming from the US” The items that many vaccine makers have been struggling to get hold of include glass vials, single-use filters and bioreactor bags, according to the majority of 15 suppliers, developers and contract manufacturers surveyed ahead of a Chatham House summit last month. However, the scale of the problem, even within industry groups, has been hard to quantify due to a lack of data. As the scale of India’s virus emergency rose to global prominence this week, the offers of aid and doses started to come. Besides the US’s commitments, the UK, France and Germany have also pledged aid and much-needed oxygen tanks for India. Biden said Tuesday that in a call with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he discussed “when we’ll be able to send actual vaccines to India, which would be my intention to do.” In the meantime, the US is providing other aid, Biden said. The US government has said it plans to send about 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine overseas. Still, a more marked shift in the way developed countries view vaccines will likely be needed. Even if the US did send all of its AstraZeneca doses to India, it would have a limited impact on a population of its size. There are also other parts of the vast developing world that are yet to see shots, or consistent supplies. “Many parts of the world still remain deeply at risk,” Jennifer Nuzzo, a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, said in a Bloomberg TV interview last week. “I worry about these headlines continuing for a year or more unless international partners get together and help share some of the vaccines that are there.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-devastating-covid-19-second-wave-shows-why-vaccine-hoarding-may-backfire-on-rich-nations-980038.html
28-04-2021||National||Co-WIN server goes down as registration for Phase 3 vaccination begins||Ahead of Phase 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, many people faced issues registering on the government apps, Co-WIN and Aarogya Setu, as people aged 18 and above flocked to list themselves for the jabs. Many complained of server issues and others said the OTP was not received, the first and key step in registration.  The mandatory registration began today, and the inoculation begins May 1. The walk-in registration, which was available during other phases, has been stopped for Phase 3 to prevent crowding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-server-goes-down-as-registration-for-phase-3-vaccination-begins-980055.html
28-04-2021||National||India sends fruit, vegetable seeds to cyclone-hit Fiji as grant assistance||In a gesture of friendship, India has sent a consignment of nearly seven tonnes of agricultural seeds to Fiji as a grant assistance for restoration of livelihood of communities affected by a tropical cyclone, officials said on Wednesday. The consignment was airlifted from India and was transported to Fiji via Sydney, they said. "The first tranche of a consignment of nearly seven tonnes of agricultural seeds from India reached Nadi, Fiji on Tuesday," the Indian High Commission in Fiji said. It said the gesture underlined India's commitment to provide humanitarian assistance to partners in the Indo-Pacific region despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. The consignment carried 14 varieties of fruit and vegetable seeds as requested by the government of Fiji for restoration of livelihood of communities affected by tropical cyclone Yasa, the officials said. India and Fiji share friendly ties based on mutual cooperation in a range of areas and strong people-to-people links. The two countries have historical and cultural links. In January 2021, India provided disaster relief assistance to Fiji in the immediate aftermath of cyclone Yasa. Earlier, India made a donation of agricultural seeds to Fiji to support the communities affected by tropical cyclone Winston in 2016. India's links with Fiji started in 1879 when Indian labourers were taken to the island nation under an indenture system to work on sugarcane plantations. Between 1879 and 1916, an estimated 60,000 Indians were brought to Fiji. Beginning with the early 20th century, Indian traders and others also started arriving in Fiji.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-fruit-vegetable-seeds-to-cyclone-hit-fiji-as-grant-assistance-980059.html
28-04-2021||National||It appears Centre wants people to die, says Delhi HC on new protocol on Remdesivir use||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it appeared that the Centre wanted people to die as according to the new protocol on the use of Remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment, the drug was to be given only to those on oxygen support. "This is wrong. This is a complete non-application of mind. Now people who do not have oxygen will not get Remdesivir either. It appears you want people to die," Justice Prathiba M Singh said to the central government. It appears the Centre was changing the protocol to reduce the shortage of the drug, the high court said. "This is complete mismanagement," the court added.  It was hearing a plea by a lawyer who is suffering from Covid-19 and was able to get only three out of the six doses of Remdesivir required. Due to the court's intervention, the lawyer got the remaining vials on Tuesday (April 27) night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-appears-centre-wants-people-to-die-says-delhi-hc-on-new-protocol-on-remdesivir-use-980076.html
28-04-2021||National||'Life is precious', say migrants fleeing Covid-hit cities in India||Amid India's Covid-19 crisis, migrant workers are abandoning cities and heading for their villages in droves in a repeat of last year's exodus when the lockdown shut industries and left them jobless - but this time they are worried about safety. India's toll from the coronavirus surged past 200,000 on Wednesday with nearly 18 million people infected, according to government data, with Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Surat and Bangalore under lockdown-like curbs. Healthcare facilities have been overwhelmed, with hospitals over-run and shortages of oxygen, medical supplies and hospital staff. "I was reading about all the cases and the deaths and getting worried. I still had work but I didn't want to stay in the city," said Sanjit Kumar, 30, who left Surat last week on a train for his village in Bihar. "Last year I had gone back on a truck. But this time, I didn't want to wait for a complete lockdown. I was getting scared looking at messages of deaths on WhatsApp," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from his village. "Life is precious for everyone." India's strict lockdown measures last year, such as severing transport links, took a toll on the nation's estimated 100 million migrant workers, triggering an exodus from cities where they worked in garment factories, building sites and brick kilns. Hundreds died in road accidents while walking, cycling and travelling in trucks and vans in intense heat, charities said. As the second wave of Covid-19 started sweeping through India last month, migrants who had returned to work after months of staying jobless again began a hasty retreat, fearing transport services could again get suspended. At least three migrant workers died when an overcrowded bus from Delhi overturned in central India, local media reported. But officials and campaigners said the impact of the lockdown this year was not as severe as in 2020 because industries had not been shut entirely and trains remained operational. The government this month revived migrant worker helplines that were set up last April and announced financial assistance for employers who hire those who lost work in the pandemic. "The volume of incoming calls on our helplines is not as much as last year. We have also told employers to hold on to workers," said D.P.S. Negi, India's Chief Labour Commissioner. "There is not as much panic in the minds of people since transport services are not shut. The government is more prepared this time than last year." THE PANDEMIC Until a few weeks ago, migrant rights non-profit Gram Vikas in Odisha had linked workers with jobs in Kerala and arranged transport for them but that has stopped. Many of them have now booked tickets to return to their villages as infections at workplaces have spiked and many fear contracting the infection, the charity's officials said. "We are shifting gears to save lives now. We will use our resources to bring them back and quarantine them. We are not motivating them to stay back in cities any more," said Liby Johnson, executive director, Gram Vikas. "We are getting into a more difficult situation ... It is no longer the fallout of Covid-19 like the lockdown last year. This time it is Covid-19 itself, it is the pandemic causing problems. Personal safety and life are key issues now," he said. Migrant worker helplines that were muted for a few months have begun ringing again, with workers seeking help for tickets on overbooked trains, or assurance of safety. "They want to know where the odds of them getting good healthcare are better," said Johnson Topno, a team leader of the state migrant control room in eastern Jharkhand state. "They are worried where they would be safer - in cities or their villages. They want guarantees, but like always there are none as far as they are concerned," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/life-is-precious-say-migrants-fleeing-covid-hit-cities-in-india-980097.html
28-04-2021||National||IAF orders round-the-clock readiness for entire heavy-lift fleet to meet Covid-19 tasks||Scaling up their contribution in fighting the alarming rise of Covid-19 cases, Indian Air Force has ordered round-the-clock readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleets to meet Covid-19 related tasks while DRDO has initiated the moves to set up 500 medical oxygen plants within the next three months from the allocation made by the PM Cares Fund. DRDO will be using the technology developed for on-board oxygen generation for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas. The transfer of MOP technology has been done to Bengaluru-based Tata Advanced Systems Limited and Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics, which together will set up  380 plants. A statement issued by DRDO mentioned that 120 plants of 500 litres per minute capacity will be set up by industries working with the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun. The MOP of the DRDO is designed to generate 1,000 litres oxygen per minute and the  system caters for 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 litres per minute and can charge 195 cylinders per day. The MOP technology will be useful to provide oxygen supply during Corona Pandemic in hospitals in urban and rural areas. Hospitals will be able to generate on site medical oxygen, in a cost-effective manner with this oxygen plant rather than depending upon sourcing it from other places. The installation of this plant helps in avoiding hospital dependency on scarce oxygen cylinders especially at high altitude and inaccessible remote areas. MOP has already been installed at some of the Army sites in the North East and Leh-Ladakh region. Meanwhile as Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the Covid related operations by Indian Air Force, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria informed the government that  the Air Force is deploying big as well as medium-sized aircraft to cover all terrains, the PMO said in a statement. IAF is also setting up a dedicated Covid Air Support Cell to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies on Covid-19 related operations. A PMO statement said that Bhadauria informed the Prime Minister that hospitals under the IAF have increased Covid-19 facilities and are also allowing civilians wherever possible. Meanwhile Indian Army has created a number of Covid facilities including one at Base Hospital Delhi Cantonment (BHDC) where the entire hospital has been converted into a Covid hospital with comprehensive arrangements for providing critical care to all incoming patients. At the start of the current Covid wave, the Base Hospital catered for 340 Covid beds of which just 250 beds were oxygenated. Later it was decided to expand the capacity to 650 Covid beds of which 450 beds are oxygenated.. The next phase of expansion will see the present capacity being augmented to 900 oxygenated beds by the second week of June 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-orders-round-the-clock-readiness-for-entire-heavy-lift-fleet-to-meet-covid-19-tasks-980099.html
28-04-2021||National||SII reduces price of its Covid-19 vaccine from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose for states||Amid uproar over vaccine prices, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday announced a Rs 100 reduction in the per dose price of Covishield offered to state governments. “As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute of India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately,” Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of SII said. He said the reduction in prices would save thousands of crores of state funds and enable more vaccinations and save countless lives. Under the new vaccine policy unveiled by the Central government, the SII had offered to sell its Covid-19 vaccine – Covishield – to state governments at Rs 400 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 600 per dose. The central government said that it would continue to purchase the vaccine at a special price of Rs 150 per dose from SII. Bharat Biotech, the homegrown vaccine maket, had offered Covaxin to state governments at Rs 600 per dose and to private hospitals at Rs 1,200 per dose. The Centre would continue to buy it at Rs 150 per dose. The differential pricing of vaccines had triggered an uproar with opposition parties demanding a uniform price across the country. The opposition parties had asked the Centre to fund the entire vaccination drive. As per the new vaccination policy, those in the age group of 18 years to 45 years would be eligible for vaccination from May 1. However, those in this age group will have to get vaccines either through the state government or through private hospitals. The Centre had said it would offer free vaccination only to the vulnerable groups of 45 years and above, besides healthcare workers and frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-reduces-price-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-from-rs-400-to-rs-300-per-dose-for-states-980139.html
28-04-2021||National||Negative Covid-19 report or full vaccination mandatory for entering counting halls: EC||The candidates or their representatives must get themselves tested for SARS-CoV-2 infection and secure a negative certificate from diagnostic labs in order to enter the centres where votes polled in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry would be counted on May 2, the Election Commission ordered on Wednesday. The EC's move came after the Madras High Court held it responsible for the second Covid-19 wave in the country. The court also asked it to submit its plan for enforcing Covid-19 safety protocols on Sunday, when the votes polled for the Assembly elections in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry would be counted. No candidates or agents will be allowed inside the counting hall without undergoing Reverse Transcription – Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) Assay or Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for SARS-CoV-2 infection. The candidates and their representatives would have to produce negative RT-PCR report or negative RAT report to enter the counting halls. They would have to undergo the tests within 48 hours before the start of the counting of votes, the EC stated. The District Election officers will make arrangements for RT-PCR test or the RAT for the candidates or their representatives. The poll-panel, however, said that the candidates and their representatives would also be allowed inside the counting hall if they could produce proof of having been administered the two doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines.   The EC also ordered for strict adherence during counting to the guidelines it issued on August 21 last year for conducting polls at the time of the pandemic. The Madras High Court asked the EC to submit by Friday its plan to enforce the Covid-19 safety norms during counting of votes on May 2. The poll-panel stated that it would apprise the court about all steps already taken by it to ensure free, fair and safe elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/negative-covid-19-report-or-full-vaccination-mandatory-for-entering-counting-halls-ec-980147.html
28-04-2021||National||Centre to procure 1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators, 500 more PSA oxygen plants from PM Cares Fund||The Centre will procure one lakh portable oxygen concentrators and set up 500 more pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants using monies from the PM CARES Fund to improve access to the life saving drug in high burden states. “In addition to the earlier sanctioned 713 PSA plants under PM Cares Fund, 500 new Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants have been sanctioned under PM CARES Fund,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said. “This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. The PMO said in a statement that the oxygen concentrators and the new PSA plants will greatly augment the supply of oxygen near the demand clusters. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Modi to discuss the measures needed to improve the supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen for COVID-19 management. Modi has directed that these oxygen concentrators should be procured at the earliest and provided in states with high case burden, the statement said. These 500 PSA plants will be established with the transfer of the indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers. Establishing PSA plants and procurement of portable oxygen concentrators will greatly augment the supply of oxygen near the demand clusters, thereby addressing the current logistical challenges in transporting oxygen from plants to hospitals, the statement said. The demand for life-saving gas has increased with the surge in the COVID cases with several hospitals sending out SOS for its supply. Several deaths have also been reported due to lack of oxygen supply in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-procure-1-lakh-portable-oxygen-concentrators-500-more-psa-oxygen-plants-from-pm-cares-fund-980154.html
28-04-2021||National||Army's base hospital in Delhi to have 900 oxygenated beds for Covid-19 patients by mid-June||Indian Army's base hospital in Delhi will augment its capacity and will have 900 oxygenated beds for Covid-19 patients by mid-June, said an official statement on Wednesday. Currently, the base hospital has a total of 340 Covid-19 beds, out of which 250 are oxygenated, it noted. "This resource was being severely stretched for additional capacities due to exponential rise in Covid cases," the Army's statement noted.  Despite the beds being filled to their capacity, patients over and above this capacity are being treated in the trauma centre after obtaining their willingness to wait for beds, it stated. It said a plan was quickly put in place to expand the capacity to 650 Covid-19 beds -- of which 450 beds will be oxygenated -- by April 30. The Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is also being enhanced from 12 beds 35 beds by April 29, it said.  "Next phase of expansion will see the present capacity being augmented to 900 oxygenated beds by the second week of June 2021," it noted. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The Army's statement said on Wednesday that for efficient patient management, a new Covid OPD (out patient department) under a specialist medical team is functioning round-the-clock for screening Covid-positive patients for home isolation, investigation, treatment advice and admission under a single roof. "This team clinically examines approximately 500 patients on a daily basis and appropriate medical advice is rendered. The endeavour is to ensure that all critical cases are provided appropriate treatment," it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armys-base-hospital-in-delhi-to-have-900-oxygenated-beds-for-covid-19-patients-by-mid-june-980155.html
28-04-2021||National||As India helped others, so must we in their time of need, says Prince Charles||Britain's Prince Charles on Wednesday made an impassioned plea as he backed an emergency appeal launched by his charity, British Asian Trust, and urged people to help India as it copes with a "horrific" second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 72-year-old heir to the British throne spoke of his "great love" for India, where he has paid several visits, and said that those suffering the effects of this pandemic in the country are in his "thoughts and prayers". "For well over a year the pandemic has had a devastating impact on so many of us around the world. This week, I have been deeply saddened by the tragic images we have all seen as Covid-19 takes its horrific toll in India," read a statement by Prince Charles, released by Clarence House. "With support from the Indian diaspora, the British Asian Trust has launched an emergency appeal for India to channel this desire to do something about this terrible situation and help save lives. Many members of the diaspora, and others including businesses, trusts and foundations, have already come together behind this appeal. I do hope that even more of us might be able to provide support to help those in India in their time of need," he said. "Like many others, I have a great love for India and have enjoyed many wonderful visits to the country. Indian aid and ingenuity has been a support to other countries throughout this immensely difficult time. As India has helped others, so now must we help India,” he said, adding that "we will win this battle" together. The British Asian Trust, founded by Prince Charles, had launched an emergency appeal entitled "Oxygen For India" to help meet the urgent needs of overrun hospitals in India. The appeal is being supported by the British International Doctors Association (BIDA) who have partnered with the British Asian Trust to help raise funds, with a target of raising GBP 100,000. "We have seen the terrible impact of the pandemic worldwide but the devastation in India currently is one of the worst points of the last 12 months," said Hitan Mehta, Executive Director of the British Asian Trust. "The astronomical numbers of Covid-19 cases and deaths in India are frightening and we fear there is still a peak to come. What we can do now is provide essential support as quickly as possible to help those most in need. Our 'Oxygen For India' emergency appeal has been set up to provide vital supplies and equipment to save lives. We simply cannot stand by and do nothing," he said. The appeal says a donation of GBP 50 will provide oxygen for 40 patients struggling to breathe, GBP 450 will provide low-flow oxygen concentrator to help 900 patients and an GBP-830 donation will provide high-flow oxygen concentrator to help 550 of the most seriously ill patients. All funds raised by the "Oxygen For India" emergency appeal will go towards providing as many oxygen concentrators to hospitals as quickly as possible. Oxygen concentrators are alternate devices to oxygen cylinders – while cylinders contain a finite amount of oxygen supply, a concentrator continually recycles oxygen from the air and delivers it to the patient, it explains. Many British Indian Trust Ambassadors, including actors Sanjeev Bhaskar, Meera Syal and Nitin Ganatra and cricketer Isa Guha, have been vocal about the launch of the appeal across social media. "Devastating scenes in India where people are dying in the streets due to Covid-19, please take a look at the British Asian Trust's emergency appeal. Please share. #OxygenForIndia Please give generously," said Ganatra, in his Twitter appeal. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals in several states reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll stands at 2,01,187, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-india-helped-others-so-must-we-in-their-time-of-need-says-prince-charles-980164.html
28-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: SII reduces Covid-19 vaccine price for states by Rs 100 per dose||In your evening news brief, SII says Rs 100 reduced per dose price of Covishield offered to state governments; Maharashtra government has decided not to commence inoculations for ages 18 to 44 from May 1 and ahead of Phase 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, many people face issues regarding registration.  Here is the top news of April 28, 2021: Amid uproar over vaccine prices, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday announced a Rs 100 reduction in the per dose price of Covishield offered to state governments. “As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of Serum Institute of India, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs 400 to Rs 300 per dose, effective immediately,” Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of SII said. He said the reduction in prices would save thousands of crores of state funds and enable more vaccinations and save countless lives. Concerned about its supplies of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided not to commence inoculations for ages 18 to 44 from May 1. However, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government decided to provide the vaccines free to those in the age group. The move will put a burden of Rs 6,500 crore on the state's coffers. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting in which the Covid-19 pandemic situation, vaccination drive and lockdown measures were discussed threadbare. Ahead of Phase 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, many people faced issues registering on the government apps, Co-WIN and Aarogya Setu, as people aged 18 and above flocked to list themselves for the jabs. Many complained of server issues and others said the OTP was not received, the first and key step in registration.  The mandatory registration began today, and the inoculation begins May 1. The walk-in registration, which was available during other phases, has been stopped for Phase 3 to prevent crowding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sii-reduces-covid-19-vaccine-price-for-states-by-rs-100-per-dose-980165.html
28-04-2021||National||SII CEO Adar Poonawala gets Y-category security cover||Adar Poonawala, the Chief Executive Officer of Serum Institute of India that manufactures Covishield, will be accorded Y-category security cover with a security assessment showing that he is at risk. THe Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued orders in this regard and ordered the CRPF to provide round the clock security to him, sources said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-ceo-adar-poonawala-gets-y-category-security-cover-980168.html
28-04-2021||National||Russia to deliver 'emergency' Covid-19 aid to India||Russia will deliver emergency aid to coronavirus-hit India, President Vladimir Putin told Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a phone call Wednesday, the Kremlin said. India has become the global epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic, recording 360,000 new infections -- a world record -- and more than 3,000 deaths on Wednesday. "Vladimir Putin expressed words of support to Narendra Modi in this difficult period in the fight against the spread of the coronavirus infection and informed him about the decision to provide India with emergency humanitarian aid," the Kremlin said in a statement. It added that the Russian deliveries will include "20 units of equipment for the production of oxygen, 75 artificial lung ventilation devices, 150 medical monitors and 200,000 packages of medicines". The Kremlin said Modi "warmly thanked the President of Russia for the assistance provided, which is largely of a high-tech nature and is in great demand in the country". The Russian news agency RIA Novosti cited the trade and industry ministry as saying that the 200,000 medicine packages would be favipiravir, an antiviral medication. The news agency also cited the emergencies ministry as saying that two transport planes would carry the "more than 22 tonnes (48,500 pounds) of medical equipment" from Russia to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-to-deliver-emergency-covid-19-aid-to-india-980170.html
28-04-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India reports biggest single-day spike with more than 3.6 lakh fresh cases||Ambulances continue to line up for hours to take Covid-19 victims to makeshift crematorium facilities in parks and parking lots, where bodies are burned on rows of funeral pyres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-with-more-than-36-lakh-fresh-cases-980172.html
28-04-2021||National||India blames virus variant as Covid-19 crisis worsens||At Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, a huge facility in the middle of Delhi, 37 fully vaccinated doctors came down with Covid-19 earlier this month. The infections left most with mild symptoms, but it added to their growing fears that the virus behind India’s catastrophic second wave is different. They wonder if a more contagious variant that dodges the immune system could be fueling the epidemic inside the world’s hardest-hit nation. So far the evidence is inconclusive, and researchers caution that other factors could explain the viciousness of the outbreak, which has overwhelmed India’s capital so quickly that hospitals are entirely overrun and crematories burn nonstop. Still, the presence of the variant could complicate the taming of India’s Covid-19 disaster. “The current wave of Covid has a different clinical behavior,” said Dr. Sujay Shad, a senior cardiac surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, where two of the doctors needed supplemental oxygen to recover. “It’s affecting young adults. It’s affecting families. It’s a new thing altogether. Two-month-old babies are getting infected.” India’s outbreak worsened even further on Wednesday, as authorities reported nearly 3,300 daily deaths. That brings the official total to nearly 201,200 people lost, though experts believe the true figure is much higher. Daily new infections also surged to nearly 357,700, another record. As supplies run dangerously low and hospitals are forced to turn away the sick, scientists are trying to determine what role variants of the virus might be playing. They are working with precious little data. India, like many other countries, has not built up a robust system to track viruses. India’s worries have focused on a homegrown variant called B.1.617. The public, the popular press and many doctors have concluded that it is responsible for the severity of the second wave. Researchers outside of India say the limited data so far suggests instead that a better-known variant called B.1.1.7 may be a more considerable factor. That variant walloped Britain late last year, hit much of Europe and is now the most common source of new infection in the United States “While it’s almost certainly true B.1.617 is playing a role, it’s unclear how much it’s contributing directly to the surge and how that compares to other circulating variants, especially B.1.1.7,” said Kristian Andersen, a virologist at the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego. Beyond the variants, scientists believe there are other, possibly more obvious factors that could be powering India’s deadly second wave. India has just scraped the surface in terms of vaccinating its population, with less than 2% fully vaccinated. Experts also blame lax public behavior after last year’s first wave and missteps by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, such as recently holding large political rallies that may have spread the disease and sent a message to the people that the worst was over. “There is a lot of jumping to conclusions that B.1.67 is the explanation for what’s happening,” said Jeffrey Barrett, director of the Covid-19 genomics initiative at the Wellcome Sanger Institute in Britain. “These other things are probably more likely to be the explanation.” Preliminary evidence suggests that the variant is still responsive to vaccines, although slightly less so. India relies heavily on the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which clinical trials show is less powerful than the vaccines made by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna and could perhaps be more easily thwarted by mutations. “For now the vaccines remain effective, but there is a trend toward less effectiveness,” said Dr. Céline Gounder, an infectious disease physician and epidemiologist at Bellevue Hospital in New York. In India, a number of doctors point to anecdotal evidence that people who have been fully vaccinated are getting sick. Those doctors also say they are seeing children with serious symptoms, such as severe diarrhea, acidosis and falling blood pressure, even among otherwise healthy patients. “This is very different from what we saw last year,” said Dr. Soonu Udani, head of critical care services at the SRCC Children’s Hospital in Mumbai. Researchers say other factors could lead to more infections among young people, such as India’s schools, which had started reopening in recent months after the country’s first wave. The variant in India is sometimes called “the double mutant,” though the name is a misnomer because it has many more mutations than two. It garnered the name because one of its three versions contains two genetic mutations found in other difficult-to-control variants of the coronavirus. One is present in the highly contagious variant that ripped through California earlier this year. The other is similar to one found in the variant first identified in South Africa and is believed to make the vaccines slightly less effective. “There are variants that are more transmissible than what we all coped with a year ago,” Barrett said of the many variants circulating in India. “Things can change really quickly, so if a country doesn’t react quickly enough, things can go from bad to very bad very quickly.” Scientists say that different variants seem to dominate specific parts of India. For instance, the B.1.617 variant has been detected in a large number of samples from the central state of Maharashtra. By contrast, the B.1.1.7 variant is rising quickly in New Delhi, said Dr. Sujeet Singh, director of India’s National Centre for Disease Control. It was prevalent in half of samples evaluated at the end of March, up from 28% just two weeks before. The B.1.617 variant is also circulating in New Delhi, he added. But ultimately, the data from India is too thin to parse the distribution of variants around the country. Despite the huge number of new infections, India is performing very little genomic sequencing. In December, the government tapped a group of 10 laboratories and set an ambitious target to sequence 5% of samples across the country every month. But so far, less than 1% of samples collected has been sequenced. A report in The Wire, an Indian online publication, pointed to logistical challenges, bureaucratic red tape and the lack of funding as some of the reasons. “They simply aren’t well-resourced enough, as sophisticated as their scientists and doctors might be,” Gounder said. Apart from Britain, few other countries have been monitoring variants closely. The United States was also sequencing less than 1% of samples and ramped up its efforts only in recent weeks. Officials in India are trying to track how many fully vaccinated people have fallen ill, a measure called the breakthrough infection rate. That could suggest how virulent any variant in India might be. They have focused on frontline medical workers, who are more likely to have received both doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. So far, data from the Indian Council of Medical Research up to April 21 shows an extremely low breakthrough infection rate, though perhaps not as low as that of the United States. The data shows 0.02% to 0.04% of vaccinated people falling ill. The rate in the United States, which relies on different vaccines, is 0.008%. At Sir Ganga Ram hospital, the 37 doctors who became infected after immunization had received their first dose between late January to early February and then their second dose four to six weeks after that. The hospital employs about 500 doctors. Shad, the cardiac surgeon, was reluctant to jump to conclusions about variants breaking through the immunizations. “I don’t think anyone has the serological data” to answer that, he said. A broad lack of data plagues the scientific chase for variants and whether they are contributing to the severity of India’s crisis. Fast-moving mutations complicate the picture because it isn’t immediately clear how quickly they spread or how they respond to vaccines. In India, the health care system wasn’t on alert for the impact of variants at home, even as they began to spread globally, said Dr. Thekkekara Jacob John, a senior virologist in the southern state of Tamil Nadu. “We were not looking for variants at all,” he said. “In other words, we missed the boat.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-blames-virus-variant-as-covid-19-crisis-worsens-980181.html
28-04-2021||National||Expenditure Secretary T V Somanathan designated as finance secretary||Expenditure Secretary T V Somanathan has been designated as the Finance Secretary, a Personnel Ministry order issued on Wednesday said. He is a 1987 batch IAS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre. The senior-most officer among all secretaries in the Finance Ministry is designated as the Finance Secretary. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved designating Somanathan, Secretary, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance as the Finance Secretary, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expenditure-secretary-t-v-somanathan-designated-as-finance-secretary-980188.html
28-04-2021||National||80 lakh register for Covid-19 vaccination in first three hours on Wednesday||After initial hiccups, nearly 80 lakh people managed to register online for the mass vaccination drive beginning May 1 even as the Covid-19 death toll in the country crossed the two-lakh mark on Wednesday. The Centre opened registration for the vaccination drive to every one above 18 years who will be eligible to get the jabs offered by state governments and private hospitals from May 1. However, several states expressed inability to launch the vaccination drive on Saturday citing non-availability of vaccines and accused the Modi government of hijacking the entire quota of vaccines. As India added 3.60 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, people rushed to register themselves for the vaccination drive when the Co-WIN platform opened registrations for all above 18 years of age at 4:00 pm “There have been 79,65,729 registrations on Co-WIN today, most of these in the last three hours (16:00-19:00 hours) and mostly of the 18-44 age group,” said R S Sharma, the chairman of the Empowered Group tasked to look after the technology aspect of the Covid response. “We have seen a traffic of 55,000 hits per second. System functioning as expected,” Sharma said. “Failed multiple times to register on cowin website,” Palash Jain, from NIT Tiruchirapalli, said on Twitter. A health ministry statement said the Co-Win platform received 383 million hits in the first three hours since the registrations opened at 4:00 p.m. – with the initial response as high as 2.7 million hit per minute.   The Co-WIN platform delivered as many as 1.45 crore SMS messages in the three-hour period. At 4.35 pm, a tweet from the verified Twitter handle of the Aarogya Setu mobile application said the CoWIN portal was working and that there was a minor glitch at 4:00 p.m., which was fixed. Karnataka, too, has not received the vaccine doses that it said it has placed orders for by allocating Rs 400 crore. In Bengaluru, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, without commenting on the May 1 rollout of vaccines in the state, said, “So far (from the beginning of the vaccination drive), we have received 91,20,777 vaccine doses (of both Covishield and Covaxin). Around 4.5 lakh doses are left with the State and another four lakh doses will be supplied this evening.” “In all, we will have 8.5 lakh vaccine doses. It is not easy for the government to procure vaccines from just two companies and distribute it in the entire country.” However, according to the Co-WIN dashboard, already 92,62,376 doses have been administered in the state till 8 pm out of which 78,54,827 were first dose and 14,07,549 were second dose. These figures indicate that there are no vaccine doses left with the government for the May 1 rollout for all adults. The state has conducted two meetings so far with private hospitals with regard to vaccination. One was conducted by the BBMP on Tuesday and another by the Chief Secretary on Wednesday. Dr G V Divakar, Joint Secretary, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said, “Nobody has clarity on the rollout on Saturday. The state is unclear whether the rates publicised by the two companies (Covishield Rs 600, Covaxin Rs 1,200) are the landing price for hospitals or for customers. The Chief Secretary said it may take up to two weeks for private vaccination centres to offer vaccines. He said the two companies may deploy their agents for us to place orders with.” Dr Y L Rajashekar, Secretary, PHANA, said, “Except Manipal, Apollo and Aster hospitals who said their respective central purchase committees are looking at purchasing vaccines, nobody had any clue on how to place orders.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-lakh-register-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-first-three-hours-on-wednesday-980206.html
28-04-2021||National||People need to stand up against black marketing, hoarding: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said people should not resort to black marketing or hoarding of oxygen cylinders or essential medicines, including Remdesivir, as the nation was facing unprecedented crisis in view huge jump in Covid-19 cases. "It is at times like these that we the people need to stand up and showcase our qualities and virtues which all of us must have. We, therefore, appeal to the good sense of the people to not resort to black marketing or hoarding," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said. Taking up the Suo Motu matter about the Covid situation in the national capital, the court also asked the Delhi government to consider requesting armed forces to set up field hospitals here to deal with the overload of cases. "Fighting a problem of this magnitude is unprecedented and convoluted," the bench said, even as senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, pointed out DRDO, ITBP and others have set up facilities are there. During the hearing, the court appointed senior advocate Rajasekhar Rao as the amicus curiae in the matter, rejecting a contention by the Union government that such a move at this stage would create further confusion. "We gave you a chance to do it yourself but we’re not satisfied. We would not have done it but Delhi has been struggling for oxygen for the past one week," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. "We hope and expect that the Centre would look at the logistics problem in procuring required oxygen," the bench said. The court also sought status report from the Delhi government on number of RT-PCR tests by labs and reasons for falls in the numbers. It also asked the Union and Delhi governments to consider setting up of a centralised helpline for the patients to connect directly to doctors. It said the Delhi government should consider using mohalla clinics to give immediate consultation and collection of samples.  During the hearing, senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal suggested for using the DTC buses for transportation to carry dead bodies to crematoriums so that ambulances can be freed up for patients in need. Amicus, for his part, pointed out to the harassment being faced by individuals in procuring oxygen cylinders at the hands of police.  He alleged the scams were being run in the name of providing essentials including medicines. During the hearing, a lawyer broke down over his inability to arrange a bed for his relative while another complained he had bought an injection for his mother for Rs five lakh in black.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-need-to-stand-up-against-black-marketing-hoarding-hc-980208.html
28-04-2021||National||J&K records 30 Covid deaths, over 3K fresh cases  ||Jammu and Kashmir reported 30 Covid-19 related deaths and 3,023 positive cases on Wednesday.  According to the daily media bulletin, with 3,023 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tally has reached 169077. Along with that, 30 more fatalities were reported in the UT, taking the death toll to 2,227, it said. Srinagar district which had recorded 1,144 positive cases on Tuesday reported 951 cases on Wednesday. Another capital city of the UT, Jammu reported 499 Covid positive cases   On April 27, the UT had reported 3,164 Covid positive cases which is the highest number in the UT since the pandemic erupted last year in March. Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37,372 cases and 478 deaths. On April 1, the UT had registered 461 cases, taking the total number of active Covid-19 patients to 2,874. Just 27 days later, the total number of patients has risen by over eight times. The UT has also recorded 233 deaths in the 28-days of April. Officials said that the vaccination drive in the UT was being sped-up and more doses were requested for from the Centre, however there was no shortage of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-records-30-covid-deaths-over-3k-fresh-cases-980219.html
28-04-2021||National||Fill critical gaps in medical supplies, hospital beds: WHO tells India||The World Health Organization on Wednesday said filling critical gaps in essential medical supplies and hospital capacities should be the top priority as India battles surge in Covid-19 cases. “The current rapid surge of Covid-19 cases has put immense pressure on the health systems, already overburdened since the start of the pandemic. We need to act with speed, expand hospital capacities and equip them with medical supplies, most needed to save lives,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region. "In addition, health authorities must emphasise on rational use of drugs and oxygen, to ensure lifesaving interventions are made available only to those who need it," she said. The WHO said it is procuring laboratory supplies, including 1.2 million reagents, to meet the huge demand and need for testing. WHO is also procuring mobile field hospitals with a capacity of 20-30 beds, which could be set up in the most affected areas. It is also chartering flights to bring in 4000 oxygen concentrators to help meet the increased demands. Khetrapal-Singh said the over 2,600 WHO technical staff, working on various programmes such as polio, TB and NTD, have been repurposed to support pandemic response in India. The WHO also stressed on the need to address concerns and fear among the communities which often triggers hoarding of medical supplies and the rush to hospitals. She also emphasised on triaging people well to optimize available resources such as ICU beds and suggested that efforts need to be made to scale up Covid-19 vaccination coverage. “Irrespective of the numbers that we see today or the virus variants that may be circulating during the ongoing surge, our key public health measures – test, trace, isolate and treat – along with physical distancing, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and masks continue to be our tried and tested measures to curtail Covid-19 transmission,” Khetrapal-Singh said. The regional director stressed on wearing masks correctly, covering the nose and mouth properly. “Our masks should be a good fit, without gaps, to effectively protect us from the virus,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fill-critical-gaps-in-medical-supplies-hospital-beds-who-tells-india-980225.html
28-04-2021||National||Oxygen langar in Ghaziabad for Covid-19 patients||A gurdwara in Ghaziabad had emerged as the saviour for those in dire need of oxygen but unable to find a hospital bed. Gurudwara Guru Singh Sabha in Indirapuram locality in Ghaziabad on the outskirts of the national capital has started an ‘oxygen langar’ offering people the life-saving gas free of cost. People have been coming in droves to the gurdwara in cars, auto-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws, gasping for breath and thanking the ‘sangat’ for the benevolent service. Ardiya Das brought her aunt in a car to the gurdwara when her oxygen levels dropped to 60 and her hunt for a hospital bed proved to be futile. The volunteers at the gurdwara helped the old lady with a oxygen mask on the rear seat of her car. “We have limited cylinders of oxygen. So instead of giving them to the needy, we have appealed to those in need to visit the gurdwara, we will provide them oxygen till they find a hospital bed,” Gurpreet Singh, the founder of Khalsa Help International and Director, who has been associated with the gurdwara said. The unique service offered by the gurdwara had inspired people in Delhi and Kanpur to start similar initiatives.   A group of Sikh volunteers organised an oxygen langar at Bhogal locality in Jangpura in Delhi, while the Guru Singh Sabha in Kanpur started the service in the industrial town in central Uttar Pradesh. The Indirapuram gurdwara has launched a helpline – 9097041313 – where patients could reach out for help. The gurdwara also runs a kitchen service to feed the needy who reach out seeking help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-langar-in-ghaziabad-for-covid-19-patients-980244.html
28-04-2021||National||India, Russia to establish a '2+2 ministerial dialogue' between foreign, defence ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday agreed to establish a new annual India-Russia 2+2 dialogue, involving the External Affairs Minister and Defence Ministers of the two nations. Modi and Putin agreed on the new 2+2 dialogue mechanism during a phone-call. New Delhi’s move to launch the 2+2 dialogue with Moscow is apparently aimed at striking a balance between India’s growing strategic convergence with the United States in the Indo-Pacific region and its long-standing defence partnership with Russia. The Prime Minister and the Russian President discussed the evolving Covid-19 pandemic situation. Putin expressed solidarity with the people and the government of India and conveyed that Russia would extend all possible support in this regard. Modi thanked him and noted that the prompt support from Russia to India was a symbol of an enduring partnership. The two leaders noted the ongoing cooperation between the two countries to fight the global pandemic, and Putin lauded approval for emergency use of Russia’s Sputnik-V vaccine in India. The leaders noted that the vaccine will be manufactured in India, not only for use in India, Russia, but also in the third countries, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs.   Modi and Putin attached importance to further deepening bilateral cooperation in various sectors in the spirit of special and privileged partnership between India and Russia. Modi conveyed appreciation for the support received from Russia for India’s Gaganyaan Program and the completion of the phase of training of the four Gaganyaan astronauts in Russia. The leaders noted the scope for increasing cooperation in the area of renewable energy, including the Hydrogen economy, stated the MEA. The two leaders recalled the important decisions taken during their last Summit meeting in Vladivostok in September 2019. The Prime Minister conveyed that he would look forward to the Russian President’s visit to India, later this year for the bilateral summit, which would provide an occasion to continue their personal and trusted conversation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-to-establish-a-22-ministerial-dialogue-between-foreign-defence-ministers-980245.html
28-04-2021||National||UK sends 'oxygen factories' to India||Britain announced Wednesday it was sending three oxygen generation units to Covid-struck India following a first consignment of aid this week, but said it had no spare vaccines to offer. The three units, dubbed oxygen factories, are each the size of a shipping container and can produce 500 litres of oxygen per minute, the UK government said. "We stand with our Indian friends in their fight against Covid-19," Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said in a statement. "International collaboration is more essential than ever, and this additional UK support package will help meet India's current needs, particularly for more oxygen." The new shipment follows a first batch of oxygen concentrators and ventilators from Britain which arrived in India on Tuesday, with more of those supplies coming on Friday. In total, Britain is sending 495 oxygen concentrators and 200 ventilators to India this week. There was no immediate response from the Foreign Office to an AFP query about when the container-sized factories would arrive. India's coronavirus death toll shot past 200,000 Wednesday as a relentless wave of new cases swamped hospitals and sent desperate families out into the streets of New Delhi in search of oxygen supplies and medicine. The United States says it is sending up to 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine abroad, with India expected to be among the recipient nations. Critics have accused Washington of "hoarding" the British-developed vaccine, which is not authorised in the United States and will likely not be required to vaccinate Americans. Britain itself does not have any surplus vaccines to offer India "at the moment", Health Secretary Matt Hancock told a news conference. But he said research by experts at Oxford University underpinned the AstraZeneca jab, and "that is the biggest contribution that we can make which effectively comes rom British science", along with the oxygen supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-sends-oxygen-factories-to-india-980247.html
28-04-2021||National||Switzerland to send oxygen concentrators, other medical supplies to India||Switzerland on Wednesday said it will send medical supplies, including oxygen concentrators and ventilators, to India amid the spiralling coronavirus cases here. Swiss Embassy in India said Switzerland through the Swiss humanitarian aid will send medical supplies to India. "This will include oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical equipment. This material will be distributed with the support of the Indian Red Cross Society. Switzerland stands in solidarity with India in these challenging times," it said in a statement. There has been a surge in Covid cases in the country in recent weeks, resulting in shortage of oxygen and beds at various hospitals. India has been sourcing and receiving equipment from various countries to deal with the current situation. As per the data available with the Union health ministry on Wednesday, India witnessed a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases and the death toll crossed two lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/switzerland-to-send-oxygen-concentrators-other-medical-supplies-to-india-980248.html
28-04-2021||National||Centre proposes new rule to simplify re-registration of vehicle for those relocating from one state to another||The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has proposed a simple system for re-registration rules of vehicles when the owner relocates from one state to another. "New system of vehicle registration to be available on pilot test mode for Defence personnel, Central/State Govt employees, Central PSUs and private sector companies with offices in five or more states/UTs," the Ministry said. The Ministry has issued a notification of draft rules, which would make it much easier for those shifting from one state to another to re-register their vehicles. "The step comes in the context of several citizen-centric steps and an IT-based solution for vehicle registration taken by the government. However, one of the main points in the vehicle registration process that still needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another state," the Ministry said. The Ministry proposing a new system of vehicle registration, wherein allocation would be marked as “IN” series- and this will be on pilot test mode.   This vehicle registration facility under “IN series” will be available to Defence personnel, employees of Central Government, State Governments, Central/ State PSUs and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in five or more States/Union Territories. The motor vehicle tax will be levied for two years or in multiple of two. This scheme will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across any state of India upon relocation to a new state, the statement said. The draft rules have been placed on the website, inviting comments for 30 days from the date of notification, from the public/States/UTs before being finalised, the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-proposes-new-rule-to-simplify-re-registration-of-vehicle-for-those-relocating-from-one-state-to-another-980250.html
28-04-2021||National Politics||Senior Congress leader Eknath Gaikwad dies of Covid-19||Former Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader Eknath Gaikwad died of Covid-19 infection here on Wednesday, party sources said. He was 81. The former MP, who was the father of Maharashtra School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad, succumbed to the viral infection at a city hospital around 10 am, the sources added. Eknath Gaikwad had also served as the president of the Mumbai Congress. Describing Gaikwad as a "father-like figure and mentor", Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the death was "quite saddening". "Congress party and I have suffered immense loss. Short of words. Tributes!" Sawant tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/senior-congress-leader-eknath-gaikwad-dies-of-covid-19-979926.html
28-04-2021||National Politics||Centre in the process of banning Popular Front of India, Supreme Court informed||The Centre is in the process of banning Popular Front of India (PFI), an Islamic organisation which has been banned in several states, the Supreme Court was told on Wednesday. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Uttar Pradesh government, that Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan has association with PFI, whose office bearers were found to be associated with banned Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The bench asked Mehta whether PFI has been banned. Mehta replied, “In several states PFI has been banned. As per my information Centre is also in the process of banning it.” The bench then said, “So, as of now it is not banned”. Mehta, while reading from an affidavit filed in December last year, said, “No. Many officer bearers of PFI were found to be associated with SIMI”. The top court later directed the UP government to shift Kappan, suffering from various ailments and arrested last year on way to Hathras where a young Dalit woman had died after being gang raped, to a hospital in Delhi for better medical treatment. Keeping in mind the basic human rights of an accused, the bench granted the relief and directed the state to provide medical treatment to the scribe. It said that Kappan will be transferred back to Mathura jail after his recovery. The top court, however, granted him liberty to approach an appropriate forum challenging his arrest or for any other relief and disposed of the plea filed by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and his wife, seeking his release from alleged illegal detention. The FIR has been filed under various provisions of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against four people having alleged links with the PFI. The police had said it arrested four people having links with the PFI in Mathura -- Siddique from Malappuram, Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. Kappan was arrested on way to Hathras, which has been in the news following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly gang-raped on September 14, 2020, in a village in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-in-the-process-of-banning-popular-front-of-india-supreme-court-informed-980169.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||15 BRO workers killed in Sumna avalanche from Jharkhand||The search operation for workers who went missing after the avalanche in Sumna near the India-China border in Chamoli district continued on Tuesday while all 15 bodies recovered from the site are of BRO workers from Jharkhand.  After a post mortem of the bodies in Joshimath, they were sent to Shrinagar Garhwal Hospital for embalming by the district administration. All the bodies recovered so far have been identified, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said. They were all BRO workers from Jharkhand, she said. Talks have been held with the Jharkhand government for handing over the bodies to their families and it is likely to be done by Wednesday through the BRO, she said. The road from Malari to Sumna is being cleared of snow. The avalanche hit Sumna on Friday last week after which BRO workers engaged in a project there went missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-bro-workers-killed-in-sumna-avalanche-from-jharkhand-979732.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||Now government in Delhi means Lieutenant Governor||Amid the Centre and Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government facing a crisis over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and scarcity of oxygen, the Centre has notified the new law that makes Lieutenant Governor the effective in-charge of the national capital. The amendments to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act will now make the capital’s elected government seek the opinion of the L-G before any executive decision is made. The notification was issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and it came into effect from Tuesday, even as the capital is battling a fourth wave of Covid-19 with both the Centre and the AAP government facing criticism over its handling. With this, L-G's primacy over the capital's administration has been sealed as the Delhi government will have to take L-G's permission before taking any action over subjects which were under its domain. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, passed by Parliament last month, says that the "government" in Delhi now means the "Lieutenant Governor". Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier described the passage of the Bill as a "sad day for Indian democracy". The Centre passing the new Bill had its genesis in the past, as both the AAP and the BJP have been at loggerheads ever since Arvind Kejriwal assumed power in the national capital, trouncing the latter. Accused of being perpetually confrontational, the AAP was in sharp disagreement with the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) and the Centre on issues of governance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/now-government-in-delhi-means-lieutenant-governor-979813.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi's woes continue: Scramble for beds and oxygen, deaths on streets||The same tale is repeating in the national capital -- a scramble for hospital beds and oxygen that lead to nowhere, innumerable lives lost. Grocery shop owner M B Prakash and his sister-in-law drove for five hours across the national capital looking for an admission for his Covid-19 positive 75-year-old father, who was struggling to breathe. But despite driving into four hospitals in five hours, Prakash could not save his father, who left his home in Kerala to stay with his son in the national capital 15 years ago. Balan stays with his son and other family members in north-east Delhi's Dilshad Garden and his condition deteriorated on Monday night. By Tuesday 4 am, Balan had passed away lying in an ambulance in Dayanand Hospital where a doctor finally examined him. The family had been trying to fill an oxygen cylinder for almost 18 hours by then but luck was not on their side.   Prakash desperately called for ambulance services but none were available. He said he tried every number he got on WhatsApp but none responded. "There are a lot of numbers that are circulating. None of them came to my help. Finally a local politician arranged an ambulance," he said. Once they managed an ambulance around 11 pm on Monday, they first drove to ESIC Hospital in Karkardooma where they were told that beds are not available. The next stops were Yamuna Sports Complex, where a Covid-19 care facility has been established, and Guru Tegh Bahadur hospital. "In GTB hospital, the gates were closed. We could not even enter. Then we went to Dayanand hospital where a doctor came to the ambulance and checked my father. The oxygen level by then had dipped dangerously low. The doctor told me that he was helpless," Prakash told DH. Soon, Balan breathed his last. Prakash's ordeal did not end there. There was no one to help him shift the body to another ambulance, which he hired to take the body to the crematorium. "The ambulance drivers there did not have PPE kit. I sought help but none helped. My sister-in-law helped me in shifting the body. Then it was an agonising wait at the crematorium in Seemapuri," he said. Prakash said the scenes at the crematorium were heart wrenching, as bodies were piling up and that he could see body parts which were not fully burnt. "It was an overwhelming scene. Every minute, there was a new body. The crematorium staff were hard-pressed. I had to help in arranging the funeral pyre," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-woes-continue-scramble-for-beds-and-oxygen-deaths-on-streets-979855.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||SC directs Uttar Pradesh government to shift Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan to AIIMS||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Uttar Pradesh government to shift journalist Siddique Kappan from Mathura jail to a hospital in Delhi, due to his co-morbidities. The order comes after he tested negative for Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A S Bopanna rejected a contention made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on behalf of the Uttar Pradesh government that his case should be examined by a medical board and there were about 50 other Covid-positive inmates getting treatment in Mathura jail.  Mehta said moving Kappan to Delhi would be injustice. It would be difficult to request a bed for a 42-year-old non-Covid patient at a time when so many Covid patients were struggling over bed availability in hospitals. The court, however, took the case on humanitarian grounds, stating he can be shifted back to Mathura jail once his treatment was over at R M L hospital or AIIMS or any other government hospital. It also disposed of a habeas corpus petition filed by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists for release of Kappan, arrested on October 5, 2020 under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act while on way to Hathras after rape and murder of a Dalit girl. The state government alleged that the journalist had been found associated with the Popular Front of India, and wanted to create caste and communal divide. The court said Kappan, for his part, can move the competent court for bail. Advocate Wills Mathews, appearing for the association, contended that Kappan was forcefully discharged from hospital in Mathura on Tuesday, though he was still critical, after having suffered a fall in the bathroom due to weakness. He also submitted that procedure established by law was not followed in the arrest of Kappan, a journalist. Mehta, on the contrary, claimed that the accused was found in possession of a fake identity card. He worked for 'Tejas', an acclaimed mouthpiece of PFI, which had links with SIMI. "Tejas is so extreme in his views that it created religious discord in Kerala. It called Osama Bin Laden a martyr when Kappan was an active contributor," he said. The court, however, found that the PFI was still not banned across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-directs-uttar-pradesh-government-to-shift-kerala-journalist-siddique-kappan-to-aiims-979881.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 second wave 'washes away' J&K's summer tourism earnings, puts industry back to square one||With massive cancellation of holiday bookings for the upcoming summer season, the second wave of Covid-19 has once again put the tourism industry in Kashmir back to square one. The tourist influx to Kashmir had seen an increase since January this year, after a hiatus of almost two years. The tourism sector was badly hit after the revocation of J&K’s special status in August 2019 which was followed by a strict security and communication clampdown. And when things were starting to improve last March, Covid-19 lockdown again resulted in a huge loss to the people associated with the tourism sector. But since late last year, J&K government took several initiatives to bring tourists back which had started yielding positive results. The aggressive campaigning by the Tourism department had also attracted several filmmakers to shoot their films here. The hotel bookings also went up with the direct flight services from various cities like Ahmedabad and Bengaluru. “Since January the tourists had started coming in huge numbers and we were expecting a good summer this year,” said president Travel Agent Society of Kashmir, Mir Anwar. He, however, lamented the resurgence of Covid-19 has “washed away “the entire summer. “All the bookings have been cancelled and there are no signs of a revival of tourism ahead of the summer season. As everyone is trying to save his life by staying indoors, all the pre-bookings till May end stands cancelled,” Anwar said. Chairperson Jammu and Kashmir Tourism Alliance, Manzoor Ahmad Paktoon said that around 80% of the houseboats and hotels in Kashmir are empty in the last three weeks. “The tourists who have pre-booked and have no option to refund are in the Valley right now. Rest of the visitors have either cancelled or shortened their visit,” he said. Thousands of families that rely on tourism and allied sectors have been out of work and struggling to stay afloat.  The tourism sector is a significant contributor to Jammu and Kashmir’s economy and accounts for around seven per cent of the region’s gross domestic product, according to Jammu and Kashmir government’s estimates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-second-wave-washes-away-jks-summer-tourism-earnings-puts-industry-back-to-square-one-979950.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||Man booked over tweet asking for oxygen cylinder in UP; Police claims false demand||Uttar Pradesh police arrested a youth, who had taken to Twitter to seek help in getting oxygen for his maternal grandfather, after it was found that his 88-year old grandpa did not suffer from Covid-19 and had died of heart attack. The youth, a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Amethi district was charged with ''spreading rumours and spreading misleading information with the intention of creating fear and panic,''. According to the sources, the youth, identified as Shahashank Yadav, tagged Bollywood actor Sonu Soon, Union Minister Smriti Irani and others in his tweet in which he sought help in getting oxygen for his maternal grandfather. District officials said that they tried to contact the youth but his phone was switched off. ''We managed to trace him later and found him sleeping at his home,'' said a district official in Amethi on Wednesday. On being queried, Shahshank said that his grandpa, who was being treated at a hospital outside the state, had died of cardiac arrest and that he did not need oxygen. ''We booked him under the Epidemic Act and other relevant sections of the IT Act,'' said a police official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-booked-over-tweet-asking-for-oxygen-cylinder-in-up-police-claims-false-demand-980062.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||Allahabad HC says 'ghost of Corona marching on roads of major cities in UP', raps govt and EC ||Coming down hard on the Uttar Pradesh government over its 'failure' to take measures to tackle Covid 19 cases, the Allahabad high court has said that the people in the state have been left to fend for themselves and that the situation in major cities has turned 'chaotic'. The court also rapped the Election Commission (EC) for failing to ensure adherence to the guidelines during the just-concluded panchayat polls in the state. ''The ghost of Corona is marching on the roads and streets of the major cities of the state....those, who are resourceful will survive and the rest as histories of past pandemics tell us, may die for want of proper health care'', the court said while hearing a PIL on Tuesday. A division bench comprising Justice Siddharth Verma and justice Ajit Kumar said that those in power must shun the attitude ''my way or no way'' and welcome suggestions from all quarters. The court directed the state government to place before it the demand and availability of beds, ICU beds, the total number of BiPAP machines, ventilators, availability of Remdesivir and statistical details of oxygen supply in the hospitals in the most affected cities, including Lucknow, Noida and Agra. It also directed the state government to inform about the number of Covid deaths reported between April 19 and May 2, 2021. The Court observed that the people had leveled allegations that during the Panchayat elections the Covid guidelines were not followed. ''It appears that neither the police nor, Election Commission did anything to save the people on election duty from getting infected by this deadly virus,'' the bench said. The court issued notices to UP State Election Commission to explain by the next date fixed as to why it failed in checking non compliance of Covid guidelines during various phases of the panchayat elections held recently and why action may not be taken against it and its officials for the same and to prosecute those responsible for such violations. The matter would be heard on May three. Incidentally, the same bench had ten days back had lambasted the state government for not planning in advance to tackle the Covid threat and had ordered imposition of lockdown in five cities in the state. UP, however, moved the supreme court, which stayed the HC order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-says-ghost-of-corona-marching-on-roads-of-major-cities-in-up-raps-govt-and-ec-980138.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||PIL by NGO in Delhi HC seeks financial assistance, amenities for labourers during Covid-19 curfew||A PIL in the Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought direction to the AAP government for compulsory registration of labourers and providing them monthly financial assistance as well as amenities during the curfew due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its reply by May 13 on the plea by an NGO. Delhi government additional standing counsel Santosh K Tripathi told the court that another bench was dealing with the migrant workers' plight and the instant petition can be clubbed with that matter. The court said it will decide on it after the Delhi government files reply to the petition by the NGO, 'National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour'. The NGO has sought "compulsory registration and monthly financial assistance to daily wagers, migrant workers and the unorganized sector workers and their families in addition to other amenities, i.e food (cooked meals and dry ration) water, shelter, clothing, medication etc." The petition has claimed that the Delhi government has "failed" to provide adequate facilities and treatment to the daily wagers, migrant workers and unorganised sector workers who have been impacted by the sudden rise of Covid-19 cases and the pursuant lockdown in Delhi. The plea has sought that one-time financial assistance of Rs 10,000 be paid to workers departing from the national capital as well as to those registered with the construction workers board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-by-ngo-in-delhi-hc-seeks-financial-assistance-amenities-for-labourers-during-covid-19-curfew-980143.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 patients hit by oxygen, Remdesivir crunch in UP, government threatens action against private hospitals||Uttar Pradesh continues to witness a shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir despite the contrary claims of the state government. 265 people died from coronavirus infection in the state in the past 24 hours while the number of fresh cases stood at 29,884 during the same period. Several private hospitals across the state have complained of oxygen shortage and at least a dozen patients have died due to the alleged shortage of oxygen in Agra. A private hospital in Lucknow sent an SOS to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other officials informing them it was about to exhaust its stock of oxygen. ''Our vehicle has been in the queue for oxygen for eight hours....the driver and the ward boy were assaulted twice there,'' a hospital official said on Tuesday night. In Noida, a woman, who requested the health officials for two vials of Remdesivir, said that the latter threatened to send her to jail if she continued to demand the medicine. In a video, which went viral on social media, the woman can be seen touching the feet of the official. However, the state government has claimed that there is no shortage of oxygen and said that it would take action against the private hospitals if they are found to be refusing admission to the patients despite having oxygen stock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patients-hit-by-oxygen-remdesivir-crunch-in-up-government-threatens-action-against-private-hospitals-980146.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||DRDO to build two 500-bedded Covid hospitals in J&K||With continuous surge in Covid-19 cases, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is establishing two 500-bedded Covid hospitals at Srinagar and Jammu.  The Union Home Secretary, Ajay Bhalla, while chairing a high-level meeting reviewed the establishment of these hospitals by the DRDO, an official spokesman said.  He said J&K Chief Secretary, B V R Subrahmanyam, other officers of concerned departments besides officers from DRDO, ITBP, and AFMS Institute participated in the meeting. The Chief Secretary informed that the Union Territory had witnessed a consistent surge in patient-load over the past few days.  The existing health care facilities are adequately catering to the needs of patients; however, a continuation of this upward trend may lead to a shortage of Covid beds, the CS said.  To successfully mitigate shortages in medical facilities, it was requested that the temporary DRDO Covid hospitals be constructed well in time, he said and requested that the upcoming hospitals must be equipped with isolation beds having oxygen support and 125 fully equipped ICU beds.  Assessing the requirement of dedicated Covid infrastructure in the UT, the Union Home Secretary asked J&K government to immediately identify suitable locations for constructing 500-bedded hospitals while asking DRDO to evaluate and submit corresponding proposal estimates through a team of experts. The meeting was informed that the Government of Jammu & Kashmir has identified two patches of land in Jammu and Srinagar for early start of construction work. In the past, the DRDO has built 1000 bedded temporary Covid hospitals across the country in approximately 12 days each. The construction of two 500-bedded hospitals in J&K will greatly reinforce medical infrastructure for dedicated Covid care in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drdo-to-build-two-500-bedded-covid-hospitals-in-jk-980156.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||J&K to impose curfew in 11 districts for four days to contain Covid-19 outbreak||Amid a huge surge in Covid-19 cases, Jammu and Kashmir administration Wednesday decided to impose curfew in 11 out of 20 districts of the Union Territory to contain the further spread of the virus, sources said. They said Corona Curfew will be imposed in 11 districts from Thursday 7 pm to Monday 7 am. The districts include Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam, Kulgam, Pulwama, Ganderbal, Jammu, Kathua, Reasi and Udhampur. Sources said that detailed orders will be issued by the concerned deputy commissioners under Disaster Management Act, listing out the prohibitions as well as permissible activities. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Srinagar, Mohammad Aijaz in a tweet confirmed that the Srinagar district will go under Corona Curfew from Thursday 7 pm till Monday 7 am. "There will be complete lockdown in Srinagar District from 7:00 pm Thursday (29/04/2021) to 7:00 am Monday (03/05/2021). Exemptions apply to essential services.  Detailed order shall follow," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-to-impose-curfew-in-11-districts-for-four-days-to-contain-covid-19-outbreak-980162.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||J&K surplus by 30K cubic metres daily oxygen requirement for Covid-19 patients||At a time when a huge shortage of oxygen has resulted in the death of several Covid-19 patients across the country, the Jammu and Kashmir government Wednesday said it is surplus by nearly 30,000 cubic metres of the life sustaining gas.  A government handout said that the daily consumption of oxygen in the UT as of April 28 is 25,000 cubic metres. Against this consumption, the present generation capacity of oxygen in the UT is 54,500 cubic metres comprising in-house hospital generation capacity of 24,500 cubic metres and industrial capacity of 30,000 cubic metres daily, as of Wednesday, the handout said.  "The factual position of #Oxygen supply in the UT of J&K is as follows: The present consumption of oxygen in the UT of J&K is approximately 25000Cubic metres daily, as of 28.4.2021,” it said.  "The UT of J&K also has substantial number of filled #Oxygen cylinders, ” added the handout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-surplus-by-30k-cubic-metres-daily-oxygen-requirement-for-covid-19-patients-980178.html
28-04-2021||North and Central||'Corona curfew' in Madhya Pradesh extended till May 7||The Madhya Pradesh government extended the 'corona curfew' in the state till May 7 to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission, a minister said on Wednesday. At present, 'corona curfew' is underway in several districts of the state, including Bhopal, Indore and other prominent cities, till May 3. "Chief Minister (Shivraj Singh Chouhan) has decided to extend the corona curfew (or Janata curfew) till May 7," state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said here. He was talking to reporters about the meeting in which chief minister reviewed the coronavirus situation in the state along with the cabinet members. The district-level crisis management committees are authorised to take a decision about the corona curfew in consultation with the state government, he said. Mishra said the number of Covid-19 positive cases in 10 districts has reduced and these numbers are static in 13 other districts. Less than 50 cases were reported in six districts, while the spread has been effectively curbed in three districts, Mishra said. The coronavirus spread in some districts, including Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Ujjain, is worrying and the chief minister himself is monitoring the situation at these places, he said. The minister said that the state government's focus is on breaking the chain of infection. According to him, the state's districts have been divided into three groups for the purpose of reviewing the coronavirus situation. The Covid-19 situation in the districts of the first group was reviewed on Wednesday. Mishra said the state government was also in discussion to stop plying of buses from Niwari and Datia districts, located along the Uttar Pradesh border. Talking about the availability of the life-saving gas, Mishra said that 29 tankers of oxygen reached the state in two days. An Oxygen Express train carrying six tankers also reached Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, he said. "The result of efforts being made to control the pandemic is being seen today as the state reached 11th spot from 7th in the country as far as the number of active cases is concerned," he said. The recovery rate in the state reached 85 per cent on Wednesday from 80.49 a day before, he said. Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday reported 12,758 Covid-19 cases, which took the caseload in the state to 5,38,165 and 105 deaths took the fatality count to 5,424.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-curfew-in-madhya-pradesh-extended-till-may-7-980239.html
28-04-2021||Oasis||The spirit of empathy||The book, “Born for Love,” (Szalavitz and Perry) describes the essence of empathy as “the ability to stand in another’s shoes and feel what it’s like there”. While sympathy is feeling for someone, empathy involves feeling with them and it is the bedrock of close connection. In the absence of empathy, relationships remain shallow and even our friends remain strangers like those in a crowded bus.  Empathy can be cultivated early on as we learn from this story. A nine-year-old boy in school suddenly found himself in an awkward position; he had wet himself and his pants were soaked. He felt so embarrassed that he wished the earth would open and swallow him right there so that no one could see him in his vulnerable state. If the boys find out he would be the butt of their jokes till the end of his school days. If the girls find out they will never talk to him ever. To add to his woes, he saw his teacher approaching him. Suddenly his classmate Maya appeared in between him and his teacher carrying a fishbowl filled with water. She tripped in front of the teacher and inexplicably dumped the water on the boy. The boy pretended to be angry with the girl but all the while thanking his stars for this development. Suddenly his situation changed. Instead of being the object of ridicule, he earned everyone’s sympathy. The other children were on their hands and knees cleaning up around him. Suddenly the girl Maya became the object of ridicule as it was her fault that she drenched him. The teacher took the boy aside and gave him gym shorts while his pants dried out.  Finally, at the end of the day, when all the students were leaving for home, the boy walked towards Maya and whispered, “You did that on purpose, didn’t you?” Maya whispered back, “I wet my pants once too”.   To quote Barack Obama, “Learning to stand in somebody else’s shoes, to see through their eyes, that’s how peace begins. And it’s up to you to make that happen. Empathy is the quality of character that can change the world”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-spirit-of-empathy-979696.html
28-04-2021||Opinion||'Catastrophe or murder?' In India, Covid is everywhere||By Jeffrey Gettleman, Crematories are so full of bodies, it’s as if a war just happened. Fires burn around the clock. Many places are holding mass cremations, dozens at a time, and at night, in certain areas of New Delhi, the sky glows. Sickness and death are everywhere. Dozens of houses in my neighbourhood have sick people. One of my colleagues is sick. One of my son’s teachers is sick. The neighbour two doors down, to the right of us: sick. Two doors to the left: sick. “I have no idea how I got it,” said a good friend who is now in the hospital. “You catch just a whiff of this...” and then his voice trailed off, too sick to finish. He barely got a bed. And the medicine his doctors say he needs is nowhere to be found in India. I’m sitting in my apartment waiting to catch the disease. That’s what it feels like right now in New Delhi with the world’s worst coronavirus crisis advancing around us. It is out there, I am in here, and I feel like it’s only a matter of time before I, too, get sick. India is recording more infections per day — as many as 350,000 — than any other country has since the pandemic began, and that’s just the official number, which most experts think is a vast underestimation. New Delhi, India’s sprawling capital of 20 million, is suffering a calamitous surge. A few days ago, the positivity rate hit a staggering 36% — meaning more than 1 out of 3 people tested were infected. A month ago, it was less than 3%. The infections have spread so fast that hospitals have been completely swamped. People are turned away by the thousands. Medicine is running out. So is lifesaving oxygen. The sick have been left stranded in interminable lines at hospital gates or at home, literally gasping for air. Although New Delhi is locked down, the disease is still rampaging. Doctors across this city and some of Delhi’s top politicians are issuing desperate SOS calls to India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, on social media and on TV, begging for oxygen, medicine, help. Experts had always warned that Covid-19 could wreak real havoc in India. This country is enormous — 1.4 billion people. And densely populated. And in many places, very poor. What we’re witnessing is so different from last year, during India’s first wave. Then, it was the fear of the unknown. Now we know. We know the totality of the disease, the scale, the speed. We know the terrifying force of this second wave, hitting everyone at the same time. What we had been fearing during last year’s first wave, and which never really materialized, is now happening in front of our eyes: a breakdown, a collapse, a realization that so many people will die. As a foreign correspondent for nearly 20 years, I’ve covered combat zones, been kidnapped in Iraq and been thrown in jail in more than a few places. This is unsettling in a different way. There’s no way of knowing if my two kids, wife or I will be among those who get a mild case and then bounce back to good health, or if we will get really sick. And if we do get really sick, where will we go? ICUs are full. Gates to many hospitals have been closed. A new variant known here as “the double mutant” may be doing a lot of the damage. The science is still early but from what we know, this variant contains one mutation that may make the virus more contagious and another that may make it partially resistant to vaccines. Doctors are pretty scared. Some we have spoken to said they had been vaccinated twice and still got seriously ill, a very bad sign. So what can you do?   I try to stay positive, believing that is one of the best immunity boosters, but I find myself drifting in a daze through the rooms of our apartment, listlessly opening cans of food and making meals for my kids, feeling like my mind and body are turning to mush. I’m afraid to check my phone and get another message about a friend who has deteriorated. Or worse. I’m sure millions of people have felt this way, but I’ve started imagining symptoms: Is my throat sore? What about that background headache? Is it worse today? My part of town, South Delhi, is now hushed. Like many other places, we had a strict lockdown last year. But now doctors here are warning us that the virus is more contagious, and the chances of getting help are so much worse than they were during the first wave. So many of us are scared to step outside, as if there’s some toxic gas we’re all afraid to breathe. India is a story of scale, and it cuts both ways. It has a lot of people, a lot of needs and a lot of suffering. But it also has a lot of technology, industrial capacity and resources, both human and material. I almost teared up the other night when the news showed an Indian Air Force jet load up with oxygen tanks from Singapore to bring to needy parts of the country. The government was essentially airlifting air. However difficult and dangerous it feels in Delhi for all of us, it’s probably going to get worse. Epidemiologists say the numbers will keep climbing, to 500,000 reported cases a day nationwide and as many as 1 million Indians dead from Covid-19 by August. It didn’t have to be like this. India was doing well up until a few weeks ago, at least on the surface. It locked down, absorbed the first wave, then opened up. It maintained a low death rate (at least by official statistics). By winter, life in many respects had returned to something near normal. I was out reporting in January and February, driving through towns in central India. No one — and I mean no one, including police officers — was wearing a mask. It was like the country had said to itself, while the second wave was looming: Don’t worry, we got this. Few people feel that way now. Modi remains popular among his base, but more people are blaming him for failing to prepare India for this surge and for holding packed political rallies in recent weeks where few precautions were enforced — possible superspreader events. “Social distancing norms have gone for a complete toss,” one Delhi newscaster said the other day, during a broadcast of one of Modi’s rallies. Many in India are also upset with the pace of the vaccination campaign, with fewer than 10% of the population having received one dose, and only 1.6% fully vaccinated, despite two vaccines being produced here. In India, as elsewhere, the wealthy can pad the blow of many crises. But this time it’s different. A well-connected friend activated his entire network to help someone close to him, a young man with a bad case of Covid. My friend’s friend died. No amount of pull could get him into a hospital. There were just too many other sick people. “I tried everything in my power to get this guy a bed, and we couldn’t,” my friend said. “It’s chaos.” His feelings were raw. “This is a catastrophe. This is murder.” I take few risks except to get food for my family that can’t be delivered. I wear two masks and cut wide berths around as many people as I can. But most days pass with the four of us marooned inside. We try to play games, we try not to talk about who just got sick or who’s racing around this besieged city looking for help they probably won’t find. Sometimes we just sit quietly in the living room, looking out at the ficus and palm trees. Through the open window, on long, still, hot afternoons, we can hear two things: Ambulances. And birdsong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/catastrophe-or-murder-in-india-covid-is-everywhere-979741.html
28-04-2021||Opinion||Medical oxygen, key to fight Covid-19, used to be feared||By Stephen Mihm The desperate scenes playing out in India may foreshadow a dangerous new phase of the pandemic where people die in droves, not of the disease so much as a lack of proper medical care. The situation could get a lot worse thanks to a sudden shortage of medical oxygen in the country. Oxygen is one of most straightforward and proactive ways of treating the disease, which causes hypoxia. When patients begin gasping for air, a steady supply of concentrated oxygen does wonders. It may seem like an obvious treatment in hindsight, yet it took nearly two centuries to overcome strange theories, outright quackery and trench warfare in the medical community and beyond. Oxygen’s history in medicine begins in the 1770s when the Swedish pharmacist Karl Scheele and the British scientist Joseph Priestly independently isolated oxygen gas. Priestly unfairly received the lion’s share of the credit. To make matters worse, Priestly was a believer in phlogiston, an invisible substance allegedly released during combustion. What we call “oxygen,” he called “dephlogisticated air.” When he breathed it, his chest felt “peculiarly light and easy for some time afterward.” Priestley subsequently bragged in a scientific tract that “only two mice and myself have had the privilege of breathing” the miracle gas. Since the new substance seemed to make candles burn brighter, Priestley speculated that it might be “peculiarly salutary to the lungs in certain morbid cases, when the common air would not be sufficient to carry off the putrid effluvium.” Yet he remained wedded to his phlogiston theory, warning that breathing pure oxygen might also carry dangers – that it might be the equivalent of burning the candle at both ends. Eager to test the effects of the new substance on patients, Priestley and other engineers and scientists, including James Watt, founded the Pneumatic Institution in Birmingham. Though they made no promises of a cure, they offered to treat a range of maladies – including “obstinate venereal complaints” – with dephlogisticated air. They weren’t very successful, but there was an upside. As one medical historian has noted, this unlikely crew managed to invent most of the oxygen-delivery apparatus still in use today, from mouthpieces to corrugated, non-crushable breathing tubes to methods for mass-producing the gas. The Pneumatic Institution went defunct, but oxygen lived on as a quack remedy. Most of these treatments didn’t actually use concentrated oxygen, dispensing nothing more than mixtures of gases not so different from ordinary air, typically a few gulps’ worth and nothing more. But that didn’t stop purveyors of these panaceas from making ludicrous claims for their products. Makers of the so-called “Oxygen Treatment,” a typical remedy from 1884, sent patients one bottle of “Oxygen” and one bottle of “Oxygen Tonic.” This was supposed to treat everything from dyspepsia to arthritis for two full months. By the late nineteenth century, oxygen therapy was synonymous with quackery. In 1890, though, a physician named Dr. Alfred Blodgett had a patient with pneumonia whom he deemed “irrevocably doomed.” In the hopes of merely easing her final moments, he hooked her up to an oxygen cannister, turned on the gas – and left it running. This may have been the first continuous application of oxygen to a patient in history. To Blodgett’s astonishment, the woman stabilized, her breathing becoming regular. He published his results, arguing that oxygen could save lives. “Many cases will be found in which the period of greatest danger may be safely tided over which would otherwise unquestionably be lost,” he wrote. And yet this was just the very beginning of oxygen’s resurrection. After Blodgett’s article, other researchers tried administering oxygen, but not via the lungs. They pumped it under the skin, up the urethra and into the stomach. Most bizarre of all was the idea of an oxygen enema, which came courtesy of corn-flake promoter Dr. J. H. Kellogg, who also gained fame for popularizing medical treatments of questionable value. It took a Scottish doctor named John Scott Haldane to cut through this nonsense and do the research necessary to show that breathing oxygen would be best – and that it had to be continuous and at high enough concentrations to have the desired effect. In 1917, he published his landmark paper, “The Therapeutic Administration of Oxygen.” His timing was perfect. In World War I, both sides used poison gas. Haldane developed equipment that dispensed oxygen to soldiers hit in a gas attack. After much trial and error, the British managed to develop mobile equipment that could be used to treat survivors, giving them steady supplies of oxygen for extended periods of time. All of this should have opened the medical profession’s eyes to the value of administering continuous oxygen. But it would take another 50 years to win over many doctors, who insisted on administering oxygen in intervals in order to avoid harming patients. Haldane criticized intermittent oxygen therapy, comparing it to “bringing a drowning man to the surface of the water — occasionally.” But it would take until 1962 before medical researchers conclusively backed him up. Intermittent oxygen therapy, they found, actually hurt patients more than if they had never been given oxygen at all. Over time, a growing number of doctors embraced the idea of continuous oxygen therapy. In the U.S., Dr. Thomas Petty took the lead in using it to treat patients with advanced pulmonary diseases. In 1970, a study of patients with advanced pulmonary disease showed that while 28% of patients treated with continuous oxygen died, 62% of untreated patients did. This finally settled the question, paving the way for more research on oxygen’s many benefits over the past 50 years. The breakthrough seems to have a big impact on victims of Covid-19. Preliminary research of how different nations administered oxygen in the early months of the pandemic suggests that supplemental oxygen makes the difference between life and death for many patients. Other studies have shown that oxygen can keep patients off ventilators and save lives, particularly if the oxygen is administered early. This simplest of treatments has been around for ages. It can be deployed in a range of settings, from the trenches of war to the parking lot of a hospital. Luckily, the US is “working around the clock” to gather oxygen supplies for India, and the UK is sending nearly 500 devices to administer it. It’s a good start, though far more may be needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/medical-oxygen-key-to-fight-covid-19-used-to-be-feared-979989.html
28-04-2021||Panorama||In the drive for public good, Modi government should fund Covid-19 vaccines for all||The Worldometer shows real-time data of Covid-19 infections around the world. Most recently, it is showing India as the country with the highest infections. Our daily infections are more than the cumulative total of the next 11 countries, including large countries like Turkey, USA and Brazil. The daily number is racing towards half a million and the daily death count, too, is above a thousand. The public health system around the country is struggling to meet the deluge of demands for oxygen, Remdesivir and hospital beds. Of course, simultaneously we are trying to get as many people vaccinated as fast as possible. It is ironic that the world’s biggest manufacturer of vaccines is running severely short of doses. We could have avoided being in this situation if the vaccine makers had been given large and confirmed orders from the central government in January itself, if not much earlier. At a time when domestic vaccine makers like the Serum Institute of India had export obligations since its vaccine is made by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, it was imperative to lock up its production capacity well in advance for domestic use. Remember last year, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had asked Bharat Biotech (BB) to be ready for the launch of the vaccine by Independence day — August 15? What happened after that ambitious early target date? The Drug Controller General of India had also fast-tracked approval for phase 1 and 2 trials and wanted BB to speed up phase 3 trials and be ready for an early launch. In fact, its Covaxin seems to be the joint intellectual property of the government of India and BB, so the government could indeed have a greater say in the speed of deployment. The faster we get the population immunised the earlier we can contain the pandemic. This is a race. For otherwise, it can spread unchecked, with new variants forming, and mutations running wild. The new mutations can also spread to the world. That is why India’s Covid-19 challenge has become a global challenge. That is why many countries on their own have come forward with offers of help in vaccines (Sputnik of Russia), or cryogenic tanks for oxygen (China) or other kinds of assistance. Some countries have achieved very high proportions of the fully vaccinated. Leading this pack is Israel, which celebrated freedom from masks last week. But even the US is closing towards one-third of the population in vaccination coverage, and the UK is not far behind. In India, 10% of the population has got the first dose and 1.5% have been fully vaccinated. The strategy was to cover frontline people like healthcare workers and government servants, and then the elderly and then others. Because of shortage of vaccines, the government prohibited private companies from bidding and buying (and possibly cornering the supply) of vaccines. But as of May 1, both public and private sector companies, as well as state governments and other organisations, are going to be allowed. So far, this vaccine allotment was done centrally to the states, which in turn organised inoculation clinics across the state. From May 1, it is all being opened up. This leads us to the important question of pricing. For some reason, the Centre has seen it fit to fix multiple prices for the same vaccine, depending on where you get it. The states will be charged Rs 400 per dose of Covishield, and the private buyers will be charged Rs 600. The central government paid Rs 150 per dose for both Covishield and Covaxin. The pricing on Sputnik is not known. The price of Covaxin for private buyers is supposed to be Rs 1,200 per dose, which translates to Rs 2,400 per person. In a family of four, that is Rs 9,600, close to the full monthly per capita income of India! With a high proportion of the population living just above the poverty line and at a time of pandemic-induced recession and joblessness, it is astonishing that one of the vaccines to immunise against Covid-19 is priced at close to the full monthly per capita income. But the larger issue is this. The control of the pandemic is a public good. It will benefit both those who fell sick and recovered and those who did not fall sick. It will protect a much larger share of the population by sharply reducing future infection rates and fatalities. It will reduce the need for harsh lockdowns, which can reduce GDP sharply. Last year’s nationwide lockdown starting in March caused GDP during that quarter to fall by 25%. And nearly 12 crore people lost their jobs. Later in the year, the economy began to recover, but this second wave is threatening that recovery. So, the immunisation drive will prevent a fall in GDP and rise in unemployment. It is for this reason that the government should not act penny wise and pound foolish. The universal vaccine rollout must be funded from central fiscal funds. In her Union Budget speech, the Finance Minister had said that she was allocating Rs 35,000 crore for this purpose, and would stand by to add more budgetary allocation as needed. That need has come now, and the Centre must be willing to spend fully. At a cost of Rs 150 times 2, for 1.3 billion people it comes to Rs 39,000 crore which is near the FM’s estimate. But even if it is double this amount, it is necessary given that this vaccination drive is for the public good. Making it available for free also removes the hassles of payment and collection or any possible vaccine hesitancy. Also, remember that vaccine research gets huge public funding anyway, so zero pricing makes sense. Of course, adequate returns, i.e. not super-normal profits, to vaccine manufacturers have to be ensured, but that is still not inconsistent with a publicly funded vaccine rollout. And lastly, this must not be left as a burden on state budgets since they are already reeling, and do not have the fiscal muscle to increase their borrowing. It is the Centre alone that can and must fund this drive at the lowest cost of borrowing. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-the-drive-for-public-good-modi-government-should-fund-covid-19-vaccines-for-all-979694.html
28-04-2021||Panorama||Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk are fighting over the moon||Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, two of the richest men in the world, both with dreams of leading humanity out into the solar system, are fighting over the moon. On Monday, Blue Origin, the rocket company founded by Bezos, who will step down as Amazon’s chief executive later this year, filed a 50-page protest with the federal Government Accountability Office, challenging a $2.9 billion contract to SpaceX from NASA to build a lander for American astronauts to return to the moon. NASA announced this month that Musk’s SpaceX was the sole winner in the competition, beating Blue Origin and a third company, Dynetics of Huntsville, Ala., a defence contractor. Dynetics also filed a protest with the GAO on Monday. NASA acknowledged it had been notified of the protests. “NASA cannot provide further comment due to pending litigation,” the agency said in a statement emailed by a spokeswoman. The dispute highlights that whatever the outsize ambitions of Musk and Bezos for the future, the present fortunes of their space companies and the ability to generate the profits needed to pay for their grandiose dreams depend on mundane business concerns like jousting for government contracts. Bob Smith, chief executive of Blue Origin, said NASA’s decision was based on flawed evaluations of the bids — misjudging advantages of Blue Origin’s proposal and downplaying technical challenges in SpaceX’s. He also said NASA had placed a bigger emphasis on bottom-line cost than it said it would. “It’s really atypical for NASA to make these kinds of errors,” Smith said in an interview. “They’re generally quite good at acquisition, especially its flagship missions like returning America to the surface of the moon. We felt that these errors needed to be addressed and remedied.” He added that in any case, the space agency should have stuck with a desire it had stated many times, of wanting to hand out awards to two companies. In explaining why Dynetics had appealed the award, the company said in a statement released on Tuesday that it “has issues and concerns with several aspects of the acquisition process as well as elements of NASA’s technical evaluation and filed a protest with the GAO to address them.”SpaceX did not reply to a request for comment, but in a tweet directed at a Times reporter, Musk made a remark that played off the fact that Blue Origin has not yet achieved orbit with any of its rockets. A year ago, NASA selected three lunar lander designs, by SpaceX, Blue Origin and Dynetics, for further study. NASA would then decide which designs it would finance to be built for lunar landings. The Blue Origin proposal was a collaboration known as the National Team with three more traditional and experienced aerospace companies — Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Draper. The lander they proposed looked somewhat like a bigger version of the one used for NASA’s Apollo moon landings of the 1960s and 1970s. SpaceX, by contrast, proposed adapting a giant rocket called Starship that it is developing for trips to Mars. SpaceX has been testing Starship prototypes at its site in South Texas, often with explosive results. During previous trips to the moon, NASA was in charge of designs and operations, an approach that triumphantly beat the Soviet Union to the moon. But it was expensive, and when interest in the moon waned, the technology had little value to the private sector. In recent years, NASA has turned to private companies to design and operate spacecraft as a way to reduce the costs of space travel and spur commercial enterprise off Earth. That has proved successful for missions to send cargo, and now astronauts, to the International Space Station. SpaceX, in particular, has thrived in this new entrepreneurial approach to spaceflight. Its Falcon 9 rocket, used for space station missions, is now a workhorse for launching commercial satellites. And its Crew Dragon capsule, which carried a third load of astronauts for NASA to the space station on Friday, will also be used for rides paid for by wealthy space tourists. Blue Origin lags behind SpaceX’s accomplishments. Its small, successfully tested New Shepard spacecraft is meant only for short, suborbital jaunts. A larger New Glenn rocket currently under development will compete with SpaceX and other rocket companies for sending satellites to orbit, but it will not make its maiden flight until at least 2022, two years later than originally announced. Blue Origin’s partners have decades of space experience, however. NASA announced the lunar lander competition in 2018, and officials had repeatedly said they wanted to choose more than one company to ensure competition to spur innovation and redundancy. Last September, Jim Bridenstine, then the NASA administrator, testified that he would worry if NASA chose only one lander design. “When you eliminate the competition,” he told a Senate subcommittee, “you end up with programs that inevitably get dragged out, and you end up with cost overruns and schedule delays.” However, for the current fiscal year, Congress provided only $850 million — a quarter of what Bridenstine and NASA were requesting for the development of lunar landers. When NASA officials announced SpaceX as the single winner, they suggested that limited budgets influenced the decision. Kathy Lueders, NASA’s associate administrator for human exploration and operations, said selecting one company to build the first moon lander was the “best strategy” at the current time. In its rules for the competition, NASA did not promise it would choose two companies or even any at all. Instead, according to the document, the agency said it was planning to select up to two companies. Lueders said a follow-up competition to build subsequent landers would be open to Blue Origin, Dynetics and other companies. Smith said Blue Origin would put in bids on a future competition. But he added, “The idea that we’re going to be able to restore competition with something that right now is completely undefined and completely unfunded doesn’t make a lot of sense to us.” When Bill Nelson, a former senator from Florida whom President Biden has nominated to be the next administrator for NASA, testified at a confirmation hearing last week, Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington and chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, asked him to commit to providing Congress with a plan for how NASA would ensure commercial competition in the moon lander program. “I do,” Nelson said. “Competition is always good.” Smith said that with similar programs in the past, like the space station missions, NASA had hired more than one company even though it lacked certainty on future budgets. The Blue Origin-led bid, at $6.0 billion, was more than double the price of SpaceX’s. But Smith said NASA had gone back to SpaceX and negotiated the price of its proposal, even though it did not have similar discussions with the other two tea “We didn’t get a chance to revise and that’s fundamentally unfair,” Smith said. Less than $9 billion would have paid for two landers, and that is comparable to the $8.3 billion cost of the commercial crew program that now provides transportation to the space station, the protest argued. “NASA is getting some great, great value from these proposals,” Smith said. NASA’s evaluations of the bids gave ratings of “acceptable” on the technical aspects of Blue Origin’s and SpaceX’s proposals. Dynetics’s rating was lower, at “marginal.” SpaceX’s management was regarded as “outstanding,” while Blue Origin and its partners were judged, “very good,” as was Dynetics. Smith said NASA misjudged aspects of its proposal, like the communications system and redundancy in guidance and navigation, as weaknesses. He also said it downplayed the risks in SpaceX’s design like the need to refuel Starship in orbit, which has never been tried before. The NASA evaluators “largely dismissed the difficulty in the number of launches and rendezvous required in SpaceX’s proposed solution,” Smith said. “The risk of SpaceX development is high.” The Government Accountability Office has 100 days to make a decision on the protest. This is not the first time that Blue Origin and SpaceX have battled over a NASA contract. In 2013, NASA chose SpaceX to take over Pad 39A at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, which had been used for Saturn 5 launches during Apollo and then launches of the space shuttles. Blue Origin argued that its proposal, which would allow the launchpad to be used by multiple companies, should have been favoured. But the GAO said NASA had not expressed a preference for multiple companies using 39A and denied the protest. SpaceX now uses the launchpad for missions to the space station, and that is where the Starship trips to the moon would likely start from.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/jeff-bezos-and-elon-musk-are-fighting-over-the-moon-979695.html
28-04-2021||Right in the Middle||My experiments with knitting||Shortly after Macbeth (in Shakespeare’s play of that title) kills King Duncan, he hears a voice informing him that he will ‘sleep no more’. Bemoaning what lies ahead, Macbeth pays tribute to nocturnal rest. He says that it alleviates the disquiet of the day and ‘knits up the ravelled sleeve of care’. Ignoring the figurative aspect of this poetic personification, I picture myself in an armchair, working wonders with wool.  I was six years old when I acquired a pair of beginner’s knitting needles. Shorter than the usual ones, they were easy to handle. My mother explained the basics of the craft and I started on a scarf for my father. As row succeeded row, with the required length a distant dream, I settled for something smaller. My father greeted my gift effusively, as if the prosaic piece of linen in his pocket could not compare with a knitted handkerchief! I admired my mother who turned out cardigans with effortless ease. She had learnt knitting from my paternal grandmother who was proficient in the art. Once, while staying with us, the elderly lady spotted the baby next door. Little Nisha could soon be seen, sporting a smart sweater. I have inherited a craze for knitting from both sides of my family but not the competence. I mainly have caps and bootees to my credit although, on one occasion, I actually knitted a pullover for the son of a colleague.  I was aided in that ambitious enterprise by experts at school. I now belong to a group of people who knit and crochet squares. We hand over these to gifted individuals who create beautiful blankets for underprivileged infants. I derive delight from trying out intricate patterns and posting colourful pics on Whatsapp. Sometimes I stumble and pride takes a tumble! Just as I approach the magic four-inch mark, a momentary lapse of concentration results in errors. I marvel at the women who sat by the guillotine during the French Revolution, knitting incessantly as heads rolled. Those ‘tricoteuses’, as they were known, are immortalised in Charles Dickens’ ‘A Tale of Two Cities’. How, I wonder, did they focus on gory sights without dropping stitches? Six decades ago, I embarked on my pleasurable pastime. I still use the needles of my childhood, but have made some progress since my early experiments with knitting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-experiments-with-knitting-979693.html
28-04-2021||Second Edit||IIM’s code, a retrograde step||The proposal to impose a code of conduct on the faculty of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Calcutta, is a retrograde move which will hurt the autonomy of the institute and curtail the academic freedom of the teachers. The draft code is a comprehensive list of don’ts. It bans faculty members from criticising the government or the institution, joining protests that disturb ‘’public order’’, signing joint petitions, speaking to the press and approaching higher authorities on a matter till the time a decision is taken on it by the appropriate authority. Politics is a no-go area. The code was actually unveiled by the then director of the institute Anju Seth two months ago. There was a conflict between her and the faculty over her highhandedness which eventually led to her resignation. If the code was in place the faculty would not have been able to protest against her conduct. The code is similar to the code of conduct for government servants under the Central Civil Services rules. But it is wrong to transpose government servants’ service rules to academic institutions. In a ruling in 2013, the Supreme Court had made this clear by making a distinction between government employees and college and university teachers. An Allahabad High Court judgment of 2015 also said that university professors are “neither members of a service nor do they hold a civil post under the Union nor they are in the service of local or other authority”. Teachers also resisted a University Grants Commission (UGC) attempt in 2018 to impose Central service rules on teachers in universities. Universities are different from government departments because they impart knowledge. Dissemination and development of knowledge is possible only when there is scope for questioning, and for debate and criticism. That is why rules that constrain criticism should have no place in institutions of learning.  This is as true about IIMs as about any institution of higher learning. The implications of the code of conduct may well be imagined. Many members of the IIM faculty take part in debates on the policies and decisions of governments in areas such as finance, environment and management. They help in improving society’s understanding of those issues. They also write in journals and other publications. They will not be able to air criticism of government policies if the proposed code comes into force. They will not be able to develop their own critical faculties and society will not be able to benefit from their expertise. There is the possibility of the code of conduct being extended to other IIMs. The IIM Act of 2017 had assured the IIMs of independence and autonomy. The draft code violates it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/iim-s-code-a-retrograde-step-979688.html
28-04-2021||South||Kerala to procure 1 crore Covid vaccines for those aged 18 and above||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to procureone crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine for the third phase of vaccination drivefrom May 1, for those above 18 years of age. A decision in this regard was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired online by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. It has been decided to procure 70 lakh doses of Covidshield and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin for the vaccination drive from May 1, government sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-procure-1-crore-covid-vaccines-for-those-aged-18-and-above-979990.html
28-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government orders 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccines for those 18 and above||Procurement of 1.50 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses has been ordered to vaccinate from May 1, people aged above 18, the Tamil Nadu government said on Wednesday. In the first phase, the over a crore doses would be sourced by the state-run Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation for the inoculation drive to be done free of cost to the 18 plus category of people, the government said in an official release. "As per Chief Minister K Palaniswami's order, all necessary steps are being taken to vaccinate people aged above 18 and upto 44 years, from May 1." As on April 27, 55.51 lakh people have been vaccinated and efforts are being intensified to administer jabs for people aged 45 and above, the government said. Tamil Nadu reported 15,830 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, the third day the state's fresh covid numbers hovered in the 15,000 plus range and the state's active case load stood at 1,08,855.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-orders-15-crore-covid-19-vaccines-for-those-18-and-above-980034.html
28-04-2021||South||Kerala to buy one crore dose Covid vaccine; Row over existing supply||Kerala government has decided to purchase one crore doses of Covid vaccines directly for vaccinating people in the 18-45 age group which is set to begin from May 1. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state cabinet on Wednesday gave the nod for the vaccine purchase. Meanwhile, the Covid cases in Kerala surged further with 35,013 more cases being reported on Wednesday and the test positivity rate escalating to 25.34 percent. The number of active cases reached 2,66,646. The state will purchase 70 lakh doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India for Rs. 294 crore at the rate of Rs. 400 per dose and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for Rs. 189 crore at the rate of Rs. 600 per dose and GST. The prices will be subject to pending court cases and this would be mentioned in the purchase order. The decisions were taken based on the recommendations of a committee headed by Chief Secretary V P Joy for the purpose, said Vijayan. He strongly flayed the centre's vaccine policy denying free vaccine to 18-45 age group. All vaccines are being provided to the people by the centre free of cost over the years. It was unfortunate that the centre was denying free Covid vaccine to all. The centre should also ensure a uniform price of vaccine for state and centre. Kerala government had already taken up these issues with the centre. But so far there was not positive response, Vijayan said. Meanwhile, there are widespread complaints regarding the ongoing vaccination drives in Kerala for those in the 45 plus age category. Many complaint that even as the daily vaccine bulletin of the state health department was showing vaccine stock of over four lakh on most of these recent days they were not able to get a time schedule for vaccination as the CoWin app gives the message that 'No vaccination centre available'. The Chief Minister said that the ongoing free vaccine supply could not be streamlined properly owing to inadequate supply of vaccines from the centre. He also said that sufficient vaccine need to be reserved to ensure second dose of vaccine to those who got the first dose about six week back.  A health department official said that the district health officials are updating the vaccine stock on CoWin on a limited basis only to avoid rush at the vaccinations centres. Since there is a mad rush for vaccinations now, the stock was getting booked with in minutes after the stock was updated on CoWin. Hence many are not able to get the vaccination schedule. Meanwhile, there were allegations that vaccinations were being given through backdoor to the influential by overlooking the scheduling in the CoWin app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-buy-one-crore-dose-covid-vaccine-row-over-existing-supply-980173.html
28-04-2021||South||Hyundai to spend Rs 20 crore to set up oxygen-generating plant, provide Covid-19 aid||Hyundai Motor India Foundation (HMIF), the philanthropic arm of Hyundai Motor India, on Wednesday announced it will spend Rs 20 crore to offer infrastructural assistance to the worst-affected states of Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. “The second wave of this Covid-19 pandemic has triggered an unprecedented crisis for the nation. In times of despair, we often lose hope amidst the chaos, but it is also times such as these that bring out the best of humanity within us all,” S S Kim, MD & CEO, Hyundai Motor India Ltd., said. Under its third phase of initiatives for Covid-19, HMIF will roll out a multi-faceted relief package of Rs 20 crore that is deeply focused on the crisis at hand. To impact meaningful respite across most impacted states and cities, Hyundai will deploy its resources by setting up oxygen generating plants in hospitals, to aid critical patients and help hospitals become self-sufficient in oxygen.   It will also install Medicare facilities and provide support staff to various hospitals and cater to their operational cost for the next three months, and further, if needed. The relief measures have been specially developed with the focus of addressing the needs emerging out of the current crisis, the company said. Additionally, Hyundai had organized a vaccination drive for its staff aged above 45 in the manufacturing facility through the office of the Sriperumbudur Government Primary Health Centre and will continue these efforts to help overcome the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyundai-to-spend-rs-20-crore-to-set-up-oxygen-generating-plant-provide-covid-19-aid-980180.html
28-04-2021||South||Couple pledge jewellery for Rs 2.20 lakhs to donate 100 fans to government hospital||The couple did not have enough money when they heard that the fully air-conditioned Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore were in dire need of pedestal fans for patients as ACs had to be switched off due to Covid-19 spread. What they did then is unbelievable. The couple decided to pledge the gold they had for Rs 2.20 lakhs and bought 100 fans to be donated to the hospital. And when they approached Dr M Raveendran, Dean of the hospital, to hand over the fans, they had just one request – their identity should not be revealed. Only as the conversation progressed, Dr Raveendran realised that the couple did not have money when they heard about the need for fans, and mobilised funds by pledging their jewels. “I told them to donate just four or five fans and not to go beyond their capacity to buy 100 fans. But the couple was adamant that they will not budge from their stand,” Dr Raveendran said. The couple, whose identity the hospital refused to divulge, had brought 100 fans at once to the premises in a van. Dr Raveendran had told his colleagues and friends to spread the word that the hospital was in need of additional pedestal fans to cater to patients. The couple decided to do their bit when they heard of the need at the hospital. “We shut all ACs due to Covid-19 and the government gave 300 fans for the hospital. Since we have 540 patients, we thought some more fans would be required to cater to the needs of the patients. That is when our Dean told others that they can lend fans if they have extra and take them back once the Covid-19 outbreak period is over,” Dr T Ravikumar, Medical Superintendent, told DH. The dean refused to accept the donation and dialled District Collector S Nagarajan to convince the couple. “However, the couple told the collector that they will not go back on their decision and that the hospital should accept 100 fans. The collector then told the dean to accept the fans so that the couple does not feel sad,” Ravikumar added. But the couple accepted one request of the dean – to pose for pictures. They obliged but had masks on their faces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/couple-pledge-jewellery-for-rs-220-lakhs-to-donate-100-fans-to-government-hospital-980184.html
28-04-2021||South||Woman falls from moving train in Kerala during robbery and attack||A woman aged around 30 reportedly fell from a moving train in Kochi on Wednesday following a robbery and attack inside the train. The woman was admitted to a private hospital in Kochi with head injuries. According to police sources, the incident took place in a passenger train bound to Punalur in Kollam district. The woman working in Chengannur in the Alappuzha district boarded the train from Mulanthuruthy in the suburbs of Kochi. The preliminary information is that there was no one in the compartment and as the train started a person approached her and threatened her demanding her ornaments. After obtaining her ornaments, the accused tried to grab her. She ran towards the door and tried to jump out. However, since the train was moving, she was left hanging on to a door handle. She couldn't hold on for long and then fell off the train. The railway police and the Railway Protection Force are jointly investigating the case. The accused was identified by the woman from among the habitual offenders' database of the police. In 2011, Kerala witnessed the tragic incident of a 23-year-old salesgirl who was robbed, raped and killed in the ladies compartment of a moving train by a habitual offender Govindachamy near Shornur in Palakkad district. Following the shocking crime, there were strong calls to improve the safety of passengers in trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-falls-from-moving-train-in-kerala-during-robbery-and-attack-980187.html
28-04-2021||South||We will conduct 10th and intermediate final exams: Andhra Pradesh CM||Despite the opposition from several quarters, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy said that his government would go ahead with conducting the 10th and intermediate final exams. Reddy said the central government had left the decision on exams amidst the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic to the state governments. While the CBSE has announced the cancellation of its 10th board exams this year, it has postponed the 12th exams because of the severity of the virus spread in the country. Following the CBSE lead, several states including neighboring Telangana have canceled the 10th class examinations. Telangana has also postponed the second year intermediate (+2) exams, while stating that all the first year intermediate (+1) students would be promoted. Andhra Pradesh has been recording an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases lately. On Wednesday, the state health department reported a record high of 14,669 new positive cases. The active case number is now over one lakh. However, the YSRCP government is keen on conducting the exams. 10th exams are scheduled to be held from June 7 to 14, while intermediate/12th exams would begin from May 5. “10th and inter examinations are very important for the students as their educational, professional future depends on these certificates. Only pass certificates would be issued by those states not conducting the exams. Will these mere pass certificates get admissions in good institutions?,” the CM questioned on Wednesday, in apparent response to the criticism from TDP, etc. parties.   Stating that he thinks about the future of every student in the state, Reddy assured parents that his government will ensure safety of all students. The CM added that examinations are underway in some states following strict Covid-19 protection measures. Andhra Pradesh 10th class exams schedule: June-7- First LanguageJune-8- Second LanguageJune-9- EnglishJune-10- MathematicsJune-11- Physical ScienceJune-12-BiologyJune-14- Social Studies||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-will-conduct-10th-and-intermediate-final-exams-andhra-pradesh-cm-980237.html
28-04-2021||South||Kerala CM laments obstacles in oxygen supply from Karnataka to Kasargod||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that there were certain obstacles in oxygen supply from Karnataka to Kasargod district in Kerala and Kerala chief secretary V P Joy will be initiating talks with his Karnataka counterpart in this regard. Vijayan told reporters in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday that Kasargod used to get oxygen regularly from Karnataka for medical purposes. It was not good to have obstacles in supply of items like oxygen during the time of Covid surge. Oxygen used to be supplied from Palakkad district in Kerala to parts of Karnataka. It was not at all affected. These aspects would be brought to the notice of Karnataka authorities, he said. However, health officials in Kasargod said that the district authorities held talks with the officials concerned in Karnataka and the supply from agencies in Mangaluru would be resumed. The district was depending mainly on oxygen supply from Kannur district in Kerala and hence there was not much issue as the supply from Mangaluru was affected, said a senior health official. Meanwhile, the Kasargod district panchayat decided to set up an oxygen plant in the district. The plant is proposed to be set up at Chattanchal, around ten kilomtres from the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-laments-obstacles-in-oxygen-supply-from-karnataka-to-kasargod-980240.html
28-04-2021||State||Lockdown to be extended if transmission chain did not break: Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the ongoing lockdown will be extended if the Covid-19 transmission chain did not break. The Minister said the lockdown should be extended if the Covid-19 chain did not break during the ongoing 14-day lockdown. People must co-operate to break the chain. All essential services and goods will be available between 6 am and 10 am every day during the lockdown and thus, people need not rush to procure goods, he said. It has to be noted that on day one, the residents rushed to the vegetable market, shops, and liquor stores to procure needed items. The majority of them violated Covid-19 guidelines and a few failed to wear masks. However, Covid-19 warriors, including police, warned against such irresponsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-to-be-extended-if-transmission-chain-did-not-break-somashekar-980030.html
28-04-2021||State||MP himself brings Remdesivir vials to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru||On getting information that Kalaburagi is facing an acute shortage of Remdesivir, vital for treating severely ill Covid patients, MP Dr Umesh Jadhav rushed to Bengaluru's drug control headquarters at 1 am on Wednesday to get 350 vials of the injection sanctioned for the district. Families of some patients can now breathe a sigh of relief as the MP himself brought the vials by flight to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru. District Assistant Drug Controller Gopal Bandari had brought to the notice of the MP the shortage of Remdesivir injections in the district. Jadhav, instead of depending on the district administration, went himself to the Drug Control headquarters in Bengaluru on Tuesday midnight and explained to the officials the need for immediately sanctioning Remdesivir injections to the district and managed to get 350 vials of injections sanctioned. If the vials were dispatched on Wednesday, they would have reached the district by Thursday (April 29). As the injections were needed immediately to treat the Covid patients, he carried them in his car to Kempegowda International Airport from where they were brought to Kalaburagi by flight. The office stated that about 460 vials will reach Kalaburagi on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mp-himself-brings-remdesivir-vials-to-kalaburagi-from-bengaluru-980077.html
28-04-2021||State||Umesh Katti apologises for 'go die' remark to farmer||Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Umesh Katti apologised for the remarks made by him during a phone call with a person over the foodgrains quota being cut. If anybody including farmers and the caller were hurt, I am tendering an unconditional apology for it, he said.  Katti told reporters here on Wednesday that KPCC President D K Shivakumar does not have any right to demand his resignation. If he wants to stage funeral procession, he should stage one of the Congress party and burn the pyre infront of residence of the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah.  "Congress people do not have any work. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah must first decide who will be chief minister candidate amongst them. Siddaramaiah to become chief minister has now been promising 10 kg foodgrains under public distribution system while we have seen him given 7 kg and 4 kg," he said. Katti said, as Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister, he has been providing nutritious food to the people from the state and has been helping people, farmers and ration cardholders and that he would not withdraw his decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/umesh-katti-apologises-for-go-die-remark-to-farmer-980171.html
28-04-2021||State||Telling lies is monopoly of 'fake Gandhis’: Pralhad Joshi||In reply to Congress leaders' allegation that the BJP governments are telling lie about arrangements made to handle the pandemic and other aspects related to the second wave of Covid-19, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said, "telling lie or misguiding the people is the monopoly of 'fake Gandhis' who are leading the Congress, and nobody in BJP does so". “All have to fight together against the pandemic, and this is not the time for politics. People have already shown the Congress its place, for telling lies,” he said, commenting on Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Second wave of Covid-19 was expected, but its severity being experienced now was not anticipated. Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah is making allegations of unpreparedness with political angle, as there is nothing else to criticise Modi government, he opined. Maharashtra and Chattisgarh also experienced surge in Covid cases, though they did not have elections. Rahul Gandhi also campaigned during elections in Kerala, where thousands of people were gathered. Even Siddaramaiah did not demand postponement of by-elections in Karnataka, Joshi noted. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Food & Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti have already expressed regret for Katti's act of asking a farmer to 'die', and it is a closed chapter now, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/telling-lies-is-monopoly-of-fake-gandhis-pralhad-joshi-980182.html
28-04-2021||State||Don't vacate tenants, fire employees: Chief Secretary P Ravikumar||The state government has requested property owners not to take any action against tenants during the lockdown period. "We also request employers not to suspend employees and cut their wages during the curfew period," Chief Secretary (CS) P Ravikumar said in a letter. During these tough times caused by the pandemic, the government has noticed that owners of houses, hostels, paying guest accommodations, and shopping complexes are forcing tenants to vacate. The government has also observed that several employees were firing employers, he said, urging them to refrain from the same during the lockdown period ending May 12. Order Ravikumar also issued an order directing all heads of departments to ensure that newly constructed government buildings are put to use immediately. "Newly constructed government structures/buildings, without awaiting formal inauguration, should be put to use immediately," the order read. Apart from it, newly sanctioned government projects/programmes shall commence work immediately without a formal groundbreaking ceremony, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dont-vacate-tenants-fire-employees-chief-secretary-p-ravikumar-980196.html
28-04-2021||State||Covid cases cross 1000-mark in Hassan||Covid positive cases crossed 1000-mark in Hassan, with 1,031 new cases and 10 deaths, reported on Wednesday. With this, the total has increased to 37,890 with 5,832 active cases. The number of deaths has increased to 556. Mandya reported 935 new cases taking the total to 28,175. There are 5,051 active cases and nine deaths reported on the day. Total death is 202. Chamarajanagar reported 415 fresh covid cases and three deaths. The number of active cases is nearing 2,000 mark with 1,975 cases. Total covid deaths has increased to 131.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-cases-cross-1000-mark-in-hassan-980246.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||This newborn will never get mom's hug||Married for four years, a couple from Bengaluru East was eagerly awaiting the arrival of their first baby. But in a cruel twist of fate, the 35-year-old expectant mother tested positive for Covid-19. An emergency surgery three days back was meant to save her, but only the baby girl survived. For mechanical engineer Abhishekh (name changed), the tragic turn of events was a shattering blow to a fledgeling dream. In home quarantine after testing positive for the dreaded virus, he broke down inconsolably as his wife passed away without getting a glimpse of their daughter. Three days ago, the baby was separated from the mother immediately after surgery and taken to a different hospital to save it from infection. Wary of the pandemic second wave, the couple had taken every precaution. Radha (name changed) was a homemaker and was at her mother’s house. Being overweight, facing comorbidities and at an advanced stage of pregnancy, the risks were high. Double trouble hit the family when both Radha and Abhishekh tested positive for the virus. He was shifted to a government facility but chose home quarantine later. Radha was taken to a private hospital near Mysuru Road, and subsequently to a maternity home. It was then she noticed something very disturbing: There was no baby movement. "The couple panicked. They were apprehensive that the baby was in danger. The doctors had to act fast,” recalled Mahesh, a friend of the family. This was three days ago. “Initially, the doctors decided that the only way to save the mother was to conduct an emergency surgery and take the baby out. Radha was eight and half months pregnant, and it was a very tricky situation.” Battling multiple worries about the pandemic, his wife and family, an anxious Abhishekh frantically looked for advice, reassurance and support. It was at this stage Radha’s aged mother too tested positive and was hospitalised. She is still unaware of her daughter’s death. Meanwhile, the doctors managed to take out the baby. Born safe, she was put under observation in an incubator. Before Abhishekh could come to terms with this, came the shattering blow: Radha could not be saved. “He was devastated,” said Mahesh. “The couple had so many dreams about the coming days with their child. They had even made all arrangements for the baby shower ceremony. This is so cruel!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-newborn-will-never-get-moms-hug-979690.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt allows majority of staff to work from home||In the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 cases and with the enforcement of a ‘close-down’, the state government has authorised a majority of its employees to work from home. Only officials in key departments for Covid-19 management — including Health and Family Welfare Department, Medical Education Department, Home Department and Revenue Department — will have to report to work, according to a circular issued by Chief Secretary P Ravikumar on Tuesday.  As many as 11 departments, including Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Urban Development, Food and Civil Supplies, Energy, DPAR, Finance, Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Horticulture, Labour, Commerce and industries will operate with 50% of staff while the rest will work from home. This apart, employees in the rest of the departments will work from home unless their presence is required by department heads, the circular stated. The government has also given an exemption to differently-abled and pregnant women from coming to work. The chief secretary has also advised the departments to provide a vehicle pooling option for officials turning up for work in the office. The exemptions will apply until May 12, the end of the ongoing close-down period. Recently, the government had permitted government offices to work with 50% staff strength. However, detailed guidelines in this regard were issued in the circular on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-allows-majority-of-staff-to-work-from-home-979697.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka 'close-down': Railways cancels 16 trains ||The South Western Railway on Tuesday cancelled 16 trains, many of them connecting the state to Tamil Nadu, hours before Karnataka's travel curbs kicked in. The cancellation will come into effect on different days for several trains. The Central Shatabdi Superfast Express Special (02027/02028) between Bengaluru and Chennai will stand cancelled from both sides on Wednesday. Similarly, the trains between Coimbatore – KSR Bengaluru which plies six days a week (06153/06154) will be cancelled from both sides starting from April 29.  The trains between MGR Chennai Central and Mysuru (06081/06082) will also be cancelled from both sides starting from April 29 until further notice. The Kochuveli-Banaswadi Bi-Weekly Hamsafar Express Special (06319) will be cancelled from April 29 while the return train (06320) will be cancelled from April 30. The Ernakulam-Banaswadi Biweekly Superfast train (06129) will be cancelled from May 3 while the return train (06130) will be cancelled from May 4. Memu trains cancelled Six Memu trains connecting Bengaluru with the suburban areas will be cancelled from April 29. The trains between KSR Bengaluru and Marikuppam (06263/06264; KSR Bengaluru and Hosur (06261/06262) as well as the Byappanahalli and Hosur trains (06259/06260) stand cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-close-down-railways-cancels-16-trains-979700.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka 'close-down': 20 additional trains deployed as thousands flock railway station||Thousands of people rushed to KSR Bengaluru and Yashwantpur railway station in an attempt to leave the city hours before the lockdown came into effect. Since the beginning of the reintroduction of trains in the unlock period last year, the railways has not resumed unreserved travel. As per the rule, passengers will be allowed to travel in trains only if they have confirmed reservation tickets.  The South Western Railway has issued advisories over the last two weeks, urging people not to come to the railway station in the hope of getting a ticket. Even passengers on the waiting list have been advised to stay back, with officials assuring that they can get a refund of the fare an hour before the departure of the train. 20 trains introduced However, the announcement of lockdown triggered a wave of reverse migration both within the state and outside. Unlike people travelling to different cities, people travelling outside the state do not have buses and are dependent on trains. The South Western Railway said 20 special trains will be run to cater to the increased demand from the passengers travelling between Karnataka and several destinations spread across northern parts of the country. Muzaffarpur (Bihar), Guwahati (Assam), Howrah (WB), Vasco da Gama (Goa), Agartala (Tripura) and Delhi Sarai Rohila are among some of the destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-close-down-20-additional-trains-deployed-as-thousands-flock-railway-station-979701.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka 'close-down': CM Yediyurappa urges people to follow 'close-down' rules to defeat Covid-19||Hours after the 14-day lockdown came into effect in Karnataka to contain Covid-19, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday appealed to the people to abide by the norms to break the chain of infections. "The 2 weeks strict rules to break the chain of Covid virus have begun. My appeal to everyone: follow the guidelines, cooperate with the govt, stay indoors, and step out only if it's an emergency. Together, we all can defeat the Covid-19 pandemic," Yediyurappa tweeted. The 2 weeks strict rules to break the chain of Covid virus have begun. My appeal to everyone: follow the guidelines, cooperate with the govt, stay indoors, and step out only if it's an emergency. Together, we all can defeat the Covid-19 pandemic. Roads in urban areas wore a deserted look while the bustling markets fell silent as the lockdown came into force on Tuesday night. The government has allowed sale of essential goods and continuity of essential services. It has allowed the sale of essential products such as vegetables, grocery, milk supply, medical stores, and hospitals to operate. These measures have been taken after the daily Covid-19 cases in the state climbed to more than 30,000. The state has now over three lakh active cases of which two lakh are in Bengaluru alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-close-down-cm-yediyurappa-urges-people-to-follow-close-down-rules-to-defeat-covid-19-979934.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||This story has been withdrawn||The story tilted 'Karnataka close-down rules: Who needs a KSP Clear pass?' has been withdrawn from our site after the authorities pointed out that the document (on which the story was based) contained one year old information. The error is deeply regretted. - Team DeccanHerald.com||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-story-has-been-withdrawn-980007.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Go ahead, die: Karnataka minister Umesh Katti to farmer, CM B S Yediyurappa apologises||In a major embarrassment to the Karnataka government, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti has come under scathing criticism for allegedly asking a farmer to "go die", forcing Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to express regret on his colleague's behalf. An audio clip of a purported phone conversation between a Raitha Sangha member and the minister went viral on Wednesday.  In the conversation, the farmer Eshwar called the minister and sought to know why the government had reduced the quantity of rice under the Public Distribution System (PDS). Katti can be heard justifying the government's decision saying that even though the quantity of rice is reduced, the government has substituted it with Ragi for South Karnataka and Jowar for North Karnataka. However, the farmer said the government had not yet begun the supply of Jowar. "Is this quantity enough for a family to sustain? What should we do until the government supplies Jowar? Should people die?" the irate farmer asked the minister. To which, Katti responded, "Go ahead, die and stop calling me." The audio clip has gone viral and the opposition parties are attacking the government, forcing Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to issue a statement expressing regret. "It is not right for a minister to make such a statement. I express regret," Yediyurappa said. Meanwhile, the opposition parties have demanded the sacking of Katti. "BJP minister Umesh Katti has abused a citizen and asked him to 'go die' just because he asked him why Karnataka govt has cut Rice under PDS to just 2 kgs! The Chief Minister must immediately throw him out of the cabinet for this most insensitive statement. Does this government have any shame?" KPCC President DK Shivakumar demanded. JD(S) Legislature Party leader HD Kumaraswamy too demanded that Katti be removed from the cabinet. "The minister's statement is arrogant and inhuman. When a minister does not have empathy for people, I urge the chief minister to throw him out of the cabinet," Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/go-ahead-die-karnataka-minister-umesh-katti-to-farmer-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-apologises-980132.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's annual credit plan target set at Rs 4,96,371 crore||Karnataka's annual credit plan (ACP) target for 2021-22 has been set at Rs 4,96,371 crore, up 35.78 per cent compared to the previous fiscal. The figure for 2020-21 was Rs 3,65,556 crore. The ACP for 2021-22 was launched at the 153rd meeting of the State-level Banker's Committee, Karnataka, on Monday, an official release said. The total priority sector credit target for 2021-22 works out to Rs 2,92,391.90 crore, a growth of 14.24 per cent over the previous years figure of 2,55,940 crore. Share of agriculture credit is Rs 1,25,992.10 crore, constituting 43.09 per cent of total priority sector credit. Share of crop production credit is Rs 71,923.31 crore accounting for 57.09 per cent of the total agriculture credit. The share of MSME is Rs 1,11,826.96 crore, education loan is Rs 5,969.86 crore, housing loan is Rs 30,164.89 crore, and other sectors Rs 9498.22 crore, constituting 38.24 per cent, 2.04 per cent, 10.31 per cent and 3.24 per cent of the total priority sector respectively. The State as a whole has achieved 80.62 per cent of ACP target under MSME, 77.97 per cent under agriculture and 102. 27 per cent under total credit at the end of the third quarter (December 2020), it was stated. The ACP was lauched by Karnataka Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, along with Additional Chief Secretary and Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma, RBI's Regional Director Jose J Kattoor and NABARD's Chief General Manager Niraj Kumar Verma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-annual-credit-plan-target-set-at-rs-496371-crore-980149.html
28-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logged biggest single-day spike of almost 40,000 new Covid-19 cases, 229 deaths on Wednesday||In the biggest single-day spike seen so far, Karnataka recorded 39,047 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 14.39 lakh, while fatalities crossed the 15,000 mark with 229 deaths. The previous high in the state was 34,804 cases on April 25 this year. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 22,596 infections. The state-wide toll stood at 15,036. The day also saw 11,833 patients getting discharged. Cumulatively 14,39,822 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in Karnataka so far, which include 15,036 deaths and 10,95,883 recoveries. Of the 3,28,884 active cases, 2,192 are in Intensive Care Units of various hospitals. Behind Bengaluru in the number of cases was Mysuru 1,759, Kolar 1194, Tumakuru 1,174, and Ballari 1,106 and Hassan 1,001, while Mandya, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballpura, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Dharward reported more than 500 cases. Among the 229 deaths reported on Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 137, Mysuru 11, Mandya 9, Ballari 8, Bidar 6 and five each in Chikkamagaluru, Ramanagar, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Yadgir, while the rest were in other cities. A total of 2.52 crore samples have been tested so far, including 1,71,997 on Wednesday alone. Over 92.40 lakh people have so far been inoculated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logged-biggest-single-day-spike-of-almost-40000-new-covid-19-cases-229-deaths-on-wednesday-980195.html
28-04-2021||West||Toll in Thane hospital fire rises to 4; 2 injured||At least four persons were killed and two injured when a massive fire broke out at Prime Criticare Hospital at Kausa in Mumbra area of Thane district in the wee hours of Wednesday. More than 20 patients were evacuated, according to Thane police and fire brigade officials. Mumbra-Kalwa MLA and state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Awhad rushed to the spot. "The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained," he said. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/toll-in-thane-hospital-fire-rises-to-4-2-injured-979743.html
28-04-2021||West||Recovered Covid patients see hair fall due to stress||In a number of recovered Covid-19 patients, temporary and reversible hair loss, also known as telogen effluvium, is being observed possibly due to physical and emotional stress. Doctors are recommending exercise, de-stress activities and a balanced diet to get rid of hair fall. Medical treatments and hair fall therapies can also be an effective, according to experts. Multiple studies have confirmed that hair fall is an after-effect of Covid-19. “Hair loss post-Covid usually begins two or three months after the patient gets recovered from Covid-19. Noticeable hair loss usually starts after an average of about 55 days post-recovery. Hair loss happens due to fever because of infection, diet changes, stress due to isolation, financial worries, or fear of losing the job,” said Dr Debraj Shome, Cosmetic Surgeon and Director, The Esthetic Clinics. However, he added that this condition is a temporary form of hair loss and is often seen in corona patients because of the shock that the body sustains from fever and other symptoms. The hair fall usually occurs from all across the scalp. “We have seen around over two dozen patients with such hair fall recently,"  he added. Covid-19 is not the only cause of hair fall. Factors such as changes in diets, weight loss, sudden hormone changes, and iron deficiency can further accelerate this. Telogen effluvium is a temporary condition, which improves in about three to six months from its onset. “Relax, take a deep breath, maintain a healthy lifestyle, and let the recovery take its course. The sooner you say goodbye to stress, sooner hair shedding will stop. Include a few minutes of meditation and breathing exercises in the daily schedule. Switch to a rainbow diet i.e., include loads of colorful seasonal vegetables and fruits such as spinach, lettuce, oranges, figs, and capsicum in your daily diet,” Dr Rinky Kapoor, consultant dermatologist, said. Kapoor said iron and Vitamin D supplements could be taken with the doctor’s advice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/recovered-covid-patients-see-hair-fall-due-to-stress-979790.html
28-04-2021||West||Goa imposes lockdown till May 3 to curb Covid-19||The Goa government on Wednesday decided to impose a strict lockdown in the state beginning April 29 till May 3, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. Speaking to reporters, he said essential services and industries will be exempted from the purview of the lockdown but public transport will not be allowed. "The lockdown will come into force on Thursday evening and remain effective till Monday morning to break the chain of the coronavirus transmission," he said. Goa on Tuesday reported 2,110 fresh cases and 31 deaths, taking the tally to 81,908 and the toll to 1,086, the government had said. "Weekly markets will not be allowed during the lockdown. Casinos will also remain shut. However, industrial services will be allowed to function," the chief minister said. Sawant said that casual labourers need not worry as the lockdown will be lifted on Monday morning and business activities resume. The state administration will issue a detailed notification by Wednesday evening on the lockdown guidelines, he said. The CM also appealed to people to take necessary precautions against coronavirus and take medicines in case of Covid-19 symptoms. Sawant said as per the modified Covid-19 treatment protocol, medicines are offered to people at the time of testing instead of waiting for results. "Vaccination centres will function normally during the lockdown and people will be inoculated after booking an appointment," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-imposes-lockdown-till-may-3-to-curb-covid-19-979879.html
28-04-2021||West||Maharashtra: Oxygen leaks at hospital, staff saves 14 patients||A quick intervention by staff saved the lives of 14 patients on oxygen support in the Parbhani district hospital in Maharashtra as the pipeline supplying the life-saving gas developed a leak after a branch of a tree fell on it, officials said on Wednesday. After noticing the leak on late Tuesday night, the staff of the hospital shifted the patients on jumbo oxygen cylinders for breathing, Deputy Collector Sanjay Kundetkar told PTI. "Around 11.30 pm, a branch of a tree fell on the pipeline which carries medical oxygen from the storage tank to the casualty and burns ward of the hospital, which caused leakage. The fault was detected and simultaneously 14 patients admitted in the casualty section were shifted on jumbo oxygen cylinders for breathing. The supply of oxygen was switched off for repairing the leak," he said. According to Kundetkar, the oxygen supply was interrupted for merely 2-3 minutes. He said technicians repaired the pipeline within two hours. "No casualty was reported in this incident. The oxygen supply was restored around 4 am," the deputy collector added. On April 21, at least 22 patients died due to the interrupted supply of oxygen at a civic hospital for Covid-19 patients in Nashik following the leakage of the gas from a storage plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-oxygen-leaks-at-hospital-staff-saves-14-patients-979900.html
28-04-2021||West||Covid-19 lockdown in Goa: What's allowed and what's not||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced a stringent four-day lockdown in Goa beginning 7 pm on April 29 to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Sawant, who opposed the lockdown earlier citing economic fallout, said the essential and emergency services will be allowed and casinos, pubs, and bars will remain closed till May 3 morning.  Here's a look at what's allowed and what's not during the lockdown: Will those in essential services be allowed to move unrestricted? Yes. CM Sawant said that essential services and industries are allowed to operate during the lockdown. Those engaged in essential services will be exempt. Will Public transport be available? Public transport will remain shut for people.  Will markets be open? Weekly markets will not be allowed during the lockdown.  Will casinos, eateries, pubs remain open? No. Pubs, eateries, bars, and casinos will remain closed. Can I travel to Goa? The state borders will remain open for only essential service transportation. Can I get vaccinated during the lockdown? Covid-19 vaccination centres will remain open and people can be inoculated after booking. Sawant further said detailed guidelines on the lockdown will be issued later in the day. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-in-goa-whats-allowed-and-whats-not-979929.html
28-04-2021||West||Maharashtra government will not start Covid-19 vaccinations for ages 18 to 44 from May 1||Concerned about its supplies of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has decided not to commence inoculations for ages 18 to 44 from May 1. However, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government decided to provide the vaccines free to those in the age group. The move will put a burden of Rs 6,500 crore on the state's coffers. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting in which the Covid-19 pandemic situation, vaccination drive and lockdown measures were discussed threadbare. The Centre asked states to open up vaccinations to the 18-44 age group from May 1. However, several states are facing difficulties in meeting the huge demand that's likely to arise and managing the rush that they would experience. The state government clarified, however, that the vaccination drive for the above 45 age group would continue. “We don’t have sufficient stocks now…we don’t want a demand-supply gap…so we will not be starting the vaccination drive from May 1…we will start as soon as the stocks build up,” said Rajesh Tope, Minister for Public Health and Family Welfare. The government has set a target of six months to cover the 18-44 age group – and a committee would be formed for micro-planning. He said that the Chief Minister’s Office was looking at procuring the Sputnik V vaccine. “We are seeking the help of the Centre in this regard,” he said. As of now, the state has limited supplies from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is producing Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which is making Covaxin. “We are in touch with both of them…Bharat Biotech has told us in writing that for next two months, they would be able to give us 10 lakh doses per month, then scale up to the level of 20 lakh. On the other hand, Serum Institute has verbally communicated that it would be in a position to give one crore doses per month,” he said. On pricing and options for the public, he said: “Let us be clear, in government hospitals, vaccines would be free…in private hospitals, it would be charged.” Tope said that it was clear that the vaccine would be administered only if one has prior registration in the Co-WIN App/web platform. “We do not want a rush in vaccination centres and hence we are taking all precautions,” he said, pointing out that the state had crossed the five lakh doses per day mark recently and could scale up to the level of eight lakh doses per day. “However, for that we need vaccines…and there is a shortage,” he said, adding that most of the states were facing problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-will-not-start-covid-19-vaccinations-for-ages-18-to-44-from-may-1-979973.html
28-04-2021||West||Over 1.5 crore people vaccinated for Covid-19 in Maharashtra||With over 3.88 lakh more people receiving the Covid-19 jabs in Maharashtra, the overall immunisation count in the state has crossed 1.53 crore, a health official said on Wednesday. At least 3,88,247 eligible people were inoculated on Tuesday, the official said. Of them, 4,017 healthcare workers received the first dose of the vaccine, while 9,899 were given the second dose, he said. As many as 20,276 and 13,753 frontline workers were administered the first and second jabs, respectively, on Tuesday, the official said. In the above 45-year category, 2,12,699 people received the first dose and 1,27,603 the second dose, the official said, adding 65,140 people were inoculated in Mumbai alone. According to the Maharashtra health department, the state has inoculated a total of 1,53,37,832 people so far, including 25,15,076 in Mumbai alone. As many as 10,99,415 healthcare workers had received the first dose, while 6,09,790 had received their second dose, it was stated. Similarly, 12,74,492 frontline workers have received the first dose, while 4,58,586 have taken the second dose. In the 45 plus category, 1,06,71,093 people have got their first dose and 12,24,456 the second dose so far. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 66,358 fresh cases and 895 fatalities that raised the tally of the infections to 44,10,085 and the toll to 66,179. The state currently has 6,72,434 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-15-crore-people-vaccinated-for-covid-19-in-maharashtra-980005.html
28-04-2021||West||Maharashtra lockdown likely to be extended by 15 days||The Maharashtra government is likely to extend the Break-the-Chain lockdown-type restrictions by a fortnight’s time. The Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions came up for discussions at the weekly Cabinet meeting. The existing restrictions end on April 30, and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would take a call on Thursday. “On the last day of the existing measures, the Chief Minister will announce the measures…it is he who will decide whether these would be for a fortnight or more,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. State Revenue Minister and senior Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said that given the fact that the cases are stable now, we need to extend the measures for a fortnight. Senior NCP leader and Food and Civil Supplies Minster Chhagan Bhujbal said: “Given the results that we have seen, I feel that lockdown is necessary for some more time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-lockdown-likely-to-be-extended-by-15-days-980092.html
28-04-2021||West||Covid-19 catastrophe caused due to incompetent leadership: Prithviraj Chavan||The "incompetent" leadership and "callousness" has driven India to the present Covid-19 catastrophe, senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan said on Wednesday as he blamed the Centre for the shortage of medical oxygen. In a statement, the former Union minister held the Centre "fully responsible" for the oxygen crisis and demanded, without naming Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, that he be sacked immediately. Chavan also recalled the Union health secretary's remarks made in a press conference on October 20 that India was in an "extremely comfortable position when it came to medical oxygen supply and that there was no shortage". Chavan said the health secretary had stated that the government was proactively planning to install PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen generating plants in 390 hospitals across the country. The health secretary had also said the Central government had initiated the import of one lakh MT (metric tonne) of liquid medical oxygen to address the anticipated surge in Covid-19 cases, Chavan stated. "It is clear that the government miserably failed to act in time to ensure adequate supplies of oxygen, resulting in an unprecedented oxygen crisis," the former Maharashtra chief minister said. The senior Congress leader also said that "desperate" calls were being made every minute by hospitals and patients for medical oxygen. Hospitals are refusing to admit patients and reports of patients dying due to the lack of oxygen are pouring in from all over the country, he stated. "The government must answer how did the ministry assume that we (the country) were in an extremely comfortable position when it comes to the supply of medical oxygen. "Why prompt, effective action was not taken to import the planned 1 lakh MT liquid medical oxygen during the past five months?" Chavan asked. He sought to know whether only 33 out of the planned PSA oxygen generators have been installed in hospitals so far. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's self-proclaimed victory over the Covid-19 pandemic at the World Economic Forum had left the global community aghast, particularly as more than 50 countries have banned incoming flights from India. And now India is desperately asking for oxygen and other medical supplies from those countries," Chavan said. He said the people are paying a huge price for this "incompetent leadership", which with complacency and callousness, has driven India to this catastrophe. Chavan also said he was appalled by the April 26 statement of the (Union) Home Ministry claiming enough availability of oxygen. "It shows the government is still in a denial mode. Relatives of COVID patients who have died due to lack of oxygen want answers. I demand that the minister of health and others responsible for this tragedy be sacked immediately," he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-catastrophe-caused-due-to-incompetent-leadership-prithviraj-chavan-980100.html
28-04-2021||West||India-France Varuna exercise concludes||The 19th in the series of Varuna exercises between Indian and French navies – aimed at strengthening cooperation between the two blue-water forces concluded in the  Arabian Sea on Tuesday. Conducted from 25 - 27 April, the exercise witnessed high tempo-naval operations at sea, including advanced air defence and anti-submarine exercises, intense fixed and rotary wing flying operations including cross deck helicopter landings, tactical manoeuvres, surface and anti-air weapon firings, underway replenishment and other maritime security operations. Units of both navies honed and enhanced their war-fighting skills to demonstrate their ability as an integrated force to promote peace, security and stability in the maritime domain. “The common understanding of the two navies in executing maritime operations was evident right from the start of the exercise wherein the entire planning was carried out through virtual meeting and the exercises were conducted completely in the non-contact format,” an Indian Navy press statement said. The seamless coordination, precise execution of manoeuvres, and accuracy in complex exercises characterized the conduct of Varuna-2021 and has helped further strengthen mutual confidence, interoperability and sharing of best practices between both Navies. From the Indian Navy’s side, guided-missile stealth destroyer INS Kolkata, guided-missile frigates INS Tarkash and INS Talwar, fleet support ship INS Deepak, with Seaking 42B and Chetak integral helicopters, a Kalvari class submarine and P8I Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft, will participate in the exercise. The French Navy was represented by the Aircraft Carrier Charles-de-Gaulle with Rafale-M fighter, E2C Hawkeye aircraft and helicopters Caïman M and Dauphin embarked, Horizon-class Air defence destroyer Chevalier Paul, Aquitaine-class multi-mission frigate FNS Provence with a Caïman M helicopter embarked and command and supply ship Var. INS Tarkash will continue to exercise with the French Navy’s Carrier Strike Group (CSG) from 28 April-1 May 2021 participating in advanced surface, anti-submarine and air-defence operations with the French CSG.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-france-varuna-exercise-concludes-980114.html
28-04-2021||West||Coastal Konkan dotted with forts, but only a few get tourists||The coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra is dotted with 63 forts but hardly a dozen are well-known and visited by tourists, says Raghuji Raje Angre, a descendent of the legendary Maratha Navy's Admiral Kanhoji Angre. “If one decides to visit all the forts in the Konkan region, it will take at least 104 weekends. The forts in the region are of great historical significance as they were built 800-1,000 years ago,” said Angre. The Konkan coast from Vasai to Vengurla is endowed with rich bio-diversity and the 720-km stretch has everything from a metropolitan city like Mumbai to small villages.  “The belt has many beaches, forts, harbours and waterfalls -- all great tourist attractions,” Angre said, while speaking on ‘Sea Forts’ at a webinar series on Konkan hosted by the Directorate of Tourism. The talk was moderated by Hanumant Hede, Deputy Director (Tourism) Regional Office, Konkan Division, Navi Mumbai, which dealt with forts along the Arabian Sea. Angre shared valuable information on some of the lesser-known forts in the region, including Karnala Fort, located inside the Karnala Bird Sanctuary, and Sagargad Fort, surrounded by lush green hills; about 150 years ago, a British Colonel, Meland, built retreat homes there. He said the nearby Siddheshwar Falls is a great place to visit during the monsoon. He then spoke about the ramparts of Kolaba fort, which have stood the test of time and was the main station of the Maratha Navy. “Suvarnadurg is a fort located on a small island in the Arabian Sea, near Harnai in Konkan. It was conquered by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in 1660 and was an important strategic point for the Marathas. Kanhoji Angre started his career here. The fort also includes another small land fort called the Kanakadurg and other land side forts such as Bankot fort, Fattegad fort and Gova fort,” he said. “The Khanderi fort was recently renamed as Kanhoji Angre Island. The main attraction there is the Kanhoji Angre lighthouse. One can see an amazing rock which, when struck with another stone, emits metallic musical notes, like Hampi musical pillars. Underi is a companion fort to Khanderi and has lesser tourism facilities,” said Angre. “The Chaul and Padmadurg forts are historical sea forts. The first European to have landed in Chaul was a Russian traveller called Athanasius Nikitin. One can witness the existence of a hitherto unknown rock-cut Buddhist cave at Agrav near Chaul. Situated near Murud-Janjira fort is the Padmadurg fort. It was built to counter Siddis. The shape of the fort resembles an open lotus, also known as Padma, substantiating its etymological significance. Numerous sculptures and motifs of the lotuses can be seen inside the fortress too,” he said. The Ratnagiri or Bhagawati fort is situated near the Ratnagiri docks and is famous for the Goddess Bhagawati temple. Jaigad fort is a historical landmark and Jaigad harbour near the fort is one of the best harbours. The palace of Kanhoji Angre lies in the middle of the fort along with temples of Lord Ganesh and Hanuman within the premises. Ganpatipule, Kolisare, Lakshmikeshav and Malgund are the places one can visit around Jaigad. “The Vijaydurg fort is known as the Gibraltar of Asia and is a masterpiece of ancient architecture. It was a prominent location for the Maratha warship. It was constructed during the regime of Raja Bhoja II of the Shilahar dynasty and restructured by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. It served as a strong naval base for Admiral Kanhoji Angre. The Devgad Fort is an important fort in Sindhudurg district. It was under the control of Kanhoji Angre for a long period. The beauty of the fort enthrals the tourists and offers a panoramic view of the sea,” added Angre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coastal-konkan-dotted-with-forts-but-only-a-few-get-tourists-980142.html
28-04-2021||West||Hiding figures during pandemic can backfire: Aaditya Thackeray||Hiding figures during a pandemic could backfire, Maharashtra’s Tourism Minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray said, rejecting the BJP charge that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is hiding Covid-19 figures. “Let is be clear…in a pandemic situation, if we hide figures it would boomerang…this is not done and we would never do it,” Aaditya said. “If fact, if figures are more, let it be real.... we are with the doctors,” said Aaditya, the son of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Speaking to a Marathi channel, he said that the government is focused on the 3Ts concept: Tracking, Testing and Treating. “The figures can be gauged from the positivity rate,” he said. According to Aaditya, who also holds the environment and protocol portfolios, said that the RT-PCR is the gold standard among several tests, and the government is committed to increasing the testing. The comment comes a day after former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said: “Decreasing number of tests in the state including Mumbai, low number of RT-PCR tests, increased risk of infection, 20 per cent of the total deaths in the state are in Mumbai, old records are not updated, accurate information is not available for Coronavirus fight." Asked about this, Aaditya said: “We do not want to politicise it…but can look at the figures of other states including BJP-ruled states.” When pointed out that the chief minister is generally not seen in the field, he said: “A general sits in the war room controlling things…the chief minister is there monitoring everything, speaking to ministers, guardian ministers and officials.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hiding-figures-during-pandemic-can-backfire-aaditya-thackeray-980179.html
28-04-2021||West||After Gujarat HC rap, policy on covid-19 patients' admission through 108 service scrapped||A day after being admonished by Gujarat high court, the Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC) on Wednesday scrapped its controversial "policy" that mandated coronavirus infected patients' admission in hospitals only through 108 medical emergency service. The court had criticized the government after complaints were made including a petition stating that covid-19 patients, who reached on their own, were dying outside hospitals as they were denied admission. Announcing the withdrawal of the policy, the civic authority in a release stated, "From 29th April, 8 AM onwards anyone can use 108 service or private ambulance or any private vehicles or just walk in for reaching all covid hospitals in the city and admission shall be given by these hospitals if the patients require, so depending on the available beds in that hospitals." Due to this policy, many covid-19 patients died outside hospitals as they had reached on their own instead of the ambulance service. The court had questioned this policy earlier this month. Meanwhile, advocate Amit Panchal had filed a plea in the court stating that two patients had passed away outside Dhanvantri hospital at GMDC ground which was opened for the public on Monday. He highlighted that the two patients who had reached the hospital on their own were denied admission due to this policy. The note also stated that "all private hospitals providing covid treatment in the city of Ahmadabad shall provide 75% of their existing operational capacity for Covid-19 treatment. This means that only 25% of beds shall be made available to non-Covid patients in view of the existing emergency. This would provide additional 1000 beds to the city of Ahmedabad for covid treatment." The corporation also withdrew the requirement of an Aadhar card for admission in some hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-gujarat-hc-rap-policy-on-covid-19-patients-admission-through-108-service-scrapped-980207.html
28-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Senior citizen gives away bed for younger patient, passes away||This is a real-life story of an octogenarian that is touching and inspirational. Narayan Dabhadkar, a resident of Wardha Road in Nagpur, set an example that exemplified the power of good. The 85-year-old RSS worker, popularly known as Dabhadkar Kaka, gave up his bed in a civic-run hospital in Nagpur to someone who needed it more. And also gave his life – making the supreme sacrifice. This comes at a time when India is reeling under the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and people are facing problems related to queues related to diagnostic tests and arrival of reports, struggling for hospital beds, Remdesivir injections and oxygen cylinders. Dabhadkar's family is now in home quarantine at their Nagpur residence. On April 21, Dabhadkar was taken to Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR) run by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) after his oxygen levels dropped. His grandson-in-law took him to the hospital in an ambulance.  “Doctors examined him and X-ray reports showed that his lungs were badly affected,” said his daughter Asawari Kothiwan. After he got a bed, he heard something amiss in the corridor – where people were arguing, fighting for a bed. At that every moment, he made up his mind to give the bed to someone else. “The formalities were done and he got the bed….he spoke to me over the phone and told me his decision…I told him that it took eight hours of struggle to get a bed. The doctors also counselled him,’ said Asawari as her voice choked with emotion. “I am 85 now, have lived my life, you should offer the bed to his man instead, his children need him,” he told the doctors and his relatives. An ambulance was called again and he returned home, where he passed away a couple of days later. "We don't know who got the bed but my father showed the way and what selfless service is," said Asawari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-senior-citizen-gives-away-bed-for-younger-patient-passes-away-980217.html
28-04-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 985 new Covid-19 deaths, 63,309 new cases||In an alarming trend, the daily Covid-19 death count of Maharashtra continued to scale northwards with the 24-hour casualties nearly hitting the 1000-mark on Wednesday. The state reported 985 deaths, the highest since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. In the last 24 hours, 63,309 new cases were reported taking the progressive total to 44,73,394. The death toll stands at 67,214. The total active cases in the state now stand at 6,73,481. According to the Public Health Department, the rise in the death toll is because of the reconciliation of old figures. Of these 985 deaths posted on Wednesday, 392 were of the previous 48 hours and 251 were of last week. Last Thursday, 568 Covid-19 deaths were reported, while on Friday (773),  Saturday (676), Sunday (832), Monday (524), Tuesday (895).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-985-new-covid-19-deaths-63309-new-cases-980235.html
