29-04-2021||In Perspective||The Peltzman Effect in Covid era||Though experts had warned of the second wave last year itself, the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks across India and the rest of the world has caught both governments and people off guard. While the reasons for the second wave are many, what is different this time is the decline in the usage of PPE kits, the reluctance of authorities to impose lockdowns, and avoiding sealing of houses or barricading areas reporting these cases. What is noticeable is that states and hospitals are desperately seeking oxygen. Exponentially spiralling cases have exposed the fault lines in the health infrastructure. A huge number of these cases can be attributed to the vaccine rollout which has induced people to abandon safety measures like wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and practicing personal hygiene. When the vaccination drive started last month, people jubilantly posed for photos after getting the first jab and circulated it among their friends. Many felt they could discard all covid-appropriate behaviour from the very next day. Was this change due to the change in perception of the risk of contracting the virus? In an article titled “Risk Compensation & Covid-19 vaccines “published in ACP (American College of Physicians) Journal on March 2, 2021, doctors Brit Trogen of Langone Health and A L Caplan of Langone Medical Centre, New York have highlighted this behavioural change among people to what is called as the Peltzman effect. They refer to risk compensation theory which states that in situations that are perceived as risky, people naturally adjust their behaviour, compensating to minimise that risk. To quote them, “from the start, those who perceived the novel coronavirus as threatening would in most cases, wear masks, wash their hands, and avoid large crowds. But the effects of risk compensation tend to fade over time as the novelty of a threat wears off and pandemic fatigue sets in. As the number of people vaccinated increases, this effect may also grow due to a misplaced sense of security in “herd immunity” long before widespread immunity is truly present." Accidents and deaths This phenomenon is named the “Peltzman Effect” after University of Chicago economist Sam Peltzman”. In the late 1960s, the US government made the wearing of seat belts mandatory in response to an increase in motor accidents and deaths. Peltzman wanted to find out whether the introduction of such measures and improved car safety technologies led to decreases in automobile death rates. Sam Peltzman published his findings in his article titled “The Effects of Automobile Safety Regulation”, in the Journal of Political Economy in 1975. He found that there was no decrease in automobile death rates. Drivers felt safer with the new safety measures and responded by driving recklessly resulting in an increase in accidents. The very measures taken to protect drivers from the consequences of bad driving encouraged bad driving! While the safety measures like airbags or seat belts or antilock brakes made the occupants safer it made the bystanders or non-occupants like pedestrians or bicyclists wearing helmets less safe because of the rash driving by the drivers. Peltzman effect explains that individuals are more likely to take greater risks when they feel protected. Mere implementation of safety measures like vaccination may not produce the desired results. Safety measures should produce behavioural changes among people—changes that reduce risk and not increase it. For example, studies on safety measures found that drivers with antilock brakes changed their behaviour for the worse by driving faster and driving closer to the cars in front and braking harder than before. Similar is the case with Indian laws that require two-wheeler riders to wear helmets while driving. The success of this law not only requires riders to comply with the law and wear helmets but also a change in their behaviour. Though two-wheeler users know that helmets protect them, most of them dislike helmets for various reasons and would drive recklessly if they were to wear helmets. The Peltzman Effect is relevant today in understanding the impact and efficacy of vaccination drives. It can be used to study individuals who get a sense of security after being vaccinated may engage in riskier behaviour. They must be nudged to change their behaviour and encouraged to follow all safety measures. Achieving this may require a trade-off like not imposing a complete lockdown or allowing limited gatherings in weddings, malls, etc. (The writer is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a former banker; he currently teaches at Manipal Academy of BFSI, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-peltzman-effect-in-covid-era-980260.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||PDO suspended over Covid-19 norms violation||Zilla panchayat Chief Executive Officer M L Vyshali has suspended Kunchenahalli Gram Panchayat Development Officer for not implementing the guidelines with regard to wedding ceremonies during lockdown enforced by the state government to contain spread of Covid-19. The suspended officer has been identified as S Kantharaj. A team of officials visited the venue of wedding ceremony in Kunchenahalli Gram Panchayat limits and found the presence of more than 50 people there. The team slapped fine on organisers and submitted a report to the chief executive officer seeking suspension of panchayat development officer. Based on the report, the officer has been suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pdo-suspended-over-covid-19-norms-violation-980252.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Drunkard kills children, wife||A drunkard man allegedly killed four of his family members including his wife and children at Chamegowdanahundi, Satgur taluk, late Wednesday. Manikantaswamy killed his wife Ganga (28), two sons Rohith (4), Samrat (2) and his mother-in-law Kenpajamma (60). According to the police, Manikantaswamy was in an inebriated condition and had a clash with his family members. He attacked them with an iron rod. Satgur Police Sub-inspector Divya visited the spot. The accused is absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-drunkard-kills-children-wife-980472.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC presents Rs 6.13 cr surplus budget||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) presented a Rs 6.13 crore surplus budget for the year 2020-21, with a total revenue of Rs 646.95 crore and expenses of Rs 981 crore. The opening balance is Rs 34.07 crore. With the outbreak of Covid-19, for the first time, the budget was virtually presented by Chairperson of the Tax, Finance and Appeals standing committee M S Shobha, on Thursday.  In the light of the Covid pandemic, the MCC has reserved Rs 6.50 crore to contain the spread of the infection and to offer treatment to economically poor people. It has decided to give Rs 5 lakh compensation to a staffer, who dies of Covid. In addition, Rs 7.50 crore is reserved to establish MRI scanning and other testing centres. The MCC is expecting Rs 188 crore from property tax and khatha transfer. It had collected only Rs 132.16 crore in the last financial year. The MCC had a target to collect Rs 157.70 crore. Under water tax and UGD head, the MCC is anticipating a revenue of Rs 65 crore. Rs 9 crore is expected from trade licence, Rs 4.25 crore from rent and Rs 70.27 crore from government grants. Shobha proposed to ease the payments of tax with the support of banks. There is a plan to establish cash deposit machines The MCC has planned to establish a plant, which produces diesel from plastic waste.  In addition, the MCC is planning to replace existing vehicles with battery operated vehicles. The MCC has come up with a proposal to address long-pending solid waste problem through bio-mining methods. Three lakh tonne of waste deposit on 15 acres land in Vidyaranyapuram will be cleared and the MCC has earmarked Rs 14.38 crore for the purpose. In addition, Rs 10 crore is reserved to procure machinery and other equipment for Solid Waste Management plants in Vidyaranyapuram, Kesare and Rayanakere. Other projects include, beautification of parks, circles, underpass near Jaganmohan Palace, water testing units, illumination of MCC main building round the year as part of the centenary celebration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-presents-rs-613-cr-surplus-budget-980564.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt alive for poor during Covid, Somashekar tells Mahesh||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar took severe exception to the comments of JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh against the government, district administration and the minister. The minister said that the administration is alive and is working for the welfare of poor people. Speaking to reporters here, on Thursday, Somashekar said, "The district administration and others are making all efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. But, KR Nagar MLA Mahesh has no commitment to serve the people." “I have held separate meetings for each Assembly segment in Mysuru district. But, Mahesh failed to attend the meeting in his KR Nagar segment,” he said. It has to be mentioned that Mahesh had accused the government, the minister and the district administration that they had failed to manage the pandemic situation. The MLA has asked if the minister and administration were alive. “We are alive for the poor and needy people. I have conducted meetings in 10 out of 12 Assembly segments of Mysuru district. All MLAs and MPs have attended the meeting. But, he did not,” he said. If Mahesh had concern for his people, he should have attended the meeting. The people of the district will decide, who is alive and who is dead, he said. "As many as 50% beds, including ICU and ventilator, in private hospitals, are reserved for Covid patients. We are treating all, poor and rich, equally and there is no prejudice. I get a minimum of 10 phone calls, seeking recommendation for beds. But, I will never influence to allot beds for particular patients,” he said. "The authorities of the district administration and health professionals are working round the clock to fight Covid. We have been making all possible efforts to arrange beds to all the needy infected persons. We have taken all measures to ensure treatment to everyone. Our aim is to make Mysuru free of Covid,” he said. Somashekar said, "Necessary medicines are supplied to the hospitals in Mysuru district. Even Remdesivir injections and 100 ventilators have arrived in Mysuru and 50 of them have been released." MP Pratap Simha also took exception to the MLA and said that five ventilators had been provided to KR Nagar and two of them were shifted to the district hospital and the remaining three are still not used. The government and the authorities concerned are making all efforts to ensure the safety of the people, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-alive-for-poor-during-covid-somashekar-tells-mahesh-980567.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC Vishwanath opposes govt’s decision to sell land to JSW Steel||MLC A H Vishwanath opposed the state government, for taking a decision in a hurry, to sell land to Jindal-led JSW Steel in Ballari. Addressing media persons here, on Thursday, he asked, what was the urgency for the government to prepare an absolute sale deed to sell around 3,667 acres of land to the company? Vishwanath pointed out that it was the same B S Yediyurappa and his party leaders, who opposed the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government, from selling the land and had even staged a dharna in the Vidhana Sabha. Now, the same Yediyurappa-led government has decided to sell the land to the private company, he said. The company is not a public undertaking. They become the owners of the land. The government is selling the land at around Rs 1.2 lakh per acre, which is a throw away price, he said. The decision of the government, at a time when the whole state is reeling under the crisis of Covid and lockdown, has raised suspicions. The government might have conspired to take a decision at this juncture, as it may go unnoticed, due to the existing crisis, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-vishwanath-opposes-govt-s-decision-to-sell-land-to-jsw-steel-980568.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt has not tumbled in controlling Covid: Ravi||BJP general secretary C T Ravi on Thursday defended the state government, saying that it has not failed in controlling the Covid situation. Addressing media persons, here, he said, "The government had anticipated that the second wave would double the impact and had made necessary arrangements. But, it was caught off guard as the spread was almost 15 times more than it was expected. But, the government has taken all measures to tackle the situation." The Congress-ruled states too are facing the same situation. The opposition should also speak about it. There are 48 countries in Europe and their population is around 74 crore. Even a powerful country like the USA could not prevent the deaths, during the second wave. All countries are facing the same situation. Everybody should join hands to fight against the novel coronavirus, he said. Covid-19 should be treated like a health emergency and it is not right to criticise the government, holding it responsible. Around 90% of the patients do not need hospitalisation. They can be under home isolation and seek doctor's advise. Around 10% of the patients in the hospital do not require oxygenated beds. But the patients are panicked and get worried if the facilities are not available, he said. To a query that more people from Chikkamagaluru are visiting Hassan for treatment, Ravi said, "Rs 650 crore is sanctioned for a medical college and super speciality hospital in Chikkamagaluru and works have started." However, Ravi refused to reply when asked why the BJP has not taken any action against MLA Basanagowda Patil Yatnal and A H Vishwanath, who have been criticising the party affairs. To the controversial statement of Minister Umesh Katti, Ravi said, "The minister could have told of offering jowar or ragi in place of rice. I will speak to the minister in this regard. Such statements do not bring honour to the party."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-has-not-tumbled-in-controlling-covid-ravi-980569.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Priest, mother attacked for refusing to conduct temple procession||The villagers have attacked a priest and his mother for refusing to conduct the temple utsava in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis at Kabbathi village in Hassan taluk. Priest Srikanth and his mother Shanthamma, who sustained injuries, are being treated at the district hospital. According to sources, Devegowda, Anand, Naganna and others had told the priest to hold the procession of the presiding deity Ranganathaswamy,  as part of a family wedding. However, Srikanth refused for the procession, citing Covid. This led to heated arguments between them. On Wednesday morning, they picked up a quarrel with Srikanth. When he tried to capture it on his mobile phone, they snatched the phone and thrashed Srikanth and even attacked his mother. Speaking to reporters, Srikanth said, "The villagers have threatened the others not to extend any help to our family. They have also disconnected the drinking water supply. We have just followed the Covid norms. Those who attacked us should be punished."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/priest-mother-attacked-for-refusing-to-conduct-temple-procession-980570.html
29-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||TiE pitchfest held, start-up gets Rs 1 lakh prize||Sapientury, a start-up, co-founded by S L Kushal and Komala Channa from Bengaluru-based RV College of Engineering, will receive a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh in May, during the TiE Global University Pitchfest, from the Mysuru chapter of The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE). TiE Mysuru chapter president Ajith Pai said, "TiE University Pitchfest – 2021 was conducted for university students and more than 48 teams from 26 institutions across Karnataka participated. As part of the competition, the teams pitched their ideas to a panel of experts, that included successful entrepreneurs, academicians and professionals.” He said, “K-tech Innovation Hub of IKP, partnered with TiE Mysuru, on this project, and offered three months free incubation and mentorship support to the top four finalists. A series of free workshops and mentoring sessions were organised by TiE for the benefit of the teams. All the teams were mentored and guided by TiE Mysuru chapter, its members and partners.” Pai said, “TiE Mysuru strives to provide an enabling ecosystem to students, to nurture them into quality entrepreneurs. Mahesh Rao, charter member and head of TiE-University Mysuru and other members contributed for the success of the event.” The four teams that made it to the final round are: Sapientury, Drona Automations, InfinityX Innovations and Broomstick. Sapientury, co-founded by Kushal S L and Komala Channa, is an IIMB-incubated, EdTech start-up that has developed a DIY Kit, coupled with online micro-courses for engineering students, to become industry-ready, by learning beyond the syllabus. Drona Automations, founded by Suraj Wodeyar from VIAT Muddenahalli, has developed an innovative Horizontal Sewer Pipes Cleaning Robot, to provide controlled cleaning of pipes. InfinityX Innovations, founded by Satyam Raj of Cambridge Institute of Technology, is working on accelerating the adoption of electric vehicles in India, with their automatic battery swapping stations, through an innovative battery pack and swapping cable setup. Broomstick, a Mysuru-based startup, is developing an innovative device for commercial floor cleaning for the Indian market. Broomstick was co-founded by Mehul Jain and K G Yogindra from The National Institute of Engineering, Mysuru. The panel of judges included Craig Abbott, managing partner, CWA Advisors, and board member, TiE New York, USA; Hemaltha Annamalai, former CEO and MD, Ampere Vehicles, and past president TiE Coimbatore chapter; and Viiveck Verma, founder of UpSurge Enterprise Solutions and board member, TiE Hyderabad chapter. They evaluated the pitches on parameters like, innovation, scalability, market opportunity, commercialisation and business model. The cash prize of Rs 1 lakh of TiE Mysuru chapter includes Rs 50,000 sponsored by D Sudhanva, CEO of Excelsoft. All teams will receive $1,000 Amazon Web Service (AWS) credits along with one-year TiE Mysuru Student Membership and participation certificates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tie-pitchfest-held-start-up-gets-rs-1-lakh-prize-980571.html
29-04-2021||Main Article||Lessons from Chamoli disasters||April 23, 2021. Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district suffered flash floods again. The previous one was on February 7, 2021. Both took a sudden and huge toll on human and animal life and led to economic loss by destroying the dams and roads constructed in the area. Both occurred because of avalanches possibly triggered by glacier-dam burst. Some environmentalists including this writer, argue that the avalanches were both the cause and effect of global warming (GW). Cause: The loss of natural forest cover through large-scale deforestation over years for projects like dams and roads, contributes to reduced global carbon capture, and destabilises mountain slopes, making them avalanche-prone. Effect: Global warming-induced unseasonal/ excessive/ irregular melt of glacial ice and snow in the high Himalayas forms unstable ice-and-earth dams, which burst and trigger avalanches with the catastrophic release of water. Environmentalists are usually reviled and trolled. However, at the core of their contentions is the understanding that humans and human societies are fundamentally dependent on nature and the “web of life” including forests, trees, and other life on land and in water, for their growth and survival.  The Chamoli disasters are an indication of a larger, bad trend. The cumulative effect of mindless industrialisation following the holy grail of economic growth at any cost over the past century is cause for climate change. Youth across the world are demanding climate action to address and tackle climate change disasters. In the Indian context, the global warming-climate change connection of the Chamoli disasters may not be fully comprehended by many politicians. Therefore, it needs to be reiterated that climate change is happening because of global warming, which in turn happens because of the increase of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the earth’s atmosphere due to the burning of fossil fuels. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predicts three major effects of global warming and climate change that impact societies: Rise in sea levels due to polar ice melting. More extreme weather events. Desertification of many regions due to high temperatures. The major points at dispute are, the rate at which climate change is happening, and what countries must, should, and could do, to slow this down. Scientists argue that the following real-time imperatives can be an effective intervention: Gaining time by slowing down the rate of global warming by slashing carbon emissions and simultaneously increasing atmospheric carbon capture. Mitigating the effects of climate change by changes in national-level social-environmental-economic policies. Adapt to the expected social-environmental-economic effects of global warming and climate change. Reducing carbon emissions can only be done by reducing the consumption of fossil fuels. Technologists and economists suggest shifting to other sources of energy like solar, wind, etc., phasing out fossil fuels. However, they suggest this without questioning the existing international economic system based on continuing and increasing industrialisation-based economic growth, which is the root cause for growing carbon emissions. Environmentalists argue that this is like trying to bail out water from a sinking ship with a mug—quite ineffective. For carbon capture, technologists suggest energy-intensive solutions like “carbon sequestration” and economists suggest introducing “carbon credits”. On the other hand, environmentalists insist: Stop development-based destruction of forests, and of rural and urban natural green cover. Plant trees wherever possible. Change the economic-growth model of development and put people at the focus of development, because, as Prem Chandavarkar writes, “Our development model assumes an economy that must grow whether or not we thrive, whereas we need an economy that makes us thrive whether or not it grows”. World leaders are trying to balance carbon-emission-based development with the imperatives of survival of people and societies. Accordingly, some countries have prepared national action plans on climate change (NAPCC). India’s NAPCC states: “Emphasising the overriding priority of maintaining high economic growth rates to raise living standards, the plan identifies measures that promote our development objectives while also yielding co-benefits for addressing climate change effectively." Arguably, the expected benefits of economic growth in terms of raising living standards have failed miserably. India has fallen in several global indices which determine human development including living standards. The economic gap has widened than ever before. The poor struggle for survival while an industrialist buys a country club and golf resort in Britain with part of the wealth which multiplied during the pandemic. Our NAPCC stresses on economic growth, addressing climate change as merely a “co-benefit”. NAPCC is neither correctly focused nor adequate. Even what is intended falls short on implementation. During the global virtual summit on climate change held on April 22, 2021, India pitched for concrete action at "high speed" and on a large scale to combat CC, asserting that India was doing its part to deal with the challenge. On the one hand, infrastructure projects like dams, roads, airfields, and bullet trains are being aggressively promoted along with industrialisation, to boost economic growth to $5 trillion by 2025. All of these depend on fossil fuels, which increase carbon emissions and reduce the capacity for carbon capture by deforestation. On the other hand, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, mandated by Article 48A “to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country”, is engaged in rubber-stamping projects which do precisely the opposite. Will the twin Chamoli agonies serve as a wake-up call to our political class myopically focused on elections and unaccountable power? Hopefully, the primer on global warming and climate change and arguments made here will be understood by decision-makers. Inaction on climate change will force change in the political climate, already affected by the worsening pandemic. (The writer focuses on development and strategic issues)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/lessons-from-chamoli-disasters-980265.html
29-04-2021||National||Global community rushes financial and medical assistance to India to combat Covid-19 surge||The global community on Wednesday rushed much-needed life-saving drugs, oxygen cylinders and machinery that India needs to combat the massive surge in the coronavirus cases. India is struggling with a second wave of the pandemic with more than 3,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days, and hospitals are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. US President Joe Biden, who spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, has said that his country is sending immediately a whole series of help that India needs, including providing for those Remdesivir and other drugs that are able to deal with this. "We are sending the actual mechanical parts that are needed for the machinery they have to build a vaccine, and that is being done as well," Biden told reporters at a White House news conference on Tuesday. The president said he had discussed with Modi when the US would be able to send actual vaccines to India. "The problem is right now, we have to make sure we have other vaccines like Novavax and others coming on probably, and I think we will be in a position to be able to share vaccines as well as know-how with other countries who are in real need," Biden said. In London, Britain on Wednesday confirmed that following the first tranche of vital medical equipment a further 400 oxygen concentrators will be sent to India over the course of Wednesday and Thursday to help the country meet an overwhelming demand amid a “horrific” second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The thoughts of members across the House are with the people of India," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told the House of Commons. "We are supporting India with vital medical equipment and we will continue to work closely with the Indian authorities to determine what further help they may need." It was also highlighted that Britain was the first country to deliver support, as the first shipment of 200 ventilators and 95 oxygen concentrators arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday and is already being distributed to Indian hospitals. British Prince Charles made an impassioned plea as he backed an emergency appeal launched by his charity, British Asian Trust, and urged people to help India. "With support from the Indian diaspora, the British Asian Trust has launched an emergency appeal for India to channel this desire to do something about this terrible situation and help save lives,” the 72-year-old heir to the British throne said in a statement released by Clarence House. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has announced to provide 10 million dollars to India to support its fight against the unprecedented second wave of the pandemic. Trudeau said that Foreign Minister Marc Garneau had "direct conversations" with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar about how Canada can best help, including the donation of extra medical supplies. Singapore said on Wednesday that it has sent a consignment of oxygen cylinders to support India's Covid-19 pandemic response. The Republic of Singapore Air Force is transporting the cylinders on board two C-130 aircraft from Singapore to West Bengal, according to a report by the Channel News Asia. Second Minister for Singapore Foreign Affairs Dr Maliki Osman handed over the two planeloads of oxygen cylinders to India’s High Commissioner P Kumaran at Paya Lebar Air Base on Wednesday morning. Singapore investment firm Temasek has also sent medical equipment while India's Tata Group donated four cryogenic oxygen cylinders sourced from Singapore. That consignment landed in West Bengal over the weekend. China's Ambassador to India, Sun Weidong said that Chinese medical suppliers were working overtime on orders from India, at least 25000 orders for oxygen concentrators in recent days. "Cargo planes are under plan for medical supplies. Chinese customs will facilitate relevant process," Sun tweeted. South Korea has said that it will provide India with oxygen concentrators, Covid-19 diagnostic kits and other aid items. New Zealand Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta said on Wednesday that her country will give 1 million NZ dollars (about USD 7,20,365) to the Red Cross to assist India in Covid fight. "We stand in solidarity with India at this difficult time, and commend the tireless efforts of India’s frontline medics and healthcare workers who are working hard to save lives,” said Mahuta. The International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC) is working directly with the local Indian Red Cross Society to provide oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, and other crucial medical supplies. Meanwhile, an Indian-American non-profit body has raised nearly USD 4.7 million through social media towards Covid-19 relief efforts in India. "This is a collective effort that can save lives, defeat hunger, assure distressed people, and help India in its decisive fight against Covid-19," Sewa International USA said. On Tuesday, Sewa collected a shipment of 2,184 oxygen concentrators to be sent to India. The US India Chamber of Commerce DFW and the Indo American Chamber of Commerce of Greater Houston in partnership with the USICOC Foundation shipped out the first batch of 20 ventilators to the Indian Red Cross Society in Delhi to be disbursed to hospitals and field teams in hard-hit areas, a media statement said. According to official data on Wednesday, India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll crossed two lakh following 3,293 fresh fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-community-rushes-financial-and-medical-assistance-to-india-to-combat-covid-19-surge-980291.html
29-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Delhi HC questions Centre’s oxygen allocation order on supply from West Bengal, Odisha||The Delhi High Court Wednesday questioned the Centre's oxygen allocation order which allows the national capital to receive the life-saving gas from three far-off plants in West Bengal and Odisha thereby consuming a lot of time in transportation. The high court pointed out that Delhi has not been supplied with the complete allocated quantity of medical oxygen, that is, 490 metric tonnes per day for treating Covid-19 patients even for a single day and observed that actions are required to be taken on SOS basis. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, which heard the matter for four hours, observed that it three of the plants are situated in West Bengal and Odisha at a distance of 1300-1500 km and asked senior advocate Raj Shekhar Rao, who was appointed amicus curiae, to study the national allocation order and give suggestions on optimal usage of tankers and minimization of turn-around time. Rao was asked to communicate the suggestions to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who had initially opposed the idea of amicus looking into the national allocation plan. During the hearing, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said the issue was raised at the central war room. When the central government officer concerned denied it, Mehra said they would again do it, this time the communication would be in writing. "People will keep dying and you will keep sitting. So many lives we are losing because of your inaction. What about the promise of 480-490 Metric Tonnes of oxygen per day. How many states are facing the kind of shortage Delhi is facing," the bench told the central government officer. The bench said now the Delhi government has even arranged the tankers and what was the point of allocating certain quantity of oxygen to Delhi when it was not being supplied. "It actually pains my heart. I don't know what to say now. At least take empty tankers back by air," Justice Palli said. The bench further said, "You have to do it on SOS basis. You can't say one round of oxygen for Delhi will take 5 days. You can airlift empty tankers. If your turn around time is five days, we must say your allocation is bad." To this, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said whatever is humanly possible is being done and there is a complete coordinated effort in this regard. During the hearing, Mehta assured the bench that the government will reapply minds on mapping and said if the amicus looks at it, it will be counter-productive. To this, the bench said let the amicus come with suggestions and the Centre shall look into the logistic problems relating to transporting oxygen from the far away plants to Delhi. The court asked the Centre to file its response in this regard by April 30. When the court observed that reasons should be given by the officials in case they reject the suggestions made by the amicus, Mehta submitted that such a direction would not be feasible. "It is a dynamic exercise. Officers should not be spending time on recording reasons. That may not be necessary," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delhi-hc-questions-centre-s-oxygen-allocation-order-on-supply-from-west-bengal-odisha-980296.html
29-04-2021||National||First consignments of medical supplies from US expected to reach India by April 30||The first consignments of medical supplies from the US and Russia are expected to reach India in the next two days and Indian missions abroad were told to focus on procurement of oxygen-related equipment and critical medicines such as Remdesivir, sources said on Wednesday. They said India has sought from the US medical supplies, including ready-to-use vaccine doses, as well as raw materials for production of Covid-19 vaccines. The sources said an American aircraft carrying medical supplies is expected to land in India on Friday while a Russian plane is set to arrive by Thursday. With a large number of countries stepping in to send medical aid to India, the sources said no appeal for international assistance was made and that the supplies are largely being routed through the Indian Red Cross Society. The sources said India has been looking at oxygen-related items and critical medicines from abroad and Indian missions in leading countries have already been told to focus their efforts on their procurement. They said India was looking at specific products to buy and the list has been shared with the Indian embassies for their procurement. Some of it will come as grants to the Indian Red Cross Society, some of it is coming as individual procurement by public sectors undertakings, private sector and state governments, they said. They said the main focus of overseas procurement has been oxygen generating plants, oxygen concentrators and small and big oxygen cylinders as India is facing difficulty in transporting medical oxygen from various plants to the hospitals. "We were looking at oxygen itself but it is not easy. To bring oxygen, you need cryogenic tankers which are very limited in the world," said a source. The other broad area of focus is procurement of critical medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Favipiravir from the US and several other countries. When asked about reported comments by US officials at a recent background briefing that India has not made any request for ready-to-use vaccines from the US, the sources said the requirement of vaccine by India was taken up with the Biden administration. "The US is aware of our interest in procurement of vaccines, AstraZeneca or otherwise," said a source. The sources said the US could be having around 10 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine at present and it is expected to produce 50 million doses by June. They said there is no response to China's offer of support to India in view of the Covid-19 situation, and that there has been no restrictions on commercial procurements from that country. In case of Pakistan too, there was no response yet. The sources said the empowered group will take a call on whether to accept from foreign countries supplies like PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, masks and similar items as India is not facing their shortage. They said India is making commercial procurements of medical equipment from a number of countries, including Saudi Arabia, Singapore, United Arab Emirates. In response to a query on whether there was a shift from India's policy of not accepting foreign aid enunciated after the 2004 tsunami, the sources said lot of material are coming from several foreign countries but they are specific to oxygen supply and medicines. A number of leading countries including the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius have announced medical assistance to India to help it fight the pandemic. Singapore on Tuesday supplied to India 256 oxygen cylinders. "Timely support from a trusted friend! Appreciate the 256 oxygen cylinders that arrived from Singapore today. Value our cooperation to tackle the pandemic together," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi tweeted. France on Tuesday said it is sending to India five containers of liquid medical oxygen and each of them is capable of supplying medical oxygen to up to 10,000 patients per day. The country is also sending 28 ventilators and their consumables, as well as 200 electric syringe pumps. Under the European Union's Civil Protection Mechanism, Ireland is sending 700 oxygen concentrators, one oxygen generator and 365 ventilators to India while Belgium is supplying 9,000 doses of antiviral medicine Remdesivir and Sweden is providing 120 ventilators. Similarly, Romania is supplying 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders while Luxembourg is sending 58 ventilators to India. On its part, Portugal is in the process of shipping 5,503 vials of Remdesivir and 20,000 litres of oxygen per week. As part of its Civil Protection Mechanism, the EU plays a central role in coordinating its responses to emergencies in Europe and beyond. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that Australia will send to India 500 ventilators, one million surgical masks, 500,000 P2 and N95 masks, 100,000 goggles 100,000 pairs of gloves and 20,000 face shields. India has been reeling under a devastating wave of coronavirus infections and hospitals across the country are facing acute shortage of beds, medical oxygen and other supplies due to rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-consignments-of-medical-supplies-from-us-expected-to-reach-india-by-april-30-980297.html
29-04-2021||National||DH Toon | India better prepared for Covid-19 this year?||India is better prepared mentally and physically this year with more experience to beat the Covid-19 pandemic as compared to 2020, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-india-better-prepared-for-covid-19-this-year-980299.html
29-04-2021||National||IAF airlifts 4 empty oxygen tankers from Bangkok to Jamnagar||The Indian Air Force (IAF) airlifted four empty oxygen tankers from Bangkok in Thailand to Gujarat's Jamnagar on Wednesday, senior officials said. Moreover, two C-130 aircraft of the Singapore Air Force brought a total of 256 oxygen cylinders to the Panagarh air base in West Bengal, they added. India is struggling with the second wave of the coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. On Tuesday, the IAF airlifted nine cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai and Singapore and brought them to Panagarh. The IAF conducted various domestic flights on Wednesday to transport oxygen tankers from one place to another.| It used its C-17 aircraft to take eight oxygen tankers -- two each from Agra, Hindon, Gwalior and Chandigarh -- to Ranchi, the officials said. Another C-17 aircraft was used to ferry two oxygen tankers from Indore to Raipur and one oxygen tanker from Bhopal to Surat, they noted. Two oxygen tankers were transported by the IAF from Jodhpur to Jamnagar, the officials said. Another C-17 aircraft airlifted one oxygen tanker from Indore to Jamnagar, they added. On Tuesday, the IAF airlifted eight cryogenic oxygen containers from Hyderabad to Bhubaneswar, two from Bhopal to Ranchi and two from Chandigarh to Ranchi. Since last Friday, the IAF has been airlifting empty oxygen tankers and containers to various filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of the much-needed medical oxygen in treating Covid-19 patients. The IAF has also transported essential medicines as well as equipment required by the designated Covid hospitals in various parts of the country. India saw a record single-day rise of 3,60,960 coronavirus cases, which pushed its tally to 1,79,97,267, while the death toll due to the viral disease crossed two lakh with 3,293 more fatalities, the health ministry said on Wednesday. A total of 1,48,17,371 people have recuperated from the disease, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.12 per cent, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-airlifts-4-empty-oxygen-tankers-from-bangkok-to-jamnagar-980304.html
29-04-2021||National||Congress demands health minister's resignation over handling of Covid-19 situation||The Congress alleged on Wednesday that Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has failed to manage the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded his dismissal. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to identify those who are responsible for the current situation and remove them from his government. She also alleged that the Empowered Group of Ministers dealing with oxygen met after a year. "If Jordan's health minister can resign over the death of six people, then at least you should have some moral compulsion Dr Harsh Vardhan, you should resign. If you do not have that, then your boss, Prime Minister Modi, must wake up and dismiss you," Shrinate told reporters. "Kindly start identifying the useless people in your government and at least dismiss Health Minister Harsh Vardhan," she told the prime minister. Noting that Vardhan does not have the morality to resign, Shrinate said, "We demand that the health minister should be dismissed immediately." She said this is the same health minister who had said the end game of the coronavirus had come and made fun of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi when he warned of the worsening situation. "He (Vardhan) should apologise to the people of the country for the manner in which they are suffering," Shrinate said. Noting that the pandemic is the biggest tragedy of our times, she said the government should not indulge in blame game and that trying to mask numbers would not help. The Congress leader noted that many lives could have been saved if the management of the situation was better. The government should not blame the states for the situation as the National Disaster Management Act is in force and the distribution of resources and vaccines is in the hands of the Centre, she said. Taking on the health minister for his remarks that India is better placed in 2021 than in 2020 to handle Covid-19, the Congress leader said it is unfortunate that he is claiming so. "Who is responsible for the current situation and this mismanagement?" she asked. Shrinate also accused the Centre of misplaced priorities and asked on what grounds has it declared the Central Vista project essential. She said the kind of money that is being spent on the new Parliament building could have been utilised for ramping up health infrastructure at a time when people are seeking them desperately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-health-ministers-resignation-over-handling-of-covid-19-situation-980314.html
29-04-2021||National||Coronavirus India Tracker: State-wise Covid-19 cases, deaths on April 29||With 3.79 lakh fresh cases and over 3,000 deaths on Wednesday, India's fight against Covid-19 intensified. The country's death toll crossed 2 lakh. India is now the second-worst affected country by the virus after the United States. Covid-19 has claimed over 31 lakh deaths so far across the world. Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 18,376,524 as of April 29, 2021 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 2,04,832 as of April 29, 2021 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 1,50,86,878   Total Vaccination: 15,00,20,648  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-kerala-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-vaccine-deaths-on-April-29-980326.html
29-04-2021||National||India's Covid-19 oxygen crisis: why is there a deadly crunch?||A devastating surge in coronavirus infections has exposed India's dilapidated health infrastructure and a deep shortage of oxygen — a key treatment for seriously ill Covid-19 patients. AFP looks at the reasons behind the shortage: Oxygen therapy is crucial for severe Covid-19 patients with hypoxaemia — when oxygen levels in the blood are too low. "Some clinical studies show that up to a quarter of hospitalised (Covid-19) patients require oxygen therapy and upwards to two-thirds of those in intensive care units," community health specialist Rajib Dasgupta told AFP. "This is why it is imperative to fix oxygen supply systems in hospital settings as this is a disease that affects lungs primarily." Experts have long raised the alarm about shortages of medical oxygen in India and other poor countries to treat pneumonia, the world's biggest preventable infectious killer of children under five. But the government has for years failed to invest enough money into such infrastructure, experts say. The short answer: yes. Experts say the vast nation of 1.3 billion people is producing enough oxygen — just over 7,000 tonnes a day. Most is for industrial use, but can be diverted for medical purposes. The bottlenecks are in transport and storage. Liquid oxygen at very low temperatures has to be transported in cryogenic tankers to distributors, which then convert it into gas for filling cylinders. But India is short of cryogenic tankers. And such special tankers, when filled, have to be transported by road and not by air for safety reasons. Most oxygen producers are in India's east, while the soaring demand has been in cities including financial hub Mumbai in the west and the capital Delhi in the north. "The supply chain has to be tweaked to move medical oxygen from certain regions which have excess supply to regions which need more supply," the head of one of India's biggest medical oxygen suppliers Inox Air Products, Siddharth Jain, told AFP. Meanwhile, many hospitals do not have on-site oxygen plants, often because of poor infrastructure, a lack of expertise and high costs. Late last year, India issued tenders for on-site oxygen plants for hospitals. But the plans were never actioned, local media report. The government is importing mobile oxygen generation plants and tankers, building more than 500 new plants and buying portable oxygen concentrators. Industries have been ordered by the government not to use liquid oxygen. Oxygen supplies are being brought to hard-hit regions using special train services. The military has also been mobilised to transport tankers and other supplies domestically and from international sources. Emergency medical supplies — including liquid oxygen, cryogenic tankers, concentrators and ventilators — are being flown in from other countries in a huge aid effort. Oxygen shortages are still affecting badly hit regions despite the measures to boost supply, transport and storage. Reports have emerged of hospitals asking patients to arrange for their own cylinders and of people dying even after being admitted due to low oxygen supplies. Social media platforms have been filled with posts by desperate families hunting for cylinders and refills. Meanwhile, there is a growing black market for cylinders and concentrators sold far above their usual retail prices. The shortages have sparked outrage and frustration in Delhi. "The government did not plan in time," sales executive Prabhat Kumar told AFP. "Had it been prepared, we would not have to suffer like this for beds and oxygen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-oxygen-crisis-why-is-there-a-deadly-crunch-980338.html
29-04-2021||National||Jets to Dubai in demand to escape India Covid-19 horror||Indians from the millions-strong expat community in the UAE, stranded in their homeland during a catastrophic coronavirus surge, are swamping private jet operators with requests to whisk them back to safety. Fearing a prolonged flight ban between India and the Gulf state, they aim to use an exemption for private business planes that was in effect last year during the first wave of the global crisis. An estimated 3.5 million Indians live and work in the United Arab Emirates. The latest suspension in flights that came into force Sunday has shut down some 300 commercial flights that operated weekly on one of the world's busiest air corridors. Apart from low-paid labourers on short-term contracts, the sudden move has stranded members of long-settled wealthy families who travelled to India for holidays, work or on medical emergencies. Many are now in a panic as cases in India skyrocket, with 18 million infections and more than 201,000 people dead, and the daily fatality toll rising above 3,000 for the first time on Wednesday. T. Patel, a businessman living in Dubai, is working frantically to bring back his brother's wife and three children, currently stuck in Bangalore. "I am exploring the private jet option. It is a lot of money but if I have no other way of bringing them back, then I will go for it," he said. After the UAE shut its airspace to curb the spread of coronavirus in March last year, some residents raised the funds for seats on shared chartered planes that were permitted to fly to Dubai. Patel paid $10,500 to get his parents and niece to Dubai, nearly 20 times the cost of regular tickets. "I waited for two months and finally hired a private jet for $42,000, the cost of which was shared by a few equally desperate residents," he said. Dozens of charter flights zipped passengers from India to Dubai in the days before the new ban, after all commercial seats were snapped up, and charter companies say demand has since surged. A 13-seat jet flying from Mumbai to Dubai costs between $35,000 and $38,000, around 35 times the price of a regular ticket. Prices from other cities are even higher. But as demand soars, operators have been scrambling to clarify rules around private planes landing in the UAE. "Chartered flights need to get approval from the General Civil Aviation Authority and the foreign ministry to operate. But we do not know who is exempted to travel," said Tapish Khivensra, CEO of Enthral Aviation Private Jet Charter. Civil aviation has said UAE nationals, diplomats, official delegations and "businessmens' planes" are excluded from the ban, provided passengers observe measures including a 10-day quarantine. Long-term Dubai resident Purushothaman Nair said he was prepared to "spend a fortune" to return to the UAE. "My wife and I came to India for just 10 days. We have to fly back to Dubai at any cost," he told AFP. "There are many people who are willing to pay up. How can people with business interests and big responsibilities in the UAE afford to stay away for a longer period?" said Nair, who works in the government sector. "The fear of contracting the virus is a bigger worry." The less well-off are weighing the high cost against the risk of losing their livelihoods. "If I cannot make it in a few weeks, my job is on the line. My employer is already putting pressure on me and asking me to travel to the UAE via other countries," Jameel Mohammed told AFP. Mohammed had not seen his young son for two years when he was granted leave in March. He was thrilled at the prospect of a reunion but is now stranded in the southern state of Kerala. "I can't afford that kind of money. But if the choice is between losing my job and borrowing money, I will do the latter and fly back."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jets-to-dubai-in-demand-to-escape-india-covid-19-horror-980340.html
29-04-2021||National||Taiwan to send Covid aid to India this weekend||Taiwan has bought 150 oxygen concentrators and aims to send them to India this weekend to help it deal with a massive increase in Covid-19 infections, and is also looking at providing further aid, Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said on Thursday. Countries around the world have been rushing to help India alleviate the crisis. India's death toll from the coronavirus pandemic surged past 200,000 on Wednesday, worsened by shortages of hospital beds and medical oxygen. Wu told reporters that they had been working on an aid package for India and have already purchased 150 oxygen concentrators which should be able to be sent this weekend. "We are in the process of buying more oxygen concentrators and buying raw materials from overseas so our companies at home can produce even more," he said. An oxygen concentrator reduces nitrogen from an air supply to produce an oxygen-enriched air supply to a patient. Taiwan is also looking at providing other aid as requested by India, Wu added. While India, like most countries, has no formal diplomatic ties with Chinese-claimed Taiwan, the two have gotten closer in recent years thanks to their shared antipathy of Beijing. Taiwan sees India as an important like-minded democracy and friend, and there are close cultural and economic links too. Last year Taiwan accused China of trying to impose censorship in India after its embassy in New Delhi advised journalists to observe the "one-China" principle after newspapers carried advertisements for Taiwan's national day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taiwan-to-send-covid-aid-to-india-this-weekend-980343.html
29-04-2021||National||Facebook blocks #ResignModi campaign for hours as India's Covid-19 situation worsens||By Vlad Savov Facebook Inc. blocked posts tagged #ResignModi before restoring them hours later, stoking a controversy that’s erupted over government requests to remove social media content as India grapples with an escalating Covid crisis. Facebook said it barred the hashtag by mistake and not at the behest of the government, without elaborating. Facebook periodically blocks hashtags for a variety of reasons, some manually but many also based on automated internal guidelines. The error stemmed from content associated with the label and not the hashtag itself, the spokesperson added. The hours-long block, which came ahead of the final phase of lawmaker elections in a key state and effectively wiped posts calling on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resign, follows public outrage and official efforts to curb content critical of the way his government has handled the pandemic. This year, the country established new rules that require the likes of Facebook and Twitter Inc. to take down unlawful content quicker, triggering a debate over freedom of speech in the world’s largest democracy. “We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it,” a Facebook company spokesperson said. A fresh wave of the coronavirus has roiled India in recent weeks, leaving hospital beds, medicines and oxygen in short supply. Crematoriums are overrun, and India has reported several days of more than 300,000 new daily infections. Many have taken to social media to seek help for their predicament, inundating services like WhatsApp and Instagram with pleas for everything from hospital beds to medicines, CT scans, doorstep Covid tests, and even food for the elderly in quarantine. It’s also stirred public anger over the handling of the crisis. India’s government in response has ordered US social media companies to block posts, saying Covid-related misinformation risked spurring a panic and disrupting efforts to bring the pandemic under control. Twitter Inc. has removed or restricted access to Covid-related posts over the past month. Earlier this year, the social media giant had to permanently suspend more than 500 accounts and block access to hundreds of others in India, acceding to a government order to restrain the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content related to farmers’ protests. The company has said it reviews all valid legal requests it receives under the company’s guidelines and local rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-blocks-resignmodi-campaign-for-hours-as-indias-covid-19-situation-worsens-980344.html
29-04-2021||National||Coronavirus ravages India with over 3.79 lakh new Covid-19 cases, 3,645 deaths||India saw a record single day rise of 3,79,257 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,83,76,524, while active cases crossed the 30-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 2,04,832 with a record 3,645 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 30,84,814 comprising 16.79 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 82.10 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,50, 86,878. The case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,44,71,979 samples have been tested up to April 28 with 17,68,190 samples being tested on  Wednesday. The 3,645 new fatalities include 1,035 from Maharashtra, 368 from Delhi, 279 from Chhattisgarh, 265 from Uttar Pradesh, 229 from Karnataka, 174 from Gujarat, 149 from Jharkhand, 142 from Punjab, 120 from Rajasthan, 108 from Uttarakhand and 105 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 2,04,832 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 67,214 from Maharashtra, 15,377 from Delhi, 15,036 from Karnataka, 13,826 from Tamil Nadu, 11,943 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,159 from West Bengal, 8,772 from Punjab and 8,061 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. In many cities, hospitals are running out of beds as relatives of the sick crowd outside pharmacies and suppliers for medicines and oxygen cylinders. "We rushed to multiple hospitals, but were denied admission everywhere," said the son of an 84-year-old woman who died at home this week after a desperate search for a hospital bed and oxygen in Kolkata, capital of West Bengal state. The spiking body count has also overwhelmed crematoriums and graveyards, and caused a shortage of wood for funeral pyres. The government will open vaccinations to all adults from Saturday. It had previously limited shots to the over-45s and certain other groups. Several states have warned, however, that they do not have sufficient vaccine stocks and the expanded rollout is threatened by administrative bickering, confusion over prices and technical glitches on the government's digital vaccine platform. Many nations have rushed to help India, including the United States which on Wednesday announced it was sending more than $100 million in supplies. A first US military flight, carrying 960,000 rapid tests and 100,000 face masks for frontline health workers, was due to arrive on Thursday. The World Health Organization has said the virus variant feared to be contributing to the catastrophe in India has now been found in more than a dozen countries. But the body stopped short of saying it is more transmissible, more deadly or able to dodge vaccines. Ugur Sahin, the co-founder of vaccine developer and Pfizer partner BioNTech, said he was confident his company's shot works against that variant. In the United States, President Joe Biden on Wednesday hailed his nation's inoculation programme as one of "the greatest logistical achievements" in American history. More than 234 million doses had been administered by Wednesday in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control. The rollout has boosted hopes that the world's biggest economy is primed for recovery. Countries are looking to do the same in Europe, where more than 50 million known infections have been logged since the start of the pandemic, according to an AFP tally of official data Wednesday. The Netherlands on Wednesday ended a curfew and eased restrictions on outdoor bars and terraces. It followed similar moves in Italy, Portugal and Switzerland. France is hoping to join the trend and ease more restrictions this month. Outside of the wealthier parts of the world, however, governments are scrambling to find any available vaccine stocks so they can accelerate their rollouts. In addition to the shots developed in the West, Chinese and Russian candidates have also been exported and helped many nations launch their vaccination programmes. But there was a setback for Russia's Sputnik V jab this week, when Brazil's drug regulator denied permission to import it to the hard-hit South American nation on the basis that the batches they tested carried a live version of a common cold-causing virus. Some scientists have backed that decision, saying it could be a safety issue for people with weak immune systems. The Gamaleya Institute, which developed the vaccine, has denied the reports. A deal has been signed to produce Sputnik V in Brazil's neighbour Argentina, where the pandemic restrictions and the resulting economic collapse continue to punish the poorest. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-ravages-india-with-over-379-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-3645-deaths-980347.html
29-04-2021||National||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and moved into home isolation. Gehlot said he was asymptomatic and was feeling well. कोविड टेस्ट करवाने पर आज मेरी रिपोर्ट भी पॉजिटिव आई है। मुझे किसी तरह के लक्षण नहीं हैं और मैं ठीक महसूस कर रहा हूं। कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए मैं आइसोलेशन में रहकर ही कार्य जारी रखूंगा। “I will continue working in isolation and follow Covid protocol,” the chief minister said. On Wednesday, Gehlot’s wife Sunita had tested positive for Covid-19. Cutting across party lines, leaders wished Gehlot a speedy recovery. “Praying for the good health and fast recovery of Rajasthan CM Shri Ashok Gehlot Ji and his wife, Smt. Sunita Ji,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken, State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra, Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and others also wished for Gehlot's recovery. Gehlot has been monitoring the Covid-19 response in Rajasthan on a daily basis and has opened up his review meetings, held through video conferencing, with top officers of the state for the public. These meetings can be viewed on the chief minister’s social media pages and have been receiving good responses from the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-tests-positive-for-covid-19-980349.html
29-04-2021||National||Covid-19 sends Modi from 'vocal for local' to relying on global aid||Less than a year after taking a sharp protectionist turn, the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is relying on overseas help to fight the world’s worst Covid-19 crisis.Nations including the US, the UK, France and Germany have pledged aid after a second wave of the pandemic overwhelmed India’s healthcare system. Even China, with whom New Delhi is entangled in a border standoff, has offered assistance. The first flights from the US are scheduled to arrive Thursday, bringing supplies including oxygen, components to make more than 20 million doses of vaccines, as well as courses of the antiviral drug remdesivir and rapid diagnostic tests. That follows criticism that hoarding by richer nations of vaccines and the raw materials to make them has prolonged the pandemic, contributing to fresh outbreaks in developing economies. Despite being home to the world’s largest vaccine industry, India’s inoculation drive has suffered in recent weeks amid a shortage of key ingredients. As well, efforts to set up oxygen plants since October last year haven’t materialized because some vendors walked away while others still lack land or electricity connections. Last year, Modi made “Vocal for Local” the mantra for India to beat the pandemic, aiming to boost domestic manufacturing of everything from personal protective equipment to ventilators. That followed the government’s move in recent years to raise import tariffs to curb cheap goods from abroad and support small- and medium-sized local manufacturers. “The corona crisis has taught us the value of local manufacturing, local markets and local supply chains,” Modi had said in May. “Local is not only our need, it is also our responsibility. Modi’s drive to support domestic manufacturing dovetailed with a global push in recent years toward reshoring industries and shortening supply chains amid trade disruptions from the pandemic, as well as the US-China trade war waged by former President Donald Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sends-modi-from-vocal-for-local-to-relying-on-global-aid-980376.html
29-04-2021||National||Centre mulling waiving GST on Covid-19 vaccines?||The Centre may waive the 5 per cent Goods and Services Tax (GST) on Covid-19 vaccines to relieve the financial burden and encourage more people to take the vaccine The GST waiver is on the same lines of the import duty waiver for raw materials required to make the vaccine The implication of this waiver on revenue would be insignificant, the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulling-waiving-gst-on-covid-19-vaccines-980390.html
29-04-2021||National||Centre allows import of 17 medical devices including oxygen cannisters for 3 months as Covid situation worsens||The government on Thursday allowed the import of 17 medical devices for three months with mandatory declarations immediately after customs clearance and before the sale of such products in the domestic market. To meet rising demand in the ongoing pandemic, the government has allowed the import of medical devices like nebulizer, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cannisters, oxygen cylinders, oxygen generators, and ventilators. An order in this regard has been issued by the Food and Consumer Affairs Ministry. "Government under the leadership of PM@ Narendra Modiji permits importers of medical devices for making mandatory declarations required under Legal Metrology Rules, 2011 after custom clearance and before sale," Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. This will help fulfil the country's demand of medical devices required for Covid-19, he added. Due to the prevalent pandemic situation of Covid-19, the ministry in its April 28 order said that there was a steep demand for medical devices in these critical conditions on an urgent basis in view of the emergent health concerns and immediate supply of the medical industry. Therefore, considering the pandemic situation of Covid-19 and to meet the demand of medical devices, the central government under the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 "hereby permits the importers of medical devices to import the... medical devices for three months from the date of this advisory..." Imports of medical devices have been permitted subject to a condition that importers will make all declarations (by way of stamping or putting stickers or online printing) required under the Rules immediately after import/custom clearance and before sale of such products in the domestic market, the order said. Importers have been asked to inform the quantity of imported medical devices to state governments where import is made, immediately after the shipment, it added. The move comes amid a crippling shortage of oxygen supply in the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-import-of-17-medical-devices-including-oxygen-cannisters-for-3-months-as-covid-situation-worsens-980395.html
29-04-2021||National||Misleading, mischievous: No direction to Facebook to remove #ResignModi hashtag, says Centre||The Ministry also strongly opposed The Wall Street Journal's earlier article that claimed that the government threatened jail for employees of big tech companies such as Facebook and Twitter over not taking down posts related to the farmers' protest. Media has a very important role to play in acting as a force multiplier to the efforts of our front-line workers and medical professionals. At a sensitive time like this, we would urge the media to partner with crores of ordinary Indians as we collectively fight the pandemic. Facebook on Thursday said it had temporarily blocked a hashtag calling for the Prime Minister's resignation (#ResignModi) "by mistake" and that it wasn't done on government orders. The development comes amid reports that social media companies are being asked to remove posts that are critical of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/misleading-mischievous-no-direction-to-facebook-to-remove-resignmodi-hashtag-says-centre-980409.html
29-04-2021||National||Mumbai gravedigger works 24-hour shifts as India's Covid-19 death toll soars||Two or three months into the Covid-19 crisis, Mumbai gravedigger Sayyed Munir Kamruddin stopped wearing personal protective equipment and gloves. "I'm not scared of Covid, I've worked with courage. It's all about courage, not about fear," said the 52-year-old, who has been digging graves in the city for 25 years. India is in the midst of the second wave of Covid-19 infections that has seen at least 3 lakh people test positive each day for the past week, and its Covid-19 death toll rise past 18 million. Health systems and crematoria have been overwhelmed. In Delhi, ambulances have been taking the bodies of Covid-19 victims to makeshift crematoria in parks and parking lots, where bodies are burned on rows and rows of funeral pyres. Kamruddin says he and his colleagues are working around the clock to bury Covid-19 victims. "This is our only job. Getting the body, removing it from the ambulance, and then burying it," he said, adding that he hasn't had a holiday in a year. Though it is the middle of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, Kamruddin told Reuters his trying job and the hot weather has kept him from fasting. "My work is really hard," he said. "I feel thirsty for water. I need to dig graves, cover them with mud, need to carry dead bodies. With all this work, how can I fast?" Yet Kamruddin's faith keeps him going, and he doesn't expect aid from the government any time soon. "Our trust in our mosque is very strong," he said. "The government is not going to give us anything. We don't even want anything from the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-gravedigger-works-24-hour-shifts-as-indias-covid-19-death-toll-soars-980410.html
29-04-2021||National||Country has to follow 'Maharashtra model' to fight Covid-19: Shiv Sena||Reiterating the Shiv Sena’s demand to declare Covid-19 as “national calamity”, party's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that the country would have to follow the “Maharashtra model” to combat the waves of pandemic. "This is a national calamity,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said. According to him, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and repeatedly said that the pandemic needs to be declared as a “national calamity”. “Today, the Supreme Court and even high courts are taking cognisance and speaking on those lines,” he said, adding that the party thank the courts for holding their viewpoint. “We have been fighting the pandemic for a year. CM Thackeray is leading the fight here. Several attempts were made to defame the state, but now the others would have to follow the “Maharashtra model”… All will have to take cognisance of this model,” said Raut. Raut said that the situation is extremely serious. “People are terrorised, broken, shocked…they don't know what to do,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-has-to-follow-maharashtra-model-to-fight-covid-19-shiv-sena-980419.html
29-04-2021||National||40 countries to supply oxygen to India: Harsh Vardhan Shringla||India has prioritised imports of oxygen, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday, adding that 40 countries had pledged their support. "We are talking about close to 550 oxygen generating plants that are going to come in from different sources from all over the world," Shringla told a news conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-countries-to-supply-oxygen-to-india-harsh-vardhan-shringla-980420.html
29-04-2021||National||India will need 5 lakh ICU beds, 3.5 lakh medical staff in the next few weeks, says noted surgeon||Forecasting that the Covid-19 pandemic is only going to get worse, noted surgeon Dr Devi Prasad Shetty has said India will need an extra 5 lakh ICU beds, 2 lakh nurses and 1.5 lakh doctors in the next few weeks, and also suggested radical solutions to meet the mountainous challenge. At present, India has only 75,000 to 90,000 ICU beds and almost all are already occupied - when the second wave of the pandemic hasn't even reached its peak yet, he said. India is reporting about 3.5 lakh cases a day, and some experts say the number could go up to 5 lakh cases daily at its peak. While most of the newspaper headlines and prime time television coverage has been over the lack of oxygen for the patients in ICUs, "I am having sleepless nights for the next headline, which is going to be that patients are dying in ICUs because there are no nurses and doctors to take care of the patients," he said. "And this is going to happen. I do not doubt it now," said Dr Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, a chain of 21 medical centres in India, in his online address at the Symbiosis Golden Jubilee Lecture Series in Pune recently. He pointed out that for every patient who is tested positive, there are 5 to 10 people who are positive but not tested. That means more than 15 to 20 lakh people are getting infected every day in India even now. Statistically, five per cent of the positive patients need an ICU bed, irrespective of their age. On an average, a patient in ICU spends at least 10 days there. "So you can just imagine what the scenario is. Now what we need to do? We need to create at least five lakh additional ICU beds in the next few weeks," he said. "Unfortunately, beds do not treat patients. We need nurses, doctors and paramedics in that order, he said, pointing out that managing Covid patients successfully in ICUs depends mostly on nurses, not doctors. Even before the start of the pandemic, government hospitals across the country had a shortage of 78 per cent of medical specialists. "Now, we need to produce at least two lakh nurses and at least one and a half lakh doctors in the next few weeks who are dedicated to managing Covid for the next one year. Because the current pandemic is likely to last for about 4 to 5 months. And then we should be prepared for the third wave," he said. Dr Shetty then proceeded to provide out-of-the-box solutions for meeting that need. He said India has about 2.20 lakh nursing students who have finished their three-year GNM (General Nursing and Midwifery) or four-year B Sc courses in various nursing schools and colleges across the country who are preparing for their exam scheduled to take place in the next few weeks. He suggested that the Ministry of Health, along with the Indian Nursing Council, should consider these students as graduates and deploy them to work in Covid ICU wards for one year, after which they will be given graduation certificates. They could also be given preference over others in government jobs, he said. "Take the approach of drafting for the armed forces when there is an impending war with the enemy country ... This is not peacetime. It is wartime. "If that is done, I am convinced most of these girls and boys will join the fight against Covid. The battle cannot be won by doctors of my age. No war can be bought by fought by people of my age. You need young people. Most of them are vaccinated and they are naturally in a better position to fight Covid in case they get it. He said there are also 1.30 lakh young doctors today, working not in Covid ICUs but preparing for NEET exams to get into post-graduate courses where only 35,000 positions are available. An online test for NEET should be conducted immediately and results declared in a few days. After allowing the 35,000 seats, there will be still one lakh young doctors who are left out, who didn't get the PG seats. They should be offered a chance during the next year's PG selection if they work in the Covid ICU for one year, he said. Additionally, there are about 25,000 doctors who have finished their postgraduate training and haven't yet appeared for the exam. This batch of medical specialists should be told that they can skip the exam and get the degree provided they work in the Covid ICUs for one year, he suggested. Also, there are between 90,000 to one lakh doctors who graduated from overseas universities who haven't been able to pass a national entrance exam. "Identify 20,000 brightest of these kids and ask them to work in Covid ICU for one year for getting a permanent registration," he said. "If we can do this successfully in the next few weeks, believe me, we would have conquered the Covid battle. Otherwise, the consequences can be very very very serious, mainly because just admitting a patient in a Covid ICU and giving him some oxygen is not going to save their life," he concluded. "When the oxygen drops, they need proning. And somebody has to monitor their blood gases. All this is done by nurses and junior doctors. "The current doctors and nurses who are taking care of Covid patients across the country have done a fantastic job during the first wave. Now they are tired. They are fed up. They are burnt out. A number of them are getting infected. "Unless we create a parallel workforce for Covid ICUs, believe me, there can be a problem," he said. He acknowledged that all his speculation about the number of covid patients and the estimate of ICU beds needed may be wrong. "But what if I am right and it is too late?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-need-5-lakh-icu-beds-35-lakh-medical-staff-in-the-next-few-weeks-says-noted-surgeon-980426.html
29-04-2021||National||India's Covid-19 crisis may lead to oil supply glut, says Rystad Energy||The steep rise of Covid-19 infections in India will slash global demand for oil, leading to a sizeable glut, Norway's biggest independent energy consultancy Rystad said. The struggle in India, one of the world's largest oil consumer, will slash an extra 575,000 barrels per day (bpd) of oil liquids demand in April and 915,000 bpd in May 2021, disturbing the almost-balanced global oil market, according to the energy consultancy. "As infections continue to rise and its health system is overwhelmed, India's oil demand could lose more ground going forward, making further downgrades possible, both on magnitude and duration," Louise Dickson, senior oil markets analyst at Rystad said in a note dated April 28. India's fuel consumption rose in March for the first time in three months to its highest since December 2019, as economic activity gradually picked up. However, coronavirus cases have surged in India, leading to curbs on movement across the country, a move analysts say could hit fuel demand in the world's third largest oil importer. The sudden and very strict localised lockdowns imposed over the past few days will result in a 13 per cent demand drop in India in April compared to March 2021, Rystad said. "The India setback will sting, especially if (its) refineries are not able to reduce runs to an acceptable level to avoid inventory builds," according to the note. Earlier this week, oil cartel OPEC, together with Russia and their allies, stuck to their plans for a gradual easing of oil production restrictions from May to July, after OPEC raised slightly its demand growth for 2021 to 6 million barrels per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-crisis-may-lead-to-oil-supply-glut-says-rystad-energy-980430.html
29-04-2021||National||SC junks plea seeking probe into 'suicide note' of former Arunachal CM Kalikho Pul||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider a plea for probe into a 60-page note, purportedly written by former Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Kalikho Pul before his suicide on August 9, 2016. A three-judge bench, led by Justice U U Lalit, said it could not allow a complete stranger in criminal matters. NGO 'Social Vigilance Team' had filed the plea into the note left by Pul. The bench, including Justices Indira Banerjee and K M Joseph, gave the NGO, led by senior advocate Siddharth Dave, liberty to take recourse to appropriate remedy. During the hearing, the court sought to know the status of a complaint filed by the wife of the deceased leader. Though Dave said nothing happened in the matter, the bench said it cannot entertain a petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution. On August 9, 2016, the body of Pul, 47, was found in his official bungalow, which he was preparing to vacate. A note dated August 8, 2016 was found. It was titled “Mere Vichaar (My Thoughts)”. The note, attributed to Pul, suggested that he was allegedly under extreme pressure to pay bribes to judges, top law officers and lawyers, as well as other influential politicians. His wife, Dangwimsai Pul had then sought registration of an FIR on the basis of allegations made in the note. She claimed that the note contained allegations against a Supreme Court judge, who was party to the 2016 judgment which quashed the President's Rule in the state and led to unseating of her husband as chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-junks-plea-seeking-probe-into-suicide-note-of-former-arunachal-cm-kalikho-pul-980441.html
29-04-2021||National||Manmohan Singh recovers from Covid-19, discharged from AIIMS, says official||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has been discharged from the AIIMS Trauma Centre after recovering from Covid-19, news agency ANI reported. He had been hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 on April 19. The 88-year-old Congress leader had earlier penned a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for beefing up Covid-19 response. Singh had taken both the doses of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-from-aiims-says-official-980447.html
29-04-2021||National||India's billionaires hunker down in safety bubbles as Covid-19 rages||By Saritha Rai and P R Sanjai,Some of India’s richest people are forming bubbles with their families and staff, while others are leaving for homes outside of major cities as a virus resurgence overwhelms the country’s medical system and spurs other nations to shut out Indian travellers. “I’ve been indoors with my family and our staff, that’s my story,” said Kris Gopalakrishnan, one of the billionaire-cofounders of IT giant Infosys Ltd. who now runs a Bengaluru-based venture to support startups. The group are shunning outside contact and only eating home-cooked meals, he said. Byju Raveendran, the billionaire founder of India’s most valuable startup, online-education provider Byju’s, is confined with his extended family in a series of houses in Bangalore’s HSR Layout neighborhood -- popularly referred to as Unicorn Row given it’s home to a bevy of startups valued at more than $1 billion. The family’s personal staff are also sequestered with them, Raveendran said. “The support systems are strong and outside contact has been minimal.” Ambani, Adani India’s two richest people have moved to homes in less-populated parts of the country, as the virus hits the capital New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai particularly hard. Mukesh Ambani, Asia’s wealthiest man, has shifted from Mumbai with his family to Jamnagar -- a township in the state of Gujarat that’s home to Reliance Industries Ltd.’s massive twin oil refinery complex -- according to people familiar with their movements who didn’t want to be named discussing private matters. Billionaire Gautam Adani, the second-richest person in India, is with his son Karan Adani and other close family members at their home on the outskirts of Ahmedabad in Gujarat, a person familiar said. Representatives for the Reliance and Adani groups declined to comment. India is reporting record numbers of new cases every day, pushing medical facilities and crematoriums to the breaking point. People have been pleading on social media for everything from oxygen cylinders to food for the elderly in quarantine, and while parts of the country have gone back into lockdown, there are concerns another nationwide order could be disastrous for the poor and the wider economy. Diverting Oxygen International companies are joining local firms and tycoons in providing aid to India. Ambani’s Reliance Industries is diverting oxygen for medical use from its oil refining complex, while the Reliance Foundation, the group’s philanthropic arm, is also setting up a 1,000-bed Covid-19 care facility there that will provide free treatment to patients. A local media report said Ambani has flown to Jamnagar to speed up relief efforts. The Adani Group, which operates India’s largest port terminal, has been securing oxygen supplies from Saudi Arabia, Thailand and Dubai, according to a statement Tuesday. CEO Fund Startup titan Raveendran has been finding ways to help Byju’s 11,000 workers, many of whom he says are “struggling.” A CEO Fund has been established to meet the hospital expenses of staff and Raveendran says he has been coordinating efforts to corral beds, oxygen concentrators and medicines. Billionaire Sunil Vachani, founder and chairman of smartphone maker Dixon Technologies India Ltd., is sheltering in his Delhi home with family. They’re following a “no outside contact” protocol, while communicating with colleagues virtually, he said. Vachani is also is also overseeing a command center set up by Dixon to link up employees with doctors and source medication. Dixon set up a factory line to manufacture RT-PCR machines last year to bolster India’s Covid testing efforts and is now looking to scale that up, plus import oxygen concentrators that will land in a few days. “When people phone you from ambulances outside hospital gates, it’s distressing and you do your best to help,” Gopalakrishnan said by phone on Tuesday. “At the back of your mind, there’s also guilt whether you’re taking away the hospital bed from someone who needs it more.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-billionaires-hunker-down-in-safety-bubbles-as-covid-19-rages-980448.html
29-04-2021||National||Oxygen concentrator on way to Delhi for ill patient lands with CSK team||In a strange turn of events, an oxygen concentrator on an IndiGo flight from Bengaluru to New Delhi for a senior Covid-infected patient landed with the Chennai Super Kings IPL team, who were on a different flight. 68-year old A Ansari's son bought an oxygen concentrator from Bengaluru and checked it in on his flight to Delhi on Monday, but did not find the carton when he landed, multiple media reports said. A day after several enquiries, Anwar, said he was contacted by someone and later found out that the concentrator was picked up by a member (not player) of the Chennai Super Kings, who was travelling by Vistara. The baggage was found by one of the CSK players on Tuesday who alerted the airlines, The New Indian Express reported. An IndiGo statement to The News Minute said that they discovered the package mix-up through CCTV footage and confirmed that it landed up with passenger bags of a different flight. "These bags belonged to the players of the CSK IPL team who had arrived on a Vistara flight at the same time,” the statement said. IndiGo claimed that its ground team and airport partners liaised with the other airlines and retrieved the baggage from CSK's venue in Delhi. It said that the concentrator was safely delivered to the customer to whom it belonged. However, the condition of Anwar's father was not known. Delhi has been facing a massive shortage of hospital beds and oxygen for severly ill Covid patients with hospitals sending out SOS-es each day that their supplies are critically low.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxygen-concentrator-on-way-to-delhi-for-ill-patient-lands-with-csk-team-980509.html
29-04-2021||National||As bodies pile up due to Covid-19, Delhi to use dog crematorium site for human funerals: Report||India is currently battling with the second wave of Covid-19. On Thursday, the country reported a total of 3,79,000 new cases, a record high. The death toll has also reached alarming rates, with the country reporting 3,645 deaths. Owing to the rampant increase in deaths, the country's crematoria are overburdened and people are having to wait for days to have funerals. In Delhi, the civic bodies are scrambling to make space for Covid-protocol funerals and new pyre platforms are being added across to increase the capacity of crematorium sites. In NCR, some parking lots are being used for funerals due to a lack of space. “Temporary pyre platforms will be developed to cater to additional bodies. We are witnessing an increase of over 15-20 per cent in cremations daily,” said a corporation official. The crematorium site, which is currently not operational, was approved by the civic body six months ago. “With around 700 bodies already being cremated, we have to prepare for 1,000 bodies a day in advance to avoid chaos. We have also identified sites along the Yamuna to increase the capacity,” the report said, quoting an official. On Tuesday, till 6 pm, Delhi saw 696 Covid protocol funerals, while many others awaited their turn, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-bodies-pile-up-due-to-covid-19-delhi-to-use-dog-crematorium-site-for-human-funerals-report-980491.html
29-04-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks exemption of essential Covid drugs, equipment from GST||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for exemption from Goods and Service Tax (GST) to drugs like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, Favipiravir, and medical equipment used for treatment of Covid-19. It also sought direction for the lifting of GST on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, Bipap Machines, control measures and supportive care for Covid-19 patients. An NGO, 'Public Policy Advocates' through its founder Pritika Kumar filed the application in the pending suo motu case initiated by the Supreme Court to examine Covid-19 related issues. "The ongoing pandemic is a textbook situation when exercise of the power of exemption is a public necessity," it said. An exemption of 12% GST levied on the product, including Remdesivir, would lead to a further decrease in the overall cost of the product, thereby making it significantly more affordable to the common public who are in dire need of this critical drug, it added. The application filed by advocate Astha Sharma asked the court to direct the central government to invoke its powers under Section 11 of the Central GST Act 2017 in view of the ongoing crisis. "The power to exempt critical drugs and other medical equipment are in furtherance of the constitutional commitment of the welfare state to protect the right to health of its citizenry," the plea said. "The Right to Health in times of pandemic, assumes an ever more crucial significance since affordable healthcare and availability of drugs which are critical to fight moderate and severe cases of illness have to be given paramount importance. This would have the effect of preventing black marketing, hoarding of such drugs and other medical equipment, as well as ensure that the same is available to the citizens at affordable cost," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-exemption-of-essential-covid-drugs-equipment-from-gst-980510.html
29-04-2021||National||Randhir Kapoor tests Covid-19 positive||Veteran actor Randhir Kapoor tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.  The 74-year-old is the latest in a chain of Indian film actors who have been testing positive for the virus that has shaken India in a new wave. "Randhir Kapoor has been admitted to Kokilaben Hospital on Wednesday (28 April) for Covid treatment. His condition remains stable", said Dr Santosh Shetty, CEO and executive director of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/randhir-kapoor-tests-covid-19-positive-980512.html
29-04-2021||National||Plea filed in SC for ration, transport, cash transfer for migrant workers affected by Covid-19||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to provide dry rations to all eight crore migrant labourers or needy persons in view of hardships faced by them due to restrictions imposed to curb the second wave of Covid-19. The application filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of activists Anjali Bhardwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar contended that the problems and miseries faced by migrant workers during the lockdown in 2020 have persisted over the past year due to the continued economic distress. It has now got aggravated following  new restrictions and curfews or lockdowns. The plea said the Union government should resume its scheme of providing dry rations under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme, or any other scheme for those not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) or State PDS cards, for at least such time that the Disaster Management Act was in force by issuance of Covid ration cards. It also sought a direction to the central and the state governments to provide free cooked food through networks of community kitchens especially at places where distressed migrant workers congregated such as industrial areas, homeless shelters, bus stations, train stations and other areas to ensure no one remained hungry. The application filed in Suo Motu matter registered by the top court as "In Re: Problems and Miseries of Migrant Labourers" in 2020, pleaded for cash transfers equivalent to the notified minimum wage of different states to all migrant workers, besides travel by buses and trains at nominal fare. "It must be ensured that details of all welfare schemes put in place to benefit migrant workers are proactively disclosed by the concerned authorities," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-ration-transport-cash-transfer-for-migrant-workers-affected-by-covid-19-980513.html
29-04-2021||National||After government missive, Bharat Biotech cuts price of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin for state governments||Bharat Biotech, the maker of Covaxin, has announced that it would be supplying the Covid-19 vaccine at Rs 400 per dose to state governments, instead of the earlier quoted price of Rs 600. The announcement comes a day after the Serum Institute of India has reduced its Covishield price for the states to Rs 300 from Rs 400 per dose. In a tweet, SII's CEO Adar Poonawalla termed it as “a philanthropic gesture.” A statement issued by the company said "we wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing, which was determined by internally-funded product development, several operationally-intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities and clinical trials." Both the private sector companies have lowered the vaccine prices after the central government, on Monday, asked them to consider providing a rebate in the rates. The Narendra Modi government's missive in turn followed widespread criticism that the companies were allowed to profit hugely at a time of an unprecedented health crisis in the country. Several states like Delhi, Bengal, Telangana apart from the Congress etc opposition parties also questioned the dual pricing policy, under which the central government would continue to receive each vaccine dose of both companies at Rs 150 only for the inoculation drive covering the 45 years and above age population. The two vaccines - Covaxin, developed by ICMR-Bharat Biotech and made in India, and Covishield, developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by SII, are part of the ongoing vaccination drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-government-missive-bharat-biotech-cuts-price-of-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-for-state-governments-980515.html
29-04-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Another record high as India reports 3.79 lakh fresh cases||The eighth and final phase of voting in the West Bengal Assembly polls happened earlier today and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called upon people to cast votes to enrich the festival of democracy while following Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-another-record-high-as-india-reports-379-lakh-fresh-cases-980543.html
29-04-2021||National||Centre says over one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states||More than 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs and they will receive over 20 lakh more doses within the next 3 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. On media reports quoting some Maharashtra government officials that vaccines in the state are "finished" and adversely impacting the vaccination drive, the ministry said a balance of 7,49,960 vaccine doses is still available with the state for administration to eligible population groups. "It is clarified that the total Covid vaccine doses received by Maharashtra as on April 29 (at 8 am) are 1,63,62,470. "Of this, the total consumption, including wastage (0.22 per cent), was 1,56,12,510. Balance of 7,49,960 vaccine doses is still available with the state for administration to the eligible population groups," the ministry said. The Centre has so far provided nearly 16.16 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 15,10,77,933 doses, the ministry said. "More than 1 crore Covid vaccine doses (1,06,08,207) are still available with states and UTs to be administered. More than 20 lakh (20,48,890) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states and UTs within the next 3 days," the ministry stated. The Liberalised and Accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination will be implemented from May 1. Registration for the new eligible population groups started from Wednesday. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on CoWIN portal cowin.gov.in or through the Aarogya Setu app. Delhi has received so far 38,40,710 doses of Covid-19 vaccine and the total consumption, including wastage, has been 32,77,716. Therefore, 5,62,994 doses are still available, according to official data. Rajasthan has been supplied 1,36,12,360 doses and the total consumption has been 1,32,42,014, including wastage. The state now has 3,70,346 doses available. West Bengal has received 1,13,83,340 doses and the total utilisation, including wastage, has been 1,08,89,069. It now has 4,94,271 doses, the data stated. Chhattisgarh has received 59,16,550 doses and the total utilisation, including wastage, has been 56,09,386. The state has 3,07,164 doses available and 2,00,000 doses are to be supplied. Vaccination along with test, track, treat and Covid-appropriate behaviour is part of the five-point strategy of the Centre to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Vaccination against Covid-19 began in the country on January 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-over-one-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-980548.html
29-04-2021||National||Plan prepared to vaccinate all adults in 3 months: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday that a plan had been formulated to vaccinate all adults against coronavirus within the next three months. Kejriwal said vaccination centres would be set up on a large scale and those eligible must come forward to take the jab. "Had a meeting with the officials on vaccination drive in Delhi. Prepared a plan to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 3 months," he tweeted. "We will set up vaccination centres on a large scale. All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated." Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi "does not have vaccines" for the inoculation of people in the 18-44 age group and purchase orders had been placed with manufacturers for the same. The minister, however, said preparations to inoculate people in this category had been completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plan-prepared-to-vaccinate-all-adults-in-3-months-kejriwal-980552.html
29-04-2021||National||PM Modi calls Council of Ministers meet on April 30 as Covid-19 rages||In what would be the first such comprehensive consultation with all his ministerial colleagues over the second wave of Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet his entire council of ministers on April 30. The last meeting with all the Union ministers over Covid-19 had taken place on April 6 last year when the country was amid a 21-day lockdown after the first wave of Covid-19 had hit the country. That was also the first Council of Ministers meeting through video conferencing. Friday's virtual meeting comes a day before phase 3 of the vaccination drive kicks in enabling all 18 plus people to get the shot. A presentation on this could be made amid growing clamour in states about the shortage of vaccines and the demand for uniform vaccine pricing. The meeting is the second most important meeting after Modi held consultations with the chief minister of 11 states and Union territories last week, which saw concerns over oxygen supply and scarcity of life-saving medicines. In BJP's backyard, voices have been heard and an RSS leader even raised questions on what the BJP leaders in Delhi are doing to help the people. In the meeting, Modi is likely to tell his ministerial colleagues to go the whole log to counter the panic around the pandemic and help the people in their respective regions. The meeting comes at a time when the government is facing a lot of criticism on social media and otherwise as the number of corona patients soar high and the country's medical infrastructure gasping for breath. There is a strong buzz that the government could go for massive containment measures, including lockdown if necessary in 150 worst affected districts of the country. In a missive to states on Thursday, the health ministry has asked the states and UTs to identify districts with test positivity of more than 10% as the government plans out intensive containment strategy there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-council-of-ministers-meet-on-april-30-as-covid-19-rages-980553.html
29-04-2021||National||Hetero gets nod for Sputnik V Phase 3 trials||The subject expert panel of India’s drug controller had approved the proposal to start Phase 3 trials of Sputnik V vaccine by Hyderabad-based Hetero Biopharma. According to the minutes of the meeting of the Drug Controller General of India's subject expert committee (SEC), the pharma company has been asked to study and monitor the vaccine’s immunogenicity on Day 21, Day 28, and Day 42 of the trial. Earlier, the SEC had approved the emergency use of Sputnik V based on interim data from Russia and the positive results of phase 3 trials conducted by Dr Reddy's Laboratories. “Neutralizing antibodies and gamma interferon should be assessed during the study,” the SEC said in a recommendation at its meeting on April 23. Hetero Biopharma is among the six vaccine producers in India, who will be manufacturing the Russia-developed Sputnik V vaccine. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has entered into agreements with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Gland Pharma, Panacea Biotech, Stellis Biopharma, Hetero Biopharma and Virchow Biotech to produce 850 million doses of the vaccine in India. A portion of the vaccine will be exported to foreign countries. The SEC also allowed Bharat Biotech to unblind the participants in the Phase 3 clinical trials of Covaxin after the vaccine maker submitted the second interim safety and efficacy data about the vaccine. The approval would allow the participants who received placebo during the trials to get Covid-19 vaccines as the immunisation drive opens for those in the 18-45 age group. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the clinical trial participants between the age group of 18-45 may be unblinded upon the request of the participants or the principal investigator after they have completed two months after second dose,” the SEC said. The committee also recommended that the firm should present the complete safety and efficacy data along with causality analysis of all serious adverse events (SAEs) including deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hetero-gets-nod-for-sputnik-v-phase-3-trials-980572.html
29-04-2021||National||Foreign aid starts coming in; Centre says not looking at in policy terms||Two aircraft on Thursday have flown in nearly 20 tonnes of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines from Russia, while more are expected to arrive from the United States on Friday, even as over 40 nations around the world offered or pledged assistance to India to contain the second Covid-19 wave. The government, however, declined to officially call it a departure from its 16-year-old policy of not accepting foreign aid to deal with any crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is expecting to receive around 550 oxygen generating plants, 4,000 oxygen concentrators and 10,000 oxygen cylinders from foreign nations to deal with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which wreaked havoc across India. President Joe Biden’s administration in Washington DC announced that the United States would help India with 1,100 cylinders, 1,700 oxygen concentrators, 15 million N-95 masks and one million testing kits. A C-5M Super Galaxy and a C-17 Globemaster III aircraft of the American Air Force already departed from the Travis Air Force base in the US for India with the first consignment, while the second shipment would arrive next Monday. “I don’t think we are looking at it in policy terms, we are looking at it in terms of the situation that is very, very unusual, unprecedented and exceptional and we will do whatever it takes to meet the requirements of our people at this point of time,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said in New Delhi. He was replying to a journalist who asked if the Covid-19 second wave had prompted the Modi government to change the policy framed by the erstwhile Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime after the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami. “We have given assistance; we are getting assistance. It shows an interdependent world. It shows a world that is working with each other,” Shringla said, referring to New Delhi’s support to other nations with medicines and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to fight the Covid-19 outbreak in the early days of the pandemic as well as with Made-in-India anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. Modi’s predecessor Manmohan Singh had decided against accepting aid from foreign governments after the 2004 Tsunami, stating that New Delhi would use its own resources to respond to the calamity. The Modi government too had stuck to the policy and turned down offers from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and several other foreign governments for assistance to support relief, rehabilitation and reconstruction works in flood-ravaged Kerala in August 2018.   An aircraft from the UAE, however, on Thursday brought in 157 ventilators, 480 BiPAPs and other medical supplies to help treat the patients suffering from Covid-19. India acquired 12 empty cryogenic tanks from the UAE and would fly in six more next week. An aircraft from the UAE would also bring in 140 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen. A shipment of 40 metric tonnes of oxygen is expected from Bahrain, while 185 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen and 1,000 oxygen cylinders will come from Kuwait. The US has re-directed its own order of AstraZeneca manufacturing supplies to India. This will allow India to make over 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The US biopharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences already offered India 450,000 doses of Remdesivir. New Delhi is also trying to procure the drug from manufacturing units in Bangladesh and Egypt. The Modi government is also expected to get around 300,000 doses of Favipiravir from Russia and the UAE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-aid-starts-coming-in-centre-says-not-looking-at-in-policy-terms-980574.html
29-04-2021||National||US says its citizens in India denied admission in hospitals, advises them to leave||After several sick among them denied admission to hospitals, the United States has advised its citizens in India that they could “take advantage of commercial transportation options” to leave the country, where the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issued a Level 4 Travel Health Notice and the Department of State has issued a Level 4 Travel Advisory advising against all travel to India. “Direct flights between India and the United States are being offered daily, with additional flight options available to US citizens via transfers in Paris and Frankfurt,” the American State Department pointed out. The Level 4 Travel Advisory is the highest level issued by the American Department of State, which advised the US citizens not to travel to India or to leave the country as soon as it would be safe to do so due to the current health situation. “Access to all types of medical care is becoming severely limited in India due to the surge in Covid-19 cases,” the US State Department noted in its travel advisory. “New cases and deaths from Covid-19 have risen sharply throughout India to record levels. The Covid-19 testing infrastructure is reportedly constrained in many locations. (The) hospitals are reporting shortages of supplies, oxygen, and beds for both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 related patients”. It also noted that the US citizens were reporting that they were being denied admission to hospitals in some cities India due to a lack of space. Some states have enacted curfews and other restrictions that limit movement  and the operation of non-essential businesses, it added. The US had on April 20 last advised its citizens to avoid travelling to India, as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is raging across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-its-citizens-in-india-denied-admission-in-hospitals-advises-them-to-leave-980575.html
29-04-2021||National||Centre orders night curfew, stringent Covid-19 curbs in high caseload districts||The Centre on Thursday directed state and UT governments to impose stringent curbs on movement of people in districts having test positivity rate of more than 10 per cent and hospital bed occupancy of more than 60 per cent. The direction from the Home Ministry came as India continued to report new Covid-19 cases in excess of three lakh for the eighth consecutive day on Thursday. In an order issued under the National Disaster Management Act, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla directed state and union territory governments to consider containment measures for Covid-19 as conveyed by the Health Ministry advisory of April 25. The Health ministry had asked the States and UTs to identify districts where either the tests positivity had been 10 per cent or more in the last one week; or, where bed occupancy was more than 60 per cent. The Health Ministry had prescribed intensive and local containment measures in districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria. It had asked states to impose night curfew, ban social, political, religious, cultural, sports entertainment gatherings, and shut down shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurants and bars, sports complexes, gym, spas, swimming pools, and religious places. The advisory stated that both government and private offices should function with a maximum staff strength of 50 per cent.   The Home Secretary also asked district magistrates to strictly enforce the containment measures taken by States and UTs and the national directives on Covid-19 management. Of the 728 districts across the country, only 308 have a test positivity rate of 5 per cent or less. As many as 146 districts have a test positivity rate of 15 per cent or more, while in 278 districts the test positivity rate is between 5 per cent and 15 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-orders-night-curfew-stringent-covid-19-curbs-in-high-caseload-districts-980586.html
29-04-2021||National||Sachin Tendulkar donates Rs 1 crore for India's Covid-19 battle||India batting great Sachin Tendulkar has donated Rs 1 crore (approximately $135,000) to a fundraising campaign that is helping hospitals treating Covid-19 patients procure oxygen concentrators. Mission Oxygen, which describes itself as a non-for-profit, charitable initiative, said it has placed an order for 1,365 concentrators from China and thanked Tendulkar for his donation. "His donation of rupees 1 crore to Mission Oxygen in its endeavour to procure and provide life-saving oxygen concentrators to hospitals across the nation in this time of need is incredibly heart-warming," they said in a statement. The campaign has collected $2.26 million so far from over 15,000 supporters. Tendulkar, who contracted Covid-19 and spent time in hospital before his release earlier this month, said in a tweet that providing oxygen was the "need of the hour" amid a devastating second wave in the country. On Thursday, India's total cases passed 18 million as it reported 379,257 new infections and 3,645 new deaths -- the highest number of fatalities in a single day since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-tendulkar-donates-rs-1-crore-for-indias-covid-19-battle-980600.html
29-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi demands free vaccination for all, tweets dictionary meaning of word 'free'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Thursday demanded free Covid-19 vaccination for all Indians, and sent out a tweet with the dictionary meaning and usage of the word 'free' to stress his point. Gandhi and his party have been demanding free Covid-19 vaccination for all citizens. They have also termed the centre's new vaccination policy discriminatory. In his Thursday morning tweet, Gandhi further stressed his demand. "free /friː/ adjective, adverb -- costing nothing, or not needing to be paid for," he wrote, and then went on to illustrate the usage of word "free" through two examples relevant to his demands, "India must get free Covid vaccine. All citizens must receive the inoculation free of charge.”   free /friː/adjective, adverb costing nothing, or not needing to be paid for. e.g.-• India must get free COVID vaccine.• All citizens must receive the inoculation free of charge. "Let's hope they get it this time," he said in the tweet with the hashtag #vaccine. Separately, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh demanded on-the-spot registration option also for all adults at inoculation centres, saying the online process may end up excluding many. "I fail to understand why BOTH options of online pre-registration and on-the-spot registration for walk-ins should not be allowed for vaccination. Online registration should help not hamper. In India's case, mandatory online registration may end up excluding many,” he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-demands-free-vaccination-for-all-tweets-dictionary-meaning-of-word-free-980427.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||People with comorbidities to get preference in third phase of Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi||The third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive for those in the 18-44 age group is likely to begin at "moderate" pace in the national capital and people with comorbidities will be given preference, officials said on Wednesday. The Delhi government has placed an order for over 1.3 crore doses with manufacturers. The vaccine will be delivered in phases, an official aware of the development said. Private hospitals will have to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, he said. "We are likely to have a moderate start and it will be ramped up gradually," the official said. The Centre will continue to provide vaccine for those aged above 45. "So, there will be three channels - Centre, state and private and therefore, the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated a day will increase," another official said. Asked if the more vaccine centres will be added considering the increased number of beneficiaries, the official said, "A little bit expansion might be done, but by and large the number will remain the same." At present, jabs are being given at around 500 centres in the capital. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Monday said everybody aged above 18 would be administered Covid-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi. He had also appealed to vaccine manufacturers to bring down the price to Rs 150 per dose. Bharat Biotech has fixed the price of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, at Rs 600 per dose for state governments and at Rs 1,200 per dose for private hospitals. Serum Institute of India (SII)'s Covishield will be available at a price of Rs 300 per dose to state governments and Rs 600 per dose to private hospitals. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16. The Centre, which has been inoculating frontline workers and those aged 45 and above, this month announced expansion of the national vaccination drive from May 1, amid a deadly second Covid wave ravaging the country. Registration for this category began on the CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu app on Wednesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-with-comorbidities-to-get-preference-in-third-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-in-delhi-980251.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi records nearly 26,000 Covid-19 cases, 368 deaths||Delhi recorded 368 more Covid-19 deaths and 25,986 new cases of the infection on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 31.76 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the city health department. This is the seventh day on the trot that Delhi has recorded over 300 deaths due to the coronavirus. The city had reported 381 deaths on Tuesday, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, 380 on Monday, 350 on Sunday, 357 on Saturday, 348 on Friday and 306 on Thursday, according to government data. The national capital had recorded 24,149 cases on Tuesday, 20,201 on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, 24,103 on Saturday, 24,331 on Friday, 26,169 on Thursday, and 24,638 last Wednesday. The positivity rate was 32.72 per cent on Tuesday, 35.02 per cent on Monday, 30.21 per cent on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 per cent on Friday, 36.24 per cent on Thursday -- the highest so far -- and 31.28 per cent last Wednesday. As per the latest health bulletin, the Covid-19 infection tally in Delhi stands at 10,53,701, the death toll is 14,616 and the number of active cases is 99,752. Tuesday's health bulletin issued by the city government, however, had put the cumulative number of cases at 10,72,065, the death toll at 15,009 and the tally of active cases at 98,264. The government did not provide any explanation for the discrepancy in the data. The fresh cases came out of 81,829 tests, including 26,127 rapid-antigen tests, conducted in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Out of 20,926 beds in city hospitals, only 1,683 are vacant. A total of 54,578 patients are recovering in home-isolation, the bulletin said. A total of 57,718 vaccine doses were administered to people in a span of 24 hours, and the beneficiaries included 32,272 people who took their first dose and 19,446 people who received their second dose, it said. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 33,749 from 31,570 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-nearly-26000-covid-19-cases-368-deaths-980305.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt claims not enough oxygen supply coming from Centre for Covid-19 patients||The Delhi government on Wednesday claimed that it is not receiving the oxygen quantity allocated to it by the Centre following the upsurge in COVID-19 cases even as an official order has been issued to allot a detailed proportion of the supply of the life-saving gas to hospitals. "We received 402 metric tonnes of oxygen yesterday and the day before that 408 metric tonnes. We have been allocated the share of 480 metric tonnes on April 21st and 490 metric tonnes on April 25th, but it is hardly reaching us in that quantity. Presently, the allocation is happening keeping in mind the number of ICU beds and non-ICU oxygen beds," the AAP dispensation claimed in a statement. The government has been allocated 490 MT of oxygen and has worked out a "detailed allocation of oxygen" to the hospitals on the basis of bed capacity and requirement of oxygen for ICU and non-ICU beds, an official order said. The order said the allocation has been worked out based on the "standards for calculation for the requirement of oxygen for ICU/non ICU beds and the hospital bed capacity". "It is clarified that the allocation has been done based on 490 MT of oxygen allocation made to government of Delhi. However, the actual supply of oxygen to the hospitals shall be subject to the actual delivery of oxygen in Delhi, which is seen to be lower than the allocated quantity," the order issued on April 25 said. The calculations for requirement of oxygen for ICU/non ICU beds has been done according to these standards -- 10 litre/minute of oxygen supply to a non-ICU bed and 24 litre/minute to an ICU bed. The order also stated that "the demand and supply of oxygen is dynamic/evolving and subject to change as per the allotment to Delhi and requirement and availability of the number of Covid facilities, ICU beds, non-ICU beds and the actual delivery of oxygen". "The supplier allocation in the 490 MT order for Delhi has necessitated changes in the existing suppliers to hospitals due to the capacity allocated to specific manufactures/suppliers. Therefore to maintain smooth distribution to pre-existing arrangements with hospitals, the suppliers may also pick up oxygen from any other manufacturer allotted to Delhi within the overall quota of such manufacturer," it said. Hospitals that use oxygen cylinders may receive supply against the allocation provided in this order either through their refiller plant or any other direct or indirect arrangement with allotted manufactures and suppliers, it added. The exponential rise in cases have left people scrambling for medical oxygen and ICU beds in hospitals in Delhi. Every few hours last week, hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs sent out desperate messages of help on social media and other platforms, flagging their dwindling stocks of oxygen. A few of them also had to knock on the doors of Delhi High Court to seek respite on the issue. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced his government will import 18 cryogenic tankers from Thailand and 21 ready-to-use oxygen plants from France. Within a month, the Delhi government will set up 44 oxygen plants at various hospitals, including 21 that will be imported from France. The Centre will install eight oxygen plants by April 30, Kejriwal had said. Delhi logged a record 381 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, while the positivity rate stood at 32.72 per cent. This was the sixth day on the trot that Delhi has recorded over 300 deaths due to coronavirus. It had reported 380 deaths on Monday, 350 on Sunday, 357 deaths on Saturday, 348 on Friday and 306 on Thursday, according to government data. The national capital had recorded 20,201 cases on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, 24,103 on Saturday, 24,331 on Friday, 26,169 on Thursday, and 24,638 on Wednesday. The positivity rate was 35.02 per cent on Monday, 30.21 on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 on Friday, the highest so far with 36.24 on Thursday, 31.28 on Wednesday and 32.82 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-claims-not-enough-oxygen-supply-coming-from-centre-for-covid-19-patients-980312.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Voting underway in final phase of UP panchayat polls amid surging coronavirus cases||Voting is underway in the fourth and final phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections on Thursday amid an unprecedented coronavirus surge in the state. Over 5.27 lakh candidates are in the fray for more than 2.10 lakh seats in 17 districts in this round of the election. "The polling started in the fourth phase at 7 am and will continue till 6 pm. It is going on peacefully," a State Election Commission official said. Over 2.98 crore people are eligible to cast their votes in this phase. Uttar Pradesh is among the 10 worst-hit states in terms coronavirus deaths and cases. The state had Wednesday recorded its highest single-day rise in Covid-19 death toll with 266 people succumbing to the disease, while 29,824 new cases were reported, pushing the tally to 11,82,848. The overall Covid-19 death toll in the state now stands at 11,943. The polling is scheduled in the districts of Ambedkar Nagar, Aligarh, Kushinagar, Kaushambi, Ghazipur, Farrukhabad, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bahraich, Banda, Mau, Mathura, Shahjahanpur, Sambhal, Sitapur, Sonbhadra and Hapur. According to the poll body, there are 10,679 candidates in the fray for 738 posts of zila panchayat members in the final phase. A total of 55,408 candidates are contesting for 18,356 posts of kshetra panchayat members. While 1,14,400 candidates are in the fray for posts of gram panchayat members, 3,47,436 contestants are fighting for 1,77,648 posts in gram panchayat wards, it said. The candidates will contest on 'free symbols' given by the State Election Commission. In the first phase of the polls held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded. The second phase of the polls on April 19 also saw over 71 per cent turnout. In the third phase of the polls held on April 26, polling percentage of 73.5 was recorded, State Election Commission officials had said. In view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had last month announced that not more than five people would be allowed to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning for the panchayat elections. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to conclude the panchayat election process by May 25. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-underway-in-final-phase-of-up-panchayat-polls-amid-surging-coronavirus-cases-980385.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Chardham Yatra in Uttarakhand postponed as Covid cases rise||The Chardham Yatra to the four famous Himalayan shrines in Uttarakhand, which was scheduled to begin next month, has been postponed in view of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases. Announcing this here on Thursday, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat said conducting the yatra amid the raging pandemic is not possible. However, the portals of the four Himalayan temples known as Chardham will open as scheduled, he said. However, they will open only for priests to perform regular prayers and not for devotees, he said. Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri are the four famous shrines. Covid-19 cases have been rising exponentially in Uttarakhand as in various other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chardham-yatra-in-uttarakhand-postponed-as-covid-cases-rise-980396.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt raises Covid-19 cases by 44,350, fatalities by 761 in revised cumulative data||The Delhi government Thursday morning released revised cumulative coronavirus figures for the city, raising the case tally by 44,350 and fatalities by 761 than previously reported. In the revised figures, the Delhi government has put the number of cases at 10,98,051 and deaths at 15,377. The data released on Wednesday night had put out a lower overall figure of 10,53,701 cases and 14,616 fatalities. The cumulative positivity rate has also been revised upwards from 6.20 per cent to 6.46 per cent. The number of recoveries too has been revised up to 9,82,922 from 9,39,333. Authorities reported 368 Covid-19 deaths and 25,986 cases with a positivity rate of 31.76 percent in Delhi on Wednesday. It was the seventh day on the trot that the city recorded over 300 deaths due to coronavirus. It had reported 381 deaths on Tuesday, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, 380 on Monday, 350 on Sunday, 357 deaths on Saturday, 348 on Friday and 306 on Thursday, according to government data. The national capital had recorded 24,149 cases on Tuesday, 20,201 on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, 24,103 on Saturday, 24,331 on Friday, 26,169 on Thursday, and 24,638 on Wednesday. The positivity rate was 32.72 percent on Tuesday, 35.02 percent on Monday, 30.21 on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 on Friday, 36.24 on Thursday -- the highest so far -- 31.28 on Wednesday and 32.82 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-raises-covid-19-cases-by-44350-fatalities-by-761-in-revised-cumulative-data-980407.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi doesn't have sufficient vaccine doses for 18-44 age group: Health minister||Hinting at delay in starting Covid-19 vaccination of those in the 18-44 age group in the national capital, the Delhi government on Thursday said it does not have sufficient doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the inoculation of those in the younger age bracket. However, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that orders have been placed with manufacturers. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier announced that Covid-19 vaccination in the capital would be free. "At present, we don't have vaccines. We have requested the companies to provide it...We will tell you in a day or two,” Jain told reporters. He was responding to questions on whether the city government has enough vaccines and whether the vaccination drive would start for 18-44 age group from Saturday as allowed by the Centre. Several states have indicated that it will not be starting the vaccination drive for 18-44 from May 1 citing shortage of vaccine doses. Though orders have been placed, Jain said vaccine manufactures are yet to provide a schedule of supply. Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the government had cleared a proposal to procure 1.34 crore vaccine doses. Asked about the dip in number of testing from around one lakh to 75,000, he said it was due to the restricted movement of people due to the lockdown. Referring the opposition's allegations about a big difference in data related to deaths compiled at crematoriums and that released by the Delhi government, Jain said it was not the time to play politics. "They had raised the issue six months ago also. Everything was fine. Who has the right to hide the number of deaths? Everything is being done in a transparent manner in Delhi,” he added.   Delhi recorded 368 more Covid-19 deaths and 25,986 cases with a positivity rate of 31.76 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the city health department.   This was the seventh day on the trot that Delhi had recorded over 300 deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-doesnt-have-sufficient-vaccine-doses-for-18-44-age-group-health-minister-980425.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh extends lockdown by a day||The Uttar Pradesh government increased the duration of the weekend curfew by 24 hours on Thursday. The closure will now be in effect from Friday 8 pm to Tuesday 7 am, officials told PTI. As Covid-19 cases swell in the state, the government has said that shops and other public establishments across the state will remain closed  during this time. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uttar-pradesh-extends-lockdown-by-a-day-980449.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court issues notice to oxygen suppliers seeking details about the supplies made to hospitals||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to all Delhi-based oxygen suppliers, asking them to present to the court detailed reports concerning supplies made by them to various hospitals, reported ANI in a tweet. Delhi High Court issues notice to all oxygen suppliers of the national capital asking them to be present before the court with detailed data on supplies made by them to hospitals The situation in Delhi is grim with the capital defending itself from a 'double mutant' of the Covid-19 virus, a shortage of medical oxygen, and almost no space left to cremate the dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-issues-notice-to-oxygen-suppliers-seeking-details-about-the-supplies-made-to-hospitals-980503.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC seeks AAP govt's reply on dedicated Covid facility for judges||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought a response from the Delhi and Union governments on a plea for having a dedicated facility for judges and judicial officers infected with Covid-19. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli issued notice in the matter, as the Delhi government counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi submitted it was willing to provide assistance to deal with the situation. "Let each of the District and Sessions judges coordinate to address the medical concerns of judicial officers and their families. The judges along with District Magistrate may earmark certain place for setting up Covid centre," the bench said. The development came on a day when the Delhi government informed the court it had withdrawn its April 25 circular setting up 100-bed Covid care facility at five-star Ashoka Hotel here. The Delhi government's move had invited strong criticism on social media, prompting the bench to take up the matter Suo Motu. The bench had on April 27 said that it was unthinkable and the court never asked for it. The bench had then asked the government to withdraw the order or the court would quash it. On Thursday, senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for a petitioner, sought a "coordination mechanism" for judicial officers to get treatment, and beds. "We don't want our judges to become martyrs to Covid-19," he said, adding a number of judicial officers had succumbed and over 60 of them were infected. He suggested for converting dispensaries in residential complexes of judicial officers and even court complexes as Covid Care Centre for judicial officers and thier families. The court put the matter for further consideration on May 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-seeks-aap-govts-reply-on-dedicated-covid-facility-for-judges-980522.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Another day of steep spike in Covid-19 cases in J&K||On Thursday, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 3,474 fresh Covid-19 positive cases as 26 patients succumbed to the virus - the highest toll in a single day in the union territory (UT) since the onset of pandemic last year. According to the daily media bulletin, with 3,474 new Covid-19 cases, the tally has reached 1,72,551. Along with that, 26 more fatalities were reported in the UT, taking the death toll to 2253, it said. On April 27, J&K had reported 3,164 Covid positive cases which was the highest number in the UT since the pandemic erupted last year in March. Last year's all-time high in J&K was 1,698 daily positive cases on September 12. The numbers in Jammu and Kashmir have climbed rapidly. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37,372 cases and 478 deaths. On April 1, the UT had registered 461 cases, taking the total number of active Covid-19 patients to 2,874. Just 29 days later, the total number of active positive cases has risen by over nine times to 26,144. The UT has also recorded 259 deaths in the 29-days of April. According to health experts the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases may be driven by the high transmissibility of the virus “There are two differences we have witnessed in the virus’s behaviour this year,” Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, the head of the community medicine at the Government Medical College, Srinagar, said. “Transmission is relatively fast and it’s affecting all kinds of age groups. Last year, we didn’t see many younger people having symptoms despite testing positive but this time even younger people and children are affected and showing symptoms.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-day-of-steep-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-jk-980523.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Why Delhi not getting assured quota of oxygen, HC asks Centre||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre to explain why States like Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra got more medical oxygen than demanded, while Delhi government did not receive its assured quota required to contain the Covid-19 cases in the national capital. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli put the poser to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta as the Delhi government led by senior advocate Rahul Mehra alleged that all states have been given what they asked for.  The only state that has been left out is Delhi, he complained. He also alleged that the Centre has been very unfair. The Delhi government, promised 490 MT of oxygen, is going to augment 15,000 beds in next one week, which would take overall requirement to 976 MT oxygen, Mehra said. On this, the bench asked Mehta, "Why did Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra get more oxygen than they asked for, but Delhi is getting less than what it asked for." Mehta, for his part, said that it seemed the matter has become political. He said there was no need to create panic as the situation was dynamic and the system was working. "Madhya Pradesh has more population...it would be at the life of some but let it be," Mehta said. "Let's not get emotional about it. You can't duck it. You have to meet the demand," the bench told him, adding the Centre had to respond to this assertion by the Delhi government. However, the bench said, "We make it clear that by no means are we interested in securing for Delhi oxygen more than what is required and that too at the cost of any other State or Union Territory. However, if submissions of the Delhi government and the amicus are accepted, it would appear that Centre needs to explain this aspect." During the hearing, the Delhi government also stressed the need for facilitating distribution of oxygen to patients at home as well. "Today we have allocated the 490 MT stock. We are left with none. If we could somehow get 15-20 MT immediately, we can think of setting up distribution centres to facilitate citizens," Mehra said. The court agreed that the people at home as well as standalone clinics would also require oxygen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-delhi-not-getting-assured-quota-of-oxygen-hc-asks-centre-980524.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand suspends Char Dham Yatra due to Covid surge||Facing flak over Kumbh Mela, Uttarakhand government on Thursday announced suspension of the Chardham Yatra to the Himalayan shrines in the state beginning next month. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat declared that only priests at the four shrines – Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri – will offer worship and devotees from within the state as well as outside will not be allowed. “The state government has decided to suspend the Chardham Yatra till further orders in view of the increase in Covid-19 cases,” Rawat told reporters. The portals of Yamunotri temple are scheduled to open from May 14, Gangotri on May 15, Kedarnath on May 17 and Badrinath on May 18. The Uttarakhand government is facing flak for allowing the Kumbh Mela to continue in spite of the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases after the ‘shahi snans’ on April 12 an April 14 when over 40 lakh devotees had gathered to bathe in the holy waters of river Ganga in Haridwar. Uttarakhand has 48,318 active cases of Covid-19 and the state reported 6,251 new patients on Thursday. Recently, the Uttarakhand High Court had made an oral observation and asked the state government to publish the standard operating procedure for Chardham Yatra saying it cannot be allowed to become another Kumbh Mela. The court also asked the state government to control the raging virus and save lives putting aside everything else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-suspends-char-dham-yatra-due-to-covid-surge-980536.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||Weekend Covid lockdown will also cover Mondays, says Uttar Pradesh government||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to increase the duration of weekend lockdown by 24 hours, announcing that it will now cover Mondays too. "The weekend closure will now be applicable from Friday 8 pm till Tuesday 7 am," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Navneet Sehgal said here. He said that consequent to the decision, all shops and establishments will now remain closed between Friday 8 pm and Tuesday 7 am. Presently, the weekend lockdown in the state begins at Friday 8 pm and ends at Monday 7 am. The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and will be implemented across the state starting this Friday. During this period, all essential services will be allowed and vaccination drive will continue, the official said, but refused to term it a "lockdown", preferring "closure" instead. The chief minister, according to a statement, said 'corona curfew' in night (from 8 pm to 7 am) should be implemented across the state strictly. The CM said that the availability of Remdesivir drug is being ensured free of cost in government hospital and it is also being supplied to private hospitals. He asked district administrations to keep the entire details of demand and supply, the statement said. The DRDO is setting up a hospital each at Lucknow and Varanasi with all facilities, the CM said, adding it will start functioning soon. "Oxygen supply is improving every day. Oxygen Express (trains) and air route are also used to bring in oxygen," he said, adding attempts are being made to double the number of hospital beds. He also reiterated that strict action should be taken against those involved in black-marketing of oxygen cylinder and medicines like Remdesivir. The CM directed officials to constitute a panel of doctors to make people aware that there is no need to stock medicine and oxygen out of fear or panic. He said that Uttar Pradesh has become the first state to have conducted four crore coronavirus tests and now attempts are being made ramp up the testing facility to double. On complaints of certain hospitals and doctors over-charging coronavirus patients, the CM said action should be taken against them. The CM also directed automatic three-month extension of registration of private hospitals, while also directing that all Community Health Centres (CHC) should be given 20 oxygen concentrators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/weekend-covid-lockdown-will-also-cover-mondays-says-uttar-pradesh-government-980546.html
29-04-2021||North and Central||BJP leaders attack Yogi after MLAs die from Covid-19; 7 die in UP hospital due to oxygen shortage||As disturbing videos of people, desperate for oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir, a key drug in fighting Covid, continued to flood social media, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath came under attack from his own party leaders after three BJP legislators died from Covid 19 in the past few days, even as the number of fresh cases of infection crossed 35,000-mark in the past 24-hours in the state. The state government has been claiming that there is no shortage of oxygen or Remdesivir but the situation on the ground tells a different story altogether. In chief minister Yogi Adityanath's hometown of Gorakhpur, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow, Remdesivir was being distributed from the office of the district magistrate. A long queue of people was seen outside the DM office in Gorakhpur for the medicine. The people said that they had to wait for almost 24 hours to get two vials of the injection. A video which went viral on social media, showed a man falling at the feet of a policeman to seek his help in getting an oxygen cylinder for his mother, who was admitted to the hospital in Agra. Similarly, another video showed a woman touching the feet of a health official in Noida to get a vial of Remdesivir. The official allegedly threatened to send her to jail if she insisted. A video from UP's Baghpat district, about 450 kilometres from here, showed two patients, who were admitted to a government Covid hospital, lying on the ground after falling from their beds. There was no one in the ward to put them back on the bed and put the oxygen mask on their mouths. Seven patients, who were on Oxygen support at a private hospital in UP's Moradabad town, about 350 kilometres from here, The attendants of the patients alleged that they died after Oxygen supply to the hospital was disrupted. Meanwhile, Adityanath has come under attack from his own party leaders after three BJP legislators-Suresh Srivastava, Ramesh Diwakar and Kesar Singh Gagnwar-died from Covid in the past few days. According to the family members of Gangwar, the MLA had written to the union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting him to help him get admitted to a Delhi hospital but got no help. Gangwar's son Vishal slammed Adityanath for failing to ensure treatment of his party MLAs. "UP government has not been able to provide medical care to the MLAs.....I tried calling the chief minister's office several times but no one picked the calls," Vishal said in a post on his Facebook wall. "Dhanya hai UP sarkar...dhanya hain Modiji" (both UP government and prime minister Narendra Modi must be praised), Vishal said in a sarcastic tone. BJP MPs Kaushal Kishore and Rajendra Agarwal also criticised the state government for failing to ensure uninterrupted supply of Oxygen and Remdesivir to the Covid patients. UP minister Brijesh Pathak had also earlier said that the health officials never picked up phones and that there were neither beds at the hospitals nor ambulances to carry the patients. UP reported 35,156 cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. As many as 258 people died from the disease in the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leaders-attack-yogi-after-mlas-die-from-covid-19-7-die-in-up-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-980562.html
29-04-2021||Oasis||Eternal India: Real ‘We the People’||There is a worldwide consensus that something was already there which we have searched again. Word discovering also conveys the sense of 're-moving' the cover from something wrapped or covered. And, word removing indicates that it is not the first time that someone is moving it, it has been moved before also.  Thus research (anusandhaan) and discoveries (anveshan) are not the act of leading (praathmik) but that of following (anusaran).  However, all Indic spiritual traditions converge on one point that as spiritual entities, we the people are eternal being (soul). That is Praathmik (leading). And, that is eternal India. Where all of us are leaders. That’s who/what we the people are.  But, marred by many reasons this remembrance doesn’t stay eternally in the hearts of many among us. And, we get mesmerised by material inventions and loose our self-confidence.  It is only when the real relationship existing between consciousness and language is realised, reality begins to mirror itself. But there are many among us who are unaware of eternal-guru-disciple-relationship. Whose responsibility is it to introduce them to aforesaid reality?  Especially so when such people are unwilling and having an ‘opinion’ that we the people of India are not in the know of reality. Such people ask, how come we are not leading the world as a nation, if our knowledge is real? How to tell them that our knowledge is real, yet we are not leading materially because all of you (i.e. many of us) are not interested in real knowledge (spirituality). It is only after knowing reality through spirituality that you all (we all) will decide that India should show light to world nations. And, then you will be leading as a nation.   In all indigenous languages, India is known as Bha-rat –Varsh which means immersed in light (enlightened) fed by rains that’s how we the people are. How many of us are awake to this remembrance /consciousness?  Before knowing this spirit of eternal India, reality cannot be comprehended. And, we the people stay unknown to our real selves. Think, is that our choice or destiny? If we lead by discovering our real self-first then the rest will follow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/eternal-india-real-we-the-people-980262.html
29-04-2021||Panorama||CM Uddhav Thackeray fires non-stop, BJP strikes back in Maharashtra tit for tat||It has been one and a half years since Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president, broke ties with the BJP, its saffron ally of three decades, and forged an alliance with the ideologically opposite Congress-NCP Democratic Front. The association in fact collapsed on October 24, 2019, when the results of the Vidhan Sabha polls indicated that it would be tough for the BJP to form a government on its own. What followed was a one-month drama at the end of which Thackeray became the chief minister of Maharashtra on November 28, thanks to the skills of veteran leader Sharad Pawar, who forged the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance known as the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). Uddhav’s father, the late charismatic leader and master orator Balasahab Thackeray was a close friend of Pawar, a four-time chief minister and three-time Union minister. From day one, the Thackeray government had been at loggerheads with the Centre. It left no stone unturned to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. In fact, Uddhav — like his West Bengal counterpart and Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee — has been leading the charge against the Centre. The BJP top brass in Maharashtra — including Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in the Council Pravin Darekar, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and leaders like Sudhir Mungantiwar, Kirit Somaiya, Ashish Shelar and Prasad Lad — is keeping a close watch on the government's every move. In fact, Operation Lotus (the BJP's move to poach legislators from other parties) took off the day the MVA dispensation assumed office. And it's been around 17 months now. Timeline of trouble  The troubles date back to October-November 2019, when the Governor recommended President’s rule in the state. While the Shiv Sena, NCP, Congress and its allies were giving final touches to the MVA, the Governor quietly sworn in Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar as CM and Deputy CM. However, the government soon collapsed and Ajit Pawar was back to his uncle Sharad Pawar’s fold. Maharashtra has never a situation like this before: There are clashes with the Centre on a regular basis, and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has only made things worse. “Despite several crises, attacks by BJP leaders and negative campaigns on social media platforms, Uddhav has taken the Modi-Shah duo upfront, and perhaps knowing the consequences too,” said veteran journalist and writer Prakash Akolkar, an expert on Shiv Sena. There are almost a dozen instances when the MVA-BJP war of words reached a flashpoint — and sometimes a point of no return. The BJP has repeatedly knocked on the doors of Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, a veteran politician with RSS background, who has served in Uttarakhand as Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition and had been an MLA, MLC and member of the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha. The biggest thorn could be the fact that the MVA government's recommendation for nomination of 12 members to the Council from the Governor’s quota has not yet been cleared by Koshyari. And it is close to six months now. Among those who have been recommended include Eknath Khadse, a veteran BJP leader who joined Pawar’s party, and actor-activist Urmila Matondkar, who joined the Shiv Sena after quitting the Congress more than a year ago. Thackeray has also never wasted a chance to strike back. He denied the Governor the state government’s aircraft for an official trip to Dehradun. Much to Koshyari's embarrassment, he was deplaned at the Mumbai airport and had to take a commercial flight. The first flame that triggered the war was the Bhima-Koregaon case. The new government wanted to review it. However, the case was taken over by the NIA. Another development that rattled the BJP rank and file was the scrapping of the Mumbai Metro Line 3 car shed in the Aarey Milk Colony and its shifting to Kanjur Marg salt pan land by Thackeray, a nature lover and wildlife photographer. It was a blow to Fadnavis, the initiator of this part of the project. “This is ridiculous and childish... you cannot behave like a Maharaja," said Fadnavis, a former chief minister. The Centre’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) raised objections and claimed ownership; the issue is now before the Bombay High Court. The Centre has accused the Maharashtra government of attempting to derail important projects like the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Bullet Train — the brainchild of Modi — and the proposed Wadhawan port project in Palghar district. The issue reached a boiling point after the outbreak of the pandemic. In fact, what irritated the MVA was that the BJP started approaching the Governor for every issue, including when the MVA took on actor Kangana Ranaut and news anchor Arnab Goswami. “The Raj Bhavan has become an extension of the BJP office,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut has said repeatedly. When temples were closed during the lockdown last year, Koshyari shot off a letter to the CM, questioning whether the latter suddenly turned 'secular'. “I don’t need a certificate on Hindutva from anyone,” Thackeray hit back. The state has accused the Centre of bias on various issues, including GST dues to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore, PPE kits, ventilators and N95 masks. It also rubbed the Modi government up the wrong way while raising issues like the shortage of oxygen, vaccine and Remdesivir — comparing Maharashtra figures with BJP-ruled Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The Modi-Shah duo managed an upper hand only when they ensured that two ministers — Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Rathod and NCP’s Anil Deshmukh — had to resign following various controversies. At present, the BJP is training its guns on Shiv Sena’s Anil Parab, the Parliamentary Affairs Minister who is close to Thackeray and played a key role in the formation of the MVA. If the BJP succeeds, it will be a masterstroke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/cm-uddhav-thackeray-fires-non-stop-bjp-strikes-back-in-maharashtra-tit-for-tat-980261.html
29-04-2021||Panorama||The queer side of the lockdown||The Covid-19 pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges before us but the issues and challenges being faced by the queer community in India are neither specific to the pandemic nor are we certain that once the pandemic phase comes to an end they will cease to make life difficult and full of suffering for members of this community.  While there is an acknowledgement of the reality that the queer community doesn’t comprise of a homogenous whole but a complex society having internal variations , the much-needed healthcare and survival resources amid the pandemic has erected new challenges.  Several studies conducted amid the pandemic remind us that trans women for example experience greater harassment and denial of dignity as compared to trans men, homeless queer people and queer sex workers have far lesser claims on economic and employment opportunities as compared to queer people from financially and culturally better-off backgrounds. Queer migrants who have travelled from rural to urban areas in search of acceptance or employability or people undergoing medical treatment such as Sex Reassignment Surgeries, Hormone Replacement Therapy or facing physical and mental disability in metros have been faced with differential access to resources determined by a variety of intersectional factors.  In most cases the community has faced severe vulnerabilities owing to limited housing and employment, access to food and healthcare and these challenges have erected newer difficulties Covid-19.  While healthcare may largely be cis-centric and heteronormative and healthcare as a service has only been accessible to a few privileged members of the queer population from ever prior to the outbreak of this pandemic, the situation has turned even worrisome over the last many months.  Most members of the queer population also report histories of being badly treated and humiliated by medical institutions for their non-subscription to the heteronormative mainstream. As a result, a large section of the queer community feels hesitant, uncomfortable and discouraged to access medical care fearing further stigmatisation and they are at a greater risk of not being tested or treated for Covid-19. Apart from severely impacting how the queer community accesses medical care, the pandemic has also affected other domains of their societal existence such as their ability to mobilise members physically, collect resources for betterment, access to shared living spaces, resources that enable mental wellbeing or life-affirming opportunities.  Thus the community becomes further vulnerable as it is faced with rampant unemployment and financial distress, emotional and psychic vulnerability and lack of interventions that allow mobilisation or collective protest for shared concerns. This lack of a vibrant space for political articulation has further weakened the community’s much-felt need for representation in the mainstream.  This can be best explained by the government’s recent demand for responses from within the queer community on its decision of implementing the Transgender Persons(Protection of Rights) Act, 2019. Responses from the community indicate that the Act has been counterproductive in many ways as it requires official certificates determining one’s sexuality, which is notably hard to obtain and the process is often full of stigmatisation and social ostracisation.   The passing of the act at a time when the community is busy fighting for mere survival and safe existence and when public meetings of trans groups aren’t possible, has often meant that this was nothing but “political tokenism”. Other challenges being faced by the community include prolonged marginality and financial distress, lack of access to sensitive therapists who empathise rather than stigmatise, intensified societal violence and discrimination by mental health practitioners and lack of voice and representation as far as access to food, shelter and housing may be concerned.  While empathy and awareness may be the need of the hour, a sustained and collective action towards a less-judgmental and more accepting social order is required to ensure lives are lived with dignity and worth amid and after the pandemic.  (The writer is Founding Editor, The New Leam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-queer-side-of-the-lockdown-980263.html
29-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Unique BSNL friends||I have been intensely bonding with innumerous friends, but none can be equated with my 'home-friends'— my two darling BSNL landline telephones, with whom I have developed delightful bonds due to the fact they have been dutiful with me for decades. I have christened them ‘Tina and Dina’. It may sound staggering but I never owned a cell-phone to date, hence, being a chronic homebody, I heavily rely upon 'Tina and Dina' for all my human interactions.  Dina is more a demure and docile damsel, comporting herself with dollops of dignity. All my problems are with Tina, who behaves like a truculent brat, tenaciously and tirelessly throwing terrible temper tantrums. I must admit, not always does she behaves in such an awful manner, at times, she can be amiable. Yes, her behaviour is dictated by her dreadful capricious mood. For instance, when there is a tinkle from someone, she trills with such terrifying sound, audible enough even if I am ambling outside my abode's entrance gate. But, if she is in a foul mood, her ring is so feeble, that even if I am beside her, I miss picking up the calls.  Being whimsical, Tina has an uncanny knack for donning unexpected avatars. Like, if I am chattering with a close friend, like a funny possessive lover, she tries foiling my fun by intercepting and inserting some other chats, on the other lines, such that we keep hearing multiple voices, along with ours. Disgusted during such times, when I had slammed the receiver down, she had gone sulking, shamming to be sick and silent, to spring back to life suddenly, after several days.    At times, she can act like a horrendous harridan too. As an instance, when spouse or son is trying to contact me, during the time I am chatting with someone, Teena tries sending the ‘ringing’ sound for them, instead of the ‘engaged’ one— wrongly indicating that I am deliberately not picking the call.  And, when a person has tried calling me in my absence, on the display screen of missed calls, she cannily registers a couple of digits of the caller’s number, thus confounding me to cudgel my brain, conjecturing about missing digits and the unknown caller.  Yes, many times, she has behaved like a mean virago, maliciously machinating her moves, manufacturing misunderstandings among many of my human relations. But despite Tina’s misdemeanours, I still love her. After all, what is love if we can’t accept friends as they are, and for whatever they are— with “warts and all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/unique-bsnl-friends-980264.html
29-04-2021||Second Edit||Backing justice with mercy||The Supreme Court has backed up justice with mercy by ordering the shifting of a Delhi-based journalist, Siddique Kappan, who was arrested by the UP police last year and was recently admitted to a hospital in Mathura, for better treatment to a Delhi hospital. Kappan was arrested in October last year when he was travelling to Hathras to report on the rape of a Dalit woman. Later he was charged under the UAPA for his alleged association with the Popular Front of India, an Islamist outfit. He has languished in jail ever since without bail, though the members of his family, friends and associates in the profession have maintained that they had no knowledge of his links with any extremist organisation. Whether he had such links or not, he has the right to due process of law and human treatment which any person is entitled to, in jail or outside.  There are charges that Kappan was ill-treated in jail and in hospital. His wife wrote to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) that he was Covid positive and was “chained like an animal to a cot of the Medical College Hospital, Mathura, without mobility, and he could neither take food nor go to the toilet for the last more than four days’’. He also suffers from ailments other than Covid-19. MPs from Kerala had also written to the CJI about the matter and the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) filed a case in the court seeking his shift to the AIIMS. The court has ruled that he would be sent back to Mathura only after he recovers. It should be noted that the UP government opposed his shifting on various grounds but the court found little merit in them.   The court did well to ensure justice to a citizen who was denied the most basic of his rights. Access to medical services and facilities should be considered as part of the right to life. But the matter again raises many disquieting questions. It is not possible for all citizens to approach the highest court or any court on their own or through others when their rights are violated and when justice is denied to them. The more general issue of the increasing recourse to draconian laws like the UAPA against citizens also arises from such situations. Even after the journalist spent many months in jail, no one knows if the charges against him are supported by any evidence. The same is the case with many others, including those arrested in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case or in cases relating to the 2019 anti-CAA protests. The Supreme Court should ensure that justice is done in all such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/backing-justice-with-mercy-980259.html
29-04-2021||South||Congress candidate from Kerala's Nilambur dies of heart attack||A Congress candidate in the Kerala Assembly elections died on Thursday, only three days ahead of counting on May 2. V V Prakash, 56, who contested from Nilambur constituency in Malappuram district in the April 6 election, died of a heart attack. Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi conveyed his condolences. "The untimely demise of Malappuram DCC President & UDF Nilambur candidate V V Prakash Ji is extremely tragic. He will be remembered as an honest and hardworking member of the Congress, always ready to offer help to the people. My heartfelt condolences to his family," he tweeted. The untimely demise of Malappuram DCC President & UDF Nilambur candidate V V Prakash Ji is extremely tragic. He will be remembered as an honest & hardworking member of the Congress, always ready to offer help to the people. Prakash contested against sitting MLA and Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independent candidate P V Anvar. Since Anvar faced several allegations, the Congress was quite hopeful of reclaiming the seat, earlier held by the party for a long time. Prakash had also held various positions in the Kerala Students Union, the Youth Congress and the Kerala PCC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-candidate-from-keralas-nilambur-dies-of-heart-attack-980361.html
29-04-2021||South||I am receiving death threats, says actor Siddharth alleging Tamil Nadu BJP leaked his phone number||Rang De Basanti' actor, Siddharth, on Thurday tweeted that his phone number was leaked by members of the BJP in Tamil Nadu.  The actor on Twitter said that his family and he were being harassed by calls from unknown numbers, raining threats of murder and rape, in addition to hurling abuses at him.  He said he has recorded the numbers and relevant information, and will be handing them over to the police. "My phone number was leaked by members of TN BJP and @BJPtnITcell. Over 500 calls of abuse, rape and death threats to me & family for over 24 hrs. All numbers recorded (with BJP links and DPs) and handing over to Police. I will not shut up. Keep trying. @narendramodi @AmitShah", read his Tweet. Siddharth is known for being vocal in his criticisms towards the ruling Narendra Modi government. He also tweeted information on oxygen concentrators on Thursday.  "As our country is being choked by Covid, let’s rise to support the affected. Let’s give them a chance to fight Covid and another chance to live their dreams! DONATE to BHOOMIKA and help us reach oxygen concentrators to people who are struggling to breathe", the tweet said. India is stuggling with an alarming new wave of Covid-19 cases that has created a shortage of medical oxygen and other essential resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-am-receiving-death-threats-says-actor-siddharth-alleging-tamil-nadu-bjp-leaked-his-phone-number-980481.html
29-04-2021||South||Tamil Nadu extends night curfew; full lockdown on Sundays to curb Covid-19||Tamil Nadu govt announced Thursday that the night curfew enforced to curb Covid-19 spread will continue and a complete lockdown in the state on Sundays will be in place until further orders.   "All cinemas/multiplexes/theatres, gyms, recreation clubs, bars, auditoriums, meeting halls, and other similar places shall remain closed until further orders," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-night-curfew-full-lockdown-on-sundays-to-curb-covid-19-980500.html
29-04-2021||South||Kerala Health Minister slams Centre's handling of Covid-19 vaccine drive||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja criticised the Central government's handling of the Covid-19 vaccine drive on Thursday. According to ANI, she questioned how those who are 18 years and above will be inoculated when the second dose of the vaccine is still pending for many above the age of 45 and 60. The minister said that Kerala is prioritising those who have not yet received their second jab with only 3-4 lakh vaccine doses currently available. How can we start vaccination for those above 18 years of age when the second dose vaccine is pending for most of those above 45& 60 yrs of age? We've only 3-4 lakh vaccine doses. We are giving priority to those who need to be given the second dose vaccine: Kerala Health Minister She further said, it was the Centre's responsibility to supply vaccines, but "despite Kerala having placed orders" are not getting them and vaccine companies are giving dates in May end or early June to send the doses. The month's delay is 'dangerious', she sad while emphasising on the urgent need for more vaccines to save lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-minister-slams-centres-handling-of-covid-19-vaccine-drive-980541.html
29-04-2021||South||Near-total lockdown in Kerala from next week as Covid surge continues||While a near-total lockdown was already announced in Kerala on Saturdays and Sundays, similar restrictions will be put in place from next Tuesday. Only essential services would be allowed and shops would be allowed to carry out home delivery only. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it was found that many were getting infected even without close proximity with the infected and hence stringent measures were required. A total lockdown will be imposed only as a last resort, he said. On Thursday, 38,607 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported, taking the total cases reported in Kerala so far to 15,33,984. Number of active cases reached 2,84,086 by Thursday. The test positivity rate also stood at 24.5 per cent. The Kerala Government Medical Officers's Association, a forum of government doctors, suggested that at least two week lockdown would be required to contain the ongoing surge. Public meetings were already banned and places like malls, parks and sports complexes were shut. It was decided on Friday to stop film and serial shootings also. The Chief Minister said that even as it was found that many were getting infection even without close proximity with the infected, it did not necessarily mean that the infection was spreading through air. But the mutated variants of the virus seem to be having a high chance of entering human bodies. He urged the people to impose a self lockdown and to wear double-mask and ensure social distancing. Anticipating a scarcity of hospital beds, the state health authorities have also revised the discharge policy. Patients with mild issues and having no symptoms for 72 hours would be discharged and advised to remain in home isolation. Steps like setting up oxygen war rooms and oxygen parlours are also being initiated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/near-total-lockdown-in-kerala-from-next-week-as-covid-surge-continues-980554.html
29-04-2021||State||Karnataka High Court upholds amendment enhancing age limit of senior medical officers||The High Court has upheld the amendment to the rules for the recruitment of senior medical officers, increasing the age limit from 21 years to 26 years. The state government has defended the amendment stating that during Covid-19, doctors on contract basis have done a commendable job, and hence, it is necessary to encourage and utilise the services of experienced doctors. A batch of petitions, filed by graduate doctors, both MBBS and BDS, challenged the amendment to Rule 4 of the Karnataka Directorate Health and Family Welfare Services (Recruitment of Senior Medical Officer/Specialists, General Duty Medical Officers and Dental Health Officers) (Special) (Amendment) Rules, 2020. The petitioners were appointed as General Duty Medical Officers on contract basis and were aspiring to apply for recruitment to the post of General Duty Medical Officers. A division bench, comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice Pradeep Singh Yerur, said that the determination of cut-off dates or fixing the age limit lies in the realm of policy. The stand of the state government was that the purpose of the amendment, which came into effect in July 2020, is to encourage the services of experienced doctors during the Covid-19 pandemic and also to extend their valuable services in the rural areas. “It is no doubt true that experience has not been fixed as the criteria for the appointment to the post of General Duty Medical Officers. However, it does not mean that the state has no power to file the minimum age criteria. The enhancement of the age from 21 years to 26 years is based on the intelligible differentia of experience and rural service with the object to provide experienced medical service to the needy public,“ the bench said. The petitioners had first approached the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal contending that there is no rationale behind the enhancement of the age and claimed that artificial restriction has been created. They also said that it deprives the meritorious candidates and amendment has been done with the sole intention of extending the benefit to those candidates who would have taken a long time to complete the MBBS degree. The tribunal had held that there was no arbitrariness in the amendment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-upholds-amendment-enhancing-age-limit-of-senior-medical-officers-980280.html
29-04-2021||State||Apthamitra helpline to guide patients in home isolation. says Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced here on Wednesday that all Covid-19 patients will be here on guided by the Apthamitra helpline. Speaking at a press conference, the minister said that patients who are positive will be called within three to four hours by the helpline personnel. Graduates with a medical background will guide the process. Information about other co-morbid conditions and physical conditions will be collected for those who are symptomatic. They will then decide on what is suitable: home care, a Covid Care Centre or a hospital. “It takes 6,000-8,000 staff to quickly and adequately guide every infected person through the helpline. We’re seeking cooperation from private companies. The helpline will be in touch with the patient for 8-10 minutes,” he said. Such a system is still being developed, he said. Eight companies in the country make Remdesivir. The central government has allocated 1.22 lakh Remdesivir vials to Karnataka. He said Jubilant company had not supplied a single vial to Karnataka out of the 10,000 vials they were supposed to supply. “The drug controller has been advised to take stern action against them. An indent for an additional 1.80 lakh vials have also been placed with the Centre,” he said. Calling retired doctors to work from home “Retired doctors and young doctors are requested to work from home and advise patients online. For this purpose, a separate portal will be created where the names of the doctors can be registered. A separate certificate will be issued for the same,”Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/apthamitra-helpline-to-guide-patients-in-home-isolation-says-karnataka-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-980294.html
29-04-2021||State||Karnataka police launch cyber fight fake videos, posts on Covid-19 treatment, vaccine||Fake news videos and misinformation being spread about Covid-19 treatment at hospitals and vaccines on social media platforms have become the latest bane for the state government which is battling the devastating second wave of Covid-19. However, amidst strict enforcement of the Covid curfew, the Karnataka police are going all out to fight these fake news factories and misinformation-spreading viral video clips. The Karnataka police have deployed a dedicated cyber team along with fact-checking experts to assess the authenticity of such viral videos and photographs on social media platforms. According to Director General and Inspector General of Police (DG & IGP) Praveen Sood, the team comprises both the police officials, volunteers from the IT sector and NGOs. “The primary objective of the team is to trace these videos and photos spread by the miscreants and establish the authenticity and disseminate correct information to the public. Our team is constantly scanning social media platforms. Even though it is impossible to track every such fake video, we are going after those that affect our people primarily and disrupt the system. Post the verification, the details of the fake videos along with correct information is posted on our website and Twitter handle,” Sood told DH. The police team’s efforts in debunking the fake videos alleging torture inside a Covid-19 ward of a city hospital and alleged attack on a private hospital by the public for refusing admission to Covid 19 patients, have already been hailed by lakhs of people. “The sole motive of these miscreants is to spread false and fearful narrative. A four-year-old incident in another state and country was morphed to project it as an incident in Bengaluru. As per the law, the police can initiate action against such social media content found to be mala fide,” Sood clarified. Requesting the public to be responsible during distressing times that the society is facing, the top cop said, “My appeal to people is to take a few seconds and think twice before believing, retweeting or forwarding such false photos, videos, posts. The situation everywhere is tense, no person shall spread rumours. They may look explosive and sensational but generate a lot of chaos, fear and harm unnecessarily.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-police-launch-cyber-fight-fake-videos-posts-on-covid-19-treatment-vaccine-980302.html
29-04-2021||State||Pregnant doctor from Kerala dies due to Covid-19 in Mangaluru||A 25-year-old pregnant doctor from Kerala died following Covid-19 complications in Mangaluru.  The final rites of Dr C C Maha Basheer were conducted in Thalassery on Wednesday. Dr Maha, who was pursuing her post-graduation in Kanachur Medical College, was admitted to the ICU at the Indiana Hospital 10 days ago.  "Despite best treatment given to her by our doctors, we could not save her baby and her life," Indiana Hospital and Heart Institute said in its official statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pregnant-doctor-from-kerala-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-mangaluru-980311.html
29-04-2021||State||In Karnataka taluk, 11 of a family win battle against Covid||As the surge in Covid-19 cases creates fear among people, 11 members of a farming family representing four generations in Shikaripur taluk have recovered from it after treatment and are asking people not to panic but follow guidelinesby the government. They are appealing panic-stricken people of the region to overcome fear and follow instructions of doctors  to win the battle against Covid-19. The 11 members of the family of four generations belonging to different age groups including Indira Bai of 92 years old, her son Susheelendra Rao of 69-year old, her grand son Naveen Kulkarni (43), great grand children, were tested positive. Some members in the family attended a ceremony held on April 4 in Bengaluru and Davangere. Naveen Kulkarni and sister in-law Sridevi (31) were suffering from fever after returning from there. Both underwent Covid-19 test in primary health centre at Talagunda near Shiralakoppa in the taluk on April 10. As they did not get the test report after some days, they believed that they did not contract virus. But to their surprise, the report stated that they were positive for the virus on April 17. A team of officials of health department including doctors, nurses arrived at their home and took the two positive patients for treatment in taluk general hospital in Shikaripur town. On the same day, the team took throat swab of the remaining ten members of the family. Except Anagha of 13 years, the remaining nine members were positive for the virus. They were taken to taluk general hospital in Shikaripur town for the treatment in an ambulance on April 21. Later, they were discharged. Now, they are under home isolation and they are asking people to follow guidelines to protect themselves from the virus.  Speaking to DH, Naveen Kulkarni said people with no major health complications can recover from Covid easily. But is only a matter of time. “We had taken allopathic medicine on the advise of our family doctor after I tested positive for the virus. So, we were able to recover from it. People must overcome fear that it is a deadly virus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/in-karnataka-taluk-11-of-a-family-win-battle-against-covid-980339.html
29-04-2021||State||Deve Gowda demands package for labourers||Rajya Sabha MP H D Deve Gowda appealed for a compensation package to the daily wagers who have been affected by the 14-day curfew in the State.  In a letter addressed to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Chief Secretary and Health Minister, Deve Gowda has demanded a package to the labourers and also necessary facilities at the hospitals in Hassan to tackle Covid pandemic.  Each labourer should be provided 10 kg rice, wheat and ragi and a minimum of Rs 2,000 remitted to their bank accounts, he stressed.  He also explained the need for a jumbo oxygen supply system to cater the oxygen need at the taluk hospitals.  The authorities should also supply 10,000 vials of Remdesivir to Hassan district, he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deve-gowda-demands-package-for-labourers-980438.html
29-04-2021||State||15K civil defence volunteers for Covid work: Bommai||Home Department will rope in 15,000 civil defence volunteers in Bengaluru for tracking and tracing Covid-19 patients. According to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the volunteers will also be deputed to ensure home isolation of patients who do not require hospitalisation. Speaking to reporters, he said the Home Department was ready to depute an additional 8,500 home guards for effective implementation of 'close down' regulations across the state. The government has also deputed five ADGPs to ensure that guidelines are strictly followed till May 12. The state government was also sanitising all jails in the state. "We have isolated 300 inmates who tested positive for Covid. The situation is under control," he said. On complaints that vehicular movement remained uninterrupted, Bommai said some services remained open, along with those travelling for work in factories and for medical reasons. "We will conduct strict inspections henceforth," he assured. Crematoria Speaking to mediapersons, Revenue Minister R Ashok said people faced problems in the city on Wednesday as three crematoria had broken down. The government has now opened two open crematoria at Tavarakere and Giddenhalli - in the outskirts of Bengaluru - where around 100 bodies can be cremated per day, he said. All issues causing long queues at crematoria will be addressed in a few days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/15k-civil-defence-volunteers-for-covid-work-bommai-980508.html
29-04-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa orders audit of Remdesvir and oxygen||In your evening news brief,  Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed authorities to conduct an audit of Remdesvir and oxygen; Bajaj Auto chairman, Rahul Bajaj has resigned from the position, and Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh recovers from Covid-19.  Here is the top news of April 29, 2021: Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh has been discharged from the AIIMS Trauma Centre after recovering from Covid-19, news agency ANI reported. He had been hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19 on April 19. The 88-year-old Congress leader had earlier penned a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for beefing up Covid-19 response. Singh had taken both the doses of the vaccine.   Bajaj Auto chairman, Rahul Bajaj has resigned from the position. Non-Executive Director of Bajaj Auto, Niraj Bajaj will replace him. Rahul Bajaj has now become Bajaj Auto Chairman Emeritus.   Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed authorities to conduct an audit of Remdesvir and oxygen availability to ensure that they are delivered to those who require it the most. Oxygen beds and ventilators should also be used judiciously, he said. At a meeting held to review the Covid-19 situation with DCs, CEOs of Zilla Panchayats, SPs and health officials of districts, Yediyurappa asked officials to limit testing to only those with symptoms and ensure that RT-PCR test results are out in 24 hours.   Source: DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-orders-audit-of-remdesvir-and-oxygen-980516.html
29-04-2021||State||Fourth phase of Covid vaccination in stages, 'based on availability': BSY||The fourth phase of vaccination for Covid that includes those in the 18-45 age group will be carried out in different stages in Karnataka, and will continue "based on availability", according to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. The remark came amidst complaints that though people of the age group had registered for vaccinations from May 1, they were yet to be allotted slots at vaccination centres due to a shortage of vaccines. Pharmaceutical companies are enhancing their production capacity. A third vaccine is also being introduced. "Under these circumstances, vaccination drive will continue based on availability of vaccine," Yediyurappa said in a statement. With just a day left for the launch of fourth phase of vaccination, Yediyurappa said that around 5.9 lakh doses of vaccines were available in the state.  "So far, the Government of India has supplied 99.4 lakh doses of vaccine to the State and 93.50 lakh doses were administered," the CM said. State government is procuring one crore doses of vaccine. Work order is placed for the additional doses, he said, adding that the fourth phase of vaccination will be taken up in stages, Yediyurappa added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fourth-phase-of-covid-vaccination-in-stages-based-on-availability-bsy-980525.html
29-04-2021||State||Sad that ex-judge paid bribe for Guv’s post: Karnataka High Court||The High Court has said that a former judge of the High Court (Justice B S Indrakala) paying a bribe for securing the post of Governor has “lowered the prestige of a Judge and also affect the image of Governor’s post.” Justice K Natarajan made this observation while dismissing all petitions filed by fraudster Yuvaraj alias Swami, seeking bail in cases registered against him. Justice Natarajan refused to grant bail to Yuvaraj, pointing out that he had obtained crores of rupees from various persons assuring post of Governor, post of Chairman of Silk Board, Chairman of KSRTC, post of AEE, post of Marketing Manager in KMF and even settling land disputes. “If he is granted bail, there will be a wrong message sent to the society that a person having money can buy a post in the government. Hence, he does not deserve for grant of any bail,” the court said. During the hearing, the complaint filed by the retired judge of the High Court Justice Indrakala was referred to by the counsels. The ex-judge had filed a complaint with the Wilson Garden police. In this case, Yuvaraj has been granted bail by the trial court and the charge sheet has already been filed. Indrakala had stated in the complaint that she had paid money through RTGS and also in cash. She had also stated in the complaint that Yuvaraj had taken her to Delhi, during 2018-19, to meet senior political leaders.   Justice Natarajan noted that it is unfortunate that the magistrate had granted bail to Yuvaraj in the case. The court also said, “It is most unfortunate that the state has not chosen to file any application for cancellation of the bail granted by the magistrate.”   “It is also most unfortunate that a former Judge of the High Court has paid a bribe to the petitioner for securing the post of Governor which act of the complainant not only lowered the prestige of a Judge and also affect the image of Governor’s post,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sad-that-ex-judge-paid-bribe-for-guv-s-post-karnataka-high-court-980582.html
29-04-2021||State||Nandini milk parlours open from 6 am to 8 pm in Karnataka||Revising its earlier guidelines, the state government has decided to permit Nandini milk parlours across Karnataka to function from 6 am till 8 pm, a government order in this regard stated on Thursday. Earlier, the government had restricted all essential services from 6 am up to 10 am every day. With the revised order, all Nandini parlours will be able to operate for fourteen hours every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nandini-milk-parlours-open-from-6-am-to-8-pm-in-karnataka-980585.html
29-04-2021||State||Parts of Karnataka witness hailstorm; 2 killed in lightning strikes||Hailstorm, accompanied by heavy rain and high-intensity winds, continued to lash several parts of the state on Thursday. Parts of Kalaburagi district, including Aland taluk, witnessed hailstones along with thundershowers. The unseasonal rain has damaged ready-for-harvest mango and watermelon in the district. In separate incidents, two people, including a teen, were struck dead by lightning. Siddamma Ghattaragi (35) of Mayur village in Jewargi taluk and Ehtesham Iqbal Sab (16) of Thippanahalli in Shahpur taluk, Yadgir district, were killed in lightning strikes. Dharwad, Vijayapura, Belagavi and Gadag districts experienced thundershowers along with many parts of Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu and Shivamogga districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/parts-of-karnataka-witness-hailstorm-2-killed-in-lightning-strikes-980588.html
29-04-2021||State||Karnataka man succumbs to Covid-19 one day before wedding||A 32-year-old man, who was about to get married on Thursday, died to Covid-19 at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga on Wednesday. He was admitted to a government hospital in Koppa following difficulty in breathing. He was tested negative for Covid-19 at the hospital. However, the problem turned worse after two days and was rushed to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga where he was tested positive. He did not respond to the treatment and breathed his last on Wednesday evening. He had recently come to Koppa from Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-man-succumbs-to-covid-19-one-day-before-wedding-980589.html
29-04-2021||State||Allow pregnant, lactating mothers to be vaccinated: Federation||The Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) has released an 11-page report on its position regarding Covid vaccination for pregnant women and lactating mothers. They recommend vaccinating these women in line with the recommendations of international medical bodies.  However, the union health ministry states individual practitioners cannot advise vaccination to pregnant and lactating women in India until there is a change in recommendations from the ministry. According to FOGSI, the very real benefits of vaccinating pregnant and lactating women seem to far outweigh any theoretical and remote risks of vaccination. Lactating women should also be considered as Covid vaccine candidates as there are no known adverse effects on the neonate who is breastfeeding. “Women should be counselled and empowered to make their own decision, supported by caregivers. There should not be any discrimination between women who accept or refuse the vaccine as and when it is possible to administer it in our country to pregnant and lactating women,” it further states. It recommended that obstetricians, gynaecologists and women’s health care providers should be allowed to administer the Covid vaccines to pregnant and breastfeeding women with preparations to manage adverse events. Vaccine administration in the preconception period or for women undergoing fertility treatment including assisted reproduction was also recommended. “Women should take the vaccine at any point of time before a pregnancy is confirmed as and when they have an opportunity to do so. There is no basis for deferring pregnancy or treatments for taking the vaccine. There is no evidence that vaccine administration affects fertility or miscarriage rates,” it said. Dr Hema Divakar, past President, FOGSI, said, “All Covid vaccines have a risk of blood clots. This is of consideration in pregnancy because this states is also thrombogenic. It remains unknown whether the risk of blood clots increases due to vaccination in pregnancy. Based on reported risks from the general population, this additional risk is likely to be rare. As such, there are no such reports that have emerged.” In fact, there is a passage of protective antibodies to the child, which may be a beneficial effect, FOGSI says. Recommendations on the Covid vaccine in maternity care are important. The guidance on this matter will affect about 50 million lives in India every year (based on 25 million births annually and an equal number in the preconception and post-delivery periods).  Number of Covid positive pregnant women who’ve delivered at Vani Vilas Hospital/Trauma and Emergency Care Centre from the start of the pandemic: 410 Number of Covid positive pregnant women who’ve delivered at HSIS Gosha Hospital from the start of the pandemic: 337||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/allow-pregnant-lactating-mothers-to-be-vaccinated-federation-980590.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister cautions against self-administration of Remdesivir||Amidst the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Karnataka Health Minister Dr Sudhakar on Wednesday cautioned the public against self-administration of Remdesiver without the guidance of doctors. After holding a meeting with the Health department officials, the minister appealed to the practicing doctors not to encourage such practices among the home-isolated patients. Speaking to mediapersons, Dr Sudhakar said, "We have discovered that many Covid-19 patients are taking Remdesivir without doctor's guidance at homes. No person shall stock it at home by getting a prescription from a doctor. Practicing doctors must also be careful while prescribing the medicine and only those who are in need must be prescribed." Commenting on the availability, Dr Sudhakar said, "About eight companies produce the drug and the Centre has allocated 1.22 lakh vials of Remdesivir to Karnataka. We had directed the Jubilant company to supply the drug. But till date, they have not supplied any dose and I have ordered to initiate strict action against the company. We have additionally placed orders for 1.80 lakh vials. Further, out of the 800 metric tonnes of oxygen allotted to Karnataka, we will be giving the full quantity of required oxygen to the hospitals rather than rationing it." The Health Minister also revealed that retired doctors and young medical professionals provide consultation to the Covid-19 patients from their homes. "They can voluntarily take part in the exercise and they will be provided with certificates," he pointed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-cautions-against-self-administration-of-remdesivir-980309.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru MP appeals to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for 1000-bed hospital in Karnataka||Bangalore Central MP P C Mohan has written to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, seeking his help to set up hospitals in Karnataka similar to the 1000-bed hospital set up in New Delhi. "As you are aware, Karnataka has been experiencing the third-highest number of Covid cases with Bengaluru city alone touching as many as 20,000 cases on a daily basis...Ever since the second wave hit the country and different mutant strains attacked us, there has been severe stress on the public and private healthcare system," he wrote. Noting that the Army started 1000-bed hospitals in Delhi and Tamil Nadu, he appealed to the defence minister to set up a similar facility in Karnataka as well. "Bengaluru has many defence establishments, including the Command Hospital run by the IAF and other medical formations. I request your kind self that armed forces units may hereby (be) instructed to set up Covid Care Centres, medical care centres and also to reserve a portion of total beds to the general public," the MP said, also requesting the armed forces to help in delivering medical logistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-mp-appeals-to-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-for-1000-bed-hospital-in-karnataka-980310.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka may see 3.5 lakh active cases during peak, says SBI report||Karnataka will have over 3.5 lakh active cases as compared to the current 3 lakh when it hits the second peak – next only to Maharashtra. According to a report of the State Bank of India’s Economic Research Department, Maharashtra is estimated to have 9.5 lakh active cases at the time of second peak from its current level of 6.7 lakh, contributing to around 26 per cent in total active cases. “Sixteen major states will account for 95.7 per cent of total active cases estimated for the country. Various states, on an average, are expected to reach their peak around the national peak date, indicating that the worst may be over by 3rd week of May,” according to the report authored by Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser, State Bank of India. The report titled – “The power of vaccination stays safe: Don’t confuse between probability & possibility of getting infected” – deals with finer aspects of the ongoing second wave. The report points out that the 7-Day Moving Average of daily tests and daily new cases in India are both increasing at a rapid pace. However, from late-December 2020 to mid-February 2021, our daily new cases reduced significantly but at the same time daily tests also declined. Thus it should not be the case that India becomes complacent again and reduces tests just to show a lower infection rate as this could lead to widespread increase in infection as is happening in the current wave. On the belief that elections and/or public congregations are one of the major factors behind the surging cases in election states, the report points out that, in contrast, in some states like Maharashtra, Delhi and Chhattisgarh, even as mobility has declined significantly, cases have increased and only recently have shown some stabilisation, but no meaningful decline. Although Maharashtra is in lockdown-mode for the last three weeks, the 7-Day Moving Average of daily cases remains at 60,000. “This indicates the transmission may not possibly be only through humans; it is airborne. This makes a strong case of mass sanitization of public places for disinfection,” it states. Cumulative deaths (from Mumbai) below 50 years is quite high at 13.6 per cent. Between April 12 and April 25, this has increased marginally to 13.8 per cent. “Is this a clear sign that the mutant is actually having a significant impact on India’s Covid cases and in that class of population which has not been vaccinated till date?” it asks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-may-see-35-lakh-active-cases-during-peak-says-sbi-report-980377.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa directs audit of Remdesvir, oxygen availability||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed authorities to conduct an audit of Remdesvir and oxygen availability to ensure that they are delivered to those who require it the most. Oxygen beds and ventilators should also be used judiciously, he said. At a meeting held to review the Covid-19 situation with DCs, CEOs of Zilla Panchayats, SPs and health officials of districts, Yediyurappa asked officials to limit testing to only those with symptoms and ensure that RT-PCR test results are out in 24 hours. "Measures should also be taken to ensure that all hospitals receive oxygen on time," he said, advising neighbouring districts to cooperate in case an urgent requirement of oxygen arose. During the meeting, the CM pulled up several Deputy Commissioners for not arranging enough beds to treat Covid-19 victims in their respective districts. "Many Deputy Commissioners have not made proper arrangements of beds (for Covid patients). Covid Care Centres too are not open," he said, directing them to ensure Covid Care Centres are ready in all taluks. With fears of increase in cases in rural areas due to migration from Bengaluru during the 14-day 'close down', Yediyurappa directed district authorities to closely monitor those returning from the state capital to contain the second wave of Covid pandemic in the state. Funds were already released to DC accounts to ensure all Covid patients under home isolation receive kits to monitor their health, and to form teams for periodic monitoring of such patients, he said. Patients from neighbouring states such as Maharashtra are entering Karnataka and receiving treatment in the hospitals. "They are filling up the beds in our hospitals. DCs should take suitable action about the same," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-directs-audit-of-remdesvir-oxygen-availability-980480.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy bats for compulsory door-to-door vaccination of 18-plus population in Karnataka||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday suggested to the Karnataka government to start compulsory door-to-door vaccination of the 18-plus population taking advantage of the state-wide curfew imposed to arrest the spread of Covid-19. The JDS leader noted that the State has close to seven crore population of which persons in the age group 18-44 is about 37 per cent making it the largest chunk at 2.59 crore. "At two jabs a person, we would need 5.19 crore vaccine doses," he pointed out. This is in addition to ongoing vaccine demand for 45-plus population which is 28 per cent of the states's tally at 1.96 crore persons requiring 3.9 crore doses. "Many in the 45-plus age group have not yet received even the first dose due to lack of vaccine supplies. And most from the 45-60 age group haven't received the second dose.Does Government of Karnataka and Government of India have enough supplies to walk the talk?" Kumaraswamy asked. "It's a welcome decision to impose stringent restrictions during corona curfew but what steps is the government taking to ensure adequate vaccine supply?" he said. As the state is under curfew, he suggested the government take full advantage of the situation and start door- to-door compulsory vaccination of all 18-plus population so as to instill confidence in the population as well as to arrest the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-bats-for-compulsory-door-to-door-vaccination-of-18-plus-population-in-karnataka-980555.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 35,024 fresh Covid-19 infections, 270 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported the highest single day death toll with 270 deaths.   But these deaths date as far back as April 3 to April 28.  Karnataka registered 35,024 fresh Covid-19 infections, a dip of over 4,000 cases from Wednesday, taking the caseload and toll to 14,74,846 and 15,306 respectively. The state had reported 39,047 fresh cases on Wednesday. There are 3,49,496 active cases, including 2,431 in the ICU, whereas 14,142 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 11,10,025. Bengaluru Urban district alone contributed 19,637 fresh infections and 143 deaths, taking the total infections and fatalities to 7,29,984 and 6,282 respectively. The city alone now has 2,37,518 active cases. As many as 1,219 cases were reported in Mysuru, 1,175 in Dakshina Kannada, 1,129 in Bengaluru Rural, and 957 in Kalaburagi. There were 1,75,816 tests done on Thursday, including 1,60,698 RT-PCR tests, pushing the total tests done to 2.54 crore. More than 93.63 lakh people have been inoculated in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-35024-fresh-covid-19-infections-270-deaths-980561.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||As false negative cases increase in Karnataka, doctors to assign patient numbers||Considering the increasing number of false-negative reports being witnessed in both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Testing methods, the Karnataka government has decided to follow a syndromic approach and issue patient numbers for hospitalisation and treatment of such cases based on the authorisation of doctors. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar, through a government order, said that after the recent surge of cases, several instances have been reported where the laboratory test for Covid is found negative even while the patient has Covid-19 symptoms or CT scan has detected infection. Since the rules mandate that infected persons should have a patient number, issued by district authorities or the BBMP to get admission in a hospital, several patients, whose report is negative, have been facing issues in getting admission to hospitals. Now, the government has now decided to follow a syndromic approach and give patient numbers to such cases based on authorisation of doctors. This will help patients to get admission and treatment through a reference from Suvarna Aarogya Suraksha Trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-false-negative-cases-increase-in-karnataka-doctors-to-assign-patient-numbers-980573.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Remdesivir manufacturing unit in Belagavi soon||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Thursday said a Remdesivir injection manufacturing unit would come up in Belagavi soon. The minister told reporters here that the Union government has given its nod to Satish Garagi of Mudhol to set up Remdesivir injections manufacturing plant in Belagavi. “In the next one month, the plant will start manufacturing the anti-viral drug. This will overcome shortage of injections in the state,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/remdesivir-manufacturing-unit-in-belagavi-soon-980578.html
29-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PDS beneficiaries to get 5 kg free rice under PMGKAY in Karnataka||The Public Distribution System (PDS) card holders in Karnataka will get 5 kg of rice each for May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has made the stock available and the state Food and Civil Supplies Department has already begun to lift the stock from the FCI godowns, an official release from the FCI stated on Thursday. The PMGKAY was introduced last year to help people overcome the Covid crisis. The government supplied free rice under the scheme between March and October, 2020, according to FCI officials. The ration provided under the scheme will be in addition to the regular ration supplied under PDS. There are about 4 crore beneficiaries under PDS in Karnataka. How can poor person survive with just 2 Kgs of rice a month? \ Meanwhile, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has demanded the state government to allocate 10 kg of rice to each person along with other essential items. "People are at home without jobs due to lockdown in the state. They are finding it difficult to afford even basic essentials," he tweeted on Thursday. He also reiterated the Congress party's demand to sack Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti. The minister came under criticism on Wednesday for asking a farmer to "go, die" when he asked why the government had reduced the quantity of rice under PDS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pds-beneficiaries-to-get-5-kg-free-rice-under-pmgkay-in-karnataka-980581.html
29-04-2021||West||FIR registered against Param Bir Singh over cop's complaint||In what compounds troubles for Param Bir Singh, the Commandant General of Home Guards, the Akola police station has registered an FIR against him and 26 other police officers and men for alleged corruption. The complaint has been lodged by Police Inspector Bhimrao Ghadge. The police personnel has been booked under sections like criminal conspiracy, destruction of evidence of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities Act), 1989. In his complaint addressed to the Maharashtra government and the Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey, Ghadge, who was posted in Thane police during 2015-18, had made a series of allegations against Singh, who was then the Thane City’s Commissioner of Police. Deputy Commissioner of Police Parag Manere has also been named in the FIR. The City Kotwali police station in Akola in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra registered the Zero FIR, which is expected to be transferred to Thane Police. According to the allegations, Ghadge was asked by Singh not to charge sheet certain persons, however, when he refused to comply, he was suspended. Ghadge, who is now posted in the Akola police control room, has also alleged that after he refused to obey Singh's instructions, five FIRs were registered against him and he was suspended. Yet another probe This is yet another addition to the series of probes that involves the former Mumbai Police chief. Singh, an officer of the 1988-batch of IPS, had alleged that \then Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had fixed a ‘collection target’ of Rs 100 crore per month for Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the NIA in connection with the planting of Scorpio with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren.  The Bombay High Court has ordered a CBI probe and the federal agency has recorded the statement of Singh and Deshmukh. In a report, Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale, had stated that Vaze, the head of the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch-CID, was bypassing all other officers and directly reporting to Singh and taking instructions. Besides, the Maharashtra government has already appointed a high-level enquiry committee (HLEC) by Justice Kailash Chandiwal, a retired judge of the Bombay High Court, to probe into the allegations against Deshmukh. The State government has also asked Pandey to conduct a preliminary inquiry" into a complaint lodged by Assistant Police Inspector Anup Dange against Singh, on corruption allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-registered-against-param-bir-singh-over-cops-complaint-980363.html
29-04-2021||West||Ulfa-I commander killed in encounter, 'high profile' abduction foiled, says Assam police||A commander of Ulfa-independent, a banned militant group, was killed in an encounter with police in western Assam's Bongaigaon district on the wee hours of Thursday, police said.  Based on intelligence inputs that Dwipen Saud, who was newly appointed as the commander of Ulfa-I's western command and was planning some "high profile" abduction, police confronted him at Besimari under Manikpur police station. He was killed in the gunbattle that followed while his gunman Padum Rai was arrested with a weapon. Police recovered another weapon and a grenade from the encounter site.  Saud was recently appointed as commander of the outfit's western command after Drishti Rajkhowa, a senior and dreaded militant leader surrendered before security forces last year.  "We had intelligence that indicated that Ulfa Western Command was planning some high profile kidnapping in collaboration with some other anti-India forces which now appears to be foiled," Director General of Assam Police, Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said in a Facebook post on Thursday morning. "Today's successful operation is due to high-quality police intelligence input that worked out precisely for 'on ground' action," he further posted.  The encounter comes days after Ulfa-I abducted three workers of ONGC in eastern Assam's Sivasagar district. Two of them, however, were rescued by security forces following a gunfight in neighbouring Nagaland. But the third victim still remains traceless. Police said he was in Ulfa-I captivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ulfa-i-commander-killed-in-encounter-high-profile-abduction-foiled-says-assam-police-980384.html
29-04-2021||West||Mumbai's Haffkine gets nod to produce Covaxin||The Maharashtra government has finally granted approval to Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Ltd to manufacture Covaxin, the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, after nearly 1.5 months. The Haffkine Institute For Training, Research & Testing, located in the Parel area of Mumbai, is where India’s first clinical trial was held in 1899 when legendary scientist Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine invented the plague vaccine. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about producing vaccines in Haffkine, and was corresponding regularly with the Centre. The Haffkine Institute has the capacity to roll out 22 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses annually. At the Cabinet meeting, the government gave approval to the project. “We have given approval for production of Covaxin at the Haffkine Institute,” state’s Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. “With the help of the Ministry of Science and Technology’s Department of Biotechnology, a project is going to be set up by Haffkine at Parel in Mumbai for manufacturing Covaxin in collaboration with Bharat Biotech. The project has a capex of Rs 154 crore. The state Cabinet approved the allocation of Rs 94 crore from the Contingency Fund towards the proposed capex. The central government sanctioned Rs 65 crore,” official sources said. Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Ltd Managing Director Sandeep Rathod will steer the project. Earlier this month, the government had approved production of Covaxin in Mumbai on a technology-transfer basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-haffkine-gets-nod-to-produce-covaxin-980415.html
29-04-2021||West||Top IFS officer arrested on charges of abetment in 'Lady Singham' suicide case||Amravati police have arrested M Srinivasa Reddy, one of the senior-most Indian Forest Service (IFS) officials posted in Maharashtra, on charges of abetment to suicide. Reddy had sought anticipatory bail, but the plea was denied on April 3 in the absence of any offence lodged against him. On March 25, a female Range Forest Officer posted in Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati, died by suicide after alleging harassment by superiors. Dipali Chavan (33), popularly known as ‘Lady Singham’ and 'Melghat’s Singham’, shot herself with her service revolver. The officer, who was posted at Harisal in Gugamal division, reportedly left a suicide note in which she named Divisional Fire Officer Vinod Shivkumar and alleged high-handedness and constant harassment. Shivkumar was arrested on March 26. The letter was addressed to Reddy, who was transferred and later placed on suspension. A 1993-batch IFS officer, he served as Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Field Director, MTR. The Dipali Chavan suicide case was raised with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray by Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is also the Guardian Minister of Amravati, MP Navnit Kaur Rana, and other leaders. Shivkumar’s bail pleas have been rejected twice in the last one month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/top-ifs-officer-arrested-on-charges-of-abetment-in-lady-singham-suicide-case-980492.html
29-04-2021||West||Tagged birds return to Panje wetlands after 3 years, highlighting need to conserve 'urban sponges'||With the overflow of tidal water into parched Panje wetlands at Uran in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), migratory birds tagged by BNHS in September 2018 have returned to the area, bringing into sharp focus the need to conserve ‘urban sponges’. Panje - located in the Raigad district - had been reduced to a dry land with the blocking of tidal water inlets by vested interests despite an order from the National GreenTribunal (NTG) to clear the hindrances. Some tidal water, however, flowed over the man-made bunds into parts of the wetland which had become uneven due to intermittent illegal landfill, NGO NatConnect Foundation said in a press statement. Local birder Parag Gharat, who ventured out with his camera after seeing the waterflow, spotted the tagged birds. NatConnect director B N Kumar quickly cross-checked with BNHS which identified the birds as greater sand plover (Charadrius leschenaultii). The BNHS also confirmed that it had done the tagging. “Looks like the birds are using the Mumbai coast as a stopover or refuelling site,” remarked BNHS director Dr Bivash Pandav. The sand plovers that breed in semi-deserts of Central Asia such as Turkey, have a tendency to fly eastward and can live from 12 to 19 years. This species is strongly migratory, wintering on sandy beaches in East Africa, South Asia and Australasia, BNHS experts said. Ahead of the World Migratory Bird Day (WMBD) being observed on May 8, the NatConnect Foundation has launched a campaign, focusing on birds and bio-diversity. “Migratory birds are our seasonal guests and we are lucky in MMR to have them visiting us,” said Kumar. “The migratory birds teach us the importance of maintaining our wetlands as not only their birds breeding or nesting grounds, but as urban sponges that absorb flood waters. Wetlands are home to several microbes which are essential for our biodiversity as we are taught in our schools,” he said. Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan,regretted that most of the Panje Wetland remained dry as water flow continued to be blocked by vested interests. “We just cannot understand how the officials can keep flouting the NGT order to clear the man-made blocks at the five water inlets,” he said and alleged that the State government agency CIDCO is apparently hands-in-glove with the vested interests at work to keep the wetland dry to facilitate construction there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tagged-birds-return-to-panje-wetlands-after-3-years-highlighting-need-to-conserve-urban-sponges-980494.html
29-04-2021||West||IIT Bombay comes up with a solution for oxygen shortage||The Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) has come up with a creative solution to address the shortage of medical oxygen for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in India. The pilot project, which has been tested successfully, relies on a simple technological hack: conversion of PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) Nitrogen Unit to PSA Oxygen Unit! This is a collaborative effort between IIT Bombay, Tata Consulting Engineers and Spantech Engineers, Mumbai, who deal with PSA Nitrogen and Oxygen plant production. Initial tests done at IIT Bombay showed promising results. Oxygen production could be achieved at 3.5 atm pressure, with a purity level of 93 per cent to 96 per cent. This gaseous oxygen can be utilised for Covid-related needs across existing hospitals and upcoming Covid-19 specific facilities by providing a continuous supply of oxygen. “It has been done by fine-tuning the existing Nitrogen Plant setup and changing the molecular sieves from Carbon to Zeolite,” says Prof Milind Atrey, Dean (R&D) at IIT Bombay, who led the project. "Such nitrogen plants, which take air from the atmosphere as raw material, are available in various industrial plants across India. Therefore, each of them could potentially be converted into an oxygen generator, thus helping us tide over the current public health emergency", he added. A PSA Nitrogen plant in the Refrigeration and Cryogenics Laboratory of IIT was identified for conversion, to validate the proof of concept. To undertake this study on an urgent basis, an MoU was signed between IIT-B, Tata Consulting Engineers and Spantech Engineers to finalise an SOP that may be leveraged across the country. Spantech Engineers installed the required plant components as a skid at IIT Bombay for evaluation using IIT-B’s infrastructure at the IIT-B Nitrogen facility at the Refrigeration and Cryogenics lab. This setup for the experiment was developed within three days, and the initial tests have shown promising results. Atrey acknowledged Amit Sharma, MD, Tata Consulting Engineers, Rajendra Tahiliani, promoter of Spantech Engineers, Raj Mohan, MD at Spantech Engineers and their team members for their collaboration on this project. Sharma said, “We are delighted to partner with IIT Bombay and Spantech Engineers, and contribute towards an innovative solution for emergency oxygen generation using existing infrastructure towards helping the country tide over the current crisis.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iit-bombay-comes-up-with-a-solution-for-oxygen-shortage-980495.html
29-04-2021||West||Domestic travel bans are not advisable to curb Covid: University of Chicago||As India’s big and populated states and urban centres go in for strict lockdown-type restrictions, a new study by the University of Chicago states that it could lead to more Covid-19 infections. The new research paper by academics at the University of Chicago suggests that imposing travel bans can counter-intuitively increase the total spread of the disease, creating a lose-lose situation. This outcome occurs when a country has a large migrant population that is prevented from leaving an urban hotspot and returning to rural areas. The researchers show that if the net effect of a travel ban is to delay the movement of these people, rather than prevent it entirely, the policy can lead to more cases overall, according to a press statement released here on Thursday. The paper uses detailed data on rural-urban migration, travel ban policies, and Covid-19 cases to show that this lose-lose outcome occurred in India during the first wave, due to travel bans imposed on migrants wishing to leave Mumbai. Elaborating on these findings, Dr. Anant Sudarshan, South Asia Director of The Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago and one of the study authors, says, “The national lockdown in the first wave trapped millions of migrants inside big cities like Mumbai that were fast-growing coronavirus hotspots. Eventually people were able to leave, but variations in government policy meant that the length of time they were detained depended on where they wanted to go.” In the case of rural districts where people could return quicker – using the Shramik special trains for example - cases rose modestly at the destination. “But for those areas where bans were in effect longer, there was a much more intensive increase in coronavirus, likely because the returning population was now more likely to be infected, having been trapped in the hotspot longer,” he said. Apart from Mumbai, the paper further analyses data from five other countries where migration is prevalent – China, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Africa, and Kenya. Together these countries comprise roughly 40% of the global population and all of them had initial outbreaks in a few hotspot locations. The researchers used epidemiological data, migration data, and information on travel bans from all these countries to show that although exceptionally long bans may work to reduce total cases, moderate durations are associated with significant increases in disease spread. Fiona Burlig, Assistant Professor at the Harris School of Public Policy at the University of Chicago, one of the co-authors of the study, adds, “The evidence indicates that if the duration of a travel ban is not long enough, we may end up imposing hardship on people while perversely seeing more spread of infection. Getting the duration wrong is easy because it is not possible to predict in advance what the optimal length should be, and in a democracy such restrictions cannot be easily sustained. There may be merit in letting people go home early, and indeed encouraging them to do so, rather than forcing them to stay.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/domestic-travel-bans-are-not-advisable-to-curb-covid-university-of-chicago-980520.html
29-04-2021||West||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 curbs till May 15||With Maharashtra adding an average 60,000 patients per day, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday decided to extend the strict lockdown-type measures till 15 May. During the last 24 hours, 66,159 cases and 771 deaths were reported, taking the state's tally  to 45,39,553 and 66,159, respectively, according to the Public Health Department. The financial capital of Mumbai recorded 4,174 cases while the larger Mumbai metropolitan region reported 11,344 cases – which is nearly stable for a week’s time now. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held two back-to-back meetings – one on the Covid-19 pandemic situation and another on the vaccination drive. “There would be strict implementation of lockdown measures,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-may-15-980526.html
29-04-2021||West||Attend all patients reaching Covid-19 hospitals: HC to Gujarat govt||The Gujarat High Court has directed the state government to make sure each and every patient reaching a designated Covid-19 hospital is attended to and given preliminary treatment even if beds are not available. The court heard a PIL online on Tuesday and a detailed copy of its order was made available on Thursday. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Bhargav Karia also directed the state government to find alternatives for manufacturing medical oxygen to save coronavirus patients. It was hearing a PIL taken up suo motu (on its own) on the Covid-19 situation in Gujarat, which has seen a sharp rise in coronavirus cases over the last few weeks. The bench raised concern over government-run and designated Covid-19 hospitals in Ahmedabad attending only to patients coming in the EMRI (Emergency Management and Research Institute)-run '108' ambulances and ignoring those brought in private vehicles. "The state government and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) were aware that there is a shortage of 108 ambulances and if that was so, then what justification can there be if patients reach the hospital in their privately arranged vehicles," the court said. "We accordingly direct that all the government, corporation, designated and private hospitals attend to all patients reaching them. Patients cannot be left unattended," the bench said in its order. It said though the admission in a hospital would be subject to availability of beds, "a preliminary needed treatment should be given and thereafter the parties may be advised further course of action". While noting that the Gujarat government has already sent a request to the Centre for allocation of more medical oxygen, the HC asked the state "to speed up and find other alternatives for the manufacture of oxygen for medical use". "The PSA plants which are not functional to be made functional at the earliest...As much as possible oxygen should be made available within the state in addition to the central allocation so that there is no shortfall of oxygen," the bench suggested. It also directed the AMC to withdraw its April 5 order which declared that Ahmedabad residents who have visited other states for work will not be required to undergo RT-PCR tests upon their return to the city. The court said the AMC's announcement was in contravention to the state government's March 27 order, according to which a negative RT-PCR test certificate is compulsory for those travelling to Gujarat from other states. The HC has posted the PIL for next hearing on May 4. On Wednesday, Gujarat registered 14,120 new cases of Covid-19, while 174 people succumbed to the infection, the highest single-day fatalities so far. With the addition of 14,120 new patients, the state's tally of coronavirus cases has gone up to 5,38,845, while the death toll has reached 6,830, as per the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/attend-all-patients-reaching-covid-19-hospitals-hc-to-gujarat-govt-980529.html
29-04-2021||West||Goa govt doctors threaten to withdraw services over assault by Covid patients' relatives||More than 300-odd resident doctors attached to designated government Covid-19 facilities have threatened to withdraw their services without notice, if they are physically attacked and abused to relatives of deceased patients in the coming days, the Goa Association of Resident Doctors said on Thursday. "We will not be giving any further notices or warnings before stopping our services. If the administration cannot provide security to the doctors or if the people of Goa fail to understand the situation and the plight of the healthcare workers, then we won't be responsible for any further untoward incidents happening as a result of withdrawal of our services," the statement said. The statement comes in wake of two incidents earlier this month, when doctors and other staffers were abused by relatives of a Covid-19 patient.  "It is always resident doctors who are at the receiving end of abuses for lack of beds and other facilities. The people of Goa need to understand that we have joined GMC as post graduate students and are providing medicinal services as a part of learning," the statement said. "We too have parents and families back home just like you all who are waiting on the other side to see us all safe and supporting us fearlessly to do our job of serving the public. And if the coronavirus wasn't enough, we now have to face backlash from the very people we are trying to serve," it added. Goa has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, with the state reporting an average of 30 deaths per day over the last few days. In all, the state has 20,898 active cases and has reported 1,146 deaths from Covid-19 related complications since last year. Over the last 24 hours 3,019 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-doctors-threaten-to-withdraw-services-over-assault-by-covid-patients-relatives-980558.html
29-04-2021||West||Top IFS officer arrested on charges of abetment in 'Lady Singham' suicide case||Amravati police have arrested M Srinivasa Reddy, one of the senior-most Indian Forest Service (IFS) officials posted in Maharashtra, on charges of abetment to suicide. Reddy had sought anticipatory bail, but the plea was denied on April 3 in the absence of any offence lodged against him. On March 25, a female Range Forest Officer posted in Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati, died by suicide after alleging harassment by superiors. Dipali Chavan (33), popularly known as ‘Lady Singham’ and 'Melghat’s Singham’, shot herself with her service revolver. The officer, who was posted at Harisal in Gugamal division, reportedly left a suicide note in which she named Divisional Fire Officer Vinod Shivkumar and alleged high-handedness and constant harassment. Shivkumar was arrested on March 26.   The letter was addressed to Reddy, who was transferred and later placed on suspension. A 1993-batch IFS officer, he served as Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Field Director, MTR. The Dipali Chavan suicide case was raised with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray by Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is also the Guardian Minister of Amravati, MP Navnit Kaur Rana and other leaders. Shivkumar’s bail pleas have been rejected twice in the last one month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/top-ifs-officer-arrested-on-charges-of-abetment-in-lady-singham-suicide-case-980560.html
29-04-2021||West||Jignesh Mevani moves HC for direction to use MLA funds for Covid-19 facilities||Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani has moved Gujarat High Court seeking direction from the government to allow him to spend MLA funds to set up coronavirus testing facilities, oxygen plants, and buying Remdesivir, among other drugs used for treating infected persons. Mevani had first approached the state government which has not yet responded to his demand.  The MLA from the Vadgam constituency in Banaskantha district, Mevani has filed a civil application in the high court, saying that every MLA (member of legislative assembly) is allocated funds for utilisation in the welfare of people under his or her constituency. The petition says that MLA has to recommend a public work for which funds are utilised by the district administration with the prescribed procedure as mentioned in the rules and regulations for utilization of MLA funds. "The applicant is an MLA from Vadgam constituency and every year One crore and fifty lakhs rupees [Rs 1.50 crore] are allocated. The applicant has addressed a letter on 26/04/2021 to the respondent Chief Secretary, state of Gujarat to spend Rs. 30 lakhs for setting up an oxygen plant in his constituency from out of the MLA funds, to spend Rs. 10 lakhs for acquiring ventilators and further amount of Rs. 10 lakhs to be spent for purchasing Remdesivir Injection and Tocilizumab Injections," Mevani has stated in the petition filed through advocate Anand Yagnik. The matter is likely to be heard on May 5 in the special division bench which is hearing a suo moto public interest litigation. Mevani has stated that his "constituency has primary health centres and community health centres. However, Covid treatment is not possible because oxygen, ventilators and necessary injections are not available. There is no private hospital in the constituency of the applicant where oxygen and ventilators are available." The Vadgam MLA has also alleged that "Palanpur civil hospital is a district hospital of district Banaskantha and is owned by the government but same is given on lease to a co-operative body to start a medical college and same is completely controlled by a leader coming from present political dispensation of the State of Gujarat. The hospital is not performing its obligation any further as a government hospital but is run as a private hospital with a political objective and purpose. As a result, people of the district and applicant’s constituency also suffer." Meanwhile, Gujarat reported 14,327 new positive cases on Thursday while 180 deaths taking the total to 5,53,172 and 7,010 respectively. Number of active cases rose to 1,37,794, out of which 572 patients were on ventilator support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jignesh-mevani-moves-hc-for-direction-to-use-mla-funds-for-covid-19-facilities-980566.html
