30-04-2021||First Edit||Collapse of governance as second Covid-19 wave ravages India||While the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is fast spreading in the country, taking a bigger toll of lives and misery, it is clear that the prime responsibility for the disastrous turn is with the governments, both at the Centre and in the states. But they are trying to exonerate themselves, blaming each other or worse, blaming the people, the nature of the virus or circumstances beyond their control. It is easy to claim that the present situation would not have arisen if the people had followed the Covid protocol, but the obvious question is whether the governments had anticipated it, adequately forewarned the people about it, made preparations to deal with it, and are doing enough to handle it now. The answer to all these questions is in the negative and it is a bigger negative with the Central government.  From the first days of the outbreak of the pandemic to the present, the Central government’s handling of the situation was inadequate and poor. It failed to appreciate the gravity of the pandemic threat or ignored it. Initial action was delayed because of the political crisis in Madhya Pradesh and even when the lockdown was declared, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it would take only 21 days to get the better of the virus. The complacence after the first wave subsided was much more consequential. The Prime Minister declared to the world that India had defeated the pandemic, and that could only have misled the people. The governments did not use the weeks of pandemic decline to ramp up facilities in hospitals, including beds and equipment, and to arrange production or procurement of adequate quantities of vaccines, oxygen and medicines. The vaccination programme was not planned well and even now, the government does not consider it is its responsibility to offer the vaccines free to all citizens.  Since the pandemic was the main concern of the nation for the last one year, the failure to handle it with any degree of success marks a total collapse of governance. The credibility and efficacy of a system of governance is seen basically by the trust the people have in its ability to protect their life and limb. That trust has been impaired now. The government aggravated the situation by its failure to act and its leaders, including the Prime Minister, contributed to it by leading and participating in mammoth election rallies and allowing other gatherings. State governments also have their share of blame but in a situation where the fight against the pandemic was entirely planned and managed by the Centre, much of the responsibility for the slide rests with the Centre. There may still be time to learn from the mistakes and act sensibly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/collapse-of-governance-as-second-covid-19-wave-ravages-india-980643.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Central Market closed in Mangaluru||The police barricaded the Central Market area after the deputy commissioner issued an order banning activities around it, after scores of complaints that Covid guidelines were being ignored by people in the area. All street vendors had to shift to the pavements near the Town Hall to sell vegetables, where crowds appeared with more Covid protocol violations. The district administration on Thursday had directed the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to strictly prohibit the trading of vegetables, fish and other business activities at the market. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Dr Rajendra K V at the meeting had asked MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar to enforce rules immediately to prevent large gatherings and violations. No one was permitted to sell anything around the market and any such activity was illegal, he said. The wholesale business of vegetables and fruits had been shifted to the APMC yard in Baikampady. "No wholesale business should be carried out in the Central Market. The MCC should initiate steps in ensuring the sale of vegetables and fruits in all wards to avoid large gathering of people," he had directed. The DC had directed the traffic police to regulate movement of vehicles in and around the market. In a tweet, the MCC said, "Central market area and its surroundings are now closed in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. Wholesalers have been asked to use the facilities of APMC markets and the retailers had been asked to use different markets across the city."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-central-market-closed-in-mangaluru-980922.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong leader criticises Vijayendra for attending meeting with officials||Dhruvanarayan, a former MP, said, “BJP leader Vijayendra participated in a meeting of officials and people’s representatives and shared the dais with his party colleagues, on Thursday in Mysuru. We don’t have any objection, if he attends a meeting at his party office. It is wrong to share the dais in a government meeting.”  He advised Yediyurappa to avoid his family members’ interference in administration, as it is not a good development. “It is a colonial culture and such incidents should not repeat,” he said. Vijayendra had shared the dais, in a meeting in which Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and City Police Commissioner Chandragupta were present, on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-leader-criticises-vijayendra-for-attending-meeting-with-officials-980931.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police enforce strict measures for effective Covid curfew||The district, as well city police, have taken certain measures to ensure effective implementation of the ongoing Covid curfew in Mysuru. While the city police, led by Commissioner Chandragupta, have re-routed traffic to check unnecessary movement of the people, the district police, led by Superintendent of PoliceC B Ryshyanth, has intensified checking at entry points to the district from neighbouring districts. Chandragupta, who visited various places in the city, said, “A few roads are blocked and traffic is re-routed to unnecessary movement of vehicles. Except emergency vehicles, no vehicles are allowed. Checking is not possible at all places, so several roads are blocked for vehicle movement.” The commissioner said, “A few people are flouting the curfew norms and the police have filed nearly 300 cases on Thursday. The movement of the people is allowed between 6 am and 10 am. However, the movement of goods vehicles, bank employees and medical professionals is not restricted.” Ryshyanth said, “Men are deputed at the borders of the district. The police are checking all vehicles in the borders. Checkposts have been opened at all entry points. Unnecessary movement is less and only emergency vehicles and permitted vehicles as per the government order are allowed to move after 10 am. The district police have recovered a few mobikes and imposed fine for violating curfew rules.” The police have filed 42 cases and arrested 21 persons in connection with violation of Covid-19 norms, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-enforce-strict-measures-for-effective-covid-curfew-980932.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru district records highest-ever single day spike of 3,500 cases||Mysuru district recorded its highest single-day spike of 3,500 fresh Covid cases on Friday. While 2,551 are contacts of the infected, 918 are Influenza Like illness (ILI) cases and remaining 31 are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). With this, the positive cases has increased to 76,775. As many as 13 persons lost lives due to Covid-19 within 24 hours and the total deaths increased to 1,205 as on Friday. On the other hand, 1,078 persons recovered and discharged from hospitals. The Health department professionals have observed a total of 4,15,813 persons until the date. While 3,15,490 completed seven days of isolation, 23,548 are under quarantine. The district has a total of 10,775 active cases. The sudden rise of Covid cases has created panic among the residents of the city. However, the Health department has appealed to public not to get panicked. Any person who has been screened for Covid-19 or has been in personal contact with such a person must remain in home isolation for 14 days, irrespective of having any symptoms or not. The infected as well as normal people are suggested to maintain personal hygiene, use tissue paper or handkerchief while coughing or sneezing, wash hands frequently with soap and water or use hand sanitiser and importantly avoid attending mass social gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-district-records-highest-ever-single-day-spike-of-3500-cases-980933.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid effect: With no takers, farmer destroys greens||As there were no takers for the greens grown on his farmland, a farmer destroyed them, at Ganjam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, on Friday. Ramesh, a farmer of Ganjam, had grown a variety of greens on one acre of land, spending over Rs 30,000. As there was no demand for the greens, which is a perishable item, he destroyed it with a weed cutter. He had grown fenugreek, dil, coriander, amaranthus and other greens. “There was no demand for greens after the Covid cases rose and curfew was imposed. I razed it as the greens cannot be left without picking. It affects soil fertility,” said Ramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-effect-with-no-takers-farmer-destroys-greens-980934.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Oxygen cylinders seized from industrial units||More than 100 empty oxygen cylinders were seized from the industrial areas of Mandya and Srirangapatna taluks, by the respective tahsildars, on Thursday night. According to the officials, even after the government appealed to hand over the cylinders meant for industrial purpose, to tackle the shortage faced by Covid patients, some industries had kept the cylinders and were allegedly transporting them to Bengaluru. Mandya Tahsildar Chandrashekar, who conducted a raid on a transformer manufacturing unit at Tubinakere industrial area, seized 70 cylinders. There were 77 cylinders, including 70 jumbo cylinders, that can be used for medical purposes. He seized the 70 cylinders and shifted them to the central godown in Mandya. While 40 cylinders can be immediately used, the remaining 30 can be used after cleaning. Besides, 29 more cylinders were found at other two units. They would be seized after seeking opinion of the technical team, if they can be used to fill oxygen, Chandrashekar said. Around 35 oxygen cylinders were seized by the taluk administration at DBL Company camp, that were used for the national highway works, near Gananguru, Srirangapatna taluk. A team, led by tahsildar M V Roopa seized the cylinders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/oxygen-cylinders-seized-from-industrial-units-980935.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress to launch health helpline across state: Ex-MP||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan said that the BJP-led governments, Union as well as state, have failed in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and the Congress will launch a health helpline across Karnataka, to lend support to Covid-infected persons. In a press conference here, Dhruvanarayan, also former MP, said, Congress Karnataka In-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala has directed to open a control room and helpline to ensure health care for Covid patients. The Congress helpline, to be launched on Saturday, will function from 11 am. As many as 320 doctors have registered with the KPCC Doctors Cell to offer services, he said. “Last year, during the first wave of Covid, the Congress had launched ‘Aarogya Haasta’, which was a great success. Under the programme, volunteers had visited the houses in their respective locality to instil confidence among the residents. The party will offer services during the second wave too,” he said. Dhruvanarayan said that the second wave is more severe than the first wave and the death rate is high. “Even though the positivity rate is high, the death rate is less in a few states like Kerala as the governments were prepared to face the second wave. But, Karnataka government failed to take appropriate measures. The government should have diverted all funds to the Health department, to strengthen the facilities,” he said. He advised the government to intensify the Covid-19 vaccination drive and to administer the vaccines free of cost. He demanded the government to announce a package for unorganised workers and farmers, as they are under financial crisis. “The workers have no employment. Thus, it has become difficult to lead a life. Even the farmers are facing the same situation. So, the government must support them,” he said. Dhruvanarayan said, “Chief Minister Yediyurappa is not an able administrator. Except one or two ministers in his Cabinet, nobody is a good administrator.” Mysuru district (rural) president B J Vijaykumar, city president R Murthy, H A Venkatesh, Shivanna, Manjunath and Girish were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-to-launch-health-helpline-across-state-ex-mp-980936.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid crisis: Legislation sought to regulate medical expenses||Even as the families of patients, both Covid-19 and non-Covid, are struggling to arrange finances for their treatment at a time of Covid crisis, a social activist in Mysuru has urged the state government to enact a law or pass an ordinance to regulate the cost of the services in the private healthcare sector. Aravinda Sharma, president of Samagra Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, said that the government should implement something like Corona Treatment Expenses Regulation Act. “While the patients suffer and fight against the infection or disease, in a hospital ward, their family members strive to mobilise the funds required to foot the bills of the hospital, irrespective of ‘life or death’ of the patient. Besides, getting admission to a hospital is a Herculean task. Hospitals demand huge amounts, as advance deposit, for admission. Those who have a good health insurance are a bit relieved in this respect,” Sharma said. “It is the responsibility of any government, to solve such problems of the citizens. Healthcare is a right of any citizen. If not free healthcare, the government should ensure that the financial burden on the patient and his family is reduced, judiciously. The private institutions, with profit-motive, exploit the citizens, if the government does not take stringent measures,” he said. “Under each District Disaster Management Authority, a committee should be formed, to check victimisation by private hospitals, in a medical emergency like this. A retired judge can head the committee, comprising the MP, MLAs, MLCs concerned, a retired doctor from the Defence forces, and a social activist,” Sharma said. Associate professor with Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University Shalvapille Iyengar, who lost his father-in-law S Rajagopal, to Covid and comorbidities on Thursday, also has some advice to the government. It has to be recalled that Rajagopal, a resident of Denkanikote in Tamil Nadu, who complained of fatigue on Saturday (April 24) afternoon, was brought to Mysuru on Sunday (April 25), following difficulty in getting treatment in Hosur and Krishnagiri. In Mysuru also, Rajagopal got admission in a private hospital, after trying over 10 hospitals. “A mobile app can be developed to give a chart of charges for bed, oxygenated bed, ICU bed, ventilator and other services of hospitals, both government and private, for the people to verify and compare. This app can also be used by the doctors to allot a suitable hospital and appropriate services to a particular patient,” he said. He said that there should be transparency in diagnosis, tests and treatment, so that nothing is hidden from the caretakers of a particular patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-crisis-legislation-sought-to-regulate-medical-expenses-980937.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress wrests Thirthahalli town panchayat from BJP||The Congress has emerged victorious against the BJP in the Thirthahalli town panchayat polls. Of the 15 wards that went to the polls, Congress won nine while the BJP was able to win only six seats. The results were announced on Friday. With this victory, Congress has managed to end the BJP's 23-year-old dominance in the town panchayat. The collective efforts of former minister Kimmane Ratnakar and Congress leader R M Manjunath Gowda are said to have produced desirable results. The BJP's defeat, however, has dealt a huge blow to MLA Aaraga Jnanendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-wrests-thirthahalli-town-panchayat-from-bjp-980824.html
30-04-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka ULB polls: Setback for BJP as Congress wins 6 out of 10 urban local bodies||In an embarrassment to the ruling BJP, the saffron party could muster only one win in the ten urban local bodies, whose poll results were declared Friday. The Congress received a shot in the arm by securing wins in six urban local bodies, while the JD(S) secured a majority in two. Polling for these urban local bodies was held on April 27. The BJP had to face a setback in Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's home district Shivamogga, as Congress secured wins in both the ULBs that went to polls in the district - Bhadravathi City Municipal Council (CMC) and Thirthahalli Town Panchayat (TP). The BJP lost power in Thirthahalli after a span of two-and-a-half decades. Despite an aggressive campaign by the BJP led by Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, the Congress succeeded in retaining power at the Ballari City Corporation despite in-fighting. Of the 39 wards, Congress won 21, BJP 13 and Independents got five, who were Congress rebels. The Congress also secured a majority at Ramanagara CMC, Belur Town Municipal Council (TMC) and Gudibande TP. The JD(S) achieved a clear majority at Channapatna TMC and Vijayapura (Bengaluru Rural) TMC. The BJP won the Madikeri TMC, replacing the Congress-SDPI coalition. At the Bidar CMC, the Congress emerged as the single-largest party. In the Hallikhed TMC of Humnabad in Bidar, the Congress won the lone seat that faced a bypoll. An Independent candidate won the lone bypoll seat in the Hirekerur TP in Haveri. "People have reposed their faith in the Congress because of the performance of the BJP government," Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said. He added that the Congress' performance had "exceeded expectations even in the gram panchayat elections. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, in a statement, said that he was happy with the results of Madikeri TMC, attributing it to "pro-people policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and developmental works of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa". AAP opens account The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party secured its first electoral victory in Karnataka by winning one seat in the Bidar City Municipal Council. AAP candidate Shabnam Zabeen won ward 32 of the city. AAP Karnataka convenor Prithvi Reddy said that the party could have won a few more seats if they campaigned earlier for the polls. "We have good vote share in other ULBs, too," he said. Similarly, the AIMIM won one seat in Bidar. The SDPI bagged five seats in the Madikeri Town Municipal Council, a BJP’s stronghold.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-ulb-polls-setback-for-bjp-as-congress-wins-6-out-of-10-urban-local-bodies-980903.html
30-04-2021||Main Article||Reminder for our leaders||Two major decisions may turn out to be deflators to India’s fight against the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. One can foresee that the blame game will find the ‘people’ at fault. Authorities who approved the holding of the Kumbh Mela and the election rallies across the country will bear no responsibility because attribution of their effects on the spread of Covid-19 will remain debatable.  The holding of the Kumbh Mela despite indications of the arrival of the second wave is intriguing and unjustifiable. This is a decision, the strategic effects of which could be to diminish our economic progress to an unknown degree. When one applies the philosophical tool, Hanlon’s Razor, to the decision, it reveals that decision-makers are not stupid, they simply might have abdicated responsibility to a higher force we all call God. The principle of Hanlon’s Razor is simple: “Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by stupidity.”  Let us for a moment agree that in assessing someone’s actions, we should not assume a negative intent if there is a viable alternative explanation, such as different beliefs, incompetence or ignorance. In any case, the Hindu divinities and electoral compulsions seemed far too powerful for the authorities to resist. They chose to close their eyes to the real dangers of lakhs of people gathering in the midst of an uncontrollable pandemic. Religious and electoral activities were allowed and the lives of people have been put at grave risk. Political leadership and the higher echelons of bureaucracy have forsaken their responsibilities to the nation and the people.  Contrast the above two decisions with the decision to postpone the crucial Class XII exams. Overlooking the logistics of the operations, the schools being shut, the precautions of social distancing could possibly have been enforced in dispersed locations across the country. The outcome is that millions of children, parents and teachers have been plunged into mental turmoil. The difference in standards being applied is glaring. Cut to a year ago, the treatment meted out to the Tabligh-e-Jamaat gathering stands out in comparison with the Kumbh Mela where the government itself is complicit by way of being the organiser-in-chief. Of course, it is all in the name of the gods, particularly the Hindu gods. In the election campaigns, too, gods and overt and covert calls to religious majoritarianism are holding the centre stage. Sadly, communalism is the currency of electoral power in India. The blind faith of the people in God is now accompanied by blind faith in India’s most popular leader of contemporary times: Narendra Modi. The force that has emerged has only grown from strength to strength. Power is exercised over people without checks and balances of institutional arbitration.  The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has been empowered by Parliament to take measures that could have stopped the Kumbh congregation and the gatherings at the election rallies. But the NDMA is headed by the prime minister himself and is administered under the Home Ministry. The other members of the NDMA have preferred silence and kept their jobs. The EC, a supposedly independent agency, has exhibited an increased proclivity for bias towards the ruling party. Bihar polls The totally unnecessary eight rounds of polling in West Bengal are illustrative of this submissiveness. The fact that the EC sneaked through the Bihar elections in November 2020 without too many problems might have contributed to the foolish confidence in its own capabilities which were then widely hailed. Just a glance at what is happening in the US and Europe should have opened their eyes to the catastrophes of the pandemic. Power loves sycophancy. Sycophants prefer to tuck their tails behind blind faith and self-preservation. Serious doubts have arisen about the independence of key institutions including the top judiciary. Covid has exposed India’s leaning towards a Hindu majoritarian agenda. Leaders respond to it and often forget that they are merely reaping the benefits of the seeds of polarisation sown in the past. Since constitutional propriety is no more an insurmountable hurdle, religious mascots are having a free run. Social stability is being increasingly weakened with religious polarisation.  However, it is never too late to reverse the course. It can be done if the most popular leader wants to. The PM, enjoying the trust of the majority, is perched on a high peak of popularity. Soon, the election results will be out. It might be useful here to recall an old Roman phrase: Memento Mori, in Latin that translates to “Remember that you must die.” It was not intended to be morbid or dark; rather, to clarify, illuminate, and inspire.  The phrase is believed to have originated in the Roman Empire. After military victories, the heroes were paraded through the streets on chariots. Then, the Romans would place one person in the chariot whose sole responsibility was to whisper in the hero’s ear throughout the parade. “Respice post te. Hominem te esse memento. Memento mori!” Translation: “Look behind. Remember thou art mortal. Remember that you must die!”.  Memento Mori served as a tool to invoke humility in moments of glory. It can also serve as a tool for providing clarity. For the winners of the election, this is not the time to celebrate. The political leadership must ensure that victory is taken in their stride. They must in all humility be guided by their inner voice as conveyed by the phrase Memento Mori. Dedicated service for the upliftment of our nation from its present state of morals and national reconstruction must remain our topmost priority for a long time to come.  (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/reminder-for-our-leaders-980644.html
30-04-2021||National||Delhi sees record 395 Covid-19 deaths, over 24,000 fresh cases||The national capital on Thursday recorded 395 deaths due to coronavirus, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, and 24,235 cases with a positivity rate of 32.82 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the city health department. This was the eighth day in a row that Delhi has recorded over 300 deaths due to Covdi-19. It had reported 368 deaths on Wednesday, 381 on Tuesday, 380 on Monday, 350 on Sunday, 357 deaths on Saturday, 348 on Friday and 306 on last Thursday, according to government data. Delhi had recorded 25,986 cases on Wednesday, 24,149 on Tuesday, 20,201 on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, 24,103 on Saturday, 24,331 on Friday and 26,169 on Thursday. The positivity rate was 31.76 per cent on Wednesday, 32.72 per cent on Tuesday, 35.02 per cent on Monday, 30.21 per cent on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 per cent on Friday, and 36.24 per cent on last Thursday which is the highest so far. The cumulative case count in the city stands at 11,22,286, of which over 10.08 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 15,772, the bulletin said. A total of 73,851 tests, including over 19,251 rapid-antigen ones, were conducted in the said period, it added. The city currently has 97,977 active cases. Out of 21,152 beds in city hospitals, only 1,628 are vacant. A total of 53,440 patients are in home isolation, the bulletin said. A total of 31,761 vaccine doses were administered to people in a day and they included 15,589 who took the first dose and 16,172 who received the second shot, the bulletin said. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 35,924 from 33,749 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-sees-record-395-covid-19-deaths-over-24000-fresh-cases-980621.html
30-04-2021||National||Facebook slammed for blocking #ResignModi posts by 'mistake'||Facebook on Thursday came under fire after it blocked a large number of posts with the hashtag #ResignModi by "mistake". The social media giant restored the posts hours later, clarifying that it was not done "at the behest of the government". The blocking of the posts by "mistake" comes against the backdrop of the Modi government facing growing criticism over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis that is devastating India and making global headlines. "We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it," a Facebook spokesperson said in a statement on Thursday. However, Facebook did not elaborate on how the "mistake" happened. Earlier, Twitter and other social media platforms removed about 100 posts and URLs critical of the government after the Centre directed them to do so, saying the content was fake news. On Wednesday, Facebook followers witnessed a hashtag calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi being inaccessible. Users who were searching the hashtag were told that such posts were "temporarily hidden here" because "some content in those posts goes against our Community Standards". The blocking of the hashtag came ahead of the polling in the last phase of the West Bengal elections. The Centre and state governments have come under scrutiny for failing to arrange adequate oxygen supply, hospital beds, including ICU beds, amid a record-breaking surge in cases and deaths. Recently, Lumen database, an independent research project studying cease and desist letters concerning online content, had claimed that more than 50 posts - including those by an MP, MLA and filmmakers - were removed by Twitter on government request. Government officials claimed that social media platforms were asked to remove the posts and URLs to "prevent obstructions in the fight against the pandemic" and disruption of public order due to the said posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-slammed-for-blocking-resignmodi-posts-by-mistake-980625.html
30-04-2021||National||India receives more medical supplies from international community as nation battles Covid-19||More medical supplies from the international community arrived in India on Thursday as the country battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched its healthcare infrastructure to its limit amid surging cases. Early morning, Russia delivered 20 tonnes of supplies mainly comprising oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines. The medical supplies were brought to Delhi in two transport aircraft operated by Russia's EMERCOM, a state-run agency overseeing civil emergency services. "Two urgent flights operated by the Russian EMERCOM arrived today which brought a cargo with a total weight of 20 tonnes. These are oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, monitors, medicines, including coronavirus, and other essential pharmaceutical items," Russian Ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said. He said the joint fight against the coronavirus pandemic is one of the most important areas of cooperation between the two countries at present. "It also includes the forthcoming deliveries of the Sputnik V vaccine starting May 2021 and the subsequent facilitation of its production in India," he said. "Russia is closely watching the situation in India, which is becoming more and more alarming with unprecedented spread of the coronavirus infection. We sincerely empathise with the Indian people," he said in a statement released by the embassy. A consignment of 120 oxygen concentrators also arrived early this morning from the UK. The United Arab Emirates too delivered a consignment of medical supplies that included 157 ventilators and 480 BiPAP (bi-level positive airway pressure) machines among others. The Romanian embassy said an aircraft carrying 80 oxygen concentrators, 75 oxygen cylinders and 20 high flow oxygen therapy equipment took off in the afternoon of Wednesday from Bucharest and will arrive tonight in Delhi. "The medical field is one of the main domains of cooperation, with special relevance in moments of crisis, as the one we are facing now," said Romanian Ambassador to India Daniela Sezonov Tane. "Our solidarity manifested during this unprecedented critical moment for the Indian people represents another confirmation for Romania's engagement in strengthening and extending our relation with India - a key partner for Romania and the European Union in the Indo-Pacific region," she added. At a media briefing, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said three special flights from the US are expected to bring large medical supplies including oxygen generating equipment and oxygen concentrators. Two flights are expected to arrive on Friday while the third one is set to come on May 3. In a release, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) said it is rapidly mobilising assistance to save lives, stop the spread of Covid-19, and meet the urgent health needs of the Indian people. "Today, the United States deployed the first of several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments to India. Arriving in New Delhi from Travis Air Force base on the world's largest military aircraft, the shipment includes 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators, generously donated by the State of California," it said. "In addition, on this first flight, USAID will send 960,000 Rapid Diagnostic Tests to identify infections early to help prevent the community spread of Covid-19, and 100,000 N95 masks to protect India's frontline healthcare heroes," it said. The USAID further said it has provided over $23 million in assistance since the start of the pandemic, directly reaching nearly 10 million Indians. "USAID is quickly procuring 1,000 medical oxygen concentrators that will be used in 320 primary health care facilities," it added. Officials said Ireland's medical supplies comprising 700 oxygen concentrators, one oxygen generator and 365 ventilators are arriving tonight. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries around the world have announced sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries which are sending assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-receives-more-medical-supplies-from-international-community-as-nation-battles-covid-19-980629.html
30-04-2021||National||DH Toon | Assembly polls no shot in the arm for voters||There is a shifting of responsibility by the Central government to the states without giving them the necessary agency and wherewithal to discharge that responsibility. The price scheme is against all principles of price management, especially because it is about the price of Covid vaccine which should be considered a public good and not a commercial product. More recently, elections were held across four states and one Union Territory in the midst of a raging second wave of the pandemic. While rallies went on unabated even as the Covid figures kept spiking, the last few phases of the 8-phased West Bengal elections weren't clubbed together even after multiple requests from across parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-assembly-polls-no-shot-in-the-arm-for-voters-980679.html
30-04-2021||National||Fight against Covid-19: What we know about the Indian variant of the novel coronavirus||India has recorded the world's sharpest spike in coronavirus infections this month, with political and financial capitals New Delhi and Mumbai running out of hospital beds, oxygen and medicines. Scientists are studying what led to an unexpected surge, and particularly whether a variant of the novel coronavirus first detected in India is to blame. The variant, named B.1.617, has been reported in some 17 countries, raising global concern. Here are the basics: What is the Indian variant? The B.1.617 variant contains two key mutations to the outer "spike" portion of the virus that attaches to human cells, said senior Indian virologist Shahid Jameel. The World Health Organization (WHO) said the predominant lineage of B.1.617 was first identified in India last December, although an earlier version was spotted in October 2020. The WHO has described it as a "variant of interest", suggesting it may have mutations that would make the virus more transmissible, cause more severe disease or evade vaccine immunity. Other strains with known risks, such as those first detected in the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa, have been categorised as "variants of concern," a higher threat level. Are variants driving the surge in cases? It's hard to say. The WHO says more study is urgently needed. Laboratory-based studies of limited sample size suggest potential increased transmissibility, it concluded. The picture is complicated because the highly transmissible B.117 variant first detected in the U.K. is behind spikes in some parts of India. In New Delhi, UK variant cases almost doubled during the second half of March, according to Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control. The Indian variant, though, is widely present in Maharashtra, the country's hardest-hit state, Singh said. Prominent USdisease modeller Chris Murray, from the University of Washington, said the sheer magnitude of infections in India in a short period of time suggests an "escape variant" may be overpowering any prior immunity from natural infections in those populations. "That makes it most likely that it’s B.1.617," he said. But Murray cautioned that gene sequencing data on the coronavirus in India is sparse, and that many cases are also being driven by the UK and South African variants. Carlo Federico Perno, Head of Microbiology and Immunology Diagnostics at Rome's Bambino Gesù Hospital, said the Indian variant couldn't alone be the reason for India's huge surge, pointing instead to large social gatherings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been criticised for allowing massive political rallies and religious festivals which have been super-spreader events in recent weeks. Do vaccines stop it? One bright spot is that vaccines may be protective. White House chief medical adviser Anthony Fauci said earlier this week that preliminary evidence from lab studies suggest Covaxin, a vaccine developed in India, appears capable of neutralizing the variant. Public Health England said it was working with international partners but that there is currently no evidence that the Indian variant and two related variants cause more severe disease or render the vaccines currently deployed less effective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fight-against-covid-19-what-we-know-about-the-indian-variant-of-the-novel-coronavirus-980695.html
30-04-2021||National||Former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee passes away after contracting Covid-19||Noted jurist and former Attorney General, Soli J Sorabjee passed away here on Friday. He was 91. Soli and his wife, Zena were found positive for Covid-19 some days back. His wife is in the process of recovering from it, but, Soli, unfortunately, succumbed during the treatment at a private hospital, sources said. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and other eminent persons paid their rich tributes to the senior advocate. In his over six-decade long association with law, Sorabjee was actively involved in almost all landmark cases like Kesvananda Bharti case (Basic structure of the Constitution) as a junior of jurist Nani Palkivala, Maneka Gandhi case (personal liberty to mean life with dignity), S R Bommai (against misuse of Article 356 of the Constitution) case. During the emergency in 1975, he emerged as one of the vocal critics on curbs on free speech and press. In his message, the PM said Sorabjee was an outstanding lawyer and intellectual who was at the forefront of helping the poor and the downtrodden. "In the passing of Sorabjee, we lost an icon of India's legal system. He was among the select few who deeply influenced evolution of constitutional law and justice system," the President said in his condolence. The CJI, in his message, said, "He will be remembered as a legend who added strength to the pillars of democracy." Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the sad demise of Sorabjee is indeed end of an era in the legal and judicial history of India. Born on March 09, 1930, to a Parsi family in Mumbai, Soli, as affectionately called by his colleagues, was known as a champion of freedom of speech and expression. Having completed his education from the Government Law College, he began his law practice in Bombay High Court in 1953 and got designated as senior advocate by the senior court in 1971. He served as the Solicitor General during the Janta Party rule between 1977 to 1980. He served as the Attorney General from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004. He is survived by wife, two sons, --- Jehangir, a doctor and Hormuzd, a car expert, -- and daughter, Zia Mody, a prominent corporate lawyer. He was honoured with Padma Vibhushan award, for his immense contribution towards the defence of the freedom of speech and expression and for the protection of human rights. He has held several offices in organisations of national and international repute. Attorney General K K Venugopal, said that Soli was a finest lawyer. His demise is a huge loss to the legal field. "He is a man of great ideas and a believer and a champion of freedom of speech and expression," Venugopal said. A jazz lover, Soli also used to write regularly for newspapers and magazines. Shri Soli Sorabjee was an outstanding lawyer and intellectual. Through law, he was at the forefront of helping the poor and downtrodden. He will be remembered for his noteworthy tenures India’s Attorney General. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-attorney-general-soli-sorabjee-passes-away-after-contracting-covid-19-980697.html
30-04-2021||National||India sees highest daily Covid-19 cases with 3.86 lakh infections, 3,498 deaths in 24 hours||India saw 3,86,452 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,87,62,976, while active cases crossed the 31-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 2,08,330 with 3,498 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 31,70,228 comprising 16.90 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.99 per cent.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 53,84,418. The case fatality rate stands at 1.11 per cent, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 28,63,92,086 samples have been tested up to April 29 with 19,20,107 samples being tested on  Thursday. The 3,498 new fatalities include 771 from Maharashtra, 395 from Delhi, 295 from Uttar Pradesh, 270 from Karnataka, 251 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Gujarat, 158 from Rajasthan, 145 from Jharkhand, 137 from Punjab and 107 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,08,330 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 67,985 from Maharashtra, 15,772 from Delhi, 15,306 from Karnataka, 13,933 from Tamil Nadu, 12,238 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,248 from West Bengal, 8,909 from Punjab and 8,312 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-highest-daily-covid-19-cases-with-386-lakh-infections-3498-deaths-in-24-hours-980696.html
30-04-2021||National||UN stands ready to step up support to India: Guterres on 'horrific' Covid outbreak||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said the world organisation stands ready to step up its support to India to combat the “horrific” Covid-19 wave in the country that has infected more than 18 million people and killed over 200,000. “With the entire @UN family, I stand in solidarity with the people of India as they face a horrific #Covid19 outbreak. The UN stands ready to step up our support,” Guterres tweeted on Thursday. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti replied to Guterres’s tweet saying that India deeply appreciates “your sentiments and solidarity at this juncture. We also appreciate the support @UNinIndia is giving us,” tagging the Twitter handle of the United Nations in India. The UN stands ready to step up our support. As per data by the World Health Organization, confirmed Covid-19 cases in India stand at over 18.37 million and more than 204,000 people have died due to the virus. Earlier this week, President of the UN General Assembly Volkan Bozkir had tweeted that he is “worried” about the Covid-19 situation in India, “a country which did so much to ensure #Vaccines4All in vulnerable countries. It’s time for the world to extend aid & support to India. No one’s safe until we’re all safe.” He had added that his thoughts are with the people of India at this time. The United Nations team in India is supporting the response of the country’s authorities to the Covid-19 pandemic by providing critical supplies and UN agencies are procuring thousands of oxygen concentrators, oxygen generating plants and other essential equipment as well as helping set up mobile hospital units. Deputy Spokesman for the Secretary-General, Farhan Haq had told reporters at the daily press briefing on Wednesday that the UN team in India, led by Resident Coordinator Renata Lok Dessallien, is supporting the authorities’ response to the pandemic by providing equipment and supplies, including to local governments. The WHO and UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) are procuring equipment and supplies, including 7,000 oxygen concentrators and 500 nasal devices for oxygen supply, as well as oxygen generating plants, Covid-19 testing machines, and personal protective kits. WHO is also helping to set up mobile hospital units and is providing for laboratories. About 2,600 WHO field officers have been immediately deployed to support health authorities to curb the spread of the pandemic. In Maharashtra, UNICEF has engaged experts to work on risk governance. The UN team is also continuing its campaign highlighting the “three Ws: Wear a mask, Wash your Hands, Watch your distance and stay six feet apart.” “In India’s time of need, the UN is doing everything it can to rapidly provide critical equipment and supplies to central and state governments," Dessallien has said. WHO said in a press release that filling critical gaps in essential medical supplies and hospital capacities should be the top priority as India battles surge in Covid-19 cases. WHO is chartering flights to bring in 4,000 oxygen concentrators to help meet the increased demands. “The current rapid surge of Covid-19 cases has put immense pressure on the health systems, already overburdened since the start of the pandemic. We need to act with speed, expand hospital capacities and equip them with medical supplies, most needed to save lives,” Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh has said. A UN News article said the South-East Asian region has led the world in Covid-19 infections for a third straight week, mainly due to the situation in India, which has recorded 2.17 million new cases, or a 52 per cent increase. In order to make available additional hospital beds and critical equipment for India, WHO is procuring mobile field hospitals with a capacity of 20-30 beds, which could be set up in the most affected areas. The bed capacity at these field hospitals can be increased to a maximum of 50, if needed, without impacting infection prevention and control protocols, and water and sanitation, the WHO release had added. The agency is also assisting laboratories to meet the huge demand for testing, and over 2,600 WHO technical staff, working on various programmes such as polio, TB and NTD, have been repurposed to support pandemic response in India. WHO is procuring laboratory supplies, including 1.2 million reagents, to meet the huge demand and need for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-stands-ready-to-step-up-support-to-india-guterres-on-horrific-covid-outbreak-980700.html
30-04-2021||National||EC moves Madras High Court against 'murder' comment||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has reportedly moved the Madras High Court to direct media houses to refrain from reporting on oral observations made during court proceedings and report only on observations recorded in orders or judgments. The High Court had slammed the EC for allowing political parties to hold rallies, in the run-up to the Assembly polls. It went to the extent of saying that its officials "should be booked for murder". The affidavit filed by Chief Electoral Officer at Tamil Nadu, Satyabrata Sahoo, has highlighted that the said oral observation was not finally recorded in the order passed that day in the case and argued that the media reports on the issue "have tarnished the image of the ECI as an independent constitutional agency that is entrusted with the constitutional responsibility of conducting elections", the report added quoting the plea. The EC added that such "aspersions have the potential of lowering the faith of the masses in democracy and democratic processes." The ECI argued that data from poll-bound states compared with non-poll-bound states during the campaign period showed that campaigns did not significantly add to the rise in Covid-19 infections, and it was much less likely that it was the "single factor" that contributed to it as the HC had said. It also added that no polls were held in states with the highest number of cases. It cannot, therefore, be said that the ECI is 'singularly responsible for the second wave of Covid-19' nor the officers of the Election Commission of India be said to be culpable for “murder", the ECI argued. Various high courts came down hard on the Centre and state governments over the spike in Covid-19 cases. The Madras High Court on April 29 pulled up the Centre over its alleged lapse in taking prompt action in containing the Covid-19 pandemic, wondering what it was doing for 14 months.  "Why are we acting only now in April, though we had one full year?" the CJ asked when Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan told the court that the resurgence of the second wave of the virus was "unexpected".  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-moves-madras-high-court-against-murder-comment-980706.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: Anand Mahindra shares viral ad to spread positivity, optimism||In a new Twitter post on Thursday, industrialist Anand Mahindra posted a viral Coca-Cola commercial to spread positivity and optimism as India fights the deadly second wave of Covid-19. Humans manage to find the light even on the worst days — there's no better way to demonstrate this than with a compilation video of some of the most moving moments from last year, when people from all over the world came together to support one another in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The ad, which was released shortly after the pandemic hit last year, is applicable even today as India fights the second wave. It demonstrates how, with the aid of technology, social distancing walls were broken down, fear was confronted at every point and people rediscovered passion and commitment even though they were far from loved ones. “For every act of selfishness, there are thousands of selfless ones. For every school that closes, more classrooms are open. For every barrier set up, there are boundaries torn down. For the sound of silence, there are sonatas from songbirds. For all the scare mongering, there is also care mongering. For optimism is more contagious than any contagion. For everything that divides, the human spirit unites. Thank you filling the glass with kindness and hope,” the Coca-Cola ad says. "Optimism. A universal religion we can all belong to... Thank you Coca Cola," Anand Mahindra wrote when posting the ad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-anand-mahindra-shares-viral-ad-to-spread-positivity-optimism-980707.html
30-04-2021||National||Video showing ABVP members inside Covid ward of Dehradun hospital goes viral||A video showing members of RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in PPE kits purportedly inside the Covid ward of Doon Medical College Hospital and offering juice to patients has gone viral on social media. Principal of Doon Medical College Ashutosh Sayana said the ABVP had taken permission to help the hospital administration in maintaining order but it had not been allowed to enter the Covid ward. In the video that went viral on Thursday, the men with ABVP stickers pasted on their PPE kits are seen removing oxygen pipes of the patients and handing them glasses of juice. According to coronavirus guidelines, no one other than the medical staff on duty can enter the Covid ward. Sayana said the ABVP had taken permission to lend a helping hand to the administration in maintaining order inside the hospital premises but it had not been allowed to enter the high-risk Covid ward. It will be investigated how the ABVP members entered the ward, he said. Soon after the matter came to light, the medical superintendent of the hospital K C Pant banned the entry of ABVP workers into the premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-showing-abvp-members-inside-covid-ward-of-dehradun-hospital-goes-viral-980712.html
30-04-2021||National||RIP Soli Sorabjee: A champion of freedom of speech||Former Attorney General and Constitutional law expert Soli Sorabjee passed away on Friday morning after he contracted Covid-19, his family said. Born in 1930, Sorabjee was enrolled at the Bar with the Bombay High Court in 1953. In 1971, he was designated as the senior advocate by the Supreme Court. The 91-year-old, who was in the legal profession for nearly seven decades, had served as the Attorney General for India from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004.   He was also the Solicitor General of India from 1977-80 when the first non-Congress government was at the Centre. Sorabjee was appointed as UN Special Rapporteur for Nigeria in 1997. He joined the UN Sub-Commission on Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and was its chairman from 1998 to 2004. He was also a member of the UN Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and served as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague from 2000 to 2006. In March 2002, Soli Sorabjee was awarded the Padma Vibhushan for his defence of the freedom of expression and the protection of human rights. He fought for the freedom of speech time and again in the Supreme Court and argued for limiting the police power of the state and a vibrant democracy protected from overreach by Prime Ministers and Governors. He worked on the Citizen's Justice Committee which represented pro bono the 1984 anti-Sikh riots victims.  Some of the landmark cases in which he had appeared before the Supreme Court are Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India (1978), SR Bommai v. Union of India (1994), BP Singhal v. Union of India (2010). Not just an advocate, but Sorabjee was also a prolific writer. Some of his books are: The Laws of Press Censorship in India (1976), The Emergency, Censorship and the Press in India, 1975-77 (1977 and Law and Justice (2004). Apart, from being an advocate and writer, there was another self of Sorabjee that added a different dimension to his dynamic character: One who loved jazz. He was one of the prime architects of the annual Jazz Yatra||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rip-soli-sorabjee-a-champion-of-freedom-of-speech-980718.html
30-04-2021||National||SC pays homage to former Attorney General Soli Sorabjee||The Supreme Court on Friday paid homage to the former attorney general and noted jurist Soli Sorabjee, who passed away on Friday morning after getting infected with Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, just before the start of the day's court proceedings via video conference, said, “It a very sad news that human rights fighter Soli has passed away this morning. We pray for the gentle soul”. The 91-year-old had served as the Attorney General for India from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004. He was admitted to a private hospital here after getting infected with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-pays-homage-to-former-attorney-general-soli-sorabjee-980733.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis: UP cops ‘snatch’ oxygen cylinder from pleading youth, mother dies 2 hours later||"My mother will die," the man is heard saying on the video, which went viral, as police officials looked on with the cylinder being moved in the background. The cylinder was reportedly taken to be given to a VIP. However, the Agra Police have claimed that the video and the claims are fake. “It was an empty cylinder being taken away from the hospital for refilling,” Agra city Superintendent of Police Rohan P Botre said. A different story? The Goyal family, however, has a different tale to tell. They said after great difficulty and several phone calls, they were able to arrange for an oxygen cylinder. One of the sons then set out to arrange for a regulator as the hospital had run out of cylinders and equipment, according to the report. Meanwhile, the hospital staff allegedly took the cylinder that was lying next to the bed of their mother. The son, who is seen in the video, was down on his knees, screaming with folded hands, to not take it from them. "Meri ma mar jayegi," he said ("My mother will die"). “When I asked the ward boys why they were taking away our oxygen cylinder, they told me that they want to save somebody’s life. Who is that somebody? And is my mother’s life not valuable enough?” he asked. The hopital staff tried to quell the angry sons and shooed them away when they asked questions, the report cited. DH was not able to independently verify the information. 'Broken', 'Heartbreaking' Meanwhile, social media was full of rage and grief over the incident. Several criticised the ruling BJP and PM Modi for lack of empathy towards those losing their lives and families to the deadly coronavirus. Social media platforms have been abuzz with cries for help and stories of loved ones lost as shortage of beds, oxygen cylinders and remdesivir has kin of patients scrambling. India reported its highest single-day rise of over 3.86 lakh Covid-19 cases on Friday as the health infrastructure is still grappling to deal with this overwhelming health crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-up-cops-snatch-oxygen-cylinder-from-pleading-youth-mother-dies-2-hours-later-980737.html
30-04-2021||National||India extends ban on international passenger flights till May 31||India on Friday extended the ban on scheduled international passenger flights, announced since the Covid-19 outbreak last year, by another month till May 31. However, the bilateral air bubble flights will continue to function to and from the territories of 27 countries with whom such arrangements have been agreed upon. India had suspended scheduled international passenger services since March 23 last year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said. Special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 27 countries including Kenya, Bhutan and France. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. Many countries including the US, Kuwait, France and Canada have banned flights from India, citing fresh Covid-19 wave and the “double mutant” virus being found in the country. Iran, Kuwait, Indonesia and UAE are the latest additions to this list of countries that have banned India from their citizens' travel lists. Australia also suspended all direct passenger flights from India for the next three weeks due to the unprecedented spike in Covis-19 cases. Britain had suspended flights between April 24 and 30 citing the Covid-19 outbreak but has allowed flights from May 1. Air India has announced flight schedules from Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru to London from May 1 to May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-ban-on-international-passenger-flights-till-may-31-980743.html
30-04-2021||National||Clampdown of information related to Covid-19 will be treated as contempt: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday warned the Centre and states of contempt action for silencing the people in the name of raising false alarms on shortage of medicine, oxygen and services, saying free flow of information during this humanitarian crisis would better help in fighting the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "We want to make it very very clear that if citizens communicate their grievances, we do not want a clampdown on information. If any citizen is harassed for making grievances for bed, or oxygen by the police, then we will take action," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. "Let this message go to all the police personnel. Let information flow freely. Let us hear the voices of our citizens and not clamp down on their voices," the bench added. The court's remark came in view of the decision by the Uttar Pradesh administration to prosecute people under the National Security Act for allegedly raising false alarms on social media, which has emerged as a major platform for citizens to help people in distress. During over four-hour-long hearing in a Suo Motu matter, the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat put some tough questions to the Union Government on issues of oxygen and medicines supplies, arrangement of vaccines for all including the Scheduled Castes and marginalised people, and its policy on taking care the needs of doctors and hospitalisation of patients, required to fight the raging second wave of Covid-19.  Even frontline doctors and healthcare workers were not getting beds for treatment. The healthcare infrastructure inherited over the past 70 years was not sufficient and the situation was grim, the bench noted. The court also asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta why the Union Government was not buying 100 per cent of vaccine doses and treating it as a universal immunisation programme in view of the "gravity of the pandemic" and to ensure "equality in distribution" of doses to the states.  It also wondered why differential pricing was fixed for the Centre and States and wanted to know how much money has been put in by the Union Government in companies producing the vaccines. “Don't leave it to the manufacturers. How will they determine equity? Invoke your powers to see that additional facilities are created for vaccine manufacturing," the bench told Mehta. The court also sought to know if the Centre had formed a proper policy in relation to admission guidelines of patients in hospitals.  It also said, "Doctors and nurses who are working tirelessly must be paid more whether they are in public or private hospitals." The healthcare sector has come to a breaking point and retired doctors or officials could be re-employed in this crisis, it added. The court also favoured giving licences to multiple manufacturers for producing essential drugs including Remdesivir. The bench said it would pass detailed orders on all the issues on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clampdown-of-information-related-to-covid-19-will-be-treated-as-contempt-sc-980745.html
30-04-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind condoles demise of former attorney general Soli Sorabjee||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday condoled the demise of former attorney general of India Soli Sorabjee and said the country has lost an icon of its legal system in his passing. Sorabjee, aged 91, died this morning at a Delhi hospital where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. "In the passing of Soli Sorabjee, we lost an icon of India's legal system. He was among the select few who deeply influenced evolution of constitutional law & justice system. Awarded with Padma Vibhushan, he was among most eminent jurists. My condolences to his family & associates," Kovind said in a tweet. Sorabjee had served as the attorney general of India from 1989-90 and 1998-2004.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-condoles-demise-of-former-attorney-general-soli-sorabjee-980747.html
30-04-2021||National||First consignment of medical supplies from US lands in India||The United States on Friday delivered to India its first consignment of emergency medical supplies including hundreds of much-needed oxygen cylinders and regulators to help the country fight the coronavirus pandemic. The medical equipment and other supplies were brought to Delhi in a C-5M Super Galaxy, one of the largest strategic airlift aircraft of the US Air Force. "The first of several emergency Covid-19 relief shipments from the United States has arrived in India! Building on over 70 years of cooperation, the United States stands with India as we fight the Covid-19 pandemic together," the US embassy tweeted. Another military aircraft carrying a large number of medical equipment and other materials from the US is expected to land in the national capital later in the day. In a tweet, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said healthcare partnership between India and the US can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. "A strategic partnership of global significance! Our healthcare partnership can help effectively tackle the global pandemic. Deeply appreciate gift of 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators and other medical supplies from the USA," he said. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries around the world have announced sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries which are sending assistance to India include Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.   On Thursday, Russia delivered to India 20 tonnes of medical supplies mainly comprising oxygen concentrators, ventilators and medicines. Romania also provided India medical supplies on Friday. "Taking forward our warm & friendly relations. Thank our EU partner Romania for their support with consignment containing 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders," Bagchi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-consignment-of-medical-supplies-from-us-lands-in-india-980748.html
30-04-2021||National||Senior journalist Rohit Sardana passes away due to Covid-19||Senior Aaj Tak journalist Rohit Sardana passed away due to Covid-19. According to several who condoled his death, Sardana was helping others even when he was suffering from Covid-19.  "We pray to the almighty to rest his soul in peace and give strength to the family in this hour of grief," Delhi Congress tweeted. Calling him a "brave journalist", Home Minister Amit Shah said that he stood up for unbiased and fair reporting. Pained to learn about Shri Rohit Sardana ji’s untimely demise. In him, the nation has lost a brave journalist who always stood up for unbiased and fair reporting. May God give his family the strength to bear this tragic loss. My deepest condolences to his family and followers. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-journalist-rohit-sardana-passes-away-due-to-covid-19-980751.html
30-04-2021||National||Soli Sorabjee was champion of freedom of press, committed to democratic value: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice N V Ramana Friday condoled the passing away of eminent jurist and former attorney general Soli Sorabjee saying he had “deep commitment to democratic values” and was a champion of “freedom of press”. The CJI, in a statement, expressed shock over the demise of the legal luminary and said, “In his nearly 68 year long association with the judicial world, he made immeasurable contribution in enriching the global jurisprudence of Human Rights and Fundamental Rights.” Justice Ramana said the matters Sorabjee had argued before the courts, the judgments he could secure as well as “the books, essays, papers of international repute and the newspaper articles that he had authored; the independent opinions he could tender to the Government in his capacity as the Attorney General – they all stand testimony to his deep commitment to democratic values”. Sorabjee not only lived up to the mandate of Attorney General as enshrined in the Constitution but also raised the bar in discharge of his constitutional duties, the CJI said. “Being a champion of 'Freedom of Press', he effectively used the media as a platform to elucidate the nuances of complicated legal issues on almost daily basis till recently, literally giving lessons of law to millions of common people who otherwise could not have followed what was happening in the judicial world. His ability to adapt to the new trends in media was remarkable,” he said. The CJI further said that he personally gained immensely from reading Sorabjee's literary works, listening to his lectures and arguments and his “sagacious guidance and advise”. “His humane and compassionate approach defined his legal work. He will be remembered as a legend who added strength to the pillars of democracy. I pay my humble tributes to the departed soul. I convey heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and countless fans of Shri Soli Sorabjee, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Supreme Court of India where he will continue to command respect forever,” the CJI said in the statement. Sorabjee, 91, who is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons, passed away on Friday morning after getting infected with Covid-19. He was admitted to a private hospital in south Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soli-sorabjee-was-champion-of-freedom-of-press-committed-to-democratic-value-cji-ramana-980758.html
30-04-2021||National||States run out of Covid-19 vaccines, nationwide inoculation drive delayed||Several states have run out of Covid-19 vaccines a day before a planned widening of a nationwide inoculation drive, authorities said on Friday, as new infections in the crisis-hit country surged to another daily record. India reported 3,86,452 news cases in the past 24 hours, while deaths from Covid-19 jumped by 3,498 over the last 24 hours, according to health ministry data. However, medical experts believe actual Covid-19 numbers maybe five to 10 times greater than the official tally. India has added about 7.7 million cases since the end of February, when its second wave picked up steam, according to a Reuters tally. In contrast, it took India nearly six months to add the previous 7.7 million cases. The world's second-most populous nation is in deep crisis, with hospitals and morgues overwhelmed by the pandemic, medicines and oxygen in short supply and strict curbs on movement in its biggest cities. India is the world's biggest producer of vaccines but does not have enough stockpiles to keep up with the second deadly Covid-19 wave, despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government planning to vaccinate all adults starting May 1. Only about 9% of India's 1.4 billion people have received a vaccine dose since January. "I registered to get a slot 28 days before, but now they are saying there are no vaccines," Twitter user Jasmin Oza said in a video post. India had originally planned to vaccinate only 300 million of its highest-risk people by August, but widened the target due to the rise in cases. However, its two vaccine producers were already struggling to increase capacity beyond 80 million doses a month due to a shortage of raw materials and a fire at the Serum Institute, which manufactures AstraZeneca's vaccine in India. Inoculation centres in Mumbai will be shut for three days starting Friday because of the shortage of vaccines, authorities said. In the southern state of Karnataka, home to the tech hub of Bengaluru, the state's health minister said Karnataka's vaccination drive for adults will not begin on May 1. "The state government has not received any information from companies about when they will be able to supply these vaccines," said Health Minister K Sudhakar. World sends medical aid In Modi's home state of Gujarat, officials said vaccination for the 18-45 age group is expected to start in a fortnight, as the state expects to receive vaccines by then. "We will begin vaccinating those above 18 when we have the vaccine stocks. We are working very hard to get the vaccines, and I am confident we will be able to start the vaccination within the next 15 days,” the state’s Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. Officials in the eastern state of Odisha said they hoped to start vaccinations on Monday, if vaccine stocks arrive. Modi is scheduled to meet cabinet ministers on Friday as the wave of infections cripples the nation's health system and threatens to impact major businesses. Absenteeism in offices and industries is growing with staff falling sick or taking leave to tend to sick relatives. World aid has started arriving in India as it struggles to combat what has been described as a humanitarian disaster. The first US flight carrying oxygen cylinders, regulators, rapid diagnostic kits, N95 masks and pulse oximeters arrived in the Indian capital Delhi on Friday. "Just as India came to our aid early in the pandemic, the US is committed to working urgently to provide assistance to India in its time of need," US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter. "Today we are proud to deliver our first shipment of critical oxygen equipment, therapeutics and raw materials for vaccine production." The United States will send more than $100 million in medical aid, including 1,000 oxygen cylinders, 15 million N95 masks and 1 million rapid diagnostic tests. It also has redirected its own order of AstraZeneca supplies to India, to allow it to make more than 20 million doses. Shipments from other countries continued to pour in, with a third one from the United Kingdom reaching earlier in the day. Romania and Ireland also sent supplies late on Thursday. Two more weeks of oxygen crisis India’s severe medical oxygen supply crisis is expected to ease by mid-May, a top industry executive told Reuters, with output rising by 25% and transport infrastructure ready to cope with a surge in demand. India will receive the first batch of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine on May 1. Russia's RDIF sovereign wealth fund, which markets Sputnik V globally, has signed deals with five Indian manufacturers for more than 850 million vaccine doses a year. Prominent US disease modeller Chris Murray, from the University of Washington, said the sheer magnitude of infections in India in a short period of time suggests an "escape variant" may be overpowering any prior immunity from natural infections in those populations. "That makes it most likely that it’s B.1.617," he said. But Murray cautioned that gene sequencing data on the coronavirus in India is sparse, and that many cases are also being driven by the UK and South African variants. Carlo Federico Perno, Head of Microbiology and Immunology Diagnostics at Rome's Bambino Gesù Hospital, said the Indian variant couldn't alone be the reason for India's huge surge, pointing instead to large social gatherings. Modi has been criticised for allowing massive political rallies and religious festivals which have been super-spreader events in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-run-out-of-covid-19-vaccines-nationwide-inoculation-drive-delayed-980771.html
30-04-2021||National||Government to import 4.5 lakh vials of antiviral drug Remdesivir amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Faced with shortages, India has placed orders for import of 4.5 lakh vials of antiviral drug Remdesivir with the first consignment of 75,000 vials expected to reach Indian shores on Friday. Covid-19 patients across the country were scrambling for the anti-viral drug Remdesivir, which is administered in the early days of the infection in hospital settings. The Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilisers said HLL Lifecare Ltd, a central PSU, has ordered 4,50,000 vials of Remdesivir from M/s Gilead Sciences Inc USA and Egyptian Pharma Company, M/s Eva Pharma. It is expected that Gilead Sciences will dispatch 75,000 to 1,00,000 vials in the next one or two days, the ministry said. Further one lakh vials will also be supplied before or by May 15, an official statement said. The government has started importing the vital drug from other countries to ease its shortage in the country, it said. EVA Pharma will supply around 10,000 vials initially followed by 50,000 vials every 15 days or till July. The Chemicals and Fertilisers Ministry said it has also ramped up the production capacity of Remdesivir in the country. As on April 27, the production capacity of the seven licensed domestic manufacturers has increased from 38 lakh vials per month to 1.03 crore vials per month, it said. Besides, a total 13.73 lakh vials have been supplied across the country by the drug companies in the last seven days (April 21-28). The daily supply has gone up from 67,900 vials on April 11 to 2.09 lakh vials on April 28, it added. An advisory was also issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs to states and union territories to facilitate smooth movement of Remdesivir supplies, the ministry noted. The government has also taken various steps, like ban on exports and customs duty waiver, to enhance the availability of Remdesivir in the country, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-import-45-lakh-vials-of-antiviral-drug-remdesivir-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-980772.html
30-04-2021||National||Aviation Ministry permits Telangana govt to use drones for delivery of vaccines||The Civil Aviation Ministry on Friday permitted the Telangana government to use drones for experimental delivery of vaccines within the visual line of sight. The ministry's statement does not mention which particular vaccine will be part of this experimental delivery. The ministry on Twitter said it has granted conditional exemption to the Telangana government from the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, for "conducting experimental delivery of vaccines using drones within the visual line of sight range". This exemption will be valid for a period of one year or until further orders, it noted. On April 22, the ministry had permitted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct a feasibility study on using drones to deliver Covid-19 vaccine. An official release from the Telangana Government said the 'Medicine from the Sky' (MFTS) programme has been approved to undertake Visual Line of Sight (VLOS) feasibility studies for a year. With the support and guidance of MoCA and DGCA, the state government has finally received the required approvals and exemptions to conduct these trials like no-objection from AAI on use of identified airspace in Vikarabad District, SOP approval for VLOS operations from DGCA, and UAS 2021 exemption from the ministry, it said. Jayesh Ranjan, Telangana Principal Secretary, said the state is determined to leverage emerging technologies in the healthcare industry and the usage of drones ensures that primary healthcare is accessible in even the remote areas. "The Medicine from the Sky trials would yield important information on the reliability of drones and their adoption in medical deliveries." "The approval from MoCA is highly appreciated and we look forward to working with the ministry in conducting these trials in the safest manner by strict adherence to SOPs and having risk mitigation strategies in place," the official said. The success of this programme has the potential to disrupt the healthcare industry and save many lives during emergencies and in less accessible geographies, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-permits-telangana-govt-to-use-drones-for-delivery-of-vaccines-980778.html
30-04-2021||National||Gehlot urges Centre to rush 201 MT medical oxygen to Rajasthan||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday urged the Centre to send 201 metric tonnes of medical oxygen on an emergency basis to the state to help it deal with the crisis arising out of the raging coronavirus pandemic. He said the state government needed 466 metric tonnes of medical oxygen for those under treatment for Covid-19, but has only 265 metric tonnes in its stock.   “Today, there is a shortage of about 201 metric tonnes of oxygen in Rajasthan. The number of cases of infection in the state constitutes 5% of the total cases in the country but oxygen allocation is just 1.6%. The state will require a total of 550 metric tonnes of oxygen within a week. Therefore, there is another request for the Central Government that 201 metric tonnes of oxygen be allocated to the state today as an emergency,” Gehlot tweeted. अत: केन्द्र सरकार से पुन: अनुरोध है कि इमरजेंसी के तौर पर प्रदेश को 201 मीट्रिक टन ऑक्सीजन आज ही आवंटित की जाए। He said the number of active coronavirus cases in the state currently is 1.70 lakh and 20,400 patients require oxygen support. It may be that the central government has taken control of oxygen and medicines for better management but if the states want to help each other, they should be allowed under the supervision of the Centre, Gehlot said. Rajasthan has so far recorded 5,80,846 coronavirus cases and 4,084 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehlot-urges-centre-to-rush-201-mt-medical-oxygen-to-rajasthan-980800.html
30-04-2021||National||SC warns against silencing people raising Covid-19-related grievances on internet||Terming the second wave of Covid-19 as a “national crisis”, the Supreme Court on Friday warned authorities, from the Centre down to police chiefs, against silencing people and their pleas for help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet. The top court made clear that any attempt to clampdown on the free flow of information on social media including the call for help from people would be treated as contempt of court. “There should be free flow of information, we should hear voices of citizens," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, and asked the Centre, states and all DGPs not to take any action against anyone who is posting messages on social media about issues like shortage of oxygen, beds or doctors as spreading rumour. “If any action is taken against such posts by citizens in distress, we will treat it as contempt of the court,” said the bench which also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. The observations assume significance in view of the recent decision of the Uttar Pradesh administration to prosecute people under the National Security Act for allegedly raising false alarms on social media. The hearing before the top court on the suo motu case for devising national policy for Covid-19 management is underway. The bench is taking up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and near future and as to how the government intended to allocate it to “critically-affected” states and about the monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. During the hearing, it observed that even frontline doctors and healthcare workers were not getting beds for treatment and the healthcare infrastructure inherited over past 70 years was not sufficient and the situation was grim. The apex court said hostels, temples, churches and other places be opened for converting them as Covid-19 care centres. It said the Centre should adopt a national immunization model as poor people will not be able to pay for vaccines. "What happens to the marginalised and SC/ST population? Should they be left to the mercy of private hospitals, it asked. The court also said the government must consider National Immunisation Programme for various vaccines and must think of providing free of cost vaccination to all citizens. It said the healthcare sector has come to a breakpoint and retired doctors or officials could be re-employed in this crisis.   The top court also said that private vaccine manufacturers cannot be allowed to decide which state should get how much. It allowed the Centre to give a PowerPoint presentation on Covid-19 preparation. The bench on April 22 took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-warns-against-silencing-people-raising-covid-19-related-grievances-on-internet-980804.html
30-04-2021||National||'Shooter Dadi' Chandro Tomar dies due to Covid-19||Chandro Tomar, who was popularly known as "Shooter Dadi" died from Covid-19 at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, about 450 kilometres from here, on Friday. Eighty nine year old Tomar, who was a resident of Johari village in Baghpat district of UP, had tested positive for coronavirus and had difficulty in breathing, according to sources. She was admitted to the hospital in Meerut town on Monday. Her condition deteriorated on Thursday night, and despite best efforts by the doctors, she could not be saved. "Mera saath chhoot gaya, Chandro kaha chali gayi (She has left me, Chandro where have you gone?)," her sister-in-law Prakashi Tomar, who is also one of the oldest female sharp shooters in the world like Chandro, wrote on her Twitter page. She had become famous as "Shooter Dadi" after she, at the age of 60, won several medals in state and national shooting competitions. Well-known Bollywood producer/director Anurag Kashyap had made a film "Saand ki Aankh" (Bull's Eye) in 2019 featuring Tapasi Pannu, Bhumi Pednekar and Prakash Jha in the lead roles. The film was based on the lives of shooters Chandro Tomar and Prakashi Tomar.  Bollywood actress Bhumi Pednekar took to Twitter to mourn her death. "Devastated by the news of Chandro dadi's demise. Feels like a part of me is gone..Am lucky I got to know her and be her.....You will be missed so much," Pednekar wrote in her message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shooter-dadi-chandro-tomar-dies-due-to-covid-19-980814.html
30-04-2021||National||Lawyers remember Sorabjee as 'leader of legal fraternity'||Lawyers condoled the demise of former Attorney General and jurist Soli Sorabjee and remembered him as a legal luminary, with a fervour for jazz and someone who never uttered an unkind word for anyone. Sorabjee, 91, passed away due to Covid-19 at a Delhi hospital on Friday. He is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons. In a series of tweets, senior advocate A M Singhvi, who is a next-door neighbour of late Sorabjee, described how his health deteriorated in a weeks' time.   Singhvi said that Covid-19 positive Sorabjee was taken to the Max hospital a week ago, where he was stable, as per his wife Zena. “Suddenly, heart stopped last night and could not be revived. Long association,” Singhvi wrote on micro blogging site Twitter.  He said, “Briefed Soli as a youngster, worked with him and opposed him in innumerable cases. Remember our private mimicry sessions. Soli's success in law was a loss of both jazz and mimicry.” The senior advocate said that even though Sorabjee was frail, he was mentally alert till the end and fully cognisant at his warm and cosy 91st birthday a few weeks ago. “[He] had a zest for information and a view on everything. Speech slurred, frail in body but mind fully alert and memory largely intact,” Singhvi said, recollecting how he sat with Sorabjee in his lawn about a month ago and discussed law, life and politics.  Recalling him as a leader of the legal fraternity, former Attorney General and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, “Immensely successful and twice held the coveted post of Attorney General of India. Never had an unkind word for anyone. He had passion for jazz and books.” He added, “A legal luminary who strode the canvas of Indian litigation for over six decades is no more. He leaves behind his wife and three immensely successful children. May his soul rest in peace.” Senior Advocate H S Phoolka called Sorabjee his 'mentor' and said that “he will be sorely missed”. “Soli Sorabjee played a pivotal role in fight for justice for 1984 Sikh genocide, formed CJC (Citizen's Justice Committee) in 1985, an umbrella organization of Human Rights groups and led team of lawyers before Ranganath Misra Commission. “Throughout he kept encouraging me not to give up fight for Justice. He was very happy on conviction of Sajjan Kumar. His contribution towards fight for getting justice for victims will always be remembered,” Phoolka said. He added that Sorabjee always said that “we have to prove that our country is governed by rule of law and no one here is above the law.“ Vikas Singh, senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president, alluded to him as a legend in the legal profession and a national asset.  Singh added, “It is a great loss to the nation. In spite of his age and failing health, his mental alertness remained completely normal till the end.” He recalled how Sorabjee would come to the court with the assistance of somebody just to keep himself occupied and appear in court in spite of his age. “It is something very heartening to see.” Remembering his 'immense contributions to the justice delivery system', senior advocate Vikas Pahwa said Sorabjee was an institution in himself.  “I am deeply saddened to hear about the passing of Shri Soli Sorabjee. He was one of the finest legal minds this country has ever seen. He was an institution in himself. He was a mentor to a generation of lawyers who are leading practitioners in the Supreme Court today.  “His immense contributions to the justice delivery system shall always be remembered. He shall also be remembered for his unfaltering dedication to the defence of 'Right to Freedom of Speech and Expression and Human Rights',” he said.     Senior Advocate Aman Sinha also called him a towering legal luminary and affectionate senior, adding that the void his absence has created in personal and professional lives will be impossible to fill.  “My deepest condolences and tributes to my senior and guru Soli J Sorabjee who left us today morning. It was my honour to have close association with him for 25 years,” Sinha remarked.  Sorabjee appeared in many important cases including the Kesavananda Bharati matter on basic structure doctrine and the S R Bommai matter relating to invocation of President's rule in the states among others. A recipient of the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award of the country, the renowned human rights lawyer served as the Attorney General for India from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004 during the tenure of V P Singh and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, respectively. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among a host of leaders who condoled the passing away of the eminent jurist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-remember-sorabjee-as-leader-of-legal-fraternity-980815.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19 FAQs: Everything you need to know||If you or someone you know has tested Covid-19 positive, here's a list of questions that you would want answered. Q. I’ve tested positive. Can I infect my pet? A. The USA’s Centre for Disease Control says that there is evidence of Covid-19 spreading from people to animals in some situations, especially during close contact. There is also the possibility of pets acting as carriers of the virus between people in the same home. Therefore, people with suspected or confirmed Covid-19 should avoid contact with animals, including pets, livestock, and wildlife.  Q. Can I or someone else get infected by my pet? A. The evidence available so far suggests that the novel coronavirus originally came from an animal, probably a bat. There is no evidence to suggest infection from pets can spread to humans on a large scale. Yet, one should be careful and wash hands or sanitise hands before and after touching the pets, making it safer both ways. Q. I want to find out if I had Covid-19 in the past, what test could I take? A. Antibody tests can tell us whether someone has had an infection in the past, even if they have not had symptoms. Also known as serological tests and usually done on a blood sample, these tests detect antibodies produced in response to an infection. In most people, antibodies start to develop after days to weeks and can indicate if a person has had a past infection. Antibody tests cannot be used to diagnose Covid-19 in the early stages of infection or disease but can indicate whether or not someone has had the disease in the past. (Source: WHO) Q. What test should I get to see if I have Covid-19? A. In most situations, a molecular test is used to detect SARS-CoV-2 and confirm infection. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the most commonly used molecular test. Samples are collected from the nose and/or throat with a swab. Molecular tests detect virus in the sample by amplifying viral genetic material to detectable levels. For this reason, a molecular test is used to confirm an active infection, usually within a few days of exposure and around the time that symptoms may begin. Q. What about rapid antigen tests? A. Rapid antigen tests (sometimes known as a rapid diagnostic test – RDT) detect viral proteins (known as antigens). Samples are collected from the nose and/or throat with a swab. These tests are cheaper than PCR and will offer results more quickly, although they are generally less accurate. These tests perform best when there is more virus circulating in the community and when sampled from an individual during the time they are most infectious. These have a possibility of false negatives, and ICMR advisory states that all symptomatic people who tested negative in rapid antigen tests must undergo RT-PCR test to find out if they are infected. Q. What is the difference between isolation and quarantine? A. Both isolation and quarantine are methods of preventing the spread of Covid-19. Quarantine is used for anyone who is a close contact of someone infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, whether the infected person has symptoms or not. Quarantine means that you remain separated from others because you have been exposed to the virus and you may be infected and can take place in a designated facility or at home. For Covid-19, this means staying in the facility or at home for 14 days.   On the other hand, isolation is used for people with Covid-19 symptoms or who have tested positive for the virus. Being in isolation means being separated from other people, ideally in a medical facility where you can receive clinical care. If isolation in a medical facility is not possible and you are not in a high-risk group of developing severe disease, isolation can take place at home. If you have symptoms, you should remain in isolation for at least 10 days plus an additional 3 days without symptoms. If you are infected and do not develop symptoms, you should remain in isolation for 10 days from the time you test positive. Q. How long does the virus survive on various surfaces? Under lab conditions, the following is the duration of the survival of the SARS-CoV-2 virus on various surfaces. Real life conditions will be different, and duration will be less based on the conditions. Surface Example Duration Metal Doorknobs, jewelry, silverware 5-9 days Wood Furniture, decking Upto 4 days Plastics Milk containers and detergent bottles, subway and bus seats, elevator buttons 2-3 days Stainless steel Refrigerators, pots and pans, sinks, some water bottles 2-3 days Cardboard Shipping boxes 24 hours Copper Coins, teakettles, cookware 4 hours Aluminum Soda cans, tinfoil, water bottles 2 to 8 hours Glass Drinking glasses, measuring cups, mirrors, windows Up to 5 days Ceramics Dishes, pottery, mugs 5 days Paper Mail, newspaper The length of time varies. Some strains of coronavirus live for only a few minutes on paper, while others live for up to 5 days. Food Takeout, produce Coronavirus doesn't seem to spread through food. Water Coronavirus hasn't been found in drinking water. If it does get into the water supply, your local water treatment plant filters and disinfects the water, which should kill any germs. Fabrics Clothes, linens There’s not much research about how long the virus lives on fabric, but it’s probably not as long as on hard surfaces. Shoes One study tested the shoe soles of medical staff in a Chinese hospital intensive care unit (ICU) and found that half were positive for nucleic acids from the virus. But it’s not clear whether these pieces of the virus cause infection. The hospital’s general ward, which had people with milder cases, was less contaminated than the ICU. Skin and hair There’s no research on exactly how long the virus can live on your skin or hair. Rhinoviruses, which cause colds, survive for hours. That’s why it’s important to wash or disinfect your hands, which are most likely to come into contact with contaminated surfaces. Researchers have found that 99% reduction in infectious SARS-CoV-2 on non-porous surfaces can occur within 3 days. In indoor settings, risks can be reduced by wearing masks (which reduces droplets that can be deposited on surfaces), routine cleaning, and consistent hand hygiene). Q. What is 6MWT? Why is it used? A. 6MWT is a 6-minute walking test, conducted by wearing the oximeter on the finger and walking for 6 minutes. At the end of the walk, oxygen level should not fall below 4% of the saturation point of your oxygen level, or 92%, whichever is higher. This helps in knowing if your lungs are at risk of oxygen shortage. Q. I have symptoms but my RT-PCR test turned out to be negative. What should I do? A. RT-PCR turning negative does not mean you do not have Covid, if you have symptoms. Watch yourself carefully. Treat all the symptoms with appropriate medicines. Watch your oxygen level. Conduct 6MWT.  If your oxygen level is dropping below 92%, go for an HRCT scan of lungs and chest. This helps the doctors figure out if there is chest/ lung infection, and the extent of infection if any, and decide appropriate medication. Any score above 7/25 is to be considered serious and medical intervention is needed immediately. Q. How do you sanitise your home after someone in the family who is tested positive for Covid-19 is cured? While sick, keep the dresses you need separately. Strictly avoid touching the extra dresses in wardrobes or utensils and roaming around in the house, even if you are alone. Be mindful of where all you roam and touch. Avoid visiting all parts of your home, if it is unavoidable, please wear masks inside home when you move around. This makes your post-Covid sanitisation much easier and effective. Once you have completed the 14-day isolation and have got your negative test report, start by deep-cleaning the things you have used. Use water above 60 degree to wash. If it is clothes, use the option of super-clean sanitising wash (60 degrees, or the warmest option your machine has) alongwith detergent liquids. Use dettol if you like. Wear gloves and PPEs as needed, depending on what you are cleaning. Wash and dip all the utensils you have used in hot water for 30 minutes. Sanitise all floors, walls, doors with isopropyl alcohol spray, and use disinfectants as required. Follow the instruction labels during procedure. Focus on high-touch surfaces like doorknobs, switch boards, tables, handles, extension cords, and countertops. If you can wait for three-four days after the person who was sick was in the space, you don’t need to disinfect for coronavirus. Regular cleaning is enough. Leave a gap of one day after the infected person is totally free from infection, or goes away from the space to clean carpets, rugs and curtains. These can be cleaned as they are always cleaned. Mattresses can be vacuumed, however, wear a mask if 24 hours have not passed. If handling dirty laundry, use masks and gloves. Clean up all electronic devices using alcoholic wet wipes. To clean mattresses, remove the cover and put it on sanitising wash on the machine. Use upholstery cleaners with UV light, or use anti-bacterial sprays after vacuuming the surface of the mattress. Q. Why can’t women who have been pregnant donate plasma in India? A. When a woman becomes pregnant, she develops antibodies against the father’s (partner's) genetic material called Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA). The HLA antibody can lead to Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI). When plasma containing these HLA antibodies is transfused to a Covid-19 patient with damaged lungs. Therefore, as per current international guidelines, it is recommended not to take plasma from women who have ever been pregnant. Any woman who has carried a baby for four to six months and then miscarried will also have the antibodies. Q. We are all positive at home, and under home isolation. Can we cook for each other and socialise among ourselves since all of us are positive? A. If there are no other options for take-out or others helping with cooking, you can cook, to make sure you and your family members eat healthy meals. However, make sure to use all precautions, like washing hands and using sanitisers and masks while cooking, and minimise the surfaces and things you might contaminate. Disinfect the surfaces after every use. Q. What happens if you have Covid-19 and you get vaccinated without knowing? A. It is difficult to predict the response of a vaccine in such conditions, as the body is already busy fighting a virus that is much stronger than the vaccine. Q. How long after recovering from Covid does one have to wait until getting vaccinated?  A. The question has been tricky. Technically, it should not make a big difference as the one who is infected already has Covid antibodies, and the purpose of vaccines is to produce those antibodies. However, there are new strains of Covid coming up every other day, so it is safe to take the vaccine which can protect against variants. However, as per ICMR, one needs to wait for four weeks after the first day of no symptoms. If you have received monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma to treat your Covid-19, according to the Centre for Disease Control, you can wait at least 90 days before getting the vaccine, as the antibodies in your body will last that long. Q. What should be the gap between two doses of vaccines? Currently, the recommended gap is six weeks between two shots. Vaccine manufacturers revise the gaps based on evidence on best immunogenic response, so keep an eye out for such recommendations. Q. Can Covid-19 be caught from a person who has no symptoms? A. Yes, if the person has the infection, even if he/she does not show symptoms. That is why testing and isolation for positive cases is so crucial in containing Covid-19. Q. Can I catch Covid-19 from the toilet used by someone with the disease? A. Yes, if you do not disinfect the toilet seats, faucet handles, doorknobs, sink and taps. Always flush properly, and disinfect everything thoroughly before use, when you are compelled to use the same toilet as the infected person. Q. Why do some people suffer a lot from Covid-19 while others don’t even show symptoms? A. People with compromised lung health because of allergies, tuberculosis, HIV or any other immunity-related issues are generally more prone to pulmonary fibrosis and severe respiratory show distress which might result in the dipping of oxygen levels. Those who get diagnosed in the early stages can be helped with the right medical intervention.  Viral load is another factor that decides how sick one becomes. If the virus did not enter the lungs in large quantities the chances of the person remaining asymptomatic are high. It is important to expel the sputum produced in the body to keep the airways free of blockage, which in turn leads to quicker recovery. Q. Are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating the Covid-19? A. No. According to the World Health Organization, antibiotics do not work against viruses. They only work on bacterial infections. Covid-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work. Antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of Covid-19. They should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection. Q. Can the health of an asymptomatic patient deteriorate suddenly? What should they be careful about? A. Sometimes there is a condition called silent hypoxia (also called happy asphyxia) where the body is deprived of oxygen but the person does not realise it until late, as the body gets adjusted to lower levels of oxygen and does not distress symptoms. This can result in sudden deterioration of health in a seemingly asymptomatic person. Therefore asymptomatic patients should not depend upon their gut feeling to evaluate their health. They should keep a chart of their oximeter reading, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature etc, and must call the doctors if there are abnormalities in any of the parameters. Q. Is it safe to eat raw vegetables and fruits? How to sanitise them? Wash them thoroughly in running water and dry before storing them, as soon as you get them from the market or get it door-delivered. There are also vegetable washing liquids available in the market, but washing and drying them is also enough to clean them. It is safe to eat raw vegetables that are washed and sanitised, unless you have any known allergies to those particular vegetables. Do not eat raw vegetables if you are sick, as cooked light food is preferred. Q. How do I volunteer without the risk of being infected? A. Maintaining social distancing, wearing a PPE kit, gloves, masks and face protectors, and using sanitisers and washing hands regularly are the key to protecting yourself in any situation. Q. What happens if I get the second dose after eight weeks? Do I have to take the first dose again? A. Second dose in India must be after four weeks, ideally at six weeks. If you take it eight weeks, no need to restart the regime. Q. What happens if I take only one dose of vaccination? A. You will not get the full protection a vaccine has to offer if you do not take the booster dose. Q. Should I wash the mask every time I use it, even if it is for 10 minutes?  A. It depends upon where you move around using the mask. If it is a really infectious atmosphere, like an isolation facility or Covid-19 ward or a testing facility, it is better to wash and disinfect it as soon as you return. Q. How safe are surgical masks? How many times can a mask be used?  Surgical masks are ideally for one-time use. N-95 masks or double-masking give better protection against the virus than just surgical masks. Q. Can those taking alternative medicines like Ayurveda or homoeopathy take vaccination? Or should they stop the medicines and leave a few days gap before going in for vaccination? A. This must be discussed with your doctors and should be decided, based on what you are getting treated for. Q. I am menstruating. Can I take the vaccination? A. Experts have said that menstruation is not a banned condition for taking vaccines unless you have any added conditions related to immunity. Q. I didn’t feel any pain while getting the vaccination. Why? A. Everybody reacts to pain differently. Chances are that you might have been well-prepared mentally for taking the vaccine. Also, did you smile or grimace while taking the vaccine? These emotions are known to make the experience less painful. Q. Many patients with symptoms are getting negative RT-PCR reports but their health deteriorates by the time they are taken to the next procedure. What to do in such cases? A. It is better to keep a finger oximeter at home. The moment you start showing common cold and fever symptoms, oxygen level should be monitored at least once in 4 hours. Even if the test report turns out negative, if the oxygen level is dropping below 92, or is showing a significant reduction in 6-minute walk test, that is a dangerous sign. If there is cough and tightness in the chest which is not going away after 2-3 days from the onset of symptoms, you must go for an HRCT scan even if the RT-PCR report is negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-faqs-everything-you-need-to-know-980822.html
30-04-2021||National||Pandemic is once-in-a-century crisis, participation of society is key: PM Modi||The much-anticipated Union Council of Ministers meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the rampaging second wave of Covid-19 noted that the present crisis was a "once-in-a-century crisis" and stressed that the participation of society was a key aspect to accomplish the gigantic task ahead, expressing confidence that the country would rise to the occasion and defeat the virus. In the meeting, the first of its kind after the destructive second wave of Covid-19,  Modi urged the ministers to stay in touch with people of their respective regions, help them and keep getting their feedback. He stressed the need to ensure that issues at the local level are promptly identified and addressed. Meanwhile, Congress continued with its attack on Modi, tweeting "PM Modi's boastful claims are seldom ground realities, our nation has had to learn this the hard way." The Opposition party put out another tweet of its chief Sonia Gandhi saying "It is Modi govt that has consistently played politics & discriminated against the Opposition-ruled States. When things appear to be getting better, it takes the credit. When things begin to go awry, it blames the states." In the Council of Ministers' meeting, the Prime Minister said that all arms of the government are working unitedly and rapidly to deal with the situation as the Council also reviewed all efforts made in the last 14 months by the central and state governments and the people of India. Discussing the situation arising out of the second wave of Covid in the country that has left the country's health infrastructure gasping for breath with the rising number of positive cases and the toll climbing up, the meeting discussed the efforts by the Centre in coordination with the states towards building up infrastructure in the form of ramping up hospital beds, PSA oxygen facilities etc, resolving issues in production, storage and transport of Oxygen, tackling matters relating to the availability of essential medicines. The measures being taken to further ramp up their supply and availability were also discussed. While Member(Health) NITI Aayog V K Paul made a presentation on the Management of Covid-19 pandemic, the meeting, held through video conferencing, attended by ministers as well Principal Secretary to PM and Cabinet Secretary also reviewed the support measures given to the vulnerable population in the form of provision of food-grains and financial support to Jan Dhan account holder. It was also noted that India could successfully produce two vaccines and there are many candidates at the various stages of approval and induction. More than 15 crore vaccinations have been done as on date. The Council of Ministers also stressed the importance of Covid appropriate behaviour– wearing a mask, keeping a physical distance of 6 feet and washing hands frequently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-is-once-in-a-century-crisis-participation-of-society-is-key-pm-modi-980823.html
30-04-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Former AG Soli J Sorabjee no more, SC terms second Covid wave a national crisis||In your evening news brief, Former Attorney General Soli J Sorabjee no more; T20 World Cup could be moved to the United Arab Emirates if the Covid-19 crisis does not subside in India, and the Supreme Court terms the second wave of Covid-19 cases a national crisis.  Here is the top news of April 30, 2021:   There should be no clampdown on citizens seeking help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet, the Supreme Court said on Friday, terming the second wave of Covid-19 cases as a national crisis. "There should be free flow of information, we should hear voices of citizen," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, and asked the Centre, states and all DGPs not to take any action against anyone posting a shortage of oxygen, beds or doctors as spreading rumour. If any action is taken against such posts by citizens in distress, we will treat it as contempt of the court, the bench also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said.   Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Baijal said he has mild symptoms and has been isolating himself.   This year's Twenty20 (T20) World Cup could be moved to the United Arab Emirates if the Covid-19 crisis does not subside in India, according to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The governing International Cricket Council (ICC) said this month it was sticking to hosting the event in India but had back-up plans, without specifying an alternative location. "It would be the UAE," BCCI general manager Dhiraj Malhotra told the BBC on Thursday.   Noted jurist and former Attorney General Soli J Sorabjee passed away on Friday after contracting Covid-19.He was 91. Sorabjee and his wife Zena tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago. His wife is undergoing recovery, but Soli, unfortunately, succumbed to it, sources told DH. President Ram Nath Kovind, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and other eminent persons paid tributes to the senior advocate. Born on March 9, 1930, to a Parsi family, Soli was known as a champion of freedom of speech and expression. He served as the Attorney General from 1989-90 and then from 1998-2004. Soli had been honoured with the Padma Vibhushan for his immense contribution for the defence of the freedom of speech and expression and for the protection of human rights. He held several offices in organisations of national and international repute.   Source: DHNS/ Reuters/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-former-ag-soli-j-sorabjee-no-more-sc-terms-second-covid-wave-a-national-crisis-980825.html
30-04-2021||National||Chinese President Xi Jinping offers to help India fight Covid-19||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday sent a message of condolences to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the coronavirus pandemic in India and offered to provide support and help to deal with the current surge of Covid-19 cases in the country. President Xi sent a message of condolences to Prime Minister Modi over the Covid-19 pandemic in India, state-run Xinhua news agency reported. In his message, Xi said China is willing to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation with India, and provide support and help to the country, the report said. On Thursday, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi promised to do the utmost in supporting India's fight against the Covid-19 surge and said that anti-pandemic materials produced in China were entering India at a faster pace. In his letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Wang said that the Chinese side "shares empathy for the challenges facing India and expresses sincere sympathy". "The coronavirus is the common enemy of mankind, and the international community needs solidarity and coordination for a concerted response. The Chinese side firmly supports the Indian Government and people in fighting the pandemic," he wrote in the letter, a copy of which was tweeted by Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong. Wang said that anti pandemic materials produced in China are entering India at a faster pace to help India fight the epidemic. "The Chinese side will continue to do its utmost to provide support and help according to the needs of India. We hope and believe that under the leadership of the Indian Government, the Indian people will surely prevail over the epidemic at an early date," he added. The messages from President Xi and Foreign Minister Wang came even as the militaries of the two countries are yet to resolve the disengagement from the remaining areas of eastern Ladakh after the withdrawal from Pangong lake area in February. India on Friday logged 3,86,452 new coronavirus infections, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,87,62,976, while active cases crossed the 31-lakh mark. The death toll increased to 2,08,330 with 3,498 new fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-president-xi-jinping-offers-to-help-india-fight-covid-19-980833.html
30-04-2021||National||BJP MP seeks President's rule in Delhi||BJP MP Rakesh Sinha on Friday demanded the imposition of President's rule in Delhi, accusing the Arvind Kejriwal government of leaving people unsafe in the wake of the grim coronavirus situation. "Delhi is in grave crisis. The Arvind Kejriwal government has left people in a state of uncertainty, unsafe. The capital's condition sends out a message to the entire world. The Centre should take direct control of Delhi. Situation is getting worse. President's rule be imposed," the Rajya Sabha member said in a tweet. AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal had also on Friday demanded imposition of President's rule in Delhi in view of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases. The Matia Mahal MLA, who left the Congress and contested the Delhi Assembly polls last year on an AAP ticket, said neither him nor the government is able to offer any help to the people affected by the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-seeks-presidents-rule-in-delhi-980848.html
30-04-2021||National||Maharashtra village finishes 1st dose of Covid vaccination||A small village in Aurangabad in Maharashtra that saw hesitation among its 500-odd residents to get vaccinated against Covid-19 has completed administering the first dose to all eligible beneficiaries, a local official said on Friday. Janefal, a village in Phulambri taluka here, has 525 people, of which 75 are above the age of 45 years, and the first dose of the vaccine was administered to all eligible beneficiaries by April 27, said sarpanch Krushna Gawande. "When the vaccination drive began for those above 45, there was lot of hesitation due to rumours of side-effects. On the day one was supposed to get vaccinated, he or she would just not be seen anywhere. We went door to door to convince people on the need to get vaccinated to contain the outbreak," he told PTI. "Even Anganwadi workers who carried out health surveys were not getting any cooperation from the villagers. However, we did not lose heart and those who went door to door for the drive patiently listened to apprehensions about the vaccine and cleared doubts," Gawande said. Dr Satish Sable of Ganori health centre nearby also pitched in as he is a native of Janefal. "To overcome the reluctance of people, we vaccinated five who were willing and then let villagers observe them. Soon, they realised the vaccine does not give rise to any side-effects. This way, we managed to vaccinate 68 of the 75 eligible beneficiaries on April 27. The rest seven could not be inoculated due to medical reasons," Sable said. Munir Pathan (52), a resident who took the vaccine by skipping fast for one day during the ongoing holy month of Ramzan, said," My father, who is 90 years old, and my 85- year-old mother took the vaccine on April 27 along with me. Seeing them getting inoculated at this age, other villagers also lined up to get their doses." Sarpanch Gawande said the next session of counselling, to get people above the age of 18 go for vaccination from May 1, has already begun in Janefal with those who have taken the jab taking the lead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-village-finishes-1st-dose-of-covid-vaccination-980858.html
30-04-2021||National||Case Fatality Rate of Covid-19 is higher than anticipated||The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) for Covid-19 infections has escalated by 50 per cent in the last three weeks – much higher than anticipated, according to a study by Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), an umbrella organization of professional medical associations of post-graduate doctors. For the worst-affected state of Maharashtra, it has increased by 44 per cent in the last two weeks. The CFR is calculated as the number of deaths occurring from the number of infections recorded two week prior. “The most important goal at our hand is the efficient mitigation in all the states that were hitherto considered docile and suddenly become hot with Covid cases growing 50 to 300 times in the past seven weeks,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the Secretary General, OMAG. “Subsequent surges can come, as seen in several countries of Europe. India being a vast country, some states may have different peaks. We cannot loosen our guards. Mask remains the most important tool and prevents infections from any of the variants and mutants of the Coronavirus, and the next being the vaccine,” he added. The current strains of the Coronavirus including double mutants or triple mutants namely - E484Q, L452R, B 1.617, B 1.618 and the UK variant B 1.1.7 are highly infectious but less virulent and less lethal. “We believed that like the cases during the first wave, 85 per cent are asymptomatic or mild symptomatic. Then seeing proportionately high number of infected coming out with symptoms, we deleted the terminology ‘asymptomatic’ and started saying these strains are more infectious and more virulent but less lethal with 85 per cent of the patients being mild symptomatic. Soon we realized that a higher number of infected people were becoming hypoxic, requiring oxygen support, but continued saying CSR is low around 0.7 per cent,” he said. According to him, doctors and experts believed that as a lot of senior citizens and people with comorbidities have been vaccinated, that could be contributing to less number of deaths in the current wave. Analysis of data of infections during the last six weeks and Covid deaths during the last four weeks is revealing and shocking. “Our initial euphoria based on all those analogies was short-lived. What it shows is that the CFR in India has escalated from 1.2 per cent from the first week of April to 1.8 per cent in the last week of April, a jump of staggering 50 per cent. Similarly, though almost at peak of the second wave, Maharashtra’s CFR has jumped by 30 per cent in three weeks from 1 per cent to 1.3 per cent and more shockingly 44 per cent in the last two weeks, from 0.9 per cent to 1.3 per cent till yesterday,” Dr Gilada in a press statement. However, in these analyses mere viruses cannot be blamed for increased mortality leading to higher CFR in the current wave. “There could be a sizable contribution by the deaths occurring for want of getting timely medical care including the allocation of bed, Oxygen support, ICU and ventilators etc. What we are analysing and discussing are only official recorded deaths and not those who have died before reaching the healthcare facilities,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-fatality-rate-of-covid-19-is-higher-than-anticipated-980861.html
30-04-2021||National||AAP MLA embarrasses party, demands President's Rule in Delhi||Embarrassing the AAP, its MLA Shoaib Iqbal on Friday demanded imposition of President's Rule in Delhi in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, saying there is no one listening to lawmakers and that he could not be of any help to people. Iqbal, a six-term MLA who also had his stints in Congress, LJP, Janata Dal, JD(S) and JD(U), made his demand in a video post in which he also said that neither him nor the AAP government was able to offer any help to people. "I feel embarrassed being an MLA since I cannot be of use to anyone, our government is unable to stand with the people. Despite being a six-time MLA, there is no one to listen to(me) and I cannot contact anyone," he said. He demanded that Delhi High Court should impose President's Rule in the national capital. President's Rule is imposed in a state or union territory by the President on the recommendation of the Centre that analyses the report from Governors or Lieutenant Governors. "Delhi is in a very bad situation, I request the Delhi High Court for imposition of President's rule in Delhi with immediate effect otherwise there will be dead bodies across the city," he said. He said he felt like crying and had lost his sleep, as people are desperate and unable to find medicines and oxygen. "I cannot help even a friend who is in hospital without oxygen and medicines," he said. He also said his demand was not against his party.“If the Centre can accept help from other nations, then why can't there be President's rule or use of the Army to save people?" he added. While AAP did not react to the remarks till evening, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said his party has all along highlighted that the health services in Delhi have collapsed and Iqbal's statement has substantiated our stand. "Iqbal's statement is not a normal statement. It is a result of his hearing and accepting his inner soul's voice," he added. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said Iqbal is not just an AAP MLA but with most experience in the Delhi Assembly. "If he is saying that the situation has gone out of control and people are suffering, and the President's rule should be imposed in Delhi, he is right. We also believe that Delhi should now be under the Centre’s control and there should be President’s rule as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is not being able to manage the situation," he added. Senior BJP MP Rakesh Sinha also demanded the imposition of President's rule in Delhi. "Delhi is in grave crisis. The Arvind Kejriwal government has left people in a state of uncertainty, unsafe. The capital's condition sends out a message to the entire world. The Centre should take direct control of Delhi. Situation is getting worse. President's rule be imposed," the Rajya Sabha member said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-mla-embarrasses-party-demands-presidents-rule-in-delhi-980865.html
30-04-2021||National||Treat available oxygen as critical commodity, Centre tells states||The Centre on Friday said it has asked the states to treat the available oxygen as a critical commodity and undertake an oxygen-consumption audit at all hospitals, including private ones, amid a shortage of the life-saving gas in several parts of the country. Addressing a press conference, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Lav Agrawal said from the start of the pandemic, the government had identified oxygen-supported beds as major clinical interventions.  He said the government had procured 1,02,400 oxygen cylinders at the national level in April-May 2020 and distributed those among the states. "We have requested the states to treat the available oxygen as a critical commodity and also to ensure a rational use of oxygen," Agrawal said. Listing out the steps taken by the Centre to augment the supply of oxygen, he said the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has issued instructions for fixing the price of liquid medical oxygen. Agrawal said 162 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants of 154-MT capacity each have been sanctioned across the country. Of these, 52 plants are already installed, 87 have been delivered, and work to commission these plants at the earliest is on. The PSA plants can enable hospitals for in-situ generation of oxygen. Agrawal said the states have been allotted 8,593 MT of oxygen. "An order for 1,27,000 oxygen cylinders was placed on April 21 and the deliveries are expected to start in a couple of days. These include 54,000 jumbo cylinders (D type) and 73,000 regular cylinders (B type). "Additionally, 551 PSA plants have been sanctioned to be implemented by the Union health ministry. These plants will be installed in different public health facilities," he added. The states have been advised to ensure a rational use of oxygen, prohibit abnormal use by monitoring non-closure of valve during no-use, stop unnecessary oxygen administration to patients who may not require it clinically and for monitoring private health facilities that indulge in pushing oxygen cylinders as part of home-based Covid care packages, Agrawal said. In the second wave of the pandemic, the rate of rise of the infection has been rapid, which has put an immense strain on the health infrastructure. The doubling of Covid-19 cases has also been rapid, which should ease if the turnover time reduces, he added. The pandemic is spreading to tier-2 and tier-3 cities, so it is very important to train doctors about treating this new disease, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said while underlining that misuse of drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab has to be avoided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-available-oxygen-as-critical-commodity-centre-tells-states-980869.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Armed Forces granted emergency powers to establish hospitals, procure materials||Armed forces were granted emergency financial powers on Friday as Centre planned to involved them in bigger way to combat the Covid-19 pandemic with cases recording an alarming rise, pushing the existing civil health infrastructure to breaking point. These powers will help Formation Commanders to establish and operate quarantine facilities, hospitals and undertake procurement, repair of equipment, items, material stores, besides provisioning of various services and works required to support the ongoing effort against the pandemic. These powers are are in addition to the emergency powers delegated to the Medical Officers of the Armed Forces last week. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh took to Twitter to announce the decision of invoking special provisions and granting emergency financial powers to the Armed Forces to empower them and speed up their efforts in tide over the current Covid-19 situation in the country. Under these powers, Vice Chiefs of Armed Forces including Chief Of Integrated Defence Staff To The Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee (CISC) and General Officer Commanding-in-Chiefs (GOC-in-Cs) and equivalents of all three services have been given full powers, whereas Corps Commanders/Area Commanders have been delegated powers up to Rs 50 lakh per case and Division Commanders/Sub Area Commanders and equivalents have been delegated powers up to Rs 20 lakh per case. These powers have been devolved initially for a period of three months from May 1 to July 31, 2021. The emergency powers were sanctioned to the Armed Forces last year too when the Covid-19 pandemic had first broken out. This had helped the Armed Forces tackle the situation faster and in an effective manner. Last week the defence minister had roped the Army in extending support to the civilian administration to tackle the pressing pandemic and called upon the Armed Forces to be in close contact with the state governments and be ready to provide any required assistance. Singh had then also asked Army Chief General M M Naravane, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy to offer available facilities and expertise to civilians during the Corona crisis Singh also told the Army Chief that local commanders must reach out to CMs and offer all possible help. After the defence minister's direction, Defence Secretary Kumar had on April 20 issued instructions that 67 Cantt Board Hospitals across India advised to ensure medical service to all patients -both Cantt residents and non-residents. Singh had also asked Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs),Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and DRDO to work on war footing to provide oxygen cylinders and extra beds to civil administration/state governments at the earliest. The Union Minister also already made a suggestion to utilise the services of vaccinated retired Armed Forces personnel to assist the civil administration/state governments to deal with the current situation. It has been decided that the Army would consider offering treatment to civilians in its medical facilities, wherever possible, besides extending other assistance to civil administrations. Army units in various states can get in touch with state administrations to understand their requirement like creation of additional capacities to deal with increasing volume of patients. The senior-most Army officer in a state would get in touch with the chief minister to understand the requirement and take forward the process, including offering to treat civilians wherever possible, they said. Indian Air Force has ordered round-the-clock readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleets to meet Covid-19 related tasks while DRDO has initiated the moves to set up 500 medical oxygen plants within the next three months from the allocation made by the PM Cares Fund. DRDO will be using the technology developed for on-board oxygen generation for light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas. The transfer of MOP technology has been done to Bengaluru-based Tata Advanced Systems Limited and Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics, which together will set up 380 plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-armed-forces-granted-emergency-powers-to-establish-hospitals-procure-materials-980875.html
30-04-2021||National||India Covid-19 cases may peak between May 3-5, says government advisor||India's coronavirus cases may peak between May 3-5, according to a mathematical model of a team of scientists advising the government, a few days earlier than a previous estimate as the virus has spread faster than expected. The world's second-most populous country has reported more than 3,00,000 new infections daily for nine consecutive days, hitting another global record of 3,86,452 on Friday. The surge has led to a public health crisis in India, forcing the government to seek oxygen, medicines, and other essentials from countries around the world. "Our belief is that by next week, the daily new cases nationwide would have peaked," M. Vidyasagar, head of a government-appointed group of scientists modelling the trajectory of infections, told Reuters. The group previously told senior government officials in a presentation on April 2 that cases would peak between May 5-10, said Vidyasagar. "We said (at that presentation) that it was not a matter of putting up some structures that would come up in July or August, because by then the wave will have ended," he said. "Try to figure out how we're going to fight the fight for the next four to six weeks, that was the message. Don’t waste a lot of time putting up long-term solutions because your problem is right now." India's first wave of the pandemic peaked in mid-September with 97,894 cases. The country is now reporting more than three times as many infections daily, taking the total number of cases to 1.88 crore with 2,08,000 deaths. The real number of infections is believed to be 50 times more, said Vidyasagar, as many people who contract the disease show no symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-covid-19-cases-may-peak-between-may-3-5-says-government-advisor-980898.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India reports 3.8 lakh fresh cases, another single-day record||Oxygen, hospital beds, medicines...these resources are taken for granted when they are easily accessible. Everything changed over the last month, however, when the might of the pandemic's second wave broke the back of health infrastructure in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-reports-38-lakh-fresh-cases-another-single-day-record-980900.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19: Indian Navy deploys warships to bring medical oxygen from abroad||The Indian Navy on Friday launched a special operation to bring oxygen-filled cryogenic containers from abroad as hospitals across India are reeling under an acute shortage of medical oxygen as a result of sky-rocketing Covid-19 infections. Initially, the Indian Navy warships are bringing oxygen from Bahrain, Singapore and Thailand, officials said. Two ships -- INS Kolkata and INS Talwar -- have already entered the Manama port in Bahrain to bring 40 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen to Mumbai, they said. Another ship, INS Jalashwa, is enroute to Bangkok while INS Airavat is leaving for Singapore for similar missions, the officials said. "Indian Navy has launched Operation Samudra Setu-II to augment the ongoing national mission for meeting the oxygen requirements," Indian Navy spokesperson, Commander Vivek Madhwal, said. "Mission deployed Indian Naval warships will undertake shipment of liquid oxygen filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment in support of nation's fight against Covid-19," he said. Last year, Indian Navy had launched Operation Samudra Setu as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission under which it brought back to the country around 4,000 stranded Indians from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran. In the last few days, the Indian Air Force has already airlifted empty cryogenic oxygen containers from Dubai and Singapore as part of efforts to augment the government's efforts to augment oxygen supply and distribution infrastructure. Though India is facing severe shortage of medical oxygen, the IAF brought empty tanks as containers filled with oxygen are highly combustible and may pose a risk to the planes As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries around the world have announced sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have announced assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-navy-deploys-warships-to-bring-medical-oxygen-from-abroad-980906.html
30-04-2021||National||India records over 66 lakh Covid-19 cases in April, highest since pandemic broke out||India reported more than 66 lakh coronavirus cases in April, making it the worst month of the pandemic, and the total number of new cases recorded during the month is equivalent to what was earlier witnessed in over six months, showing the enormity of the second wave of Covid-19. With a record number of over 3.86 lakh new cases recorded in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 tally has risen to 1,87,67,962 -- from 1,21,49,335 at the end of March 2021. Earlier, it had taken more than six months since September 22, 2020 for the caseload to increase by over 66 lakh. The health ministry said since April, there has been a steep rise in the number of cases. From April 5 onwards, the country saw over one lakh cases being reported in a day, while from April 15, the single-day rise in the number of cases went past two lakh and from April 22, it started recording over three lakh daily cases. Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have emerged as the states of concern in the last four weeks, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. Sharing data, he said from February 4-17, 46 per cent of the cases came from Kerala, 25.6 per cent from Maharashtra and 4.2 per cent from Tamil Nadu. The remaining 24.4 per cent cases came from the rest of the country. From February 18-March 3, Maharashtra contributed over 48.5 per cent of the total cases, Kerala 25.9 per cent and Punjab 3.3 per cent, while the rest of the country accounted for 22.3 per cent cases. From March 4-17, Maharashtra contributed 59.5 per cent of the total cases, followed by Kerala (10 per cent) and Punjab (3.3 per cent). The other states accounted for 24.6 per cent of the cases. From March 18-31, Maharashtra contributed 60 per cent of the cases, followed by Punjab (five per cent) and Karnataka (4.3 per cent). The rest of the country accounted for 30 per cent cases. From April 1-14, Maharashtra contributed 43.2 per cent cases, followed by Chhattisgarh (7.4 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (6.2 per cent). The rest of the country accounted for 43.1 per cent of the cases during the 14-day period, Agarwal said. From April 15-28, Maharashtra contributed 21.6 per cent of the cases, followed by Uttar Pradesh (10.4 per cent) and Delhi (7.8 per cent). The rest of the country accounted for 60.2 per cent of the cases during the period. Agarwal said while 1,290 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the country in September last year, the figure dropped to 77 in March. The death toll in April stood at 3,498. From February 4-17, Maharashtra contributed 34.3 per cent of the deaths, followed by Kerala (18.2 per cent) and Punjab (6.4 per cent). The rest of the country accounted for 41.1 per cent of the deaths. From February 18 to March 3, Maharashtra recorded 45.2 per cent of the total deaths in the country, followed by Kerala (14.7 per cent) and Punjab (10.3 per cent). The rest of the country accounted for 29.9 per cent of the deaths. From March 4-17, Maharashtra contributed 44.6 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Punjab (16.3 per cent) and Kerala (11.5 per cent). The rest of the country accounted for 27.5 pc of the deaths. From March 18-31, Maharashtra contributed 41.6 pc of the total deaths, followed by Punjab (19.7 per cent) and Chhattisgarh (6.5 per cent) while the rest of the country accounted for 32.1 per cent of the fatalities. From April 1-14, Maharashtra contributed 42.7 per cent of the total deaths, followed by Chhattisgarh (11 per cent) and Punjab (8.3 per cent) while the rest of the country accounted for 38.1 per cent of the deaths. From April 15-28, Maharashtra contributed 26.3 per cent of the deaths, followed by Delhi (12.3 per cent) and Chhattisgarh (8.9 per cent), while the rest of the country accounted for 52.5 per cent of the deaths, Agarwal said. "We saw a peak in September. After that, we again saw a peak in April. This trend was also observed in other countries. Some countries have also observed a third wave. "Many states that had witnessed a peak in September are recording high numbers and this has put the health infrastructure under strain and it is very important to work on this," he said. Agarwal cited the example of Maharashtra, which saw 24,886 cases in September, but the figure rose to 68,631 cases in April, which is 2.8 times higher. "Same is the case with Uttar Pradesh, which saw 5.4 times more cases in April than September. Chhattisgarh saw a 4.5-time rise, Delhi a 3.3-time increase, Rajasthan a five-time spike and Andhra Pradesh saw a 1.4-time rise in the number of cases," he said. The number of active Covid-19 cases has reached 31,70,228 in the country, accounting for 16.90 per cent of its total caseload. Eleven states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Bihar -- cumulatively account for 78.18 per cent of the active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-over-66-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-april-highest-since-pandemic-broke-out-980907.html
30-04-2021||National||Centre tells SC it has been urging states to prepare for second wave of Covid-19||The Centre Friday told the Supreme Court it has been vigilant and proactive in urging states to prepare for the second wave of Covid-19 and making sure that the entire nation shows preparedness in case of surge. It submitted that while states supported with requisite data largely during the first wave of Covid-19, details were largely not updated by them and districts on the Covid-19 portal even after constant persuasion. In an affidavit filed before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, the Centre said it has constituted various Empowered Groups to look into various issues pertaining to Covid management including to meet the supply and demand of the oxygen in the country. "In order to protect the country from any shortfall in the possible event of any second wave, it is submitted that Union Government wrote to all States and UTs on/ from December 4, 2020 (after the elapsing of the first wave) conveying State/District wise estimates on future requirements of bed capacities in Covid health care facilities based on then-existing trends of growth rates. "It is submitted that the same is an important factor which ought to be noticed by this Court as the same clearly depicts that the Union of India, has been vigilant and proactive in making sure that the entire nation shows preparedness in case of the possibility of any possible second waves," the Centre said. The court was informed that the Ministry of Health wrote to all States and UTs on December 2020 conveying State/District wise estimates on future requirements of bed capacities in Covid health care facilities based on then-existing trends of growth rates. The Centre submitted that on February 27, 2021, the Ministry of Health advised all states advised not to lower their guard, enforce Covid appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. The apex court was told that states were advised in the video conferences that data is crucial for them and the districts for detailed planning and hence, they should endeavour for ensuring timely and correct data availability in the portal. "It is submitted that had the states adhered to the projection tool created by the union of India and emphasised regularly in the meetings and developed the medical infrastructure of the said state commensurate with the projection given the existing situation of health infrastructure in the country would have been different," the Centre said. Contending that the total oxygen requirement for all states is 8,462 metric tonne, the Centre in its affidavit said that a total allocation of 8,410 MT has been made for 22 high burden States and UTs based on their demand and augmenting the oxygen supply on a war footing. "Ministry of Health has already floated a Short term global tender on April 16, 2021, to import 50,000 MT of medical oxygen, to be supplied in a span of 90 days to further augment the supply of medical oxygen in the country," it said. Centre said there has been a sudden increase in the projected medical oxygen required as on April 20 between the initial estimate and revised estimate submitted by Delhi (133 per cent) and Uttar Pradesh (100 per cent). On the issue of vaccines, the government told the apex court that vaccination is the topmost priority and all efforts are being made to achieve an objective of 100 per cent vaccination in the shortest time possible keeping the available resources in mind and availability of vaccine doses into consideration. "It is submitted that now the Central Government has launched its Phase-III of the National Vaccine Strategy which aims at liberalised vaccine administration with a view to scaling up of vaccine coverage. "This would augment vaccine production as well as availability, incentivising vaccine manufacturers to rapidly ramp up their production as well as attract new vaccine manufacturers, domestic and international," it said. The bench on April 22 took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with the distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-tells-sc-it-has-been-urging-states-to-prepare-for-second-wave-of-covid-19-980908.html
30-04-2021||National||Former Union minister Shivraj Patil tests positive for Covid-19||Former Union minister Shivraj Patil has tested positive for coronavirus and has been hospitalised, a family member said on Friday. His granddaughter Rudrali Patil said the former minister (85) was not exhibiting any critical symptoms but was hospitalised due to his age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-shivraj-patil-tests-positive-for-covid-19-980911.html
30-04-2021||National||Can't leave it to private vaccine manufacturers to decide quota of each state: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court Friday said the Centre should adopt a national immunisation model for vaccination of all and not leave it to private vaccine manufacturers to decide on its allocation to states. A bench headed by Justices D Y Chandrachud said, "What happens to the marginalised people and SC/ST population living in far-flung areas? Should they be left to the mercy of private vaccine manufacturers and hospitals? They will not be able to pay for the vaccines”, it said. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Rabindra Bhat, said that the government must think of providing vaccinations free of cost to all citizens. “You should adopt a national immunization model to vaccinate people of all classes. Poor or marginalised sections will not go to the hospital and pay Rs 600 for vaccines. You should consider all these aspects,” the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. It said that it cannot be left to the private manufacturers to decide how much quantity be given to which state and instead Centre should procure all the vaccines and give it to the states like done in national immunisation programmes.   The top court asked the Centre to respond to certain questions like how will it ensure the registration of persons for vaccination who are illiterate or don’t have access to the internet considering registration on CoWIN app is mandatory for vaccination for persons aged 18-45 years. It asked Mehta whether the Centre or States attempt to undertake targeted vaccination drives for crematorium workers and other coordinate groups who are providing on-ground assistance during the pandemic and weren’t considered as frontline workers. The bench asked Mehta to respond to the question whether the central government has considered exercising its power under section 92 of Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency? “Has the Finance Ministry made any previous grants/ sanctions to Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) in the past, like the current infusion of Rs 1,500 crore and 3,000 crore respectively? If yes, what is the exact breakup, as against the total cost of development and production of the two vaccines”, the bench said. It also sought to know the direct and indirect grant/aid that was provided for the research, development and manufacture of vaccines. The top court posted the matter for further hearing on May 10 and asked the Solicitor General to reply to the questions it has posed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-leave-it-to-private-vaccine-manufacturers-to-decide-quota-of-each-state-sc-to-centre-980912.html
30-04-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's response on plea against sedition law||The Supreme Court Friday sought response from the Centre on a plea challenging the Constitutional validity of sedition law. A bench Justice U U Lalit, Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice K M Joseph were hearing a plea challenging section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, which penalises the crime of sedition. The plea, filed by two journalists - Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha and Kanhaiya Lal Shukla - working in Manipur and Chhattisgarh respectively, have urged the court to declare Section 124A as unconstitutional. The petition claimed that section 124A infringes the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression, guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The petitioners claimed that they have been raising questions against their respective state governments and central government, and have been charged with sedition under section 124A of IPC in various FIRs for comments and cartoons shared by them on the social networking website Facebook. There is frequent phenomenon of misuse, misapplication and abuse of Section 124A since 1962, the petition said, adding that the abuse of a law, in itself, may not bear on the validity of the law but clearly points to the vagueness and uncertainty of the current law. The sections of sedition have been repealed in comparative post-colonial democratic jurisdictions around the world. While India calls itself a 'democracy', throughout the democratic world the offence of sedition has been condemned as undemocratic, undesirable and unnecessary, it said. The petition also argued that the vagueness of Section 124A exerts an unacceptable chilling effect on the democratic freedoms of individuals who cannot enjoy there legitimate democratic rights and freedoms for fear of life imprisonment. While citing the Supreme Court's decision to uphold the validity of the law in 1962 in the case of Kedar Nath Singh v. State of Bihar, the petitioner said that the court may have been correct in its finding nearly sixty decades ago, but the law no longer passes constitutional muster today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-against-sedition-law-980914.html
30-04-2021||National||Govt permits import of oxygen concentrators via post, courier, for personal use under gifts category||The government on Friday permitted import of oxygen concentrators for personal use, through post, courier or e-commerce portals under gift category, amid surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. The exemption for oxygen concentrators is allowed only for a period till July 31, 2021, for personal use, according to a notification of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). An oxygen concentrator is a medical device that concentrates oxygen from ambient air. It is in high demand due to increasing Covid-19 cases in the country. These concentrators capture and filter the air, unlike oxygen cylinders which can only store a fixed amount of oxygen. "Import of goods, including those purchased from e-commerce portals, through post or courier, where customs clearance is sought as gifts, is prohibited except for life saving drugs/ medicines/ oxygen concentrators and rakhi (but not gifts related to rakhi)," the notification said. Earlier, oxygen concentrators were not mentioned in the list. Now, it has been added on account of its high demand due to Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-permits-import-of-oxygen-concentrators-via-post-courier-for-personal-use-under-gifts-category-980918.html
30-04-2021||National||Use civil society volunteers to ease pressure on healthcare sector: PM Modi||With rising number of Covid-19 cases pressuring an already burdened health infrastructure, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked the officials to explore how volunteers from civil society could be utilised to lessen the pressure on the healthcare sector by invoking them in non-specialised tasks. The issue came up as Modi chaired a meeting to review the functioning of different empowered groups through video conference. It was discussed that NGOs could help to establish and maintain lines of communication between the patients, their dependents, and health care personnel. NITI Aayog has already roped in more than 1 lakh Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to deliberate on coordinated strategies to navigate through the impact of the recent surge. In the PM meeting, a suggestion also came up that ex-servicemen could be encouraged to handle call centres for communicating with people under home quarantine. The government has already extended the insurance scheme for frontline health workers under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Package for health workers fighting Covid-19 for another 6 months. In the meeting, the Empowered Group on Economic and Welfare <easures made a presentation to the PM on steps taken, such as the extension of PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.' Modi was briefed that portability enabled due to 'One Nation One Ration Card' initiative has helped benefit more people. The Prime Minister told the officials that the central government should work in close coordination with the states to ensure that the poor get the benefits of free food grains without any issues. He also said that steps should be taken to expedite the settlement of pending Insurance claims so that the dependents of the deceased are able to avail of benefits in time. The Empowered Group on issues relating to facilitating supply chain and logistics management gave a presentation on various advisories relating to measures to be taken to contain the pandemic. Modi asked the officials to plan holistically to ensure seamless movement of goods so that supply chain disruptions are avoided. The Empowered Group on coordinating with private sector, NGOs, and International Organisations briefed the PM on how the government is working in active partnership with the private sector, NGOs and International Organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-civil-society-volunteers-to-ease-pressure-on-healthcare-sector-pm-modi-980921.html
30-04-2021||National||Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to hold year-long celebrations to mark Satyajit Ray's birth centenary||In a homage to Satyajit Ray, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Friday announced that it will organise year-long celebrations across India and abroad to mark the 100th birth anniversary of the legendary filmmaker. Satyajit Ray (May 2, 1921-April 23, 1992) was a renowned filmmaker, writer, illustrator, graphic designer and music composer. He started his career in advertising and found inspiration for his first film, Pather Panchali, while illustrating the children's version of the novel by Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay. The film catapulted him into international fame. Ray went on to make other great films such as Charulata, Agantuk and Nayak, an I&B Ministry statement said. Ray was also a prolific writer, making the famous sleuth Feluda and scientist Professor Shonku, a popular part of Bengali Literature. The government of India honoured him with the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, in 1992. In homage to the legendary filmmaker, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting will organise year-long birth centenary celebrations across India and abroad. As part of the celebrations, the media units of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting — Directorate of Film Festivals, Films Division, NFDC, NFAI, and Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute (SRFTI), Kolkata — are planning a series of activities. Other ministries and departments including the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Culture will also be playing an active part in organizing events, the statement said. However, in view of the pandemic situation, the celebrations will be held in hybrid mode, digital and physical both, during the year, it said. In recognition of his legacy, 'Satyajit Ray Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Cinema' has been instituted from this year to be given at the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) every year starting from this year. The award consists of a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh, a certificate, shawl, along with a Silver Peacock medal and a Scroll. As part of the celebrations, the Directorate of Film Festivals, the Films Division and the Ministry of External Affairs will be organizing Satyajit Ray Film Festivals in India, and abroad through Indian missions, where films and documentaries by and on Satyajit Ray will be showcased. A special retrospective and screening of Ray's films is being planned at the 74th Cannes Film Festival, the ministry said. The Directorate of Films Festivals will also be organising a special retrospective at the IFFI, 2021. The retrospective will be travelling to prominent international and national film festivals. The Films Division will be creating a dedicated Satyajit Ray section at the National Museum of Indian Cinema, Mumbai. This section, which would also travel to different museums in the country over the year, would host memorabilia from Ray's life in both physical and interactive digital versions, including the best shots from his films, interviews etc. The National Film Archives of India (NFAI) will do restoration and digitization of all the available films and publicity material of Ray, the ministry said. It will also organise a virtual exhibition of the posters of his films. The National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC) will organize a film festival on its OTT platform, cinemas of India, showcasing five of the maestro's films. The SRFTI, Kolkata will be unveiling a statue of Satyajit Ray on its campus. To promote understanding of the filmmaker's genius, a course on his work will also be taught at the Institute. A package of Ray's works for children that can be given to schools is also being developed, the ministry said. Inter-college competitions on themes from Ray's films will also be organised amongst film schools, it said. The Ministry of Culture will be organising cultural activities and showcasing the various perspectives of Ray's personality and works in arts and literature. To oversee the activities, an implementation committee under the chairmanship of Secretary (I&B) has been set up. The committee includes senior Filmmaker Dhritiman Chaterji as the nominated member, and other senior officials of the Ministries of Information and Broadcasting, Culture and External Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting-to-hold-year-long-celebrations-to-mark-satyajit-rays-birth-centenary-980926.html
30-04-2021||National||Covid-19: SC asks Centre to frame national policy on hospital admissions||The Supreme Court Friday asked the Centre to frame a national policy on admission of patients in hospitals after it was apprised that some of them in the NCR are seeking local address proof for admitting Covid-19 infected people. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud was hearing the suo motu case on Covid-19 management in the country. “The Centre will have to make a uniform policy for admission of patients,” observed the bench which also comprised justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat. During the hearing, conducted through video conferencing, a lawyer said that a person was denied admission at a hospital in Noida as his Aadhaar Card had a residential address of Mumbai. The court said the central government should ensure that “no local address proof of patients are sought by hospitals for admission”. The top court termed the second wave of Covid-19 as a “national crisis”, and warned authorities, from the Centre down to police chiefs, against silencing people and their pleas for help on the presumption that they are raising false grievances on the internet. The bench on April 22 took note of the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases as also in mortality and said it expected the Centre to come out with a “national plan” to deal with distribution of essential services and supplies, including oxygen and drugs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-asks-centre-to-frame-national-policy-on-hospital-admissions-980938.html
30-04-2021||National||Ladakh row: Implement Moscow Agreement fully, Jaishankar tells Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during talks||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said he discussed with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi the issue of "full and sincere" implementation of an agreement reached between the two countries on complete disengagement at all friction points in eastern Ladakh. The issue figured during a phone conversation that was initiated by Wang to convey China's sympathies to India on the Covid-19 situation. "Received a call from State Councilor & FM Wang Yi conveying China's sympathies at the Covid challenge now faced by India. Discussed the international cooperation aspects of the public health response to this difficult situation," Jaishankar tweeted. Highlighted the importance of supply chains and air flights being kept open in these circumstances. Welcomed his assurances in that regard, as also more openness to Indian chartered flights. The external affairs minister said he highlighted the importance of supply chains and air flights be kept open in these circumstances. "Welcomed his assurances in that regard, as also more openness to Indian chartered flights. Discussed the international cooperation aspects of the public health response to this difficult situation," he said. There were reports of difficulties being faced by some US firms in sending medical shipments to India from China. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Thursday said there was an impact on some of the supplies following suspension of flights by Sichuan Airlines. "Also discussed the issue of full and sincere implementation of the Moscow Agreement of complete disengagement at all friction points along the LAC and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in Eastern Ladakh. Agreed to continue discussions in this respect," Jaishankar said. Also discussed the issue of full and sincere implementation of the Moscow Agreement of complete disengagement at all friction points along the LAC and full restoration of peace and tranquility in Eastern Ladakh. Agreed to continue discussions in this respect. India and China reached a five-point agreement to resolve the eastern Ladakh border row during talks between Jaishankar and Wang at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. India and China were locked in military standoff at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May last year but they have completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. There was no visible forward movement in disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points as the Chinese side did not show flexibility in their approach on it at the 11th round of military talks with the Indian Army on April 9. There were reports of China further strengthening its positions in some of the friction points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-row-implement-moscow-agreement-fully-jaishankar-tells-chinese-counterpart-wang-yi-during-talks-980939.html
30-04-2021||National||Apollo Hospitals to start vaccination of people aged 18-44 at limited centres in country on May 1||The Apollo Hospitals Group will begin anti-coronavirus vaccination for individuals in the 18-44 age group at limited centres in the country from May 1, according to a statement on Friday. "Realizing the criticality of vaccinating citizens to mitigate the impact of the second wave of Covid infections, Apollo Hospitals has taken the initiative and made arrangements to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers, as per the government directive," it said. Apollo Hospitals will be among the first among Indian private hospitals to begin immunisation in the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive after the Centre opened up vaccination for all citizens above the age of 18, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apollo-hospitals-to-start-vaccination-of-people-aged-18-44-at-limited-centres-in-country-on-may-1-980941.html
30-04-2021||National||Nine states, 2 UTs defer 18 and above vaccination drive; staggered launch in Rajasthan, UP, Gujarat||At least nine states and two UTs, including Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal – have deferred the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 years age group scheduled to begin from Saturday citing non-availability of vaccines. States such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat on Friday announced a staggered launch of the vaccination drive for those above 18 years of age by focusing on high-burden districts. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive is scheduled to begin on Saturday with the onus on state governments and private hospitals to administer the vaccine to those in the 18-44 years age group, while the Centre focusing its energies on vaccinating the “scientifically selected” priority group of 45 years and above. Authorities in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Odisha, West Bengal, Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Puducherry and Delhi said that the vaccination drive will not begin from May 1 as they vaccines were yet to be delivered to them. Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat have announced that the vaccination drive would begin on Saturday but the focus would be on districts with high disease burden. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said the vaccination drive for 18 years and above would begin in 10 districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Kutch, Mehsana, Bharuch and Gandhinagar – which have been reporting high number of Covid-19 cases. Uttar Pradesh officials announced that the vaccination drive would begin in seven districts of the state that have 9,000 or more active cases of Covid-19. Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma said that the vaccination drive would begin in 11 districts that have high disease prevalance, but the state would first administer doses to those in the 35-44 age group. Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was quoted by PTI as saying that the vaccination for the 18-45 years category in the state will be started from Saturday. At least two private hospital chains – Apollo Hospitals and Fortis Healthcare – announced the start of the vaccination drive at select centres for the 18-44 category. “Instead of waiting till tomorrow (and disappoint people), I wish to clarify (now) that we are unsure when and how much out of 1.5 crore doses of vaccine sought by Tamil Nadu will arrive,” Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-states-2-uts-defer-18-and-above-vaccination-drive-staggered-launch-in-rajasthan-up-gujarat-980943.html
30-04-2021||National||We must express gratitude to frontline healthcare workers: SC||The Supreme Court Friday said doctors, nurses and other frontline health care workers are playing a vital role during the Covid-19 pandemic and it was high time to express gratitude to them as also the may Centre consider compensating them. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said they know a doctor who is well known to Supreme Court judges and was yesterday struggling to find a bed in a hospital here after being infected by Covid-19. “You (centre) have to consider every aspect. You may have a look at compensating them. They (health care workers) are falling sick. They have been playing a vital role during this humanitarian crisis. Some of them have even lost their lives. We think it's high time that we express gratitude to them,” the bench said. Justice Bhat said that he was not blaming anybody but thought that more needed to be done for these health care workers. “We think that the health sector has reached a breakpoint. There are hospitals but there is a shortage of doctors. Beds are being added but there is a shortage of health care staff. We can re employ retired health care professionals to tide over this crisis. We need to see how the doctors and nurses who are contracting Covid are safeguarded,” the bench said.   The bench, which was hearing a suo motu case on ensuring essential supplies and services during the pandemic, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, to ensure that they are paid more and safeguarded.   Justice Bhat said he has read somewhere that around 25,000 doctors and nurses are willing to work, “I think the government should utilize their services”. Mehta agreed with the views of the court and said that doctors and health care officials are doing commendable work and they need to be appreciated whole heartedly. “I know of two doctors, who helped in cremating patients and were back on duty within six hours,” Mehta said. z||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-must-express-gratitude-to-frontline-healthcare-workers-sc-980951.html
30-04-2021||National||Over 15.48 crore vaccine doses administered so far, 26 lakh in a day: Health Ministry||The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered across the country has surpassed 15.48 crore with over 26 lakh shots being given till 8 pm on Friday, the Union Health Ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 15,48,54,096 according to the 8 pm provisional report. These include 94,10,892 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 62,40,077 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 1,25,48,925 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 68,11,824 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 5,26,53,077 and 37,59,948 beneficiaries over 45 to 60 years of age have been administered the first and second dose while 5,23,51,313 and 1,10,78,040 above 60 years have taken the first and second dose. A total of 26,08,948 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Friday, the 105th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Out of which 14,77,309 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 11,31,639 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of the vaccine according to the provisional report, the ministry said, adding final reports would be completed for the day by late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1548-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-26-lakh-in-a-day-health-ministry-980954.html
30-04-2021||National||DH Covid-19 Helpbook: From FAQs to helplines, everything you need to know||Dear readers, The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted each one of us in one way or another. As a service to our readers, we have created the DH Covid-19 Helpbook. From helpline numbers to guidelines, this helpbook is packed with comprehensive and vital information that may help you combat the second wave of the pandemic. All the information in the DH Covid-19 Helpbook has been collated from reliable sources and is verified by the Deccan Herald editorial team. We request you to share this helpbook with your family, friends and colleagues. Stay safe, stay indoors and wear a mask. - Team Deccan Herald||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-covid-19-helpbook-from-faqs-to-helplines-everything-you-need-to-know-980962.html
30-04-2021||National||Scientists seek greater transparency on Covid-19 data; write to PM Modi||Over 400 scientists have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking wider access to the granular testing data that ICMR has been collating since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic. Against the backdrop of the raging pandemic, the scientists underscored the need for systematic collection and timely release of data on – large-scale genomic surveillance for new variants; testing and clinical data for better predictions of the spread of infection; the clinical outcomes of hospitalized patients; and immune response to vaccination in our population. “Access to clinical data (with appropriate safeguards for maintaining patient privacy), which is required for analysis and predictions, and for estimation of the requirements for oxygen, medical supplies, ventilators, ICU beds, etc. Many scientists have been trying to get data on comorbidities and blood analysis of hospitalized Covid-19 patients, without success,” the letter signed by eminent scientists like Partha Majumder, L S Shashidhara, Jacob John, Gautam Menon, Satyajit Rath among others. The ICMR database is inaccessible to anyone outside of the government and perhaps also to many within the government. Most scientists – including several identified by DST and NITI Aayog to develop new prediction models for India – do not have access to these data, the letter has said. “Public health measures in India should necessarily vary from one local area to another, because there is a great geographical variability in patterns of spread of the infection due to local conditions. This necessitates detailed analysis of large-scale granular epidemiological data available with ICMR,” the scientists said. They also said the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ policy has made importing of scientific equipment and reagents an extremely tedious and time-consuming process, requiring approval at the level of the Secretaries of Ministries or Departments. “This has reduced our ability to scale up testing by developing new testing platforms and has impaired our ability to sequence viral genomes for surveillance rapidly and accurately,” the scientists said. “Adequate encouragement and support by the Government are required for our country to become Aatmanirbhar in the future. Such restrictions, at this time, only serve to impede our ability to deal with Covid-19. We request the withdrawal of these restrictions,” the scientists said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-seek-greater-transparency-on-covid-19-data-write-to-pm-modi-980963.html
30-04-2021||National||Delhi asks for China's help to keep cargo flights operational||Even as Beijing offered to help New Delhi deal with the second Covid-19 wave, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday asked his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, to ensure that the communist country’s airlines continue to operate cargo flights to transport commercially procured medical equipment to India. China’s Sichuan Airlines had recently planned to suspend cargo flights to Covid-19-hit India. Though it later retracted its plan and decided to continue operations, the flip-flop caused concerns in New Delhi, as several entities of India commercially procure ventilators, oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment from China. Jaishankar conveyed to the Chinese Foreign Minister New Delhi’s position on Beijing’s offer of support to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic in India. He told Wang that India’s entities were already in the process of commercially procuring medical equipment and raw materials from suppliers in China. This process would be facilitated if various transport corridors and cargo flights remained open and the necessary logistics support ensured expeditiously, a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs quoted him telling his counterpart in Beijing. Jaishankar also told Wang during a phone call that the two nations should complete the disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in order to end the one-year-long military stand-off between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. “Full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas would enable progress in the bilateral relationship,” Jaishankar told Wang. Wang called Jaishankar to convey China’s “sympathy and solidarity” over the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also received a message from Chinese President Xi Jinping, offering support to New Delhi to deal with the situation. It was the first message Modi received from Xi after the relations between New Delhi and Beijing hit a new low over the military stand-off along the LAC, particularly after the fatal clash between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in Galwan Valley on June 15. The External Affairs Minister emphasized during the phone call that serious challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic, which had affected all countries, would require serious international cooperation. Wang told Jaishankar that China supported India's efforts and would ensure that all the required materials expeditiously flow to entities in India. He told the External Affairs Minister that China’s companies would be encouraged and supported to deliver requisite materials to entities in India. The airports, customs and airlines would also be instructed to smoothly facilitate the movement of goods. The chartered flights from India to China would be welcome and specific problems raised by India would be sorted out quickly, the MEA quoted the Foreign Minister of the communist country telling his counterpart in New Delhi. He also offered any other appropriate assistance New Delhi might require from the Chinese Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-asks-for-chinas-help-to-keep-cargo-flights-operational-980966.html
30-04-2021||National||Foodgrain target set at 307 million tonnes for 2021-22; more onions in northern states||The Centre on Friday set a target of 307 million tonnes for production of food grains for 2021-22 and rolled out plans to promote growing of kharif onions in north Indian states to overcome shortages towards the end of the year. At the launch of the Kharif Campaign here, Agriculture Commissioner S K Malhotra said the target for food grain production during the kharif (summer) season is set at 151.43 million tonnes of which paddy is expected to be 104.3 million tonnes. Last year, rice production was estimated to be at 103.75 million tonne against the target of 102.60 million tonne. With the country facing shortage of onions during October-November-December, the Centre has asked states such as Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh to increase the acreage of onions to reduce the dependence on Karnataka, which grows nearly 50 per cent of the kharif onion crop. Besides Karnataka, kharif onions are produced in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh which together account for 20 per cent of the country’s production for the summer season. “Availability gets affected when these traditional areas are hit by natural calamities,” Malhotra said. Last year, the prices of onions had shot up in October-November as unseasonal rains in Maharashtra and Karnataka destroyed the onion crop, forcing the government to resort to imports to cool down the prices. According to the ministry, kharif onions are grown on 37,028 hectares across five northern states – Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The Centre now plans to increase this to 51,000 hectares this year, a move that is expected to help meet local demand and maintain prices during the lean season. Farmers grow two onion crops during the summer season with the early kharif crop harvested in October and the late kharif in December. The kharif onions have less shelf life, while those grown in winters could be stored for longer duration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foodgrain-target-set-at-307-million-tonnes-for-2021-22-more-onions-in-northern-states-980969.html
30-04-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi condoles death of Covid-19 patients due to lack of treatment||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday offered his condolences to all those who have lost their dear ones due to lack of treatment and said prayers and sympathies from every state of the country are with them. India saw 3,86,452 new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far, pushing the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,87,62,976, while active cases crossed the 31 lakh-mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 2,08,330 with 3,498 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. "My condolences to fellow citizens losing their loved ones due to lack of treatment. You are not alone in this tragedy -- prayers and sympathies are with you from every state of the country. There is hope if we are together," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. इलाज की कमी के चलते अपने प्रियजन खो रहे देशवासियों को मेरी संवेदनाएँ। इस त्रासदी में आप अकेले नहीं हैं- देश के हर राज्य से प्रार्थना व सहानुभूति आपके साथ है। साथ हैं तो आस है।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-condoles-death-of-covid-19-patients-due-to-lack-of-treatment-980727.html
30-04-2021||National Politics||Electoral funding system lopsided, has to change, says ex-CEC T S Krishnamurthy||The present system of electoral funding is lopsided, and the first-past-the-post voting practice has outlived its utility, former Chief Election Commissioner T S Krishnamurthy has said calling for long-pending poll reforms. He criticised political parties for their lack of interest in taking up electoral reforms, and lamented that in the present system, no poor man can stand for elections with any success. "No political party has taken any interest in even mentioning electoral reforms in their manifesto", Krishnamurthy told PTI. "Electoral funding has to change. The present system is lopsided. It's not fully transparent". He said there must be a national election fund where companies and individuals could make contributions. This could then be used by the Election Commission based on guidelines drawn by it in consultation with registered and recognised political parties so that even an ordinary poor man can stand for elections. "At the moment, no poor man can stand for elections with any success. So, this (present system of) electoral funding has to change", Krishnamurthy said. He also said the first-past-the-post system, where a candidate who receives the most votes wins, has outlived its utility and it must be changed. "The present system was okay when the country got independence...there was illiteracy...not much awareness of voters. Now that we have had more than 70 years of electoral democracy, I think it's necessary to change the first-past- the-post so that people with (just) 20-25 per cent of votes don't get elected." He suggested that ideally a candidate has to get 50 per cent plus one vote of the total votes polled to win, adding, only then the candidate can truly represent the majority of the people in the constituency. "If that's not implementable -- I am sure political parties won't accept (this proposal) immediately, as a first step, it should be 33.33 per cent votes polled to win so that small parties, small lobbies, parties based on religion, caste, language do not thrive in this state of affairs," Krishnamurthy said. According to him, it's absolutely necessary to have a separate law governing the working of political parties which should include their financial transactions and settlement of disputes, among others. "This was recommended by the Justice Venkatachaliah Commission long, long ago, as part of review of working of the Constitution. What action has been taken by any political party to implement this?" Krishnamurthy asked3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/electoral-funding-system-lopsided-has-to-change-says-ex-cec-t-s-krishnamurthy-980780.html
30-04-2021||National Politics||No vaccination of 18-44 age group in Maharashtra from May 1 due to Centre: Congress||The Congress on Friday alleged that the vaccination of people from 18 to 44 age group is not taking off in Maharashtra from May 1 due to the "reckless approach" of the Centre. Earlier this month, the Union government announced opening up vaccination for the entire adult population starting from May 1. However, the state government two days back said that the exercise cannot be launched on this date as vaccine doses were not available in sufficient quantity. Taking to Twitter, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, "From May 1, Modi govt had announced vaccination of country's young workforce in age group of 18-44 years. Unfortunate that this nationwide program will not be able to take off as Modi govt has not supplied vaccines." "At a time when vaccination is being carried out on a war footing in the world and deaths due to Covid-19 are rampant in India, this reckless approach of Modi government is criminal," he said in another tweet. Sawant added that even Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan has said the vaccination process for this age group will not start on May 1 in his state due to lack of vaccines. He alleged that while the Modi government was solely responsiblefor failure of this exercise, BJP leaders were shifting the blame on the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and spreading misinformation. "Modi govt shirked responsibility of country's youth and gave it to states but this delay in vaccination is taking its toll on young lives," the Congress leader said in a tweet. "Delay is not only in age group of 18-44. Vaccination of 45 yrs & above is also facing difficulties due to inadequate supply of vaccines. Out of the 4,35,000 Remedisvir announced for Maharashtra, only 2,30,000 were sent. If Modi govt does not keep its word, how should states plan?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-in-maharashtra-from-may-1-due-to-centre-congress-980829.html
30-04-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: Stay in touch with people, take their feedback, PM tells Union ministers||Amid the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged Union ministers on Friday to stay in touch with the people of their respective regions, help them and keep getting their feedback on the situation. Chairing a meeting of the Union Council of Ministers, Modi also stressed upon the "need to ensure that issues at the local level are promptly identified and addressed", according to an official statement. The meeting was held virtually to discuss the situation arising out of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. It noted that the pandemic has led to a "once-in-a-century" crisis and thrown a big challenge to the world, the statement said. The council was briefed about the steps being taken to ramp up the number of hospital beds, oxygen facilities and resolve issues related to the availability of oxygen and essential medicines, it added. The support measures for the vulnerable population in the form of free foodgrains and financial support to Jan Dhan account holders were also discussed at the meeting, the statement said. The meeting was informed that 15 crore anti-Covid vaccine doses have so far been administered to people, while it was also pointed out that the country could successfully produce two vaccines and there are many vaccine candidates at various stages of approval and induction. The council of ministers also highlighted the importance of Covid-appropriate behaviour -- wearing masks, maintaining a physical distance of six feet with others and washing hands frequently. Emphasising that the participation of the society is a key aspect to accomplish the gigantic task ahead, the ministers expressed confidence that the country will rise to the occasion and defeat the virus. This was the first meeting of the council of ministers in the aftermath of the second wave of the pandemic in the country. NITI Aayog member VK Paul gave a presentation on Covid-19 management. After him, Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Mansukh Mandaviya briefed their cabinet colleagues on the availability of oxygen and medicines respectively. The prime minister has held several rounds of meetings with chief ministers and top government officials to deliberate on the Covid-19 situation. He has also been holding meetings with pharmaceutical industry leaders, oxygen suppliers, the heads of the three-armed forces and other dignitaries to discuss how to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-stay-in-touch-with-people-take-their-feedback-pm-tells-union-ministers-980841.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Vaccination for above-18 category won't start from May 1 in Madhya Pradesh: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The vaccination drive for the 18 -44 age group would not start on May 1 in Madhya Pradesh as the manufacturers can not supply enough vaccine doses in time, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday. The ongoing vaccination of people in the above-45 category will continue, he added. The Union government earlier this month opened up vaccination for the entire adult population. "On contacting the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines we learnt that they are unable to give us doses for those above 18 years of age on May 1. "So the drive covering the young people won't start on May 1," Chouhan said in a video message at night. "Hopefully we will be getting vaccine doses around May 3. After that we will give the final shape to the drive for the young people," he added. "Keep patience and there is no need to panic," the chief minister added. The state government has already placed orders with Covishield maker Serum Institute of India and Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-for-above-18-category-wont-start-from-may-1-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-980619.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Highest single-day spike of 3,040 Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh; educational institutes closed till May 10||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 3,040 fresh Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths as the state government extended the closure of all educational institutions till May 10 to prevent the spread of the infection. Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said the death toll in the state due to Covid-19 stands at 1,447 and the tally at 96,929. “The latest deaths include a 23-day-old baby boy in Shimla,” he said. Of the latest fatalities, 17 were reported from Kangra, eight from Shimla, five from Mandi, three each from Solan and Bilaspur and two each from Chamba and Sirmaur, he said. There are 17,835 active cases in the state, the official stated, adding that eight of the total 12 districts have over 1,000 active cases. Kangra has the highest number of active cases at 4,410 followed by Solan (2,934), Shimla (1,896), Mandi (1,729), Sirmaur (1,707), Hamirpur (1,389), Una (1,130) and Bilaspur (1,029), he added. Besides Kullu has 609 active cases, Chamba (568), Lahaul-Spiti (296) and Kinnaur (138), he added. As many as 1,241 coronavirus patients have recuperated from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 77,576, Jindal said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur announced that all educational institutions in the state will remain closed till May 10 in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. Earlier, the government had ordered their closure till May 1. He also said that only 20 people will be allowed to take part in marriage rites and that the wedding feast, popularly known as "dham" in the state, is banned to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/highest-single-day-spike-of-3040-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-educational-institutes-closed-till-may-10-980620.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||SpiceXpress gets 600 oxygen concentrators from US||SpiceXpress, cargo arm of SpiceJet, on Thursday brought 600 oxygen concentrators to Delhi on its flight from Miami in the US. India is struggling with the second wave of coronavirus infection as hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds. "SpiceXpress flight carrying 600 oxygen concentrators from Miami USA has landed at Delhi airport," Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted. These will further strengthen & reinforce our fight against COVID. "These will further strengthen & reinforce our fight against COVID," he added. India saw a record single day rise of 3,79,257 new coronavirus infections pushing the total tally of cases to 1,83,76,524, while active cases crossed the 30-lakh mark on Thursday. The death toll increased to 2,04,832 with a record 3,645 daily new fatalities, according to data updated at 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spicexpress-gets-600-oxygen-concentrators-from-us-980622.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||UP panchayat polls end, 75% turnout in final phase||Polling for the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh ended Thursday with a 75 percent turnout in the final phase, marred by a group clash in Mathura and the deaths of two workers who fell ill while on poll duty. Lakhs of candidates were in the fray for over 7.32 lakh seats in gram panchayat wards, 58,176 in gram panchayats. 75,852 in kshetra panchayats and 3,050 in zila panchayats in the state-wide elections, held over four phases amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. In Thursday’s fourth phase alone, over 5.27 lakh candidates contested for about 2.10 lakh seats in 17 districts. Officials said 75.38 per cent of the registered voters turned up, a polling percentage higher than the previous phases. The counting of votes will take place on May 2. In Mathura district’s Barsana, eight people were injured when supporters of rival groups exchanged fire, police said. They have arrested six people from both factions. Additional Superintendent of Police (Rural) Shrish Chandra said polling was affected for some time at the Nehra village centre before they brought the situation under control. The injured were rushed to hospital, where their condition was stated to be stable. In Shahjahanpur district, two government employees died after taking ill while on poll duty. Among them, sanitation worker Sobaran Lal complained of uneasiness and died later in hospital, District Magistrate Indra Vikram Singh said. The family will be given Rs 15 lakh as government assistance. Another worker posted a video clip on social media as her health deteriorated and she was admitted to a hospital. In Kalan block too, a teacher was taken to hospital after recording a similar video. The cause of the two deaths is not immediately clear but employee associations have been alleging that several people on poll duty have succumbed to coronavirus. In separate statements on Thursday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav demanded compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the families of each employee who has died. Gandhi referred to an allegation that there have been about 500 such deaths. Polling took place in Ambedkar Nagar, Aligarh, Kushinagar, Kaushambi, Ghazipur, Farrukhabad, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bahraich, Banda, Mau, Mathura, Shahjahanpur, Sambhal, Sitapur, Sonbhadra and Hapur districts on Thursday. According to the poll body, there were 10,679 candidates in the fray for 738 posts of zila panchayat members in these districts. Also, 55,408 candidates contested for 18,356 posts of kshetra panchayat members, 1,14,400 for gram panchayats and 3,47,436 for gram panchayat wards in this phase. The first phase on April 15 and the second round on April 19 recorded a turnout of 71 per cent. In the third phase on April 26, 73.5 per cent exercised their franchise, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-panchayat-polls-end-75-turnout-in-final-phase-980623.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||With no ambulance, man takes mother's body home on handcart||The body of a woman was taken to her village on a handcart due to the non-availability of a vehicle or ambulance from a government health centre where she died shortly after being admitted here in Madhya Pradesh, her son said. A video of Kalawati Vishwakarma (45) being taken to her native village in Patharia in Damoh district by her son on the handcart went viral on social media on Thursday. After my mother died on Tuesday evening we had to take her back to our village about 2km from the health centre on a handcart as we did not get a vehicle or ambulance despite repeated pleas to the management, said a distraught Debu Vishwakarma, the deceased's son. "When we asked a private ambulance owner to take my mother's body home, he demanded Rs 5,000 for just a 2-km run, he added. Devastated and depressed, I arranged a handcart and took my mother home on it, Debu Vishwakarma said in a choked voice. He claimed his mother did not get proper treatment at the health centre, a charge denied by a government official. District Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Sangita Trivedi said, The woman came to our facility in a critical condition. We tried our level best...gave her oxygen support but couldn't save her." The family took the body home without informing us, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-no-ambulance-man-takes-mothers-body-home-on-handcart-980659.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath recovers from Covid-19, tests negative||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said he has tested negative for Covid-19. The chief minister had isolated himself on April 13 after some officials he came in contact with tested positive for coronavirus. He tested positive the next day. "Due to your good wishes and doctors' care, I have tested negative for coronavirus. I thank you all for your cooperation and good wishes for me," Adityanath said in a tweet in Hindi. आप सभी की शुभेच्छा और चिकित्सकों की देखरेख से अब मैं कोरोना निगेटिव हो गया हूँ। आप सभी के द्वारा मुझे दिए गए सहयोग व शुभकामनाओं के लिए धन्यवाद। During his over two-week isolation, the chief minister carried on his work virtually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-recovers-from-covid-19-tests-negative-980716.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Don't queue outside vaccination centres, have not received vaccines yet: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday appealed to people in the 18-44 age group not to queue up outside Covid vaccination centres from May 1, saying Delhi hasn't yet received vaccine doses. In the next one-two days, around 3 lakh Covishield vaccines will be received and the drive for vaccinating people above 18 years will commence, he said during an online briefing. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people in the 18-44 age group will roll out across the country on May 1. However, Delhi and some other states have said that they would be unable to do so due to the shortage of vaccine doses. Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin in three months. "We aim to vaccinate everyone in the next three months if a sufficient quantity of vaccines is supplied by the companies," he said. He assured Delhi residents that everyone will be vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-queue-outside-vaccination-centres-have-not-received-vaccines-yet-arvind-kejriwal-980741.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||DRDO hands over 75 oxygen cylinders to Delhi govt||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has handed over 75 oxygen cylinders to the Delhi government to help it augment oxygen supplies to various hospitals. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the DRDO is arranging oxygen cylinders to address requirements of various hospitals. "To meet the urgent requirement of oxygen in various parts of the country, the @DRDO_India is arranging big size oxygen cylinders for fulfilling requirements of different hospitals," Singh tweeted. "In this regard, DRDO has handed over 75 Nos. of such Cylinders to the Delhi Government yesterday," he said. Officials said each of the cylinders handed over to the Delhi government can store 10,000 litres of oxygen. "Forty oxygen cylinders of same capacity are being handed over to the Cabinet Secretariat officials on Friday for utilisation at Sardar Patel Covid care centre at Chhatarpur in Delhi," an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drdo-hands-over-75-oxygen-cylinders-to-delhi-govt-980756.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal demands President's rule in Delhi||AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal on Friday demanded an imposition of President's rule in Delhi in view of the massive surge in Covid-19 cases. The Matia Mahal MLA, who left the Congress and contested the Delhi Assembly polls last year on an AAP ticket, said neither him nor the government is able to offer any help to the people affected by the second wave of Covid-19. No immediate reaction was available from the Aam Aadmi Party on Iqbal's demand. "I feel embarrassed being an MLA since I cannot be of use to anyone, our government is unable to stand with the people. Despite being a six-time MLA, there is no one to listen to(me) and I cannot contact anyone," Iqbal said in a video message. He urged the Delhi High Court to impose the President's rule in the national capital with immediate effect for three months. "Delhi is in a very bad situation, I request the Delhi High Court for imposition of President's rule in Delhi with immediate effect otherwise there will be dead bodies across the city," the AAP MLA said. "I feel like crying, I have lost my sleep. People are desperate and unable to find medicines and oxygen. I cannot help even a friend who is in hospital without oxygen and medicines," Iqbal said. The national capital on Thursday had recorded 395 deaths due to coronavirus, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, and 24,235 cases with a positivity rate of 32.82 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the city health department. This was the eighth day in a row that Delhi had recorded over 300 deaths due to Covid-19. Iqbal said his demand for the President's rule was not against his party. "It's not a matter of this or that party. People are dying due to Covid-19 and saving them should be the only priority," he told PTI. “If the Centre can accept help from other nations, then why can't there be President's rule or use of the Army to save people?" the MLA asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-aap-mla-shoaib-iqbal-demands-presidents-rule-in-delhi-980759.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||84-hour lockdown under way in Jammu and Kashmir to curb spread of Covid-19||Jammu and Kashmir which on Thursday recorded the highest spike of nearly 3,500 fresh Covid-19 cases, went under an 84-hour lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The weekend curfew aimed at breaking the chain of spiralling coronavirus infections was clamped at 7 pm on Thursday and will continue till 7 am on Monday. Initially, the lockdown was imposed in 11 out of 20 districts of the union territory, but later on, the restrictions were imposed across J&K. Reports said that police and paramilitary forces erected barricades on roads at many places in Srinagar city as well as other districts to prevent the movement of motorists and pedestrians. However, essential services have been allowed during this period. Kashmir Police chief Vijay Kumar on Thursday directed his force to ensure hassle-free movement of health care workers and journalists. Public transport is running at reduced capacity for those involved in essential services and activities. The officers from different departments were also seen on roads to ensure that the lockdown is implemented in letter and spirit, reports said. J&K recorded its highest-ever one-day Covid-19 figures on Thursday when 3,474 cases and 26 deaths were reported, prompting the administration to order the setting up of more coronavirus facilities and increase the strength of oxygen beds. The government will review the Covid-19 situation in J&K following the weekend curfew and decide the future course of action including its extension or some other measures, officials said. On Thursday evening, J&K Lieutenant Governor’s Advisor Baseer Ahmad Khan in a hurriedly-called press conference claimed that there was no dearth of oxygen, Covid-19 vaccine, Remdesivir, or other things in the union territory. He also said that J&K had placed orders for 1.25 crore vaccines which have already been dispatched. “Aggressive drive will be launched within a day or two in this regard,” Khan said, adding that the vaccine at present is sufficiently available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/84-hour-lockdown-under-way-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-980762.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||UP CM Adityanath's experiment to control Covid-19 spread with bureaucracy's help failed: BJP MLA||BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Bairia constituency Surendra Singh on Friday criticised the state government's handling of the Covid-19 outbreak, saying Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's experiment to control the pandemic with the help of the bureaucracy has "failed". He said the system should be centred around elected public representatives and not the bureaucracy. Singh was speaking to reporters at his residence. "Chief Minister (Yogi) Adityanath's experiment to control the Covid pandemic with the help of the bureaucracy has failed," he said. The fact that BJP ministers and MLAs are getting infected with coronavirus and unable to get proper treatment would be considered a shortcoming of the system in the state, Singh said. BJP ministers and MLAs are dying due to the lack of treatment, he claimed. The system should be centred around elected public representatives and not the bureaucracy, he added. As of Thursday, Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload stood at 12,17,955 and the death toll at 12,241, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-adityanaths-experiment-to-control-covid-19-spread-with-bureaucracys-help-failed-bjp-mla-980765.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms. He said he will continue to work and monitor the situation in Delhi while being isolated at his residence. "I have tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms.  Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested.Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence," he tweeted. I have tested positive for COVID with mild symptoms.Have isolated myself since the onset of symptoms and all those who were in contact with me have been tested.Will continue to function and monitor the situation in Delhi from my residence. The LG along with his spouse took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital here last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-980773.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Vaccination of people in 18-45 age group will not start from May 1 in J&K: Administration||Amid a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday said the third phase of the inoculation drive that will cover people in the 18-45 age group will not begin from May 1 in the union territory. The new date will be announced once vaccine supply is established, it said. Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo said the union territory expects to receive vaccines by May 20. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive is set to roll out across the country from May 1. However, many states have said that they would be unable to do so due to the shortage of vaccine doses. "While the registration for vaccination of eligible persons in the age group 18-45 has been opened on COWIN, the actual vaccination will not begin from 1 May 2021. It will begin from a date to be announced later once the vaccine supply is established," the Department of Information and Public Relations said on Twitter. It said those eligible will not be allowed to walk in for vaccination and will have to pre-register for it. "No slots have been opened for booking a session. Please wait for the announcement of the vaccination start date for the 18-45 age group," it added. The administration, however, said that the vaccination of those over 45 years will continue normally. It said the union territory has ordered 1.24 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine, among the highest in the country, to cover the entire population in the 18-45 age group. "We have placed orders for supply of vaccines to undertake free vaccination of people in the 18-45 age group. We expect to get the vaccines by May 20," Dulloo said. He said 3,000 to 4,000 vaccination centres will be set up to ensure that there is no rush during the vaccination drive. "We are preparing for vaccinating about 65 lakh people in the 18-45 age group from the next month," he added. So far, 22 lakh people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated in Jammu and Kashmir, Dulloo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-of-people-in-18-45-age-group-will-not-start-from-may-1-in-jk-administration-980787.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Focus on weaker sections in third phase of vaccine drive: Baghel writes to PM Modi||The Chhattisgarh government on Friday requested the Centre to give priority to socially and economically weaker sections in vaccination against Covid-19 in the third phase when people in the 18 to 44 age group will be covered from May 1. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said given the vaccine demand-supply mismatch, the Centre should prioritise vaccination and also allow spot registration of beneficiaries so that people not having access to the Co-WIN web portal do not miss out. In the letter, Baghel said as per the Government of India's directives, registration of beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 44 years has started on the Co-WIN portal, the technological backbone of the vaccination drive, from April 28. Although information about state-wise registration is not available on the portal, as per the information received, around 1.7 crore citizens of this age group have registered themselves on the digital platform so far, he said. According to the central government's guidelines, doses for inoculating this age group are to be purchased by states, Baghel said. In this regard, the Chhattisgarh government had forwarded demand for 25 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin to their manufacturers, he said. Only Bharat Biotech (which makes Covaxin) responded to the demand, but said it can provide only three lakh doses to the state in the month of May, the chief minister said. Large number of registrations and less availability of vaccines may cause problems in managing crowds at inoculation centres, he said in the letter to the PM. Keeping in view the shortage of doses, the Government of India should fix priority groups for the vaccination drive, Baghel said. "People belonging to socially as well as economically weaker sections should be given priority," he told Modi. Baghel said since registration facility is only available online, beneficiaries from vulnerable groups may be deprived of vaccination. Spot registration should be made available for people in the 18 to 44 age group so that no one is left out of the vaccination drive, he said in the letter to the PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/focus-on-weaker-sections-in-third-phase-of-vaccine-drive-baghel-writes-to-pm-modi-980795.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Volunteers filling gaps in J&K's fight against Covid-19||Faced with healthcare shortages and minimal outside aid, Kashmir’s community groups and volunteers are fighting Covid-19 by stepping in where official efforts fall short. These cash-strapped local NGOs run ambulance services, provide oxygen support to critical patients, help with doctors consultations and food till the patient recovers. Volunteers even carry out burials for Coronavirus victims when family members can’t or won’t. A few days back volunteers of Social Reforms Organisation (SRO), Kashmir, received a distress call from a Covid-19 patient, whose condition was deteriorating. The volunteers rushed with oxygen support to the elderly patient till he recovered. “The four-member family was Covid positive and three of them were hospitalized. The only patient who could not be hospitalized was a 65-year-old man. We not only provided him with oxygen support but helped with doctor consultation and arranged food for him till he recovered,” said Mohammad Afaaq Sayeed who heads the SRO, Kashmir. There are dozens of volunteers like Sayeed who are on the forefront of providing succor to the needy patients in this hour of tragedy across the Valley.Like the SRO, another NHO Help Poor Voluntary Trust (HPVT) is ferrying critical patients to hospitals and in some cases helping in stabilizing the patients, who could be managed at home. “We have been doing health related services for years, but in the prevailing situation, our all focus has been on Covid-19 related services. From ferrying patients to supplying essentials like oxygen and medicine, our volunteers are working round the clock,” chairman of the HPVT, Farooq Bhat told reporters. These volunteers also help people to take the bodies of Covid-19 patients for burial and assist in burials. Last year, the SRO, Kashmir also arranged burial for three non-locals. Responding in emergencies is nothing new for community volunteers and NGOs in Kashmir as in the earthquake of 2005, devastating deluge of 2014 and other situations they did commendable community service. With thousands of new Covid-19 cases reported daily in J&K, volunteers and community groups continue to be the cornerstone of the pandemic response. Dr Arshad Hussain, a renowned psychiatrist and professor at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar, said the crisis is not new to Kashmir. “People here have evolved to help each other even in the worst times, instead of dwarfing into self-centred survival mode,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/volunteers-filling-gaps-in-jks-fight-against-covid-19-980801.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Arunachal defers launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive for people aged 18-44 years due to 'technical' reasons||The Arunachal Pradesh government has deferred the roll-out of the Covid-19 inoculation drive for those in the 18-44 years age group from May 1, as the state is facing some "technical" issues, an official said on Friday. The third phase of the vaccination programme has been postponed for an indefinite period, National Health Mission (NHM) director for the state Dr C R Khampa said. "The government has deferred the launch of the third phase of the vaccination drive till further orders," he said. He, however, declined to elaborate on the "technical" issues for which the commencement of the immunisation programme has been deferred. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people in the 18-44 years age group will roll out across the country on May 1. However, many states have said that they would be unable to do so due to the shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre had announced a liberalised policy making all above 18 years of age eligible to get inoculated from Saturday and allowing state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines. All the district administrations of the northeastern state have been asked to prepare for the third round of the vaccination drive, Khampa said. "Amid a raging second wave of Covid-19, the vaccination programme for healthcare professionals, frontline workers and people aged 45 years and above will continue," he said. State Immunisation Officer Dr Dimong Padung said 2,34,873 people have been inoculated so far since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January. Arunachal Pradesh on Friday reported its highest single-day spike of 194 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to 18,256. The death toll rose to 59 after a coronavirus-positive patient succumbed to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arunachal-defers-launch-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-people-aged-18-44-years-due-to-technical-reasons-980818.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi government hopes to complete Covid-19 vaccination drive in three months||Delhi Chief Minister on Friday expressed hope that all Delhiites will be given Covid-19 vaccine within the next three months amid no clarity on vaccine availability at a time the drive has been expanded to cover those in the 18-44 age group. With Delhi not starting to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group from Saturday as allowed by the Centre, Kejriwal said the city administration will soon be announcing the date for the drive but urged people not to queue up at vaccination centres before the announcement as this might lead to violation of social distancing and create a law-and-order situation. "We have not yet received the vaccines from the companies. It is hoped that the vaccines will arrive in a day or two, following which we will begin the drive. Around three lakh Covishield vaccines are to be delivered by tomorrow or the day after. Thereafter, more doses will arrive," Kejriwal said during a digital address. Both the Serum Institute of India manufacturing Covishield and Bharat Biotech manufacturing Covaxin have been asked to provide 67 lakh doses each within three months, he said. "We will vaccinate every citizen in Delhi within three months. I request everyone not to rush. Everyone is to be inoculated and proper infrastructure has been made for the same. This vaccination drive will be massive. Therefore, I appeal to every citizen for their utmost cooperation," he said. He said the Delhi government is trying its best to get the entire population of Delhi vaccinated within the next three months.   "We have formulated a plan and even the infrastructure needed for this is in place. Now it will depend on the two companies as to how swiftly they provide us with the vaccine. If they are able to provide sufficient quantities of the vaccine, then we will try to vaccinate the people of Delhi within three months," he added. He said it has been observed that those who have been inoculated are comparatively better off than those who haven’t been. "It is not that they are prevented from catching Covid, but even if they do, it is not fatal and does not turn into something serious. The vaccine acts as a protective shield. Therefore, I urge everyone to get vaccinated as these are completely safe and entail no danger," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-hopes-to-complete-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-three-months-980827.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Panchayat polls a Covid-19 'super spreader'?||With reports of deaths of as many as 135 people including teachers who were on poll duty, and many more infected, the recently concluded panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh — which is among the worst affected states in the country — appears to have become a ''super spreader''. A scrutiny of the Covid-19 statistics in the districts after the conclusion of the panchayat polls revealed that the number of positive cases witnessed a sharp increase in several places. Sources said Covid-19 positive cases from the poll-bound districts formed a little over 21 per cent of the total cases in the state before the elections. It however increased to 29 per cent three days after the polls. Similarly, the number of positive cases formed 40 per cent of the state's total cases in 19 other districts, where the polls had taken place on April 19. It rose to 44 per cent after the polls. Pictures of the people queuing up to cast their votes showed that barely a handful had worn masks. Leaders of various opposition parties, as well as other outfits, had warned the state government against holding the polls and urged it to defer them. The government, however, went ahead with the polls. Even several BJP leaders, including MPs and MLAs, had asked the state government to defer the polls. The Allahabad high court had a few days back rapped the Election Commission (EC) for failing to ensure adherence to the guidelines during the panchayat polls and issued notices to UP State Election Commission (SEC) to explain as to why it failed in checking non-compliance of Covid-19 guidelines.  The court had also asked the SEC to explain why action should not be taken against it and its officials for the failure and to prosecute those responsible for such violations. Uttar Pradesh reported 34,626 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24-hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-panchayat-polls-a-covid-19-super-spreader-980840.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi yet to receive vaccines for 18-44 age group, don’t queue up outside inoculation centres: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi will not join the national level rollout of Covid-19 vaccination for people aged 18-44 years on May 1, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday saying that required vaccine doses have not been received yet for the drive. He appealed to people in the targeted age group not to line up at vaccination centres in the city on May 1. In the next one-two days, around three lakh Covishield vaccines will be received and the drive for vaccinating people in the age group 18-44 years will commence, Kejriwal said in an online briefing. The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people aged 18 years and above will roll out in the country on May 1. However, some states have said they would be unable to start the drive on day one due to the shortage of vaccines. Kejriwal said his government has placed orders for supply of 67 lakh doses each of Covishield and Covaxin from manufacturers in three months. Kejriwal, who had earlier appealed to the manufacturers to bring down prices of their vaccines, said the "Delhi government is prepared to bear the financial costs of the doses it has ordered”. Delhi government has also demanded a schedule from both the companies, specifying the days when they supply the vaccines within three months’ period. “We are trying our best that within the next three months the entire population of Delhi gets vaccinated. We have formulated a plan and even the infrastructure needed for this is in place. Now it will depend on the two companies as to how swiftly they provide us with the vaccine. "We aim to vaccinate everyone in the next three months if a sufficient quantity of vaccines is supplied by the companies," he said. The chief minister assured Delhi residents that everyone will be vaccinated, appealing to them not to crowd outside vaccination centres for a few days. "I appeal to all citizens to not queue up at vaccination centres before our announcement as this might lead to violation of social distancing and create a law and order situation," Kejriwal said. The government is in constant touch with the companies. As soon as the vaccine doses are received, Delhi government will make an official announcement for starting vaccination covering those aged 18 years and above, he added. “We have not yet received the vaccine, and are in constant touch with the companies and hope the vaccines will be delivered in a day or two. We've been assured of this.” The Delhi chief minister assured that everyone is to be inoculated and required infrastructure has been readied for it and appealed for cooperation of the people. "Delhi government and the Central government are working hand in hand to make this vaccination drive successful," he said. Only those who are registered and given appointments will go to the vaccination centres, The chief minister said and added vaccines will be provided free of cost. "I request all, not to rush. Everyone is to be inoculated and preparations have been made for the same.” Kejriwal urged all eligible people to get vaccinated and also encourage others to do so, adding that the vaccines are completely safe and entail no danger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-yet-to-receive-vaccines-for-18-44-age-group-don-t-queue-up-outside-inoculation-centres-arvind-kejriwal-980852.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||1000% rise in Covid-19 positive cases, 293 deaths in J&K in April||Jammu and Kashmir has recorded around 1000% increase in Covid-19 active cases this month with numbers reaching 28,350 on April 30 from 2874 on April 1. In the same period 293 deaths related to Covid-19 were reported out of the total 2283, recorded during the pandemic, which is nearly 13% deaths in one month. On Friday alone, J&K recorded 3,532 new Covid-19 positive cases and 30 deaths which is the highest single day spike since the pandemic hit the Union Territory in March 2020. J&K has reported over 3,000 cases for the fourth day in a row reporting 13,000 cases in just 96 hours. Exactly a month back on March 31, J&K had recorded 359 Covid-19 positive cases and just one death. The number of fatalities due to Covid-19 too has witnessed a spike. In the last seven days, J&K has reported over 180 deaths due to the infection. As of now, the administration claims to be prepared for any challenge with enough bed capacity, oxygen, drugs and manpower to tackle any emerging situation. However, doctors on ground said that at this pace of positive cases the reported situation would be difficult to handle in coming days. Dr Salim Khan, who heads the department of community medicine at SMHS hospital in Srinagar, says cases are increasing at a faster pace and the percentage of patients who need hospitalisation is also increasing, which poses a great challenge for the infrastructure and preparedness “At current pace even if five per cent of the cases reported every day need oxygen, we are looking at a very scary picture in May,” he cautioned. As per the health department 3,113 hospital beds have been exclusively designated for Covid-19 patients, of which 1,576 are occupied, 1,213 patients are on oxygen support and 62 are on ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1000-rise-in-covid-19-positive-cases-293-deaths-in-jk-in-april-980880.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi 'special responsibility' of Centre, SC says on oxygen supply||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to meet the enhanced demand of 700 MT of oxygen in the national capital to treat the Covid-19 patients, saying Delhi is a special responsiblity of the Union government. "Delhi represents the nation and there is hardly any ethnically Delhite. Forget about someone (Delhi) could not lift the oxygen, you have to push through since you have to save lives. you have a special responsibility as the Centre," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. At the same time, the bench also told the Delhi government's counsel, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who complained of shortage in supply that it was not the time for political bickering. "We need to send a message to the highest levels of your government that in this humanitarian crisis, we don't want lives to be lost in political bickering. Politics can be during elections and interact with the Centre," the bench told him. While hearing the Suo Motu matter, the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, said they heard citizens crying for oxygen cylinders. "Delhi is a non-industrial state like Goa, Uttarakhand and everybody cannot be on same board. The Centre had to provide tankers for it," the court said. "Ground situation in Delhi is oxygen is not really available. Same is the case in Gujarat, and Maharashtra, you have to tell us in the foreseeable future what difference will be there from today and next day of hearing," the bench asked Mehta. The court said its hearing of the Suo Motu matter must make a difference to the lives of the people. Maintaining that 10,000 MT of oxygen was available, Mehta, for his part, said no country could have expected a demand of this magnitude. He pointed out the issue of quantity allotted to Delhi, was debated in the Delhi High Court. "Difficulty is that centre has pulled whatever it can extract from whatever source possible for oxygen. Transportation logistics can be handled at state level," he said. Many states have handled the logistics very effectively. As per realistic estimate, Delhi has got 400 MT of oxygen, but they are not able to lift the quantity. It could be due to shortage of cryogenic tankers. More and more tankers will ease the problem, he said, adding that the Centre was providing help in this regard. He also said there is a virtual control room that is working 24x7 and any state can contact it for oxygen in case a need arises. Additional Secretary, Sumita Dawra, who herself was Covid positive, made a presentation before the court, stating in an unprecedented crisis, the situation remained dynamic. Around 6000 MT oxygen was manufactured in August 2020 which has been raised to 9000 MT, with efforts on to raise it to 15,000 MT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-special-responsibility-of-centre-sc-says-on-oxygen-supply-980901.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Kumbh ends: 70 lakh participated in 'scaled down' mela held amid virus surge||Seventy lakh devotees participated in Haridwar’s Kumbh Mela, the mammoth religious congregation which ended Friday after triggering a scare that it might have acted as a coronavirus ‘super-spreader”. Despite the huge number of people gathering around Haridwar to take a dip in the holy Ganga, the 2021 event was a comparatively modest event -- reduced to just one month and scaled down midway due to the raging pandemic. Held over three months in normal circumstances, the Kumbh Mela this time formally begun as late as April 1 due to concerns over Covid-19. About 2,600 devotees tested positive out of the nearly two lakh tests conducted by medical personnel during the mela. Three shahi snans took place during the event on April 12, 14 and 27, the last one being reduced to a largely symbolic event. Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer S K Jha said the Kumbh was a big challenge considering its potential to fuel the surge of coronavirus. Medical officer for Kumbh Arjun Singh Sengar said, "The situation was challenging for us as the crowd, though relatively smaller this time was big enough to violate the norms of social distancing.” “The seers were initially reluctant to go for tests but they relented after the second shahi snan on April 14,” he said. “With the help of healthcare personnel brought from Uttar Pradesh, we conducted a total of 1,900,83 tests, out of which 2642 reported positive," The “scaling down” is said to be the first in the history of the mela, which is held once every twelve years in Haridwar. The crowds began petering out after an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the seers to keep their representation in Kumbh symbolic. The Joona Akhada, the largest among the sects which attend the mela, was the first to respond to Modi's appeal, followed by several other akhadas which withdrew from the event. Ordinary devotees then followed their example. Mela organisers claim that the event, among the largest religious gatherings on earth, passed off without any serious untoward incident anywhere in the Kumbh Mela Kshetra spread over an area of 641 hectares from Haridwar to Devprayag. Mela Inspector General Sanjay Gunjyal claimed this to be a “first” since 1912. "A stampede, a clash or a dispute among seers of different Akhadas marked most of the editions of the event in the past. But this time, despite the extraordinary circumstances arising out of a strong second wave of coronavirus, the Kumbh Mela passed off without any interruption," he said. "It is a kind of record," he told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kumbh-ends-70-lakh-participated-in-scaled-down-mela-held-amid-virus-surge-980902.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Covid vaccination of people aged 18-45 in U'khand not starting on Saturday||Inoculation of people aged 18-45 years against Covid-19 will not start in Uttarakhand from May 1, as scheduled, due to non-availability of enough vaccines. Secretary, Health Amit Negi on Friday said the exercise can start in the state only after a week. However, specifying a date is not possible right now, he added. "The Centre will soon be supplying 1,22,108 Covishield and 42,370 Covaxin doses to Uttarakhand. We have also sent our demands to the vaccine-manufacturing companies. It is difficult to specify a date for beginning the exercise but it can start only after a week," Negi told reporters here. He said there are many challenges before the government due to the surge in Covid-19 cases but the number of oxygen beds is constantly being increased to deal with the situation. Uttarakhand recorded 5,654 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday and 122 more fatalities due to the viral disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-vaccination-of-people-aged-18-45-in-ukhand-not-starting-on-saturday-980910.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Punjab defers inoculation for 18+, but Haryana to start drive from May 1||With a few hours to go for the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive for all adults in the country, the Punjab government on Friday deferred the inoculation for this category due to "non-availability" of the vaccine. Authorities in Union Territory of Chandigarh said they had already started the registrations, but as the vaccines were awaited, they would not be able to start the inoculation for the 18-plus category according to the schedule on May 1. However, Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij told PTI that the vaccination for the 18-45 years category in the state will start from Saturday. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh deferred Phase III of vaccination, which was slated to begin on May 1, for the 18-45 age group. Singh made it clear that "due to non-availability of vaccine, Phase III of vaccination for the 18-45 age group cannot be started as scheduled". He also said all vaccinations at private health facilities will remain suspended from Saturday. The chief minister said as the balance of unutilised vaccines had to be returned to the Government of India by all private health facilities by Friday evening, these facilities would have no vaccines to administer from Friday for 45+ population, while they could not vaccinate 18-45 age group as they had no supplies for the same. According to an official statement, Singh said his government was pursuing the matter of vaccine shortage with the Centre, as the situation was critical.          "The state had received two lakh doses but that was not sufficient even to meet the two days' requirement of the 45+ age group," said Singh, while reviewing the Covid vaccine situation at a virtual meeting. Punjab is among the states which has been worst-hit due to the second wave of Covid-19. Union Territory Chandigarh's Home-cum-Health Secretary Arun Gupta when asked about the vaccination for 18-45 category rolling out in Chandigarh from May 1, said, "We have not received the vaccines, so without the vaccines we cannot start it". "We have started the registration, but the slots will be allotted only after we receive the vaccines," Gupta told PTI. He said they are awaiting confirmation about the delivery of one lakh vaccines from the Serum Institute of India (SII). However, Haryana Minister Anil Vij said, "We have got the message from the SII and more vaccines are reaching us. The rollout for the 18-45 year category will start tomorrow as scheduled". Vij further said Haryana has sought 40 lakh doses from the SII and 26 lakh from Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. "We will get these in phases," he said. Like Punjab, both Haryana and Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, has seen a surge in cases in recent weeks. Meanwhile, Amarinder Singh said the Punjab government is trying to secure supply for 45+ population from the Centre on priority, and also making efforts to strategise Phase III vaccination based on an interim report of an expert group led by Dr Gagandeep Kang. The meeting was informed by the officials that an order for procurement of 30 lakh doses of Covishield for the age group of 18-45 years was placed with the SII on April 26, only to be told that the availability of vaccine will be known in four weeks. Further, the SII had asked the Punjab government to indicate demand for the next three-four months, with advance payments to be made. They had informed the government that supplies would be delivered in a phased manner, every month, the statement said. According to the state health department data, of the six worst hit districts, while Mohali, Jalandhar and Ludhiana were doing well in terms of vaccination, Amritsar, Bathinda, Patiala were running short of targets. The chief minister directed these three districts to step up efforts. There has been a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases in Punjab in the recent weeks. Punjab had on Thursday reported 138 more deaths, pushing the toll to 8,909, while 6,812 fresh cases took the infection count to 3,64,910 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-defers-inoculation-for-18-but-haryana-to-start-drive-from-may-1-980915.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Lack of Covid-19 care facilities for lawyers complete failure of state: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday said it was the complete failure of the state, as a group of lawyers, led by Bar Council of Delhi chairman Ramesh Gupta, sought help to find medical facilities for advocates afflicted with Covid-19. Senior advocate Gupta and another counsel broke down before the court, asking it to come to their rescue. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said they understood the pain which the lawyers were going through and termed the situation as a failure of the state. “We understand your pain. We are going through the same. This surge of Covid has such a huge number...nobody could have imagined that this will attack us in this way... Finances are not the issue here. The problem is infrastructure," the bench said. The bench pointed out "the problem is we don’t have doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines. It is a complete failure of the state." "It is getting tougher for us," the bench added. Gupta, representing the petition lawyer, submitted that a private hospital has agreed to give medical treatment to lawyers but it only has oxygen beds and not ICU beds and urged the court to attach them with a hospital which can provide them critical care in case of need. Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi also became emotional while informing the court about a lawyer friend’s demise due to Covid-19 and said “daily we are losing our dear ones”. During the hearing, the bench said the people to avoid black marketing of essential supplies. “It is a war, as a society and community, we cannot let people suffer because of other’s greed who are indulging in black marketing. This creates artificial scarcity. People in desperation have to buy oxygen cylinders and medicines in black. That money is of no use. We have to bring out best and not our worst at this time," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lack-of-covid-19-care-facilities-for-lawyers-complete-failure-of-state-delhi-hc-980919.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC expresses concern over Covid-19 deaths due to oxygen shortage, calls for need of gas plants in big hospitals||Expressing deep concern over the death of Covid-19 patients due to shortage of oxygen in hospitals and medical assistance, the Delhi High Court Friday observed that all big healthcare institutions should mandatorily have their own oxygen-generating plants and said the state has failed in protecting citizens' right to life. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said if these bigger hospitals had their own oxygen plants, there could have been something to fall back on. However, unfortunately they are completely dependent, it added. At that fag end of the over four-hour-long hearing, an advocate urged the court to request authorities to arrange for an ICU bed for his relative. He has been pleading in the hearing for last three days to arrange for the ICU bed, however, nothing could be done due to the grim situation. Moments later, he informed the bench that the patient is no more and said, "I have failed, my brother-in-law has expired so no more efforts are needed." To this, the judges said, "No, the state has failed. We all have failed. We have been informed that the patient has expired. We may record our complete helplessness in the situation. We can only say that the state has failed to protect the right to life of people guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution." Meanwhile, the court was informed that Max hospitals are setting up their four oxygen plants and would be ready in a week. It was informed that the Supreme Court has heard the matter relating to the pandemic situation due to sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, including the aspect of supplying medical oxygen to Delhi and the order would be uploaded Saturday morning. "We did not want to say that we are the capital but the Supreme Court is battling for us. The Supreme Court has said Delhi being the capital, you have to take care of it," it said. The court, which was informed that the apex court has asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take certain steps, said it will hear the aspect of oxygen on Monday while other issues will be taken up on Saturday. "We will go through the Supreme Court's order and if need arises, will hear the matter on Monday. If you (Centre) are doing something, it saves us from passing an order. Everyday people are dying. We are fed up of hearing this daily. SOS calls and messages are received daily. It is straining the whole city," it said. It was informed about a plant developed by the DRDO for production of oxygen which has been set up in Uttar Pradesh. Delhi government's counsel informed that a request will be made to the Centre to set up a similar plant in Delhi, which the bench said should be positively done by Saturday. It also sought response of Delhi government on a plea by a group of lawyers including Bar Council of Delhi chairman Ramesh Gupta seeking arrangement for treatment of lawyers contracting Covid-19. He submitted that they have identified a hotel for being converted as a Covid care facility and arranged for doctors and treatment but they need to be attached to a hospital for getting ICU beds. When the counsel urged the court to help them, the bench said, "We understand your pain. We are going through the same. This surge of Covid has such a huge number...nobody could have imagined that this will attack us in this way... Finances are not the issue here. The problem is infrastructure. "The problem is we don't have doctors, nurses, attendants, oxygen and medicines. It is a complete failure of the state," the bench said, adding that, "it's getting tougher for us." It has also asked the AAP government to take instructions on the submission that a hospital in the name of Indira Gandhi, which is under construction for last 8 years and is near completion, could be made operational soon and used as Covid facility. It said the numbers show that Covid-19 testing has drastically gone down and asked the state government to explain. Further, the issues relating to non supply of allocated oxygen cylinders by refiller units was raised on which the bench asked the Delhi government to sort it out and also suggested for creation of a WhatsApp group of refillers, hospitals and nodal officers to know the status of supplies. The bench also suspended its April 27 order to the extent that it had directed the Delhi government to take over operations of oxygen refiller 'Seth Air' and had asked the owner to assist the officials. The bench said the plant will be supervised by Delhi government officials as done with other refillers. Since a lot of hospitals were unable to get proper supplies due to this direction, the bench clarified it had only said that the plant will be run by Delhi government officers and the owner will assist them and it had not oustered him. The counsel for 'Seth Air' also raised the issue of running out of funds and that the allocation of oxygen made to him was much higher that its capacity and he was unable to supply it, which the court said the Delhi government has to sort out. Meanwhile, an official of an oxygen refiller unit told the court that they were regularly giving their accounts to the Delhi government and were doing their best. The court asked them to continue doing that and serve the society in these tough times. "It is not a battle, it is a war, as a society and community, we cannot let people suffer because of others' greed who are indulging in black marketing. This creates artificial scarcity. People in desperation have to buy oxygen cylinders and medicines in black. That money is of no use. We have to bring out best and not our worst at this time. This is not the time to indulge in black marketing, certainly not," the bench observed. The court also directed the authorities to take immediate steps for release of 170 oxygen concentrators, which were seized by the Delhi Police from the black market, as they are required for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-expresses-concern-over-covid-19-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-calls-for-need-of-gas-plants-in-big-hospitals-980940.html
30-04-2021||North and Central||Haryana government imposes weekend curfew in 9 districts as cases mount||To check the spiralling number of Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government on Friday announced that a lockdown will be imposed in nine districts of the state over the weekend. The weekend restrictions will begin from 10 pm on Friday and remain effective till 5 am on Monday, an official order stated. The districts where the weekend lockdown will be in force are Gurgaon, Faridabad, Panchkula, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said in a tweet. "The Covid-19 pandemic is again posing a threat to public health. The Haryana government has considered it necessary to take effective measures to prevent its spread in the state..," the order read. "There will be a weekend lockdown starting from 10 pm on April 30 (Friday) till 5 am on May 3 (Monday)," it said. The government urged the residents to stay indoors during the lockdown period. No person shall leave their home or move on foot, in a vehicle, or stand, or roam around in any public place during the lockdown period, the order said. Haryana had on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 97 coronavirus fatalities that took the death toll to 4,118, while 13,947 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 4,74,145, according to a health department bulletin. Gurgaon district, which has been the hardest-hit, saw a huge surge in cases with 5,042 infections on Thursday, its highest single-day tally, while 1,563 infections were reported from Faridabad. The huge surge in cases in the state has also put pressure on the health infrastructure, even as state authorities over the past few days have been trying to meet the increased demand of medical oxygen supplies and oxygen beds. Those exempted from the lockdown restrictions in the nine districts are people tasked with law and order, emergencies and municipal service duties and government machinery tasked with Covid-19 related duties. There shall be no curbs on those engaged in manufacturing of essential goods and movement of both essential and non-essential goods and people appearing for exams. All vehicles/persons in bonafide transit (interstate/intrastate) shall be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination, the order stated. Restaurants/eating places, hotels including food joints in various malls can remain open only for home delivery, as per the order. Passengers going to or returning from the airport, railway station or ISBT/bus stations shall be exempted, it said. Farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the field and movement of harvesting and sowing related machines like combined harvester and other agriculture/horticulture implements shall be allowed, the order further read. All marriage functions which have taken prior permission from the concerned district magistrates or officers authorised by them, shall be allowed subject to the limit of a maximum of 50 percent of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 30 persons in indoor spaces and 50 outdoors. Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all related medical establishments, including their manufacturing and distribution units, both in public and private sectors, such as dispensaries, chemists and pharmacies, nursing homes, ambulance services etc will continue to remain functional. The transportation for all medical personnel, nurses, paramedical staff, other hospital staff shall be permitted, it said. Commercial and private establishments exempted include telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services, IT and IT enabled services, delivery of all essential goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment etc through e-commerce, petrol pumps, power generation, transmission and distribution units and services, private security services. All industrial units/entrepreneurs shall mandatorily apply on 'Saralharyana' portal by providing necessary details in order to generate requisite passes for the employees/staff, the order said. Enforcing authorities have been asked to take note that the restrictions fundamentally relate to movement of people, but not that of essential goods, it said. The government said action as per law will be taken against those violating the lockdown measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-imposes-weekend-curfew-in-9-districts-as-cases-mount-980975.html
30-04-2021||Oasis||The fault-finder||One of the easiest things in the world is to become a fault- finder. In fact, almost every one of us falls into this category. Consider any get-together. The talk at informal gatherings first consists of mundane, everyday happenings. Then suddenly it turns to unsavoury events and the excitement builds up. Everyone has something to say. We are critical of the world, of politics and of people who see differently from the way we do. The conversation is peppered with those who look different, think different and act different. It includes the school the children go to, the teachers, people who do well in life and those who don’t. The tendency to point out flaws is a universal one and we feel self-righteous indulging in it. The point though is whether this exercise makes better people of us. Not all criticism is undeserved and fault-finding is certainly one way of bringing in improvement. However, to make a habit of it is both self-defeating and harmful. First of all, fault-finding can quickly turn into a pernicious habit. No human being is perfect and so there are plenty of occasions when we can carp and criticize. Doing this too often though makes the mind dwell on the unpleasant side of life and soon that is all one sees. The individual becomes unable to see the brighter side of things and turns cantankerous and unapproachable. A dour person such as this lacks a sense of humour. His inability to see the lighter side of events will drive people away from him. The ensuing loneliness will only fuel his unpleasant outlook and strengthen it. The inevitable result is that others avoid him as they would rather do without his company. According to one study, we have anywhere from 12,000 to 60,000 thoughts per day but often 98% of them are negative ones. These can deplete the body by giving rise to chemicals that weaken it. We can however consciously reverse this trend by adopting a less critical attitude. It lies in overlooking minor imperfections and small mistakes. We learn more about others and become more open-minded and tolerant. Our relationships get better when we let go. This is easy when we remind ourselves of the wise saying, ‘To belittle is to be little’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-fault-finder-980649.html
30-04-2021||Panorama||Gender policy needs a major shake-up to bridge India's growing gap||In the last few years, India’s ranking in socio-economic and environmental indicators among world nations has dropped by several notches, the recent one being the Global Gender Gap Report, 2021, by the World Economic Forum. India is ranked 140th out of 156 countries, and plummeted 28 spots as per the four key benchmark indicators used: Economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment, to study the gender gaps over time. The rankings of our neighbours -- Bangladesh (65), Nepal (106), China (107) and Sri Lanka (116) -- show an improved status of women in those countries. The growing gender disparity in India is not shocking; the country has a chequered history of gender prejudice and its perpetuation. One more reason to blame for the growing disparity is the Covid-19. Of course, women are the hardest hit by the lockdown of the informal sector. But pointing the finger at the pandemic is mere escapism from the reality of historical injustice meted out to the women in India. India’s polity and economy will never become equitable to achieve gender parity in politics and workforce. An improvement in social sectors like health and education among women is still a distant dream in rural India. The country lives in the ethos of ancient history of denying basic rights to women. Being a democracy with equality of opportunity in both politics and economy, India has so far closed 62.5% of its gender gap. Iceland leads the pack with 89.2%, whereas the global average gender parity is about 68%, and it requires 135.6 years to close the gender gap worldwide. The highest gender gap is found in the political empowerment of women -- the world average of women representation in parliament and among ministers is 26.1% and 22.6%, respectively. Evidently, political empowerment of women or leadership role of women in politics is highly dismal in India. Their representation in Parliament is 14.4% and their share among ministers is 9.1%, which is depressingly below the world average. The second-highest gender gap is witnessed in economic participation and opportunity. So far, 58% of the gap has been closed and it will take a considerable 267.6 years to bridge the entire gap. The rate of women’s labour force participation has fallen from 24.8% to 22.3% and their earned income is only one-fifth of men’s. The fall in India’s rankings is also due to the poor labour participation rate; India stands at 151 among the 156 countries in economic opportunity and participation. Research studies have also found that despite higher educational attainment of women in recent years, their labour force participation is low. Wage inequality is also high among men and women. India’s ranking in educational attainment indicator is 114. And in the case of health and survival indicators, shockingly, China is ranked 156 and India 155. This is due to the fact that one-third of women are illiterate (34.2%) compared to their male counterparts (17.6%). Gender policy The gender approach policy needs a drastic change to brush off the dust of obscurity in the economic contribution of women towards nation’s development. The fundamental problem lies in the failure of the government's approach in accounting for women's contribution. The Human Development Report, 1995, observes that "men received the lion’s share of income and recognition for their economic contribution while most women’s work remains unpaid, unrecognised and undervalued." The contribution of women to household production and economy is immense, besides market economy. The total economic value added to the GDP by household production is not appropriately accounted to recognise the contribution of women. The economic activities of women in household production in food security and family welfare -- in terms of hours spent grocery shopping, cooking, laundry, ironing, caring for kids and elders -- are equally labour force participation. In the poor households of rural India, women work more hours than men in fetching water and fuelwood, cattle-rearing and farm activities. Women, whether employed or not, continue to do household economic activities as visualised in the Malayalam movie 'The Great Indian Kitchen'. This shows that women’s work in household and subsistence agriculture is not accounted for. The measurement of household economy -- women’s unpaid work, gender division of labour, and the care economy -- aptly recognises the contribution of women in economic development. The hours of work done outside the money economy is equivalent to 50% of the GDP of India and it is the driving force of the market economy. Gender disparity and discrimination against women is highly prevalent in the Indian society. A majority of women in India do not enjoy equality in economic participation employment, access to land and financial resources. A gender policy approach is required for the economic empowerment of women, which is key to achieving gender equality. Economic empowerment of women helps in a fairer distribution of benefits of growth, especially the share of income, employment and economic resources. Reducing gender inequality requires a more accurate measurement of women's contribution in economic development in the System of National Accounts. Affirmative actions like early enactment of reservation in Parliament and state assemblies ensure political empowerment of women and in building human capabilities and realising gender equality. Both economic and political empowerment of women goes a long way in bridging the gender gap and improving India’s ranking. (The writer is professor, Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gender-policy-needs-a-major-shake-up-to-bridge-indias-growing-gap-980647.html
30-04-2021||Panorama||Safe water prevents diseases||While we all should aim to save water, an important source of life, we must also focus on improving water supplies and hygiene. Worldwide, 2.2 billion people lack access to safely managed drinking water, and 4.2 billion people lack safe sanitation. Unsafe hygiene practices are widespread, compounding the effects on people’s health. The impact on child mortality rates is devastating with more than 2,97,000 children under five who die annually from diarrhoeal diseases due to poor sanitation, poor hygiene, or unsafe drinking water. In India, the problem of unsafe water is a huge public health concern. Apart from causing illnesses such as diarrhoea, jaundice etc, unsafe water also contributes to Hepatitis A amd E. Both these diseases are associated with inadequate and unsafe water supplies, poor sanitation and hygiene, leading to infection and inflammation of the liver. What is Hepatitis A and E?  Hepatitis A and E viruses are RNA virus which primarily infect the liver, causing inflammation of the liver (Acute Hepatitis). Infection with Hepatitis A & E is usually self-limiting. Hepatitis A or E is spread primarily through food or water contaminated by feces from an infected person (Feco-oral route). It enters the liver from our gut and is then excreted again by our gut into stool, thus completing the cycle of infection Who is at risk for Hepatitis A or E?  Not everyone who’s infected will show symptoms of the disease, as it may go unnoticed (asymptomatic disease). However, these people can spread the virus by excreting it in their stool and continue to infect others (carriers).  Asymptomatic disease  As a developing nation with poor sanitation conditions, more than 95% of children below five years of age are usually infected with these viruses, with an asymptomatic course. Thus, in India, antibody to Hepatitis A virus is nearly universally detectable by adolescence, and antibody to HEV increases during young adulthood to reach about 40% in adults Hepatitis A usually spreads person-to-person through food or water contamination. An infected person’s hands can become the source of infection after using the bathroom and the virus then spreads by direct contact or by food, beverages or other objects that were handled by the infected person. An infected individual can transmit the virus to others as early as two weeks before the symptoms begin to appear International travellers to India, children from high-income families are at risk of developing Hepatitis A or E infection because they do not eat much from the streets and so have not developed the required antibodies resulting in fever, stomach-ache and jaundice Symptoms: - Fever - Tiredness - Stomach upset - Loss of appetite - Dark yellow urine - Diarrhoea - Yellowish eye & skin called jaundice Unlike Hepatitis B & C, Hepatitis A does not cause Chronic Liver Disease and is rarely fatal. But it can cause debilitating symptoms and Fulminant Hepatitis (Acute Liver Failure), which is often fatal. Fulminant Hepatic Failure leading to death is seen in 1.8 % of adults, and 10% in pregnant ladies. Most people with Hepatitis E get better within a few months. Usually, it doesn’t lead to long-term illness or liver damage like some other forms of Hepatitis do. But Hepatitis E can be dangerous for pregnant women or anyone with weak immune systems, including the elderly or people who are ill.  The best approach is to take all precautions to avoid Hepatitis and ensure safe drinking water for all. Make certain that your water source is clean and well maintained. Apart from this, follow this: Hand sanitation: Frequent handwashes before meals and after using the washroom Avoid eating outside, especially if you are pregnant Hepatitis A vaccine: Vaccinate your children who are below 6yrs (consult a Paediatrician about this) If you identify any of the above symptoms, kindly meet your gastroenterologist, as timely treatment and care to resolve the infection with expected full recovery. (The writer is Consultant, Gastroenterology, at a network of hospitals in Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/safe-water-prevents-diseases-980648.html
30-04-2021||Right in the Middle||Practice before you preach||In the ’70s, Bangalore was not as big as of now. As villages were swallowed up by urbanisation, villagers had to desert agricultural activities. To eke out their living, many of them had joined industries as helpers. Some women choose to work as domestic help. They looked after the routine household chores of the rich and solvent people, from lighting the kitchen fire, sweeping the rooms, clean the floors, scrubbing utensils and the list goes on, on and on!  As the city grew, maids were in full demand. We were forced to search for a new maid, as our maid, who was working for us for a decade, quit her job because of age-related ailments. My mother started enquiring with other maids if they were interested in working in our house. Whenever such enquiries were made, the immediate counter-question from the maidservants would be-- are you a localite or a Gujarati? The locality had a sizeable amount of people from Gujurat as the city started to grow. Fed up by this counter-question, once I asked a maidservant why she asks such a question. She replied, Anna we prefer to work in a Gujarati's house rather than in a localite's house as Gujarati’s cook only four or five days a week and the rest of the days, they eat outside. Unlike localites, Gujaratis have LPG cylinders, and hence scrubbing the utensils was easier as utensils were not anointed with stubborn soot. If they cook, they cook chapattis, rice with two or three subjis and are generous in giving the left out to us.  Whereas, in ‘70s the majority of the localites used firewood for cooking. Scrubbing utensils with firewood ash, to remove the anointed stubborn soot was arduous. Even if rice is left out, the localites would not give it to them as they reuse it by preparing chitranna or mosaranna the next day. Gujaratis during Dasara and Deepavali festival, give gifts. Unlike localites, Gujaratis also had a washing machine. Whereas, in a localites house, the clothes have to be manually washed. Gujarat's discard the clothes after a few washes and gave the discarded clothes to them. Localites preserve clothes and use them to purchase steel utensils. After hearing this, I advised her, Amma whatever it may be, being a localite, you should prefer a localite’s house.  Immediately she asked me, “Anna, if you were in my position, which house you would have preferred?” My inner conscience said that out of the above binary options, I would have opted for Gujaratis house. I said to myself, if I do not practice what I preach, I am nothing more than a hypocrite.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/practice-before-you-preach-980646.html
30-04-2021||Second Edit||Maharashtra hospital fire: Plug loopholes||Fire tragedies are always heart-rending. They are all the more so when they happen at a hospital as patients are often not in a condition to even attempt to escape the blaze. In the early hours of Wednesday, a fire broke out in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital in Mumbra near Mumbai. Four patients lost their lives. Maharashtra, which is the epicentre of India’s Covid-19 pandemic, has suffered several fire tragedies this year. Just a few days before the Mumbra tragedy, a blaze at a Covid-19 hospital in Maharashtra’s Palghar district claimed the lives of 15 patients. In March, a Covid-designated hospital in a Mumbai mall went up in flames, leaving nine people dead. Some of them were on ventilator support. The most heartbreaking of the fire-tragedies in Maharashtra this year was the one at the Bhandara district hospital in January. Ten infants, some of them just a few hours old, died in a fire that swept through the hospital’s Sick Newborn Care Unit. Other states have suffered hospital fire tragedies too. In August last year, a fire broke out at a private hospital in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, killing 10 Covid-19 patients.  Preliminary investigations reveal that the fire at the Mumbra hospital was triggered by a short circuit. A detailed probe must look into why the short circuit happened. Did the builder use cheap material to cut costs? Were fire safety regulations been put in place? Did hospital authorities secure the required licenses? Did civic authorities issue the no-objection certificate after an inspection of the site? Hospitals are particularly vulnerable to fires as they store oxygen. Oxygen is also piped into rooms and ICUs. So, a spark from a short circuit is enough to set off a conflagration. Covid-related chaos at hospitals could have contributed to some of the fire tragedies in hospitals in recent months. Staff are overworked, regular maintenance of equipment and wiring is not being done and so on. However, these are the superficial reasons for the fire tragedies. Underlying are more serious issues that need to be addressed now, even if we are overwhelmed by the pandemic.  Many hotels, entertainment halls and other facilities are being converted into hospitals because of the pandemic. The hospital at Vijayawada, for instance, was a hotel previously and was converted after the outbreak of the pandemic. Are these facilities that have turned into hospitals almost overnight built and fitted to function as hospitals? We need to be more careful in our choice of buildings to turn into hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/maharashtra-hospital-fire-plug-loopholes-980642.html
30-04-2021||South||Kerala imposes Covid-19 curbs till May 9||Kerala has imposed strict curbs in addition to weekend lockdown as Covid-19 cases surge across the state. The curbs will be in effect from Tuesday, May 4 to Sunday, May 9. Guidelines on the curbs will be issued soon and Disaster Management Act will be invoked, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Strict restrictions as on weekends will be in force from Tuesday to Sunday (4 - 9 May). Proper guidelines will be issued. Disaster Management Act will be invoked as essential. Seamless transportation of O2, medicines & medical equipment will be ensured. He also promised seamless transportation of oxygen, medicines and health equipment. Urging Keralites to impose a "self lockdown" Vijayan said that they are not imposing an official lockdown trusting its people's civic responsibilities as the pandemic rages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imposes-covid-19-curbs-till-may-9-980761.html
30-04-2021||South||Covid vaccination drive for 18-44 years of age unlikely to start on May 1 in Tamil Nadu||Vaccination drive for those belonging to 18-44 years of age is unlikely to start on May 1 as planned in Tamil Nadu with the government saying they have no information from the vaccine manufacturers on when they would receive the doses. However, the drive for vaccinating those above the age of 45 will continue as the state has received enough doses for now. In Chennai, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G Prakash said those in the age group of 18 to 44 will be not vaccinated on May 1 as per announcement from Centre. Tamil Nadu has placed orders for procuring 1.5 crore doses of Covaxin and Covishield from Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India for vaccinating its young population. “We cannot say whether we can launch the vaccination drive for those between 18 to 44 years of age on Saturday. We are yet to get a response from manufacturers on when we would get the supplies. Till this moment, there is no clarity on the date of delivery (of first consignment),” Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said. But he made it clear that the vaccination drive for those above the age of 45 will continue with the state receiving 68 lakh doses so far. “We have used around 57 lakh doses and we will continue with vaccinating the older population with the doses we have. We have requested additional doses from Centre,” he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had last week written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to ensure the supply of 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccines “well in advance” to ensure that the vaccination drive does not get affected. “With the vaccination gaining pace, I would request that an assured supply of at least ten days consumption of vaccine, of about 20 lakh doses, may be supplied well in advance to ensure that vaccination drive in the individual sites are not affected and persons coming for second dose are assured of vaccination on the date and in the site they report,” Palaniswami had told Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-vaccination-drive-for-18-44-years-of-age-unlikely-to-start-on-may-1-in-tamil-nadu-980779.html
30-04-2021||South||Not 'woke' on same-sex relationships: Madras HC judge books ‘psycho-education’ session ahead of ruling||A Madras High Court judge has decided to "subject" himself to psycho-education regarding the same-sex relationship, saying such a move will help him better understand the concept and write an order where the "words will fall from my heart." In his recent order, Justice N Anand Venkatesh, hearing a petition from a same-sex couple seeking guidelines in cases of such nature, said "I want to give myself some more time to churn." "Ultimately in this case, the words must come from my heart and not from my head, and the same will not be possible if I am not fully "woke" on this aspect." "For this purpose, I want to subject myself for psycho-education with Ms Vidhya Dinakaran (Counselling Psychologist) and I would request the psychologist to fix a convenient appointment for the same," he said. The judge added he honestly felt that such a session with a professional will help him understand same-sex relationships better and "pave way for my evolution." "If I write an order after undergoing psychoeducation, I trust that the words will fall from my heart," the judge said. He posted the case for further hearing on June 7. The case pertains to a petition from two women, in a live-in relationship, seeking protection for their living together without any disturbance from their respective parents. The judge had earlier asked the parents to undergo counselling by a specialist in the field, to face the matter wisely. Incidentally, before passing the interim order last month, the judge had then said he personally spent time in doing some research and collected materials to arrive at a proper understanding of this issue. It would have been possible for him to pack his order with a lot of research material and get applauded by the outside world for rendering a scholarly order. "But, there was a call from inside which kept reminding me that if I venture into such an exercise at this stage, it will only be hypocritical of me since the order will not reveal my true and honest feeling about this very important issue." "To be open, I am also trying to break my own preconceived notions about this issue and I am in the process of evolving and sincerely attempting to understand the feelings of the petitioners and their parents, thereafter proceed to write a detailed order on this issue," the judge had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-woke-on-same-sex-relationships-madras-hc-judge-books-psycho-education-session-ahead-of-ruling-980832.html
30-04-2021||South||TN constitutes monitoring committee to oversee oxygen production at Sterlite Copper plant||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday constituted a seven-member monitoring committee headed by the district collector to “oversee proper functioning” of the oxygen plants at the Sterlite Copper smelter in Thoothukudi in compliance with an order of the Supreme Court. The committee headed by K Senthil Raj, currently the Thoothukudi collector, will have the Superintendent of Police, Sub-collector, district environmental engineer of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Deputy Chief Chemist of the Thoothukudi Thermal Power Station, and two environmental experts to be suggested by locals. The order comes four days after Supreme Court allowed the reopening of two oxygen plants inside the Sterlite Copper factory, closed since mid-March 2018, for a limited period for producing oxygen to meet the growing needs in view of the Covid-19 second wave. The order came after the Tamil Nadu government held an all-party meeting on April 26 in which it was resolved to allow operation of the oxygen plants after Sterlite Copper promised to generate 1,000 tonnes of oxygen a day for four months. The order issued by Sandeep Saxena, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Environment and Forests, Tamil Nadu government, said the oxygen plant will be run by Vedanta Industries Limited as per directions to be issued by the monitoring committee and in compliance with environmental and safety norms. Saxena said the committee will oversee the proper functioning of the oxygen plant in compliance with court directions, and decide on the number of persons to be permitted within the premises of the plant for the purpose only of managing and conducting the oxygen production facility. The committee will also engage with the residents of the area so as to redress any legitimate concerns in regard to the nature or modalities for operating the oxygen plant on a stand-alone basis. The committee will also conduct a safety audit before the commencement of operations and issue suitable directions to ensure the safety of operations. The Additional CS also asked the district collector to send a fortnightly report in this regard to the government. However, the government's order has not gone down well with the locals and activists who want the state government to run the plant instead of handing it over to Vedanta. Families of 13 persons who were killed in the police firing on May 22, 2018 had met the district collector on Thursday asking him not to allow Sterlite Copper access to the plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-constitutes-monitoring-committee-to-oversee-oxygen-production-at-sterlite-copper-plant-980882.html
30-04-2021||South||Police offer appreciation certificates and gifts for weddings following Covid-19 protocol in Kerala||As a police team led by an IPS officer entered the marriage venue of Linto and Kavya at Vadakara in the suburbs of Kozhikode in Kerala the other day, many may have feared that their wedding might be disrupted the way a Tripura policeman did. But the team led by Kozhikode rural district police chief Dr A Srinivas handed over a certificate of appreciation and a token gift to the couple for conducting the wedding by strictly adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. While the action of an IAS officer disrupting a wedding function in Tripura for not following Covid-19 norms has been widely condemned, at Kozhikode the police are giving certificates of appreciation and token gifts to newly-wed couples provided the marriages are conducted by strictly following Covid-19 protocol. Srinivas introduced the novel scheme on Wednesday and already presented certificates of appreciation and token gifts to around 15 couples. The medical graduate turned IPS officer told DH that it was indeed the viral video footage of the Tripura incident that prompted him to initiate a 'civilsed' form of implementing the Covid-19 protocol. "Restrictions over Covid is likely to be there for some more time and hence people's cooperation is very essential for maintaining self restrictions. Enforcing the restrictions in uncivilised or anti-people manner would only trigger resentment. Hence the scheme of giving certificates of appreciation was initiated," he said. Srinivas directed the police officials to give wide publicity through social media and other means to the note of appreciation being given to couples so as to motivate others too. At present, the maximum number of people allowed for marriages in Kerala is 50. But there have been widespread allegations of the norms being flouted. On Thursday alone, 21,630 persons were booked in the state for not wearing a mask and 10,695 were booked for flouting social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/police-offer-appreciation-certificates-and-gifts-for-weddings-following-covid-19-protocol-in-kerala-980889.html
30-04-2021||South||Amid Covid-19 surge, AP high court asks Jagan government to reconsider holding exams||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday asked the Jaganmohan Reddy government to reconsider its decision to go ahead with 10th and intermediate examinations amid the second wave of Covid-19. The court was, on Friday, reviewing the various petitions seeking the cancellation of the school end examinations because of the severity of the virus case spread in the state. Andhra Pradesh reported a record high 17,354 new positive cases on Friday, taking the total active cases in the state to over 1.2 lakh. Even as the CBSE and other school education boards like that of neighboring Telangana have already decided to cancel 10th and postpone intermediate second year exams, the YSRCP government stated that it would go ahead with the exam schedule announced earlier. While the intermediate (+2) would begin from 5 May, 10th exams are planned to be held from 7 to 14 June. The high court has reportedly expressed concern that exams would require the participation of about 30 lakh students and teachers. It also sought to know how the government proposes to hold the exams for Covid-19 positive students. The court has asked for an affidavit from the government on the matter, while posting the case to 3 May. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has restated his government's resolve to conduct the tenth and intermediate exams “for the benefit of students.” “States not conducting exams are only giving pass marks to the students. How can our students get admission in good colleges with such marks? What about their 50 year future with such marks?” the CM stated during a review on a government school infrastructure improvement programme on Friday. Reddy said that the centre has left the exams decision to the states and that Kerala has completed the 10th exams on Thursday. “Canceling exams is a very easy decision to take, while holding them, taking all Covid-19 precautions is a challenging task,” the CM said while asking the officials to spread the message in the public on why the state is conducting the exams. Reddy has also sought the support of teachers. Opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu has severely criticised Reddy's approach, remarking that “students can have a good education and career, only if they are healthy and alive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-covid-19-surge-ap-high-court-asks-jagan-government-to-reconsider-holding-exams-980888.html
30-04-2021||South||TN sets up Unified Command Centre to manage bed, oxygen requirements for Covid-19 patients||With the state continuing to report record number of fresh infections, the Tamil Nadu government has set-up a Covid-19 Unified Command Centre (UCC) that will serve as the nodal centre for managing bed availability, especially for critically ill patients, and oxygen cylinder requirements in private hospitals. The UCC has been set up at the office of National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, in Teynampet on the arterial Anna Salai. Health Department officials said the requests that reach the UCC will be attended to in coordination with the existing 104 Health helpline. Besides, the UCC will also monitor the bed management portal to understand the dynamic vacancy status and support the general public who are in need of appropriate Covid beds with oxygen and ICU facilities. “The UCC will further be monitoring both government and private health care hospitals, especially in Chennai Corporation. The UCC will also provide support in increasing the bed capacity for Covid 19 patients and ensuring the availability of oxygen in both the Govt. and private hospitals,” a statement said. The government also launched a new Twitter handle @104_GoTN to support people in dire need of beds. “The sole purpose of this Twitter account will be used to offer a platform where individuals can directly request beds and gain assistance. All requests will be handled via the UCC. To maximise reach and filter messages easily, the hashtag #BedsForTN will be introduced. The general public and hospitals are requested to utilise this tool for support concerning bed availability,” the statement added. The state, which has readied nearly 50,000 beds at government, private hospitals, and Covid Care Centres, has been adding more than 15,000 fresh cases a day for the past few days. “The government has enough beds and oxygen supply for now. These efforts are just to reduce the hassles of people while scouting for beds to admit their friends or relatives,” a senior official told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-sets-up-unified-command-centre-to-manage-bed-oxygen-requirements-for-covid-19-patients-980892.html
30-04-2021||South||Kerala's active Covid-19 cases crosses three lakh-mark||As Covid active cases in Kerala crossed the three lakh mark on Friday, the state government has decided to reserve 50 per cent beds in all hospitals for Covid treatment. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that stringent lockdown model measures would be required in some districts if the present situation continued. Already, strict restrictions have been imposed in the state on weekends and next week, with only essential services being allowed. As many as 37,199 fresh positive cases were reported on Friday, taking the total active cases to 3.03 lakh. The Chief minister said that steps to ensure and streamline oxygen supply were also being initiated. The state government reduced the rates for RT-PCR tests by private sector to Rs 500 form Rs 1,700. There was widespread criticism that the test cost in Kerala was high. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court directed that no sorts of gathering related to the counting of votes of the the Assembly elections should be allowed. Health Minister K K Shailaja informed that two health workers who died while fighting Covid were give an insurance compensation of Rs 50 lakh each under the PMGKP scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-active-covid-19-cases-crosses-three-lakh-mark-980893.html
30-04-2021||South||Kerala mulls lockdown in districts with severe Covid-19 spread as state logs over 37,000 new cases||With Kerala recording 37,199 Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing the total caseload to 15.71 lakh and active cases to over three lakh, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government may have to consider imposing complete lockdown in districts reporting high cases. "In districts where severe spread of the infection is reported, we may have to think of imposing a complete lockdown," he told reporters here. However, a decision has not yet been taken on which districts would be imposed, he said. As many as 17,500 people have been cured of the virus, taking the total recoveries so far to 12,61,901. Presently, 3,03,733 people are undergoing treatment for the infection in various districts and the total cases have touched 15,71,183, Vijayan said. Three districts logged over 4,000 cases - Kozhikode (4915), Ernakulam (4642), Thrissur (4281), while Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram accounted for over 3000 cases each. In the last 24 hours ending 2 pm, 1,49,487 samples were tested, taking the total to 1,57,99,524. The Test Positivity Rate stood at 24.88 per cent. The toll has mounted to 5,308 with 49 deaths. Of the positive cases, 113 are health workers, 330 came from outside Kerala and 34,587 were infected through contact. Vijayan said the weekend restrictions would continue on Saturdays and Sundays and more stringent curbs would come into force from May 4 to May 9. With the state assembly election results to be out on May 2, victory celebrations would not be held, he said. The government has also decided that 50 per cent of beds available in government, private, cooperative. and ESI hospitals would be set apart exclusively to treat Covid patients. To contain the spread of the virus, all activities other than those related to counting arrangements, essentialand emergency services are prohibited on May 1 and May 2, a Government Order stated. All state and central government offices and their autonomous bodies, corporations dealing with emergency and essential services, including those relating to Covid-19 management duties, can function. Other departments should work with only essential staff. Movement of Medical Oxygen should be facilitated by all agencies, it said. Employees and vehicles of Telecom Service providers, Infrastructure Providers, Petronet and LPG units are essential services and would be allowed movement on producing valid ID cards issued by their respective institutions, the order said. Even as the state government is working to enhance the capacity to generate Liquid MedicalOxygen in the state, it has requested ISRO to provide 10 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen per week to Kerala from its Propulsion Complex at Mahendragiri from the first week of May to urgently augment the existing capacity. Only neighbourhood shops dealing with medicines, newspapers, food, groceries, and milk booths would be allowed to function till 9 pm, and only parcels and takeaways would be allowed in restaurants, the order stated. Fifty people will be allowed to attend marriage functions and 20 for funerals, it said, adding that movement of long-distance bus services, trains, and air travel will be permitted. Migrant workers will continue to work wherever they are following Covid protocol. Movement of house helps and caregivers for old age people will be permitted. In the last 24 hours, cases were registered against 21,628 people for not wearing masks and 10,695 were booked for not maintaining social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mulls-lockdown-in-districts-with-severe-covid-19-spread-as-state-logs-over-37000-new-cases-980961.html
30-04-2021||State||With bee diversity eroding, old virus haunts Karnataka honey harvesters||The erosion of honey bee diversity is laying waste beekeeping in eight districts of the state as the insects are becoming vulnerable to the Thai Sac-Brood virus. Nagendra Sagar, an expert in apiculture, said for farmers engaged in beekeeping, the joy of the arrival of spring is soon overtaken by dread as bee colonies are reduced to rotting piles of larvae thanks to a viral disease which spreads like wildfire. The virus, believed to have come from Thailand, has been studied in parts of the state from as far back as 1992. However, experts feel that as beekeeping turned from a hobby to a thriving business following government aid programmes, the desire to raise more colonies has sidelined natural diversity. Limited supply within Karnataka and cheaper prices in Kerala and Tamil Nadu mean farmers bring bees of the same colonies. K T Vijaykumar, heading the All India Coordinated Research Project on Honeybees and Pollinators at University of Agriculture Sciences in Bengaluru, said the disease has ravaged the bee colonies in Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan, Kodagu, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and even parts of Dharwad. “We are trying several solutions. However, diversity of honey bees is important to keep the virus at bay. Colonies should be developed locally with best local strains of bees, especially in the Western Ghats and coastal districts, where the disease is ravaging through colonies,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/with-bee-diversity-eroding-old-virus-haunts-karnataka-honey-harvesters-980627.html
30-04-2021||State||False start likely for Covid-19 vaccination drive on May 1 in Karnataka||Those between 18 and 45 years of age, for whom the vaccination drive begins from May 1, may have to wait longer as private hospitals have expressed doubts about offering vaccines and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said they will be given based on the availability. While the Ramaiah group of hospitals with 600 of its 1,000 beds catering to Covid patients, placed an order for one lakh Covishield vaccine doses, the supplier, Serum Institute of India (SII), apparently replied that they will “consider” the hospital’s request. Shalini Pradeep, Covid-19 nodal officer in MS Ramaiah hospital said, “Our strategy and planning team wrote to SII, but the company only said our request will be considered. The BBMP said the cost of vaccine doses is under consideration. They said they will get back after two days but did not.” The chief minister said vaccination will be carried out in stages amid complaints that though people had registered for vaccinations from May 1, they were yet to be allotted slots at vaccination centres due to a shortage of vaccines. Another large private hospital chain which refused to go on record, said the government is still working with manufacturers on price and quantity, and that they are not giving them any certainty on supply dates. However, Dr Sudarshan, Reproductive and Child Health Officer, BBMP, who is in charge of vaccination said, “Private hospitals have to procure vaccines on their own. We have no role to play.” Fortis Hospital group in an email said, “We are yet to receive an update from BBMP. As soon as we get adequate stock and are in a position to cover a reasonable number of candidates, we will start the vaccination drive.” Dr Chaitanya Pathania, general manager, Columbia Asia Hospital, Whitefield, said, “We are in touch with manufacturers to ensure we get the vaccines as soon as possible.” “All Sparsh hospitals will provide vaccination to patients. If the government doesn’t supply, we will procure it directly from the market,” said Guruprasad BR, director, Strategy, Sparsh Hospital. He did not, however, respond to queries on orders placed with SII or Bharat Biotech and if vaccination will be rolled out on Saturday. Apollo, Manipal and Aster groups of hospitals did not respond to DH’s queries. Dr Reshma Sunil, unit head, ‎Bhagwan Mahaveer Jain Hospital Group, said, “We are out of stock completely and don’t have a single vaccine vial. We were told that the BBMP will give a vendor list from both the vaccine companies for us to place orders with.” However, BBMP officials denied any such initiative being undertaken from their end. Pharmaceutical companies are enhancing their production capacity. A third vaccine is also being introduced. “Under these circumstances, vaccination drive will continue based on the availability of the vaccine,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. With just a day left for the launch of the fourth phase of vaccination, Yediyurappa said that around 5.9 lakh doses of vaccines were available in the state. “So far, the Government of India has supplied 99.4 lakh doses of vaccine to the state, and 93.50 lakh doses were administered,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/false-start-likely-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-on-may-1-in-karnataka-980628.html
30-04-2021||State||Project Ichor to connect patients in need of plasma with donors||Sociio, an initiative under Innovation Centre, MAHE (Manipal Academy of Higher Education), which aims at connecting people socially, has come out with Project Ichor, an initiative that connects potential donors with compatible patients who need convalescent plasma in the nearby locality. The initiative is aimed at helping to bridge the gap between the donors and the patients, said students. Sociio Ichor is an initiative by Manipal Institute of Technology students Manorath Khanna, Pratik Shewkani, Mohammed Dilshaad Uzair, Amulya Kollipara, Abhishek Gupta, and Arushi Agrawal.  “We have designed a website that checks the donor's eligibility for plasma donation. If all eligibility criteria are fulfilled, then the donor's contact and local details are asked. Similarly, a form gets contact details from patients who need plasma,” said Mohammed Dilshaad Uzair, one of the member. “Once this is done the patient is matched with a donor with a compatible blood group in the same or neighbouring city. The matching is done by an algorithm and presently we share the contact details manually. We are working to automate the entire process,” he added. “With our limited resources and time, we were able to connect around 60 patients with donors in Delhi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, West Bengal and Mumbai,” said students proudly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/project-ichor-to-connect-patients-in-need-of-plasma-with-donors-980808.html
30-04-2021||State||Covid-19: Drone-based sanitising now in Bengaluru||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday flagged off drone-based sanitisation of public places in Bengaluru.  Chennai-based startup Garuda Aerospace will operate these drones to sanitise Gandhinagar, Chamrajpet, Shivajinagar, Shanthinagar, CV, Ramanagar, Sarvagna Nagar, Mahadevapura and Rajajinagar. The company had earlier deployed drones to sanitise other Indian cities and also to aid the NDRF in flood relief and rescue operations.  It was Bangalore Central MP PC Mohan who reached out to the startup.  “For the first time in India, drone delivery of Covid vaccines will undergo feasibility analysis and field trials in Karnataka,” Mohan said, according to a release. The trials will be monitored by the health department and the Covid-19 task force.  The startup has developed a highly-specialized drone - The White Knight - that will be used for vaccine delivery trials. This drone can carry 35-40 kg of payload. “The White Knight drone has been in the R&D phase for the last two years to execute aerial delivery of emergency medicines, food and packages. Trials were conducted during the lockdown last year in Tamil Nadu and real-time implementation of the drones delivering Covid-19 vaccines looks promising,” the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-drone-based-sanitising-now-in-bengaluru-980913.html
30-04-2021||State||Covid protocol: Karnataka bypoll vote counting to take longer||The counting of votes polled in the by-elections of Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski, and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies is expected to take double the time due to Covid-19 protocols. The vote counting process will be held on Sunday, May 2, amid the lockdown. The counting of votes is likely to take "double the usual time" because of the Covid-19 protocols, according to Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar. The process will be completed by 4 pm on Sunday all the same, he added. "We will ensure that the counting process will be split into two sessions. After the first session, the entire place will be sanitised and a different set of staff will arrive to take over the next session. This way, the commission wants to ensure that the officials have minimal exposure outside," he said. According to a press release, candidates and agents are required to carry a Covid negative certificate before entering the vote counting centres. Also, not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate, the release stated.  The counting of votes will be done in a total of 23 halls for all the three constituencies put together. There will be one supervisor, one assistant, one micro observer, one EVM and VVPAT carrying assistant per table, and two tabulating staff per hall. Each hall will have four counting tables for Maski and Basavakalyan bypolls, while there will be two tables per hall for the Belagavi parliamentary polls. The total voters registered for Belgaum polls were 18,13,567, that for Basavakalyan were 2,39,782 and Maski had 2,06,429. Belgaum saw a voter turnout of 56.02%, Basavakalyan 61.58% and Maski 70.46%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-protocol-karnataka-bypoll-vote-counting-to-take-longer-980930.html
30-04-2021||State||Less than 10% of cess used for building workers' welfare: Study||Less than 10% of the funds collected as construction workers’ welfare cess has been made use of for the welfare of the community until now, a study conducted for the state government by city-based Public Affairs Centre (PAC) has found.  According to the recently published study, between 2009 and 2019, an amount of Rs 356.24 crore was collected as construction welfare cess. Of this, only 6.25% money has been spent.  The study, ‘Welfare Impact of Usage of Construction Workers Welfare Board Cess in Karnataka’, looked into all the 30 districts of the state for secondary data analysis, while focusing on ten districts as sample for primary survey.  It found that construction workers were finding it difficult to register themselves with the department owing to cumbersome processes. While many found it difficult to complete the process without support from others, some said they did not have adequate information about the process. Several workers could not renew their membership as they had problems with their Aadhaar not being linked to their bank accounts. As for inter-state migrants, about 44% were unable to produce required documents for registration, with another 27% not being able to understand the language to complete the registration process.   In its findings, the PAC also flagged data disparity between what was recorded in the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and the labour department. While the website of the labour department shows that between June 2007 and September 2015, there were 9,07,638 registered construction workers, data from the KBOCWWB shows that there were 21,62,090 construction workers manually registered, including both newly registered and renewals. That apart, data collected from labour offices of each district adds up to 5,02,891 registered construction workers, it said. Not just that, even when it came to the cess collected, according to numbers from the district offices, the total cess collection for the state was Rs 356.24 crore between 2009 and 2019, whereas the information collected from the Board showed it as Rs 6,015.20 crore.  Speaking to DH, Meena Nair, Head of Research, PAC, stressed the need for more awareness for increasing registrations and for improving efficiency in using the money collected for their welfare. Spending the unspent funds for health and safety of workers, creating helplines and grievance redressal system, conducting awareness drives and developing mechanism to track migrant workers from other states are among the recommendations of the study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/less-than-10-of-cess-used-for-building-workers-welfare-study-980956.html
30-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||What failure, asks Karnataka CM Yediyurappa on vaccination drive delay||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday justified the delay in the start of the Covid-19 inoculation drive for citizens aged 18-44 years, basing it simply on the non-supply of vaccines. Vaccination for the 18-44 age group is unlikely to start from May 1 as scheduled.   “There is no supply. We will start (the drive) as soon as we get it,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  He also said it was not a failure on the government’s part. “Very clearly the health minister has said that there’s no supply and that (vaccination) will start once there’s supply. Where’s the question of failure? We anticipated the supply of vaccines, but there’s been some delay,” he said.  Asked if Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of May 1 as the start of phase 3 of the vaccination drive was a lie, Yediyurappa said: “Let’s not unnecessarily drag PM’s name. The Centre is trying out different things. Also, several countries across the world are providing help in different ways. I’m confident everything will be alright in a few days.”  Earlier in the day, Health Minister K Sudhakar urged all those between 18-44 years who had registered for Covid-19 vaccination to stay home and not throng hospitals on May 1 as the state's vaccine consignment was yet to be delivered by the Serum Institute. Even Maharashtra and Delhi have declared that vaccination for the 18-44 age cohort will not start from May 1 as the states have yet to receive the vaccines.  Karnataka has decided to purchase one crore doses of Covishield to inoculate citizens aged 18-44 years. The state has an estimated 3.5 crore people in this age group.  The government has also decided that the Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost at government hospitals for those aged 18-44 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/what-failure-asks-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-on-vaccination-drive-delay-980855.html
30-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 48,296 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spike so far||Karnataka on Friday recorded close to 50,000 new Covid-19 cases with a  positivity rate of a high 25.44%. Experts noted that districts other than Bengaluru were now accounting for 45% of the cases, an indication of the infection spreading to villages and interiors of the state which had remained safe from the disease. Of the 48,296 fresh cases and 217 deaths reported in the state on Friday, Bengaluru accounted for 26,756 cases and 93 deaths. The state’s figures witnessed a steep rise from Thursday’s 35,024 cases and 19,637 cases reported in the state capital. While the state saw a 37.89% rise in infections in a single day with 13,272 cases, Bengaluru saw a 36.25% rise with 7,119 cases. Prof Sashikumaar Ganesan, chairman, Department of Computational and Data Sciences, Indian institute of Science, said this is a ‘scary situation’ as the numbers are mimicking his model’s projections when no lockdown is enforced. “The current active numbers are exceeding our model’s estimates by 39,010 cases without a lockdown. But then again, it has only been three days since the 14-day lockdown in Karnataka started. Many of these cases being reported now must be cases who got infected days before April 27 considering the incubation period. I think a 30-day lockdown should be enforced,” he said. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, who is also a member of the Technical Advisory Committee, said that the worst is yet to come and that the state will peak in mid-May. He espoused the test, track, isolate, treat mantra, albeit even more aggressively now. “We are approaching the peak and this is definitely not because we increased testing from 1,75,816 to 1,89,793 tests on Friday. Even though we have tested 13,977 more samples, the infected will remain. The only difference is now they are being detected. So, we should ramp up our testing, even to two lakh tests per day. The more we test, the earlier we detect. This can stop the transmission.” State nodal officer for Covid-19 testing Dr C N Manjunath was of the opinion that the tables had turned and the state capital that was previously bearing 75% of the new cases every day has been reduced to 55% and now the other half are being reported from districts. “Mysuru has reported a record 3,500 cases. Infection has travelled from Bengaluru to other districts like Tumakuru (1,801 cases), Mandya (1,348 cases), and Ballari (1,282 cases). Considering that we did not see such a fast transmissibility in the previous wave, a significant number of cases can be attributed to a mutant virus, but lack of genomic surveillance data linking it to case surge is preventing us from making that conclusion,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-48296-new-covid-19-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike-so-far-980885.html
30-04-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccination of people above 18 in Karnataka may be delayed: CM Yediyurappa||Vaccination in Karnataka for people above 18 years of age will be delayed as the vaccine has not been supplied yet, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday. He was reacting to the Centre's directive on allowing vaccinating people above 18 years from May 1. "Our Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has said clearly that the vaccine has not been supplied yet. We will vaccinate people once it arrives," the Chief Minister told reporters on the sidelines of a function. He dismissed charges that it was a failure on the part of the government for not getting the vaccine beforehand. "Where is the question of failure? We had thought we would get the vaccine (on time) but there is a delay in the supply," Yediyurappa said. On the delay in supply of vaccines, the chief minister said "The Centre is helping us in various ways. Other countries are also helping India." Earlier in the day, health minister Sudhakar said that vaccination of people above 18 years will not start from May 1 in Karnataka. "It is not possible for us to start vaccinating people from 18 years to 45 years from tomorrow. Please don't take it otherwise. The moment we get official information, we will let you know," Sudhakar told reporters. "We have made orders to Serum Institute in Pune for over one crore doses but the official news is that they are still not prepared to give it to us from tomorrow as scheduled," the Minister added. He asked people who have enrolled themselves on the Cowin portal for inoculation to refrain from going to vaccination centres on May 1. The Minister said the government will intimate eligible people after confirmation from Serum Institute of India about the arrival of vaccines. "We have already paid Rs 400 crore to purchase one crore doses of Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune," the Minister said. According to him, the Serum Institute has the capacity to produce five to six crore doses in a month while the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech can produce one to 1.5 crore doses. Russia's Sputnik has given licence to Dr Reddy's Laboratory to produce the vaccine but they have not informed the government officially when they will be able to supply it. To a question, when the vaccination for people above 18 years may start, Sudhakar said he would not be able to give the exact dates. "I cannot guess the date.I will prefer to tell the people about the date only after receiving the consignment from the vaccine manufacturing countries.I will not predict how many weeks it may take," the minister said. He, however, said the government will continue its efforts to get the vaccines at the earliest by building pressure on the companies to deliver the consignment at the earliest. To a question on the price of vaccines, Sudhakar said, "We have already announced that we will give the vaccine free of cost to everyone in the state.So there should be no confusion regarding it." Regarding the ongoing vaccination drive for people above 45 years of age, the minister said there is adequate stock for them to get vaccinated. According to him, the state had received 99 lakh doses for those above 45 years of age, of which 95 lakh doses have already been administered. The Minister said ever since the vaccination drive started in the state, the wastage is merely 1.4 per cent, which is the least compared to other states where the wastage is about eight to nine per cent. To a question on people defying the lockdown which came into effect from April 27 night to May 12 morning, Sudhakar said people are not taking the pandemic seriously despite media showing the plight of patients and families which lost their earning members. "People should behave responsibly and follow the direction given by the government.If you ignore it, then you will repent," Sudhakar advised people. Karnataka has seen an increase in Covid-19 cases in recent days. The active cases have touched close to 3.5 lakh in the state, and a majority of them are in the state capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccination-of-people-above-18-in-karnataka-may-be-delayed-cm-yediyurappa-980909.html
30-04-2021||West||No vaccination for 18-44 group without 30 lakh vials: Tope||Unless Maharashtra gets 25 to 30 lakh vaccine vials, it will not commence inoculation drive against Covid-19 for people in the 18-44 age group, said health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday. The nationwide vaccination for people in the 18-44 age group is scheduled to start from May 1 and registration for the same is open on the CoWin app. Speaking to reporters, Tope said, Unless Maharashtra gets vials between 25 lakh and 30 lakh, we will not commence vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group. Stock should be sufficient for at least five days to start the vaccination drive." Tope has been complaining about a shortage of Covishield and Covaxin, the vaccines being used in the ongoing drive for people aged 45 and above. On several occasions, the state had to suspend vaccination due to a shortage of doses. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has clearly informed us (the state cabinet) as well as the vaccine makers that he is willing to pay the entire purchase amount of vaccine doses with just one cheque. "But he needs assurances of smooth and uninterrupted supply of vaccines to the state, he said. Tope said Maharashtra has the capacity to inoculate eight lakh people daily if adequate vaccines are provided to the state. Maharashtras wastage of Covid-19 vaccine is as low as 1 per cent. This is due to the careful management of distributors and our staff on the ground, he said. We will be giving out vaccines mainly to government hospitals from May 1 for inoculation of people in the above 45 age category, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-vaccination-for-18-44-group-without-30-lakh-vials-tope-980665.html
30-04-2021||West||Plan for third wave of pandemic: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray tells district officials||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked district officials to make plans for new oxygen plants and stocking of medicines in view of the threat of a third COVID-19 wave. The chief minister spoke to district collectors, divisional commissioners and municipal commissioners virtually to take a stock of the pandemic situation, said an official release. Due to the recently introduced restrictions, the daily spike in cases has stabilised, but the administration has to be very careful and plan for the possibility of a third wave, he said. "To stop a third wave, vaccination needs to be expedited. Even though we have announced free vaccination for the age group of 18 to 44, supply needs to be planned," he said. Permission has been given for setting up oxygen plants and the district administration needs to ensure that adequate oxygen stock is available in near future, Thackeray said. There should be a registry of migrant labourers and when they return from their home states, they should be tested and quarantined if needed, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/plan-for-third-wave-of-pandemic-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-tells-district-officials-980667.html
30-04-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination suspended in Mumbai for three days as stocks run out||No vaccination against Covid-19 will be held in Mumbai for the next three days as the existing stock of doses has been exhausted, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Thursday evening. The vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group, which was supposed to start from May 1 earlier, was likely to be deferred too, it said in a statement. Currently, those above 45 years of age are being inoculated. "The BMC will not hold any vaccination camp on Friday, Saturday and Sunday because existing stock has been exhausted. With this, the civic body is likely to postpone its vaccination drive for 18-44 age category beyond May 1," the statement said. If fresh supplies were received, vaccination will resume, it added. There are 63 civic-run vaccination centres in the city besides 73 centres run by private hospitals. The corporation also stressed that those in the above-45 category should not fear that they will not be inoculated once the drive for the 18-44 age group begins. "Both are different programmes, and whenever vaccine doses are available, the priority will be for the above-45 age category," the civic body said. It also said that those who have received the first jab of vaccine should not worry if there is a longer hiatus before they get the second dose. "If there is a longer gap, the body develops some anti-bodies against Covid-19," the statement said. "We were told on Wednesday night that we would get around 75,000 vials of vaccine. With such a low supply, the BMC opened only some vaccination centres while others were kept closed (on Thursday)," said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner. "Out of the total stock, we have used up some 50,000 vials till this evening. If we do not get more doses, we will have to suspend the vaccination drive," he had told reporters earlier in the day. As per the Maharashtra Health Department, only 26,610 people received the jab in the country's financial capital on Wednesday. On Thursday, long lines were seen outside vaccination centres. Though the vaccination begins at 12 noon, at several centres people queue up from as early as six in the morning, said an official. The civic body allowed eligible persons to walk in at vaccination centres without registering themselves on the Co- WIN app. This also added to the rush. "Limited supply is one reason for long queues. Earlier people hesitated to get the jab. But with growing number of Covid-19 deaths, there has been a surge at vaccination centres," the official said. Many people complained that they could not receive the dose. "We have been standing here for more than three hours but the queue is not moving at all. We are not sure whether we will get a dose today," said 54-year-old Smriti Bindra at the Nesco vaccination centre in Goregaon. Senior citizens need not stand in long queues as vaccine is in short supply "only for now", tweeted additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide. "But be rest assured that all 45 plus years citizens will eventually get vaccinated," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-suspended-in-mumbai-for-three-days-as-stocks-run-out-980670.html
30-04-2021||West||Maharashtra may see third Covid-19 wave in July-August: Rajesh Tope||Still reeling under a deadly second wave of Covid-19, Maharashtra may witness a third wave of the infection in July-August, said health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday. The grim prediction by Tope came on a day when Maharashtra, the state worst-hit by the pandemic in the country, recorded 66,159 fresh coronavirus cases and 771 fatalities. Speaking to reporters here, he said, As per epidemiologists, Maharashtra could witness a third wave of Covid-19 in July or August. "Maharashtra is trying to be self-sufficient in terms of availability of medical oxygen by then. It has been said the state could reach to the plateau level of Covid-19 cases by the end of May. If it is hit by a third wave in July or August, it would increase the challenges before the state administration, he said. He was speaking after taking part in a review meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray where various aspects of Covid-19 management and vaccination were discussed. District collectors and divisional commissioners also took part in the virtual meeting. During the discussion, the chief minister stressed on setting up 125 PSA (pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants (for generating medical oxygen) at the earliest for treating patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 infection," Tope said. District collectors were told the government will not tolerate any complain about non-availability of oxygen when the state is hit by a third wave, said the health minister. Maintaining that the current requirement of oxygen is being met through local generation as well as supplies from the Centre, he said Maharashtra is facing a shortage of 10,000 to 15,000 vials of Remdesivir, used to treat critical Covid-19 patients. Though there is a shortage, we have asked doctors to use it judiciously. Extra doses could lead to grave side effects, he said. Tope said the chief minister informed the meeting that he has told business houses and corporates that if they spend on setting up Covid-19-related facilities, that money will be considered as CSR expenditure. "They can avail all benefits related to CSR spendings and this will also ease financial burden on the state," the health minister said. We will try to set up oxygen generator plants, arrange oxygen concentrators as well as provide medical equipment such as CT scan and MRI machines to districts where these facilities are not available," he said. Districts such as Hingoli, Jalna, Parbhani, Osmanabad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Washim and Gadchiroli will get tele- medicine services where Covid-19 patients with other health issues can seek consultancy from doctors based in major cities, Tope said. Maharashtra, which has so far reported 45,39,553 coronavirus cases and 67,985 fatalities, is under lockdown- like restrictions till May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-may-see-third-covid-19-wave-in-july-august-rajesh-tope-980674.html
30-04-2021||West||Param Bir Singh moves HC against actions by state govt||DG Maharashtra Home Guard & ex-Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh approached Bombay High Court against actions being taken against him by the state government. He has requested the court to direct the state government to not take any coercive action against him. The matter will be heard on May 4. Singh has also prayed that CBI is directed to investigate criminal conspiracy and malicious attempts to thwart CBI's preliminary inquiry against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-moves-hc-against-actions-by-state-govt-980702.html
30-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Goa goes into lockdown; test positivity rate at 50%||Amid an extremely high test positivity rate of over 50 per cent, Goa went into a four-day-long "lockdown" to curb Covid-19 cases as people stayed indoors, while streets were largely bereft of vehicles in the tourist state on Friday. The tiny coastal state, with a population of around 16 lakh, has been witnessing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the infection. In a development that will worry the administration in Goa, the state reported over 50 per cent test positivity rate on Thursday when out of 5,910 samples tested for coronavirus, 3,019 returned positive, health department data showed.   Also, 36 patients succumbed to the viral infection during the day. The test positivity rate (TPR) is defined as the percentage of samples that return positive among the total tested. The Covid-19-related restrictions on movement of people and non-essential activities came into force at 9 pm on Thursday and will remain applicable till 6 am on Monday (May 3). The state government has said all essential services would be allowed to function during the period. A senior police officer said there was hardly any traffic on roads and strict patrolling was underway to implement the restrictions, especially in urban areas. People have cooperated and are staying inside their homes, he said. Popular beaches, including Calangute, Baga, Anjuna, Morjim in North Goa, and Colva and Palolem in South Goa — otherwise teeming with tourists during normal times — wore a deserted look. Colva-based restaurant owner Mathew Diniz said the hotel business was already down due to the pandemic and with the lockdown in force, it has come to a complete standstill. Tourists are not visiting beaches as neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka (key sources of travellers), too, have imposed lockdown-like curbs, he said. "Weekly markets will not be allowed during the lockdown. Casinos will also remain shut. However, industrial activities will be allowed to function," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had said while announcing the curbs on Wednesday. Vaccination centres will function normally during the period, he had said. The Indian Medical Association's Goa unit on Friday demanded that the lockdown be continued for 15 days or at least till the positivity rate drops to 10 per cent. "We wish the lockdown is extended by another 15 days or more to have the Break the Chain effect which will definitely help in making the Covid-19 graph go in a downward trend," IMA Goa president Vinayak Buvaji said in a letter to the chief minister. Goa has so far recorded 88,028 Covid-19 cases and 1,146 deaths. As on April 29, the tiny coastal state had 20,898 active cases. On Wednesday, the state had reported 3,101 Covid-19 cases, while on Tuesday, the daily count was 2,110.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-goes-into-lockdown-test-positivity-rate-at-50-980729.html
30-04-2021||West||Covid-19: Mumbai's test positivity rate drops below 10%||In an encouraging sign, the Covid-19 test positivity rate in Mumbai has dropped below 10 per cent, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Friday. According to Chahal, Mumbai's positivity rate was 9.94 per cent on April 29, when 4,328 people tested positive for Covid-19 out of 43,525 those samples were examined. The test positivity rate (TPR) is defined as proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested. "Our positivity rate is in single digit now with nearly 44,000 tests. Perhaps, Mumbai is the only city in India with a single digit positivity rate with high testing," Chahal claimed. Highlighting that 85 per cent of the new cases are asymptomatic, the IAS officer said the number of vacant beds available in city hospitals increased to 5,725 on Friday afternoon, indicating a drop in fresh admissions. According to the data provided by Chahal, who took charge of the BMC during the pandemic last year, Mumbai had a TPR of 20.85 per cent in the beginning of April. The highest positivity rate during the month was 27.94 per cent, reported on April 4, when 11,573 people had tested positive after 51,313 samples were examined. The data suggested that test positivity rate started slipping below 20 per cent from April 19. Earlier this week, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force, had said Mumbai may have turned the corner in its fight against the pandemic. He had said the turnaround was due to the metropolis tackling the surge in cases during the second wave of the infection with the "ATM strategy", which is 'Assess, Triage and Transfer, and Management'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbais-test-positivity-rate-drops-below-10-980757.html
30-04-2021||West||Maharashtra signs MoU with CSIR for coronavirus genome sequencing||In a significant step, the Maharashtra government has signed an MoU with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CSIR) Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) to carry out genome sequencing of samples on a regular basis. As per the MoU, nearly 100 samples from 25 districts witnessing a high Covid-19 positivity rate will be collected each month and sent for genome sequencing. This will be a three-month-long research initiative, it added. The notification was issued by Dr Pradeep Vyas, the Principal Secretary of the Public Health Department. CSIR-IGIB will collect 100 samples from each district and send them to the National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS), Pune and CSIR-IGIB, Faridabad for genome sequencing. The project will cost Rs 1.62 crore, according to the notification. Maharashtra’s government’s Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) will coordinate the efforts. The comprehensive research will not only sequence the genome and list the number of variants, but will also map behavioral patterns of the strains based on the health issues, problems and complications faced by the patients, and the course of treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-signs-mou-with-csir-for-coronavirus-genome-sequencing-980817.html
30-04-2021||West||Maharashtra government to take back Covid-19 vaccines from private hospitals||The Maharashtra government on Friday announced that it would take back Covid-19 vaccines from private hospitals and administer these doses to people through state-run health centres only. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the government has decided to do so it as per the Centre's orders. "The Maharashtra government is going to take back the vaccines given to private hospitals for the inoculation drive as per the Centre's orders. These vaccine doses will then be administered to beneficiaries through state-run hospitals and centres only," he said. Talking about the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group that is supposed to start from May 1 as per the central government's instructions, Tope said, "We need to reduce the number of vaccination centres so that it can offer the doses smoothly on daily basis." "We have been told by the vaccine makers that up to 18 lakh vials could be supplied to Maharashtra in the month of May. In such situation, the state is planning to set up one centre per district to inoculate people against Covid-19," he said. Tope insisted that people should visit the vaccination centre with prior appointment. It will avoid crowding and everyone will get the dose, he added. "Unless we get adequate supply of vaccines, we cannot increase the coverage of population. A detailed statement about it will be made by the chief minister," Tope said. Commenting on the vaccine procurement policy, he said, "The Centre is going to buy 50 per cent of the total vials produced by the manufacturers. Now, the crucial question is who should get the vaccines from the remaining 50 per cent quota, which the Centre has allowed to be sold directly to the state governments and hospitals. I think the cental government will have to intervene here as well." Every state is reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases, which means more demand for vaccines, he said, adding that the central government needs to come up with some policy so that every state gets an equal share of doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-to-take-back-covid-19-vaccines-from-private-hospitals-980819.html
30-04-2021||West||'Just think of doing good': Paramedics battle deluge of Covid-19 patients during second wave||Facing a deluge of very sick patients and overfilled hospitals, Indian paramedic Ankita Patel says she keeps her growing fear at bay by focusing on her patients as the novel coronavirus pandemic rages around her. Patel works as a paramedic in Ahmedabad and provides pre-hospital care to patients in the ambulance. Although only 31, she has been in the job for a decade. "I have been working for so long, but now because of Covid situation it has become very difficult for us to operate but still we try to give good care and get the patients into hospitals," she said. "We feel very good doing this but sometimes we also feel scared. However, despite all that we try to forget everything else and keeping nice feelings in our hearts, just think of doing good." Wearing a white protective suit and mask, Patel gently holds the hand of an elderly woman lying on a stretcher in an ambulance and monitors her oxygen levels. Her family is supportive of her work, she says, but she is afraid of bringing the virus home. "Sometimes they feel scared that I work in such risky conditions and then come home in the evening... but still they support me and I also feel good that they appreciate me for working in this field." Before the pandemic, Patel and an ambulance driver would typically take about two hours to attend to an emergency, including transporting patients to hospital and giving them the necessary care. Now, the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients and acute shortage of beds in the hospitals means she sometimes spends several hours taking care of the sick in the ambulance while waiting for hospitals to accept them. India, the world's second-most populous nation, is in deep crisis, with hospitals and morgues overwhelmed by the pandemic, medicines and oxygen in short supply, and strict curbs on movement in its biggest cities. The authorities reported 3,86,452 new cases and 3,498 deaths in the last 24 hours, but medical experts believe actual Covid-19 numbers may be five to 10 times greater than the official tally. But Patel has no choice but to get on with her work. At a government hospital, she waits for doctors to admit a patient she has brought. The man, who is lying on the floor with an oxygen tank next to him, had difficulty breathing but his oxygen levels had now improved, Patel said. "Right now I have brought him to a government hospital but there is a wait over here. So we will have to wait."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/just-think-of-doing-good-paramedics-battle-deluge-of-covid-19-patients-during-second-wave-980854.html
30-04-2021||West||No decision to extend lockdown in Goa, don't believe rumours: CMO||The Goa government has not taken any decision on extending of the ongoing lockdown, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's office said on Friday. "The Goa government has not taken any decision on extension of lockdown. Do not believe fake news circulated on social media," the CMO tweeted. It was referring to the claim by a Twitter user that the lockdown has been extended till May 15. Amid an extremely high test positivity rate of over 50 per cent, Goa went into a four-day-long "lockdown" to curb Covid-19 cases on Thursday night. It will continue till Monday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-decision-to-extend-lockdown-in-goa-dont-believe-rumours-cmo-980868.html
30-04-2021||West||Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra develop side effects from Remdesivir||Nearly 100 Covid-19 patients from the Raigad and Palghar districts of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) developed side-effects over the last two days. On Friday, at the orders of the Maharashtra government, over 1,000 vials of a particular brand and batches were recalled. Food and Drug Administration Minister Dr Rajendra Shingne ordered temporary suspension of use of the batches. The concerning incident came to light when some of the patients developed chills and others complained of varying degrees of fever or other issues. The patients are stable now, according to reports. Raigad Collector Nidhi Choudhari said there were complaints from patients in different hospitals. “We had received around 510 vials of Remdesivir which were distributed among various hospitals for the patients. After the complaints of patients developing several side-effects, we acted immediately and stopped all the doses,” said Choudhari. Palghar Deputy Collector Surendra Navale said that around 232 vials were used and the 13 patients reported side effects. “Around 418 vials of unused Remdesivir injections have been recalled by the company,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patients-in-maharashtra-develop-side-effects-from-remdesivir-980896.html
30-04-2021||West||Allow development of state-wise vaccine apps, Uddhav asks PM||As India opens up vaccines for the 18-44 age group, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow states to develop their own applications for vaccination registration. These state-specific apps could be linked with the Co-WIN platform, Thackeray said during a webcast to the people of the state on the eve of Maharashtra Foundation Day and International Workers’ Day. “We have seen that the Co-WIN has crashed while registration of the 18-44 age group. It is of course temporary, like the time it happened when the vaccination drive started (mid-January)….a statewide App would make the process of registration seamless,” he said. Thackeray, the Shiv Sena President, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state, said that he has also written to Modi in this regard. On the state’s plans, he said that the vaccination for the 18-44 age group would start from Saturday as and when the vaccine stocks arrive. “Do not crowd vaccination centres, please do register and advance and this is a mandatory requirement. Let us not make vaccination centres as superspreaders of Covid-19,” he said. “We are expecting 18 lakh doses next month of which 3 lakh doses have landed,” Thackeray added. He said that the MVA government has completely geared up for vaccination. “We have around 6 crore people in the age group for 18-44, which means we need 12 crore doses. Whatever the price, we have made provisions to procure it in one single cheque but vaccines need to be available,” he said. The Chief Minister said that Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's delivery schedule and quantity will not be enough to meet the state's demand. “We are looking at Sputnik V and other options,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/allow-development-of-state-wise-vaccine-apps-uddhav-asks-pm-980949.html
30-04-2021||West||At 89 Covid-19 deaths, Mumbai logs highest daily toll in 10 months; reports just under 4,000 new cases||Mumbai reported 89 deaths due to coronavirus on Friday, the highest one-day toll since June 30 last year, which pushed its fatality count to 13,161, the data released by the civic body said. With the addition of 3,925 new Covid-19 cases during the day, the city's infection tally rose to 6,48,624. This is only the second time this month that the city has reported less than 4,000 cases in a day. On April 26, it had recorded 3,876 cases. But the number of deaths has been on the rise in the city over the last few days and Friday's toll is the highest since June 30 last year, when it had recorded 93 fatalities. On Thursday, Mumbai had reported 4,192 cases and 82 deaths. With 43,525 tests, the city's overall test count increased to 54,23,998, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in its update. As many as 6,380 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, which took the number of recoveries to 5,72,431. Mumbai's recovery rate is 88 per cent now, it said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country's financial capital dipped to 61,433 in the last 24 hours from 64,018. According to the BMC, the city's average growth rate of Covid-19 for the period between April 23 and 29 is 0.78 per cent, while the case doubling rate is 87 days. There are 112 containment zones in the city, where 1,017 buildings have been sealed to break the chain of coronavirus transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-89-covid-19-deaths-mumbai-logs-highest-daily-toll-in-10-months-reports-just-under-4000-new-cases-980953.html
30-04-2021||West||Gujarat Covid-19: Vaccination for 18 years and above from May 1 in ten worst-affected districts||Gujarat government will commence vaccinating persons above the age of 18 from May 1, which also coincides with the foundation day of Gujarat which was carved out of Maharashtra in 1960. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced that the drive will be launched only in ten districts which have highest active coronavirus cases in the state that includes Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamangar, Kutch, Mehsana, Bharuch and Gandhinagar. Rupani said in a video message that the state has ordered 2.5 crore vaccines, of which 3 lakh would be landing on Friday. He said that in the month May, a total of 11 lakh vaccine doses will be provided. Rupani said that as of now, the vaccination drive will be restricted to only ten districts, which will be extended once the vaccine availability increases. Rupani said that the vaccination will be done only through online registration. The state government in an affidavit submitted before the Supreme Court on Thursday stated that as on April 27 a total of 1.15 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state in the last three phases which covered health workers, frontline workers and priority groups (people above 45 years). The affidavit filed by chief secretary Anil Mukim also claimed that till April 27, state had 4,72,450 doses of Covishield and 323,020 doses of Covaxin. The affidavit mentioned that the state has the capacity of storing more than one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine. It has six regional level vaccine stores, 41 district/corporation level stores and 2189 cold chain points are available in the state for storage, while 169 Ice Lined Refrigerators have been received from the government of India. On Friday, Gujarat reported 14,605 new positive cases and 173 fresh deaths in 24 hours. The number of active cases jumped to 1,42,046. Demand of oxygen increasing, says Chief Secretary The state government's affidavit in the apex court stated that till April 28, a total of 49,332 patients were on oxygen support in the state. This included patients in ICU with ventilators, patients who are on ventilators without IC and patients who are on oxygen support of various forms such as cannula, mask and BIPEP, among others. The government has admitted that the consumption of medical oxygen is increasing day by day. "Considering the increasing need of oxygen, the state of Gujarat estimated the shortage of oxygen that was likely to be faced in the coming days. In this regard, a communication dated 26.04.2021 was addressed by the deponent to the central government highlighting that the state is in need of 1190 MT oxygen and most humbly submitted that the state of Gujarat is in urgent need of additional oxygen to meet its existing requirements," the chief secretary Mukim has stated i the affidavit. Healthcare workers On healthcare professionals, the affidavit stated that there are approximately 35,000 doctors, 40,000 nurses, 70, para-medics, 45,000 ASHA, 1,45,000 other staff working in various healthcare facilities and in the field across the state. Besides, the government has made a public appeal to all healthcare professionals to join as volunteers in hospitals for cadres such as specialist doctors, medical officers, dental doctors, staff nurses, among others. It said that "efforts were also done to engage approximately 80,000 students from all medical and paramedical courses. Collectors and municipal commissioners have been authorised to fill posts."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-vaccination-for-18-years-and-above-from-may-1-in-ten-worst-affected-districts-980978.html
