07-08-2020||India||Air India Express plane skids off runway in Kozhikode; pilots dead||At least 16 people on board an Air India Express plane from Dubai were killed when the aircraft overshot the runway and fell into a valley while landing at Kozhikode in Kerala amid heavy rain, police said. The two pilots of Flight IX 1344 were among the dead. The flight, which was part of the Vande Bharat programme, had 174 passengers, 10 infants, two pilots and five cabin crew members on board. After landing, the flight continued to move towards the end of the runway and fell into a valley and broke into two portions, a DGCA statement said. Television channels broadcast images of rescue and ground personnel spraying the fuselage with water. The incident took place amid heavy rain around 7.41pm, the civil aviation ministry said. According to flight-tracking website FlightRadar24, the aircraft circled the airport several times and made two attempts to land. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter that he was pained by the plane accident. Union home minister Amit Shah said he had instructed NDRF teams to reach the site of the accident and help in rescue operations. The Indian consulate in Dubai has activated four helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the passengers on the flight. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has deputed state minister A.C. Moideen to coordinate the rescue operations. The condition of a mother and child injured in the accident was very serious, state health minister K.K. Shailaja said. The injured have been taken to the local medical college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
07-08-2020||India||Kejriwal launches 'Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy' ||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday launched 'Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy' under which his government will waive registration fee and road tax, and provide incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh for new cars in the national capital. Addressing an online media briefing, he said the policy, which aims to boost the economy, will create jobs and reduce pollution level. The chief minister termed it a "progressive policy" of the country and said it also aims to constitute 25 per cent electric vehicles by 2024, which is currently just 0.29 per cent in the city. Under the policy, the Delhi government will give incentive of up to Rs 30,000 for two-wheelers, autos, e-rickshaws and freight vehicles while for cars, it will provide an incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh, he said. He confirmed that the AAP government will also give low-interest loan on electric commercial vehicles. "After launching this policy, we expect five lakh new electric vehicles in the next five years...the Delhi government will set up dedicated 'EV Cell' to implement the policy," Kejriwal said. He said the government will also set up a 'State Electric Vehicle Board', adding that his government will set up 200 charging stations in one year and ensure that people driving these vehicles can get a charging station within the radius of three kilometers. The Delhi government will give a ''scrapping incentive'' under the electric vehicle policy, which will be first-of-its-kind in the country. "We are also going to give a scrapping incentive for those wanting to exchange their petrol or diesel-run vehicles. In the country, this is the first time that scrapping incentive is being given," the chief minister said. Initially, this policy will be for three years and thereafter, the government will review it, he said, adding that if needed, amendments will be made during three years. The chief minister said that at present, there is already the Centre's scheme on electric vehicles called 'Fame India Phase-2', under which the Union government also provides some incentives. The Delhi government's electric vehicle policy will be an addition to the Centre's scheme and people can also avail benefits under both the schemes, Kejriwal said. He said youth will be trained so that they get jobs as electric vehicle sector will need them at a large scale after implementation of this policy. According to him, there has been a 25 per cent reduction in pollution level in Delhi in the last five years and the policy also aims to reduce pollution in the national capital. "We are not satisfied with it (25 per cent). We do not need such development where pollution level is high," Kejriwal said. China is the first name to be taken when there is a discussion about electric vehicles in the world, he said. "I hope that after five years, the name of Delhi will come atop due to this policy when there is a discussion on electric vehicles in the world... "Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy has been prepared after a detailed discussion in the last two-and-a-half years. It has not been prepared sitting in an AC room," the chief minister said. Kejriwal exuded confidence that after five years, Delhi Electric Vehicle Model' will also be discussed in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
07-08-2020||India||Elgar case: DU professor sent to judicial custody till Aug 21||A special court in Mumbai on Friday remanded Delhi University (DU) associate professor Hany Babu, arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, in judicial custody till August 21.  Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil, 54, associate professor at the Department of English of the university, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on July 28 for his alleged involvement in the case.  He was sent to judicial custody by special court judge D E Kothalikar at the end of his NIA remand on Friday.  Earlier, the NIA had submitted before the court that the accused had links with the CPI (Maoists).  The case relates to the alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial where lakhs of Dalits had converged to commemorate the battle. One person was killed, and three others were injured in the clash.  The Pune police filed a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet in the case on November 15, 2018 and February 21, 2019, respectively.  The NIA took up the investigation in the case on January 24 this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
07-08-2020||India||Rhea appears before ED after an unsuccessful plea attempt||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, accused of abetting suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Friday in connection with the money laundering case lodged by it. The 28-year-old arrived at the agency's office in the Ballard Estate area here, accompanied by her brother Showik, shortly before noon. Her business manager who also worked for Rajput, Shruti Modi, also appeared before the agency soon after as she too was summoned. The statements of Chakraborty and Modi were recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), officials said. Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani has also been called by the ED to appear on Saturday in connection with this money laundering case that stems from a complaint filed by the actor's father with the Bihar Police in connection with his death, they said. Pithani is stated to be out of Mumbai at present and he has said in various news channel interviews that he was present in the Bandra flat on June 14 when the 34-year-old actor hanged himself. The IT professional, stated to be living with Rajput for about an year, had earlier recorded his statement with the Mumbai Police as part of their accidental death report (ADR) probe in the case. It was not immediately clear if the agency questioned Showik as he left the agency office after a few hours. Chakraborty, accused by Rajput's father of abetting his son's suicide, had initially refused to appear before the agency citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court. "In view of the fact that the ED has informed the media that the request to postpone her attendance is rejected, Rhea has appeared before the ED office," her advocate Satish Maneshinde said. The advocate, issued a statement, saying Chakraborty is a law-abiding citizen and would cooperate with the probe. Chakraborty has filed a petition in the apex court requesting that the case lodged by the Bihar police against her be transferred to the Mumbai police. The plea will be heard next week. The agency is expected to question Chakraborty, who stated in her petition to the court that she was in a live-in relationship with Rajput, about her friendship with the actor, possible business dealings and the developments that took place over the last few years between them and record her statement under the PMLA. It is expected that the ED's line of questioning would revolve around Chakraborty's income, investments, business deals and professional deals and links. A property located in the Khar area of the city, linked to Chakraborty, is also being probed by the ED for the source of its purchase and ownership. The agency has already questioned Rajput's Chartered Accountant (CA) Sandeep Shridhar and his house manager and staffer Samuel Miranda twice in the case. Rajput's father had, in his complaint, alleged that Miranda was hired by Chakraborty after she allegedly fired the staff hired by his son. The ED has also summoned Chakraborty's CA Ritesh Shah for questioning. Rajput's 74-year-old father K K Singh, who resides in Patna, had on July 25 filed a complaint with the Patna police against Chakraborty, her parents (mother Sandhya Chakraborty and father Indrajit Chakraborty), brother Showik, Miranda and Modi and unknown persons accusing them of cheating and abetting his son's suicide. The CBI had re-booked this FIR as a fresh case on Thursday and named as accused the same persons. The Mumbai police has been carrying out a separate probe in Rajput's death and has questioned a number of prominent film producers and directors till now. The father had also alleged financial irregularities in bank accounts of his son. In the complaint, Singh alleged that Rs 15 crore was siphoned off from Rajput's bank account in one year to accounts of persons not known or connected to the late filmstar. Under the ED's scanner are at least two companies linked to Rajput and some financial deals involving Chakraborty, her father and Showik who are stated to be directors in these companies. Rajput starred in films like 'Shuddh Desi Romance', 'Raabta', 'Kedarnath', 'Chhichhore' and 'Sonchiriya'. His most prominent role was in cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni's biopic 'MS Dhoni: The Untold Story'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Disha’s dad: No foul play suspected||The father of Disha Salian, former manager of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has said he does not suspect any foul play in her death and he is “completely satisfied” with the probe being conducted by Mumbai police in the case, an official said. In a letter sent to Malvani ACP on Wednesday, Satish Salian alleged that journalists were harassing his family by repeatedly questioning their faith in Mumbai police and their way of inquiry, the official said. According to police, Disha, 28, allegedly committed suicide by jumping from a high-rise building in Malad here on June 8. An accidental death report was registered in connection with Disha’s death at Malvani police station. According to the official, in his letter, Satish alleged that “news about her (Disha’s) involvement with any politician or attending parties with big names of the film fraternity, rape and murder are all stories cooked up by media people just to sell it to channels and these stories hold no truth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Players pitch in for relief fund||Footballers in Kerala have donated their national jerseys as part of a campaign by CPM youth wing DYFI that initially started by collecting and selling recyclable waste to pool in money for the chief minister’s disaster relief fund amid the pandemic but soon enlarged in scope because of widespread participation. The amount raised by auctioning the jerseys, which were sold to the highest bidders, is part of a total amount of Rs 10.95 crore that the three-month campaign has raised. Some 3,281 tonnes of recyclable waste from across Kerala were collected and sold during the drive that began in May. Anas Edathodika, who played for the Calcutta-based ISL team ATK in the last season, former ATK member Mohammed Rafi, East Bengal midfielder C.K. Vineeth and Kerala Blasters young star Sahal Abdul Samad donated one Indian jersey each to the DYFI, which auctioned them through social media to raise funds for the Recycle Kerala initiative. “We thank the footballers who donated their Indian jerseys that helped shore up some good money for the chief minister’s disaster relief fund,” Kerala DYFI secretary A.A. Rahim told The Telegraph on Thursday. While Rafi’s India jersey fetched Rs 2.44 lakh, Sahal’s was bought for Rs 2.25 lakh and Edathodika’s for Rs 1.55 lakh. Vineeth’s national jersey could not be auctioned as the concerned DYFI unit’s Facebook page had crashed. Cricketer S. Sreesanth bought a painting for an undisclosed amount and donated the money to the DYFI’s cause. Rahim said people from across Kerala donated old newspapers, magazines, notebooks, unusable utensils made of aluminum, stainless steel and copper, and plastics. “There were people who donated old motorbikes and cycles, which we sold to scrap dealers,” the leader said. Some even gave their entire crop of vegetables to the DYFI, which sold the farm output and raised funds. “It was a different experience collecting recyclable waste. Never did we imagine that we could raise so much of waste materials even from waterways,” Rahim said. An organisation that has for years been engaged in unclogging waterways and storm water drains collected 6.65 tonnes of plastic waste that would have led to choked drains and flooding during the monsoon. The plastic waste was sold to scrap dealers who transported them to commercial recycling plants in Tamil Nadu. The CPM bastion of Kannur in north Kerala accounted for the maximum donation amount — Rs 1.65 crore — among the districts. “A farmer in Munnar donated his entire crop of cabbage that weighed about three tonnes. A family in Kottayam donated wood from trees that had been cut down,” Rahim said. DYFI workers, too, earned money for the cause by doing manual labour and farming and cleaning household premises. “Many of our members tarred roads, worked in farmland and engaged in pre-monsoon clearing of the surroundings of houses in many places in Kerala to earn daily wages that were donated to the fund,” Rahim said. Earlier this year, the DYFI had envisioned a “TV Challenge” campaign to carry forward the Kerala government’s plan to help students with no access to TV, gadgets and the Internet to attend online classes. As part of the “TV Challenge”, the DYFI had urged people to donate their second TV set or old smart phones and tablets. “We collected 11,602 brand new television sets, 163 tablets and 157 smart phones that were donated to needy children,” Rahim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Gujarat blaze kills 8 Covid patients ||A blaze in the wee hours at a private hospital here has killed eight Covid patients, a fire brigade official said on Thursday. The victims — five men and three women — were being treated at the ICU ward of the Covid-designated Shrey Hospital at Navrangpura where the fire broke out around 3.30am, the official said. Around 40 other Covid patients at the facility were rescued and shifted to a civic hospital in the city, he said. “Eight coronavirus patients admitted in the ICU ward of Shrey Hospital have died due to the fire, which has been doused,” said an official of the Ahmedabad fire department. Primary investigations revealed that the fire on the fourth floor of the four-storey hospital was caused by an electrical short circuit, police said. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has ordered an inquiry. A report will have to be submitted in three days. Three elderly patients were saved from the raging fire at the hospital by a 25-year-old attendant who showed presence of mind and unflinching courage When the fire broke out, there were 11 patients on the fourth floor. According to the police, a special ICU chamber had been created on the fourth floor for critical Covid-19 patients. Hospital attendant Chirag Patel, who risked his life and saved three elderly patients, said the fire was first spotted by another attendant on the fourth floor around 3am. “When I went to the fourth floor after that, I saw flames coming out from a monitor of some medical equipment near a patient’s bed. Soon, that patient’s hair caught fire. I doused it immediately,” Patel told reporters after giving his statement to the police. “Just as I pulled the bed away from the monitor, another attendant’s PPE suit caught fire. Luckily, a doctor came upstairs with a bucket of water and poured it on the attendant and saved him. “Suddenly, there was a blast inside the ICU ward. Though we went up again to rescue patients, it was not possible to go inside due to thick smoke and extremely low visibility,” he added. According to Patel, other attendants and doctors were feeling uneasy because of the smoke. “Therefore, I decided to stay there and asked others to go downstairs,” he said. Meanwhile, the hospital staff alerted the fire brigade. Patel said rescuing 11 patients was a difficult task. “I was the only one left on the fourth floor and I decided to save as many as possible. I first lifted an elderly patient, who could not walk, in my arms and took her downstairs,” he said. Patel returned to the spot even as thick smoke had engulfed the area. He helped another elderly woman, who had fallen down and could not walk, in climbing down safely along with a male patient. “As the smoke was getting very dense and my oxygen level was dropping, I couldn’t go inside again. I then climbed the fourth floor using pipes outside and tried to rescue the patients from windows, but couldn’t break them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||TV actor found dead||Television actor Samir Sharma, best known for his roles in Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and Left Right Left, was found dead at his home in suburban Malad where he lived alone, police said on Thursday. The 44-year-old was found hanging from the fan of the kitchen on Wednesday night, police officials said. “We have not found any suicide note at the spot. It seems to be a suicide case. It is suspected that he hanged himself two days back. We have sent the body for an autopsy,” senior inspector George Fernandes said. Sharma’s body was first spotted by the building’s watchman. The actor’s last Instagram posts had been about depression, Sushant Singh Rajput, death and dreams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Centre releases Rs 890cr for Covid fight||The Centre has released Rs 890 crore to 22 states and Union Territories as the second instalment of a financial package to improve healthcare infrastructure to respond to the coronavirus epidemic, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The health ministry said the financial aid was intended to be used to improve testing facilities, add hospital infrastructure such as intensive care unit beds, oxygen generators and bedside oxygen concentrators, among others, and to provide training and incentives to healthcare workers. The recipient states are Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim. The Centre had in April released the first instalment of Rs 3,000 crore to all states and Union Territories to ramp up testing, augment hospital infrastructure, procure drugs and other supplies and conduct surveillance. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in his address to the nation on March 24 said the central government would provision Rs 15,000 crore for the treatment of patients with the coronavirus disease and for strengthening medical infrastructure across India. The health ministry said that under the financial package, states and Union Territories had established around 580,000 isolation beds, 136,000 oxygen-supported beds and 31,255 intensive care unit beds in Covid-19 hospitals. The states and Union Territories have also added over 96,000 healthcare staff and incentives have been provided to over 665,799, the ministry said. India’s 1,370 testing labs collectively screened over 600,000 samples for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. But several states continue to show test positivity rates — the proportion testing positive among those tested — higher than what health experts say is the ideal of below 5 per cent. Health officials have stressed the need for aggressive testing as part of a strategy to detect as many Covid-19 positive persons as possible to isolate and treat them and curb the spread of the infection. The health ministry had said earlier this week that 28 states and Union Territories were performing more than 140 tests per day per million population, a threshold for comprehensive testing set by the World Health Organisation. However, the seven-day rolling average test positivity rates for Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana on Thursday were all 16 per cent or higher. India on Thursday recorded 56,282 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of lab-confirmed cases to 1,964,536, of whom 595,501 patients are under medical supervision, 1,328,836 have recovered and 40,699 have died, 944 deaths over the past day. The health ministry has said the focused and coordinated implementation of its test, track and treat strategy has helped in early identification and effective clinical treatment, which in turn have resulted in lowering the case fatality rate from 3.36 per cent on June 17 to 2.69 per cent on July 11 to 2.07 per cent on August 6. Health minister Harsh Vardhan, interacting with the WHO South East Asia region’s regional director on Thursday, said India’s containment strategy had been successful. Ten states account for 82 per cent of the country’s cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Plea: don’t harass activists ||More than 1,300 people, including Congress MP Kumar Ketkar, have issued a public appeal against the “harassment” of activists by police that they said was part of a “larger design to shut down all dissent in the country so that no one dares question authority”. Referring to the questioning of pacifist activist and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand Jha in connection with the riots in the capital in February, the appeal said: “It is not unusual, or even improper, for the police to ask citizens to cooperate in the crime they are investigating. What matters is the context and manner in which this is happening.” The signatories added: “Like dozens of others in the past two months, professor Apoorvanand has been summoned under Section 43F of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). This is not all — the summons mentions 19 sections of the IPC; two sections each of the Prevention of Damage of Public Property (PDPP) Act; two sections of the Arms Act; and, finally, four different sections of the UAPA.” The signatories alleged that “this is not a normal inquiry or police business as usual”. “It is part of a clear strategy by the Delhi police to present protests against the CAA as a conspiracy to plan and stage the communal riots that shook Delhi in late February. This, in turn, is part of the larger design to shut down all dissent in the country so that no one dares question authority.” The signatories include former navy chief admiral L. Ramdas, former CPM MP Sudarsan Raychaudhuri, former bureaucrats Javid Chowdhury, Jawhar Sircar, Nandita Sehgal, N.K. Raghupathy, P.R. Dasgupta, Prateep Kumar Lahiri, S.P. Ambrose, Sundar Burra, Ashok Vajpeyi, V.P. Raja, Sudhansu Mohanty and A. Selvaraj, and former diplomats Deb Mukharji, K.P. Fabian and Madhu Bhandari. They said: “We appeal to all citizens committed to the values enshrined in the Indian Constitution — freedom of speech, equality before the law, secularism — to resist this attempt to turn India into a police state where all dissent is criminalised under the most draconian laws.” “We demand that this systematic harassment of voices critical of the government and the blatant misuse of the law and the state apparatus be stopped immediately. If we fail to protest the muzzling of our democracy today, there may be no democracy left tomorrow,” they added. Prof. Jha was grilled by the police’s anti-terror unit on Tuesday. The FIR, which does not name Jha, accuses several people of planning violent protests against the new citizenship matrix during US President Donald Trump’s visit in February, which the police claim led to the communal riots in which 53 people died. JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita of the women students’ group Pinjra Tod, besides another member of their group, Gulfisha Fatima, are all behind bars in the case. So are Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Asif Iqbal, and alumni office-bearer Shifa-ur-Rehman. Also in jail are suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain, who is accused of abetting the murder of an Intelligence Bureau employee, former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and rights activist Khalid Saifi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Hope of political outreach in Valley||The appointment of Manoj Sinha, a politician, as the new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir has sparked hopes of a political outreach in the Valley. Politics in Kashmir has been in limbo for a year with the government unwilling to loosen its grip on old parties like the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party, some of whose leaders, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, remain in detention. The tenure of Sinha’s predecessor G.C. Murmu, which ended unceremoniously on Wednesday, had been marked by his squabbles with top bureaucrats and a surge in militant violence against local BJP leaders that prompted several others to give up pro-India politics. Unlike the bureaucrat Murmu, Sinha is a three-time MP, former Union minister and a member of the BJP nation council. “It (his appointment) is apparently a signal to the so-called mainstream politicians that Delhi wants to reach out to them. But I’m afraid that Delhi has nothing to offer to us except statehood,” a politician released recently after months of detention told The Telegraph. “The problem is that asking for statehood (without restoration of special status) has become taboo. You had (former chief minister) Omar Abdullah recently asking for statehood, and he was roasted.” Sinha, however, begins his tenure on a controversial note, with many flagging his warning last year that “any eye that looks menacingly at BJP workers or any finger that points at them would not survive even four months”. “I am looking for a finger donor,” PDP politician Firdous Tak tweeted. “This is sahi main Apna Banda (He is truly a Sangh man).” During his nine months at the helm, Murmu had never seemed to have any connect with a population still traumatised over the scrapping of Article 370 and anxious that the Centre might force demographic changes. This may have prompted the recent pro-people utterances from Murmu — a call for early elections with or without delimitation and restoration of 4G services — that seemed to annoy the Centre. The Centre has already begun redrawing Assembly seats, seen as a move to give more seats to Hindu-majority areas in Jammu. And home secretary Shaleen Kabra extended the ban on 4G till at least August 19, days after Murmu’s call. Officials said Murmu had been locked in a “cold war” with a group of bureaucrats led by chief secretary B.V.R. Subrahmanyum, who flaunts his connections with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Pipped by Yogi in UP race, now J&K boss||Former Union minister Manoj Sinha, who was believed to have missed the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s chair by a whisker in 2017 before losing the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, has been appointed the new lieutenant governor of Jammu and Kashmir. For the 61-year-old dhoti-kurta-wearing heartland politician, the posting has come as a complete surprise, people close to him said. Sinha’s appointment suggests the Narendra Modi government is more comfortable with a politician in the Srinagar Raj Bhavan than a bureaucrat. The previous lieutenant governor, IAS officer G.C. Murmu, resigned on Wednesday and is expected to be appointed comptroller and auditor-general. Sinha had been licking his wounds since losing in last year’s general election from Ghazipur, which borders the Prime Minister’s constituency of Varanasi, despite a Narendra Modi wave. He had been disappointed in his expectation of returning to the Union ministry through the Rajya Sabha route, given his performance in the first Modi government as minister of state for communications (independent charge) and railways, and his past RSS association. Now, after more than a year of fruitless wait, he suddenly finds himself in charge of the troubled Valley. “He (Sinha) never expected to be appointed lieutenant governor, that too for the key Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” an associate said. “But he is happy and excited.” Sinha rushed to Srinagar on Thursday to take charge of his new job. The three-time Lok Sabha member had won Modi’s trust as a minister who did his job discreetly and sincerely. It’s this quality that, people close to him say, had made him the front-runner for the chief minister’s post in Lucknow when the BJP secured a big victory in the 2017 Assembly polls. Sources close to Sinha claimed he had been tipped from the top to prepare for the hot seat. Sinha had quietly left Delhi and begun offering prayers in temples in Varanasi, a city where he had cut his political teeth as a student leader. Suddenly and mysteriously, the saffron-clad monk Adityanath emerged on the scene and Sinha, the no-nonsense politician, lost out to the strident Hindutva hard-liner. Last year, an unfavourable caste combination ruined his chances in the general election despite voters in Ghazipur lauding him for his development efforts as Union minister. Sinha’s unwavering association with the RSS-BJP ideology now seems to have helped him bounce back. Sinha had been with RSS student wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad at Banaras Hindu University, from where he earned his BTech and MTech degrees, in the early 1980s. He had been elected students’ union president at BHU. In the early 1990s, he secured a place in the BJP national council. He won the Ghazipur Lok Sabha seat in 1996, 1999 and 2014. “We feel that the Srinagar assignment is a temporary one. His bond with the people of Ghazipur is too strong and he will return when the next Lok Sabha polls are held,” one of his confidants in Ghazipur said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Bhushan makes proof offer||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Thursday offered to produce evidence in support of two of his tweets that are facing contempt proceedings if the Supreme Court did not accept his “preliminary reply”. The top court on July 22 initiated contempt proceedings against Bhushan for two tweets — one about Chief Justice S.A. Bobde posing on a Harley Davidson motorbike and another alleging that democracy had been destroyed in the country during the last six years under the last four Chief Justices. In an application moved through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan also said that a lawyer’s complaint on the basis of which the Supreme Court had issued the suo motu contempt notice mentioned only the June 29 Harley Davidson tweet. Bhushan contended that when the court issued the notice almost a month later on July 22 and heard the matter, it also mentioned the June 27 tweet on democracy. The contempt notice had referred to a newspaper report that had “mysteriously” appeared the same day on the democracy tweet, Bhushan pointed out. Bhushan had in his preliminary reply justified the tweets saying it was his “bona fide impressions” and had sought to draw the inference that the Supreme Court had not dealt fairly with matters relating to the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute, the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, electoral bonds issued by the Modi government, the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and a host of other issues linked to the fundamental rights. He had said in his affidavit that the Supreme Court had “largely failed in its duty to protect these and thus failed to prevent the subversion of our democracy”. In his application filed on Thursday, Bhushan has requested the court that in case it is not satisfied with his preliminary reply and wishes to proceed further, he should be allowed to provide further evidence under Section 17(5) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. He has also pleaded for a copy of the complaint of advocate Mehak Maheshwari that forms the basis of the contempt case. Bhushan has cited the apex court ruling in the 2019 Vijay Kurle case wherein it had held that a contemnor is entitled to all materials on the basis of which he or she is sought to be prosecuted for contempt. He has also pleaded that the proceedings on the suo motu notice issued to him with respect to the June 27 tweet on democracy be placed before the Chief Justice of India for allocation to another bench, essentially seeking that the two tweets be dealt with separately. Bhushan’s case is before the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Bhushan Gavai and Krishna Murari. Justice Mishra is set to retire next month. “The Hon’ble Court converted Mr Maheswari’s petition which was only as regards the Harley Davidson tweet dated 29.06.2020 into a suo motu petition. Further, Suo Moto cognisance was taken by the Hon’ble Court of a second tweet of 27.06.2020 regarding ‘destruction of democracy’ that was mysteriously published in (a newspaper) on the morning of 22.07.2020 and notice was issued to me as regards that also,” Bhushan said in his application. According to him, the contempt notice did not include a copy of Maheshwari’s petition. This was in violation of Rule 6(2) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court, 1975, framed under Article 145 of the Constitution, Bhushan pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-744
07-08-2020||India||Temple plainspeak by Congress MP||Congress Lok Sabha member from Kerala T.N. Prathapan has strongly objected to the enthusiastic support offered to the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya by senior leaders such as Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh while endorsing the subtle line chosen by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Prathapan has written a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi saying: “We can’t chase an extreme religious nationalism with its soft prototype. We need to realise this situation and should accept an alternative immediately. That should be upon the legacy of the politics of unity, harmony and tolerance. “Let Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Subhas Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel be our models. I believe that what ultimately matters is not the failures we face, but it matters that we are not bowing low for the temporary successes.” While Rajya Sabha member and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya had said Rajiv Gandhi had already laid the foundation for the Ram temple, Kamal Nath, the recently deposed chief minister of the state, had organised a two-day Hanuman Chalisa recital to coincide with Wednesday’s bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya and promised to send 11 silver bricks for the construction of the temple. A day before the bhoomi pujan, Priyanka had issued a statement explaining how Lo-rd Ram symbolises sacrifice, truth, justice, righteousness, unification and fraternity. Prathapan wrote in the letter: “I strongly believe that the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi and the demolition of the Babri Masjid were the most treacherous incidents in independent India. The basic values that this country was built on, like secularism and pluralism, had been facing a devastating future all these times. It was always the Congress which held the hope of this great nation and (kept) its beautiful legacy of plurality alive.” Fearing that the temple would be used by the RSS for further communal politics, the Congress MP said: “The Supreme Court verdict on the Ayodhya land dispute was a hope that an era of hate politics would end. But unfortunately, it is going on relentlessly. We cannot take any type of stakes in it. I think that this particular event is a Sangh parivar sponsored ‘religious-political’ one. If we are not invited to this, why would our leaders beg for that?” Prathapan added: “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has taken a position which is acceptable, as she is wishing unity in the name of the temple. We certainly know that such unity wouldn’t be there as far as the Sangh parivar has power. “Still, by considering the ground realities of the politics in north India especially in Uttar Pradesh, Priyankaji has kept the concern and dignity in her statement. But, other statements of some other leaders like Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh have disappointed me a lot. “There are millions of people who are grieving in the memories of Babri Masjid even though they are accepting the court verdict because the demolition was a kind of attack to their conscience. We are including that demography also. We can’t leave them in despair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Muslim board member raps PM||An All India Muslim Personal Law Board member on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had violated the constitutional convention “by attending a function exclusively of the Hindu religion in a country where the members of other religions also have similar rights”. “The Prime Minister and the chief ministers are not for just one religion in a secular country like India. It would have been fine had Modi and Yogi Adityanath made it a private function instead of marking their presence as Prime Minister of India and chief minister of Uttar Pradesh,” Zafaryab Jilani, who was counsel for the Sunni Central Waqf Board in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, said. Modi had performed bhoomi pujan and laid the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Adityanath was with him. “If you look at it closely, you will find that it was a private function in which the Prime Minister and the chief minister were present officially. They used official flights and vehicles, deployed government officers to organise it, and wasted crores of the taxpayers’ money. They converted a religious programme into a celebration of the government,” Jilani said. “The Prime Minister said in his speech that the temple was going to be built at the same spot after many centuries of a continuous movement. He said (a previous Ram) temple was broken down. The Supreme Court had said in its order in November 2019 that there was no evidence of the construction of a temple there after the 12th century. This was based on the report of the Archaeological Survey of India. In that situation, where is the question of pulling down a temple to build a masjid?” The Hindu side had claimed in the Supreme Court that a Ram temple was razed in 1528 at the behest of Mughal emperor Babar and the Babri Masjid built at the spot. “We have accepted the order of the Supreme Court but the winner in the case is contradicting what the highest court of the country has already authenticated. Further, the Hindu side couldn’t confirm when Lord Ram was born there. Their statements were on record in the court that Lord Ram was born there 9 lakh to 1.5 crore years ago,” Jilani said. Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim plaintiff in the Ayodhya case, however, declined comment on the matter. “I don’t want to comment on this issue simply because I don’t want any further bitterness between the two communities. The court handed 2.77 acres of land to the Hindus and thus ended the dispute,” he said. “The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone — it was the choice of the government. It would be better if we look ahead and maintain peace and harmony in the country.” Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust that will oversee the temple’s construction, had two days ago played down comments by some Muslim leaders against Modi’s plan to attend the ceremony. “Some people may have their opinion but there is no point getting involved in that,” Rai had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Why is PM lying on China: Rahul ||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that Lord Ram’s “unwavering commitment to truth, honesty and righteousness” would be the source of national inspiration, his main rival Rahul Gandhi had occasion to confront him with a blunt question on why he is “lying”. The Congress leader was referring to media reports of a defence ministry document on Chinese intrusions at several places in Ladakh, an admission that runs counter to the Prime Minister’s claim that none had encroached into Indian territory or captured Indian posts. Uploading a media report on the defence ministry document uploaded on Wednesday and citing “unilateral aggression by China” since May 5 and transgressions, Rahul tweeted: “Why is the Prime Minister lying?” Four days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese at the Galwan Valley, Modi had told an all-party meeting on June 19: “Na wahan koi hamari seema mein ghus aaya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje mein hai (Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else).” The Congress couldn’t have prayed for a better opportunity to drag the Prime Minister out of the blinding triumphalism of Hindutva that the start of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has heralded barely hours earlier. Shortly after Rahul’s tweets and the media reports, the suspicions deepened when the document could no longer be found on the defence ministry website, providing the Congress leader another opportunity to open fire. Uploading a media report on the document disappearing from the website, Rahul tweeted: “Forget standing up to China, India’s Prime Minister lacks the courage even to name them. Denying China is in our territory and removing documents from websites won’t change the facts.” Rahul raised the matter again during the day while interacting with leaders from Bihar through videoconferencing. He emphasised that the Prime Minister had lied to the nation on Chinese intrusions and put even the Indian Army in a difficult spot by claiming that nobody had intruded into Indian territory. The former Congress president also dwelt on the disastrous economic situation, the mismanagement of the Covid crisis and the alarming unemployment situation while motivating party workers for the impending elections in Bihar. Other Congress seniors also moved in swiftly, bringing the discourse back to issues of vital national concern like the Chinese incursions, Jammu and Kashmir, the economy, jobs and even politics unconnected with religion and divinity. Party spokesperson Ajay Maken said at a media conference: “The Prime Minister should explain how the report vanished from the defence ministry website. Was it done to save the Prime Minister or any other reason prompted the withdrawal of the report?” He went on: “Though the facts about Chinese intrusions were known to the entire world — military commanders’ negotiations with the Chinese and satellite pictures made it absolutely clear — the Prime Minister’s June 19 statement and flip-flops by the government created confusion. But this was an official confirmation by the defence minister as the report had a section on Chinese transgressions. It also said the standoff might be prolonged.” Maken asked why the Prime Minister had made the claims when official records make it clear that the Chinese had entered Indian territory as early as May 17-18. “What is true — what the defence ministry said or what the Prime Minister said?” the Congress spokesperson asked. Asked if defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had raised the Chinese encroachment during a visit to Ladakh last month, should resign over the flip-flops, Maken said: “The defence minister had publicly talked of the intrusions and even said there was no guarantee of disengagement. We want a clarification from the Prime Minister.” The Congress also criticised Modi for comparing the temple movement with India’s freedom struggle. Senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge said: “The Prime Minister’s comparison of India’s freedom struggle and the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in equal measure is untenable. The freedom struggle had united all of us irrespective of caste and creed, while the other movement was meant to polarise and divide the society. Nationalism cannot be driven through religion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Why sharp blades lose edge to hair & cheese ||Three scientists in the US on Thursday delivered the most comprehensive account yet for an everyday observation unexplained for centuries — how the sharpest steel blades soften after cutting things much softer, whether potatoes, cheese or hair. Through cutting experiments observed under electron microscopy, |the materials science researchers |at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have identified three |factors that contribute to the wear of |steel-blade edges under realistic |shaving conditions. Their studies suggest that micro-|cr­a­­cks that emerge from microscopic |ir­re­gularities on the blade edge, micro-str­uctural variations in the blade |edge, and differences in the cutting |angles resulting from hair bending while being cut, all work in concert |to weaken the edge. The findings, to be published |on Friday in the US journal Science, provide micromechanical insights into how stainless-steel blades 50 times harder than human hair can cause the wear and suggest strategies to create longer-lasting sharp edges. “Bits of this puzzle were known — there are different factors at play. Our work shows the full picture of what’s going on,” Cemal Cem Tasan, an associate |professor of metallurgy at MIT who |led the research, told The Telegraph |over the phone. Tasan and research scholars Gianluca Roscioli and Seyedeh Mohadeseh Taheri-Mousavi performed cutting experiments and documented through electron microscopy the contact-interactions between blade edges and hair, simulating real shaving conditions through disposable razor cartridges. They used image analysis to quantify the average blade wear along the sharp edge. The level of wear they observed was 12 cubic nanometres per nanometre after five shaves and 13 cubic nanometres per nanometre after 10 shaves. But the tests also revealed chips along the sharp edge. The researchers have underlined that although at a macroscopic level the edge appears sharp and smooth, it is actually rugged and uneven. Their studies have shown that micro-cracks emerge from these microscopic irregularities on the edge. They have identified two additional factors that contribute to the wear — the presence of heterogeneity or micro-structural diversity at the blade edge and the relative positions of the irregularities on the edge and hair during the cutting process. “This micro-structural heterogeneity is something that might be relatively easier to engineer,” Roscioli told this newspaper. “This is impressive work — it shows the actual reasons for blunting,” said Kuttanellore Muraleedharan, a senior materials science researcher and director of the Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute, Calcutta, who was not involved in the study. The scientists have filed a patent application for a technique to reduce this heterogeneity, which would bring more uniformity to the edge and improve its hardness. Tasan said the study was part of a broader effort in his lab to understand how materials behave and specifically why they fail under certain circumstances. Insights into failure mechanisms could lead to strategies to improve the performance and the lifespan of the materials. “The study shows that blunting of sharp edges occurs through three modes of deformation,” Muraleedharan said. “Technology to reduce blunting could have huge industrial applications — although makers of disposable blades would probably turn it down.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Vanished: Red-hot document on China||An official document acknowledging China had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh was quietly removed from the defence ministry website on Thursday. Ministry officials said this was done as the document contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s June 19 assertion that none had entered Indian territory or captured Indian posts. Uploaded on Wednesday, it was the first government document to admit to Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control, which happened in early May and snowballed into a clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15, killing 20 Indian soldiers. “It was taken down this morning following instructions from the top brass as it could have triggered a political controversy,” a defence ministry official told The Telegraph on Thursday. “Somehow, it had escaped us that its content did not match the Prime Minister’s earlier statement.” “Chinese aggression has been increasing along the LAC and more particularly in Galwan Valley since May 5, 2020. The Chinese side transgressed in the areas of Kugrang Nala, Gogra and north bank of Pangong Tso Lake on 17-18 May, 2020,” the document said. It added: “The situation in eastern Ladakh arising from unilateral aggression by China continues to be sensitive and requiring close monitoring and prompt action based on evolving situation.” The document, titled “Chinese Aggression on LAC”, was part of the website’s “What’s New” section. Its ambit was the month of June, ministry sources said. “It was part of the routine updates and reports, based on the ground situation, that the ministry uploads regularly on its website,” a ministry official said. A defence ministry spokesperson refused comment. Kugrang Nala refers to Patrolling Point 15, north of Hot Springs and Gogra PP-17A and adjoining the Pangong Lake, where Chinese troops have held on to newly acquired territory up to 8km inside India-claimed lines despite five rounds of military talks. The Chinese have also occupied territory up to 18km within India-claimed lines in the Depsang Plains in northern Ladakh, but the document restricts its focus to eastern Ladakh. Four days after the clash that killed 20 Indian soldiers, Modi had said: “Na wahan koi hamari seema mein ghus aaya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje mein hai (Neither has anyone intruded into our frontiers there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else).” The government has since then only added the qualification that the statement referred to the post-June 15 situation, thus reaffirming that no intruders have been occupying Indian territory for the past 52 days. Two days before Modi’s statement, India’s foreign ministry had said: “The Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC. While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties.” Ministers have since Modi’s statement largely tried to avoid the topic of Chinese intrusion. Last month, defence minister Rajnath Singh tied himself in knots trying to stick to the official line during a Ladakh visit. He first asserted that no one could “touch or capture even an inch of Indian territory”, implying there was no intrusion. He then said the “progress” of the talks suggested the situation should be resolved — implying intrusion. Finally, he said he couldn't give any “guarantee” (of a resolution). The ministry document said that following the transgression, ground-level interactions were held between the two armies to try and defuse the situation. “(A) corps commander-level flag meeting was held on June 6. However, a violent face-off incident took place between the two sides on June 15 resulting in casualties from both sides,” it said. “Subsequently, (a) second (round of) military-level talks took place on June 22 to discuss modalities of (the) de-escalation process. While engagement and dialogue at military and diplomatic level is continuing to arrive at mutually acceptable consensus, the present standoff is likely to be prolonged.” A ground assessment by the security establishment last week had revealed that the Chinese had not disengaged from the Pangong Lake or the Depsang Plains, while the minimal disengagement at Hot Springs/Gogra did not honour the agreement struck during the fourth round of military talks on July 14. Instead, the Chinese have made ownership claims on the areas around the Pangong Lake they have occupied, raising fears they are aiming at “a revised status quo” and dashing hopes of any progress through the military talks. Defence ministry sources said that during the fifth round of military talks on Sunday, China had asked the Indian side to pull back from its present military position north of the Pangong Lake as part of the negotiations to break the logjam. “This was shocking to say the least, and the Indian side rejected it outright,” a ministry official said. “They are already occupying our land in the Pangong Lake and are demanding we should move back further as a pre-condition for disengagement. Any retreat by India would mean leaving an area that is under our control. This would certainly change the status quo.” India has already retreated 1.5km within its own claimed territory in the Galwan Valley — the only area to witness substantial disengagement — in response to the Chinese pulling back by a similar distance although they are said to be still within India-claimed lines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||Salary crisis in varsities and schools||Six days into August, teachers and staff of two central universities dedicated to Sanskrit education are yet to receive their salaries for July. Private schools say they can’t pay teacher salaries because parents are refusing to pay the school fees, citing the coronavirus-induced classroom closure. Many private colleges are sending their teachers on unpaid leave. The education sector at large is reeling amid a pandemic-hit economy, although the reasons for the salary delay at the Sanskrit universities are not clear. The delay has shocked the 400-plus regular and contract teachers and the about 100 other employees at the Delhi-based Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and the Central Sanskrit University (CSU). “Never has such a delay happened before. At the end of the financial year in March, the salary is sometimes delayed by a day or two. Otherwise, we always get the salary on the last working day of the month,” a teacher at the Shastri University said. “Luckily, I had the required amount in my bank for my EMI, which I pay on the fifth of every month. I shall have to borrow money for the rest of my expenses.” Both these premier Sanskrit-teaching institutions were upgraded in April from deemed university to central university through a law enacted earlier this year. A contract teacher at the CSU said the salary delay wasn’t the only issue. Immediately after the institution became a central university, all the 160 contract teachers on its 12 campuses had to wait without work or pay for over two months. A teacher said that previously, the teachers’ yearly contracts started with the academic session in mid-June and ended with it in mid-May, meaning they were unpaid for a month. “We had expected our jobs to be regularised after our institution became a central university. But this year our contracts were not renewed for two months, and we had no salary from May 18 to July 21,” the teacher said. Shastri University vice-chancellor Ramesh Pandey said the University Grants Commission had not released the salary funds this month. “It will come soon; I have checked with the UGC. They have sanctioned the funds. For some reason it could not come on time,” he said, without elaborating. Neither the commission nor the education ministry answered emails seeking the reasons for the delay. Teachers and staff of 12 colleges under Delhi University have not received their salaries for the past three months, either. These colleges are funded by the Delhi government, which has withheld funds on the ground that their governing bodies are vacant. The colleges have received notices threatening to cut their electricity, telephone and Internet connections if they don’t clear their bills. About half the parents, on an average, have defaulted on fee payment in the past four months, several school principals said. Such default is higher in the rural areas where the online classes are grappling with problems like poor Internet services, lack of gadgets, unhelpful home environments and power failures. Besides, the lockdown has hit incomes, constraining the parents’ ability to pay the fees. Amit Kumar Srivastava, principal of the Lotus Public School in Pipraich town of Gorakhpur district, Uttar Pradesh, said that 90 per cent of parents had since March not paid the monthly fees, which range between Rs 400 and Rs 600. “The parents are hesitant about online classes. They say they would resume paying after the school reopens,” Srivastava said. He said the school’s 18 teachers had been asked to look for alternative jobs till normal classes resumed. If the situation doesn’t improve in a few months, he said, the school will close down. Ashok Pandey, director of the Ahlcon Group of Schools in Delhi, too complained of unpaid student fees. “Private schools are funded entirely by the fees the parents pay. The courts have not given the parents any relief; many state governments also agree in principle that the parents must pay fees, albeit a reduced amount. That should be acceptable to the parents,” he said. “Fee payment is an unwritten trust deed that must not be breached. The schools too must examine the individual hardship of the parents.” The Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi has said the private schools can only charge tuition fees but have to pay full salaries to teachers and other staff. Srinivasan Sriram, principal of The Mann School, and Pandey said this was “not feasible”. “Fee compliance by the parents is about 50 per cent. Many schools cannot pay full salaries because they haven’t the money,” Sriram said. “Some parents may genuinely be facing difficulties but several others may be taking advantage of the coronavirus crisis.” A private college in Odisha asked its teachers to go on leave without pay as early as April. “I’m still on leave without pay; the college will inform me when to rejoin,” one of the teachers said. He said most private colleges had adopted this strategy while some had forced teachers to resign. The All India Council of Technical Education has received complaints of salary default and issued a public notice asking institutions to desist from such practice. H. Chaturvedi, alternate president of the Educational Promotion Society of India — an association of private professional institutions — said these colleges were in a crisis. “In several countries the governments have given (an economic) package to educational institutions, including private institutions. But the financial package announced by the (Indian) government offered no relief to the stressed private educational institutions,” he said. “Institutions that need help should be provided with working capital at zero to five per cent interest, repayable in the next five years. The government should frame a policy on this,” Chaturvedi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
07-08-2020||India||70 doctors of Odisha hospital quarantined||As many as  70 doctors of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Science and Research (VIMSAR) at Burla here have been put under quarantine after some of them showed symptoms of Covid-19. Director, VIMSAR, professor Lalit Kumar Meher told The Telegraph, “Majority of them are from the medicine department and the rest are from other departments. In the course of discharging their duty, they had come in contact with Covid-19 patients. After some of them developed mild symptoms, we went for contact tracing and put all the 70 doctors under quarantine.” “Those who have mild symptoms will be tested for the virus after undergoing seven-day quarantine and if found negative they will be allowed to join duty,” he said. Sources said nearly 38 doctors of medicine department of the institute have been put under quarantine. The out patient department (OPD) of the hospital has been closed for seven days. “Like other reputed institutes, we are offering telemedicine services and carry out emergency services on a priority basis. Even though we are short of staff, we have been able to render good service to the people,” Meher said. People can contact the hospital on 7655051598 and 7655051601 to avail of its telemedicine services, officials said. So far, 15 doctors from VIMSAR have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Not only VIMSAR, other medical institutes such as the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Sishu Bhavan and Acharya Harihar Cancer Institute, Cuttack, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, and a dozen of hospitals located in different parts of the state have been hit by the pandemic and been forced to limit their services. Besides doctors, frontline workers such as police officers,  Anaganwadi workers and several others, who are working overtime to contain the spread of the virus, have been hit by the virus. On Thursday, Khurda district superintendent of police Ajay Pratap Swain and 10 employees of state health and family welfare department were tested positive for Covid-19. Seven CRPF jawans tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The state has so far reported 40,717 corona positive cases. It witnessed the highest ever-single day spike of 1,699 cases on Thursday. So far, 235 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and 25,737 people have recovered. In order to keep the morale of frontline warriors, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had on Wednesday held prayers for them. A minute’s silence was observed by people across the state at 6pm on the call of the chief minister to express solidarity with Covid warriors. The state government has stepped up efforts to provide plasma therapy to as many patients as possible. The government has set up five plasma banks in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-745
