08-08-2020||India||Black box recovered, sent to accident investigation bureau||The crucial black box of the ill-fated Air India Express flight that could throw light on how it overshot the runway here and crashed was recovered on Saturday with the toll in the accident rising to 18 after a passenger succumbed to injuries, officials said. Investigations into the cause of the crash are underway with top officials of the airlines and aviation regulator DGCA rushing here. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri also arrived here to oversee relief measures. The AIE flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the tabletop runway at the international airport in Karipur, about 30km from here in neighbouring Mallapuram district, while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. The state government said the condition of 23 of the 149 injured undergoing treatment at various hospitals was critical. One person succumbed to his injuries, taking the toll to 18. "The digital flight data recorder (DFDR) and cockpit voice recorder (CVR) of the aircraft have been retrieved. AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau) is conducting investigations," Puri tweeted. The minister said he would consult "with senior civil aviation officials & professionals", adding that the reasons for the mishap, in which the two pilots were among those dead, were being investigated. Puri later announced Rs 10 lakh interim relief for each of the deceased, Rs 2 lakh for the seriously injured and Rs 50,000 for those who suffered minor injuries. He also said the pilot in-command of the crashed Boeing 737 aircraft Deepak Vasant Sathe, a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF), was one of the most experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Karipur airport in the past. The state government said Rs 10 lakh each would be given as compensation to the families of the deceased. The medical expenses of those under treatment will be taken over by the government, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. While the toll was put at 17 on Friday, it rose to 18 with the death of one more person, Malappuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said. According to the official list released by him, four of the deceased were children -- three girls and a one-year old boy -- and seven were men and other women. Two girls were aged two and the other was five. "Currently, 149 people are in various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode, out of which 23 are critical. Earlier, 23 were discharged after being provided initial medical assistance," Vijayan said. The chief minister along with Governor Arif Mohammad Khan visited the injured at the Kozhikoide Medical College hospital. Vijayan, who held a high-level meeting here in which Governor Khan also participated, told reporters that all the crash victims would be tested for Covid-19. "So far, only one victim has tested positive for coronavirus," he said. The CM appreciated the instant response of residents living in the vicinity of the airport and also the local authorities to the tragedy, which ensured minimum loss of lives in a disaster of such large magnitude. Black box with aviation investigation bureau An official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the “black box”, comprising the data recorder and the voice recorder, are with the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau and will be sent to Delhi for further investigation. The cockpit voice recorder keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane’s cockpit and along with the digital flight data recorder that details such as airspeed, altitude and fuel flow can help in finding out the cause of the crash, the official said. Amid the tragedy, there was a coronavirus scare too with samples of a passenger who died in the mishap testing positive for the pathogen, prompting  state health minister K.K. Shailaja asking all those engaged in rescue operations to go on self-quarantine and get themselves tested.Minister assures victim families Puri also assured the kin of victims that steps would be taken to get them compensation in line with an international convention of International Civil Aviation Organisation(ICAO). "We are working very closely with the state and central machineries to tide over the difficult situation and extend possible support to the families of deceased passengers and provide all kinds of assistance to the injured," Puri said. Earlier, he along with his ministerial colleague V Muraleedharan and others visited the accident site. Muraleedharan, the minister of state for external affairs, arrived here this morning from New Delhi on the directive of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Four crew members safe The Air India Express said four crew members of the flight were safe, while the employees union of the low-cost carrier, said they were under treatment at the hospital here for injuries suffered in the mishap. It said families of the deceased pilots have been escorted to Kozhikode. The airline also said three relief flights had been arranged to assist passengers and their family members affected in the accident that also brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010 at Mangaluru International Airport. The flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and plunged down the cliff into a wooded valley, killing 158 people.Glare on airport safety As top officials rushed here for investigations, it emerged the aviation regulator had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found "various critical safety lapses". The DCGA had pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice, an official said. It had conducted the inspection after an Air India Express flight coming from Dammam in Saudi Arabia had a "tail strike" while landing at the airport here on July 2 last year, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Tabletop runways: the threat it poses||Constructed on elevated terrains and mostly having little space for last minute maneuver, tabletop runways at times pose challenges for pilots while landing their aircraft. Air India Express planes have crashed at least twice on such runways in little over a decade. At least five airports, including the one at Kozhikode where an Air India Express aircraft crashed on Friday, have tabletop runways. Tabletop runways are constructed on hilly or elevated terrains. Also, there could be low lying areas adjacent to such runways and there could be gorges at the end of such runways. Airports Authority of India (AAI) Chairman Arvind Singh said tabletop runways are there at four airports operated by it. They are at Kozhikode, Mangalore (Karnakata), Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) and Pakyong (Sikkim). The Lengpui airport in Mizoram, which is with the state government, also has a tabletop runway. State-owned AAI operates 137 aerodromes, including the ones through joint ventures. A senior Air India pilot said that automation might not help in the case of tabletop runways. There is also the issue of optical illusion, where the runway might seem to be nearer whereas it would actually be further away, he added. The pilot also stressed that there is not much buffer zone unlike normal runways. There are tabletop runways in different parts of the world and only when the runway length is less, there could be issues with landing of aircraft. In the case of Kozhikode airport, the runway is about 9,000 feet which is quite long, according to a senior regulatory official. Tabletop runways are there at some airports, both in north and south India, he added. According to the official, pilots are generally told about such runways and various restrictions. In the Court of Inquiry report about the plane crash at Mangalore airport in May 2010, it was mentioned that there were three tabletop airports in the country from where scheduled flights operate at Mangalore, Kozhikode and Lengpui. "Because of the undulating terrain and constraints of space, these airfields require extra skill and caution while carrying out flight operations. "The hazard of undershooting and overshooting, in particular, can lead to grave situations, as was the case in this accident," the report had said. It had also said that tabletop runways have a problem of access roads around the airfield, which may need to be used in case of aircraft accidents. Citing ICAO data, the report had also said that most of the accidents occur during landing and take-off phases, with a large number of runway excursions and aircraft overrunning into the overshoot area. "Considering the large momentum of these aircraft, a downward slope in the overrun area can worsen the outcome. It is therefore recommended that such downward slopes as obtaining in Mangalore be brought to the same level of the runway surface. "This also needs to be ensured at all tabletop airports in the country," the report had said. Regarding the Air India Express plane that crashed on Friday, AAI said it had touched down around 1,000 metres from the beginning of the runway at the Kozhikode airport before breaking up into two pieces. The Boeing 737-800 aircraft while landing overshot the runway and went down 35 feet into a slope before breaking up into two pieces. The pilot of the flight -- IX-1344 -- could not sight the runway in the first landing attempt due to heavy rains. An AAI spokesperson said that runway 28 was in use and in the first landing attempt the pilot could not sight the runway and requested for runway 10. The pilot then steered the plane to runway 10 and came from the other side, according to the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Kerala landslides: Toll rises to 24||The toll in the massive landslide that flattened a row of 20 houses of tea estate workers in the high range Idukki district of Kerala climbed to 24, as efforts were underway amid continuing rains to locate those missing. The Police, Fire service personnel and the locals have teamed with two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and are searching for missing persons feared to be trapped in the debris that has been spread over in the area. As per the records available with the district administration, 46 people are still missing. "The death toll has gone up to 24. The search operations are still going on. However, rains have started. Despite that, our officials, and the NDRF are engaged in search and rescue operations," Idukki District Collector H Dineshan said. Twelve people were rescued on Friday and are receiving treatment, he said. The weatherman has issued a red alert for the district on Saturday and Sunday. The picturesque landscape of Pettimudi was flattened into a rough patch of boulders and mud with parts of asbestos and tin sheets seen scattered around. The incident is said to have occurred in the wee hours of Friday when a huge mound of earth fell on the "row houses" and two children and five women were among the deceased, most of whom were plantation workers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. NDRF chief in charge of south Indian state, Rekha Nambiar told the media that a 55-member team is entrusted with the searchand rescue mission and hopes to rescue everyone. "Two of our teams are engaged in the search operations and there is a river nearby, the bodies are likely to be stuck in the slush. Search will be carried out on the banks of the river too," Nambiar said. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has revised the red alert warnings and said Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur will receiveextreme heavy rainfall above 20 cms on Saturday. The IMD has also said the alert will be there for Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts on Sunday as well. According to the State Disaster Management Authority, Kerala received an average rainfall of 95 mm in the last 24 hours while Vadakara in Kozhikode recorded 32.7 cms of rain, the heaviest in the state. Vaythiri in Wayanad received 19.3 cms of rain while Peerumedu in Idukki district 18.5 cms. In the four-month-long Southwest monsoon season, which began in June first week, Kerala has reported a total of 51 deaths till Thursday night due to various incidents of drowning, landslides, and tree fall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Shaken and stunned, Kozhikode crash survivors recall the horror that was||It all happened in a flash. Or so it seemed. Just when they thought they had reached home, their plane skidded off the runway at the airport here, breaking into two as it fell into a 35-feet gorge in pelting rain, survivors of the crash said on Saturday.  It was a black Friday for all the 184 passengers who after a long wait managed to get tickets in the repatriation flight from Dubai as part of the Centre's Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus pandemic.  For some, the homecoming never happened. Eighteen people were killed, including the two pilots. For others, the screams of their fellow passengers trapped in the twisted metal, the injuries, the close brush with death and the interminable wait to be rescued are part of a nightmare they may take a long time to wake up from.  The four cabin crew were among the 172 people who escaped with injuries. Officials said 149 people were admitted to various hospitals and that 16 are in a serious condition.  As they recovered from their injuries, some shaken and traumatised, others still coming to terms with what had happened, there were those who said there was much to be thankful for.  Like Ramshad. He is injured but his wife Sufaira and four-year-old daughter Saidasherin escaped without any serious wounds.  "We did not realise what really happened other than the fact that the flight was shaking," said Ramshad, from Vatakara near Kozhikode, grateful that his family was spared.  Ashraf, who belongs to east Kozhikode, now under treatment at the Medical College Hospital here, said he is yet to recover from the shock.  Recalling the frantic moments, another survivor said people jumped out into the wooded darkness in the rain from the emergency door.  "As soon the flight crashed, the emergency door was opened and people jumped out to safety, the survivor said.  Vijaymohan, who escaped with minor injuries and is recovering in a private hospital, said he thought it was a nightmare, unsure whether he was dreaming it all or living through it.  "I thought it was a nightmare. I could see heaps of twisted metal spread around when I opened my eyes after the initial shock of the impact," said Vijayamohan, a resident of nearby Malaparamba.  His wife Jameema is admitted in the ICU. The couple had gone to Dubai in December to join their son but got held up due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown.  Describing the horrific minutes that stretched into what seemed like hours, Riyas said the flight went around the airport twice before attempting to land.  "I was in the back seat. There was a big noise and I don't know what happened after that," he told a media channel after he was rescued.  Fathima, another passenger, said the flight landed with heavy force and moved forward.  Ashik, undergoing treatment at a hospital here, was thankful to the fire personnel who reached immediately and moved the injured to safety.  Unmindful of the rain and the risk of contracting the coronavirus infection, locals joined police, fire and other forces in the heroic rescue effort.  Shimna Azeer, a doctor at a private hospital, who attended to some of the injured, said she was astonished at the willingness of the volunteers who helped in taking the injured to hospitals.  In spite of the Covid-19 restrictions and the heavy downpour, the volunteers did a fantastic job, forgetting about the safety to their own lives as they selflessly got into the rescue operations, wearing masks that got wet, Azeer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Kerala govt, Aviation minister announces compensation||The Kerala government on Saturday announced Rs 10 lakh compensation to the families of those who died when an Air India Express flight veered off the runway while attempting to land at the Karipur international airport in Kozhikode. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday reached Kozhikode to take stock of the status and implementation of relief measures. He also announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for each of the deceased, Rs 2 lakh for the seriously injured and Rs 50,000 for those who suffered minor injuries. At least 18 people have lost their lives and 149 are under treatment at various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode districts, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media after a high-level meeting held at the district in which state Governor Arif Mohammed Khan also participated. "The state government has decided to provide a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the families of those who have lost their lives. The medical expenses of those under treatment will be taken over by the state government," Vijayan told the reporters. The CM also said out of the 18 who died, 14 are adults and four are children. Currently,149 people are admitted to various hospitals of Malappuram and Kozhikode, out of which 23 are in critical condition. Another 23 have been discharged after receiving initial medical assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Seven family members on board, all survive||Dubai-based Indian expatriate Shemir Vadakkan Pathappiriyam is exhausted but overjoyed as all the seven members of his and his brother's family survived the Air India Express plane crash in Kerala that claimed the lives of at least 18 co-passengers on Friday. Since Friday evening, 41-year-old Shemir, who works as a logistics manager in Dubai Silicon Oasis, has been making frantic phone calls to different trauma centres in Kerala near the Kozhikode airport to get information of his family members on board the flight. The Air India Express flight IX-1344 from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night while landing in heavy rain and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 18 people, including pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Sathe and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar . "The news came as a real shock and we couldn't contact them for a long time," Shemir told PTI. "When I finally managed to speak to my wife, she told me that she and the other family members were rescued by the local people," he said and thanked the authorities and the local people who rushed to his family's rescue at the site of the crash. Shemir's wife was travelling with their two daughters and a son. His brother Safvan's wife and their daughter and a son were also on board the Vande Bharat flight from Dubai to Kozhikode. Shemir said the family members were wounded in the crash but their injuries are not life threatening. However, they are admitted in trauma centres of three different hospitals in Calicut and Malappuram in Kerala. "My brother's visa had expired, so we decided to send both the families together," Shemir said. His brother 35-year-old Safvan, who works as an accountant, was not on the flight. According to the Civil Aviation Ministry, the Boeing 737 aircraft was carrying 184 people, including 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew. The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the deceased and the injured passengers. Abdul Manaf, another Dubai expat said he was relieved to finally get in touch with his wife Hadiya, and child, who are currently in a hospital in Kozhikode. "Such a relief after speaking to her. You can imagine what I went through after hearing the news," Manaf told Khaleej Times. They were in Dubai for four months on a visit visa. According to India's newly appointed Consul General to Dubai Dr Aman Puri, there were all kinds of Indians on-board the flight. "Some were visa cancellation and expiry cases, some were travelling to meet their family members, some having lost their jobs, and some were travelling on medical emergencies," Puri told the local media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||DGCA found various safety lapses at Calicut airport||Aviation regulator DGCA had issued a show-cause notice to the director of the Kozhikode airport on July 11 last year after it found "various critical safety lapses", officials said on Saturday. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation pointed to cracks on the runway, water stagnation and excessive rubber deposits among other lapses in its show-cause notice. The DGCA conducted the inspection after an Air India Express flight coming from Dammam in Saudi Arabia had a "tail strike" while landing at the Calicut (Kozhikode) airport on July 2 last year, an official said. Friday’s crash of an Air Indian Express flight from Dubai occurred a little over a year later. Th plane, with 190 people on board overshot "runway 10" at the Calicut airport in heavy rain and went down 35 feet into a gorge before breaking into two pieces, killing at least 18 people. Among the dead were the Vande Bharat flight’s captain-in-command, Deepak Vasanth Sathe, his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar and an 18-month-old child, officials said in Kerala. Rescue operations were completed around midnight and airport operations resumed at 3 am on Saturday morning. The digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder have been recovered from the crash site, a DGCA official told PTI. "After the July 2 incident last year, the DGCA inspected the airport on July 4 and July 5 and found various critical safety lapses," said a senior DGCA official. On July 11, Kozhikode airport director K Srinivasa Rao was issued a show cause notice, added another DGCA official. However, it is not clear if any action was taken against Rao after the show-cause was issued. The show-cause notice said, "Cracks are observed at runway 28 TDZ (touchdown zone) and along runway C/L (center/left) marking at runway 10 TDZ". The touchdown zone (TDZ) is the part where the aircraft first contacts the surface while landing. The touchdown zone is ahead of the threshold area of the runway. The notice also said "excessive rubber deposit" was observed in the area from runway C/L marking to three metres on both the sides of touchdown zone of runway 28. Similar excessive rubber deposits were found by the DGCA along runway C/L marking of touchdown zone of runway 10, according to the notice. "Water stagnation of about 1.5 metre length was observed on the area between runway edge and intermediate turn pad on runway 28," it said. Besides, the DGCA found several cracks in aircraft stand number 5. It also observed that a "portion of Apron surface" of about 111 metres was damaged, it said. Apron is the area of the airport where aircraft are parked, refuelled and where passengers board. "A steep downward slope of approximately five feet depth is observed immediately after the apron behind aircraft number 1, which needs to be levelled and graded," the notice said. The DGCA observed a shortage of reserve stock of 6,630 litres of Aqueous Film Forming Foam concentrate (AFFF) and 140 kg of "DCP complementary agent" - both are used to put out fires - at the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) station of the airport. Scheduled international passenger flights remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Indian Consulate in Dubai to remain open on Saturday||The Indian Consulate in Dubai will remain open on Saturday to help those who need assistance to travel to Kerala and provide information about the crash of the Air India Express flight that skidded off a hilltop runway and split in two while landing in heavy rain at an airport in Kozhikode, killing at least 18 people. According to the Civil Aviation Ministry, the Boeing 737 aircraft on a flight from Dubai to Kozhikode overshot the runway at Kozhikode airport at 7.41 PM on Friday. There were 184 passengers including 10 infants, 2 pilots and 4 cabin crew on board the aircraft, the ministry added. Captain Deepak Sathe, the pilot-in-command, and his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar were among those who died, police and airline officials said on Friday. Sathe was a former Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and had served at the force's flight testing establishment. "We are with all the families of injured and deceased and will do our best to assist them," the consulate tweeted on Friday evening. It said the consulate will remain open on Saturday to share any information related to the crash. India's newly appointed Consul General to Dubai Dr Aman Puri said that there were all kinds of Indians on-board the IX 1344 flight, which took off from Dubai and fell into a valley 35 feet below before broking into two portions. "Some were visa cancellation and expiry cases, some were travelling to meet their family members, some having lost their jobs, and some were travelling on medical emergencies," Puri told the local media. The Indian consulates in Dubai and Sharjah have activated five helpline numbers to provide information to the family members of the deceased and the injured passengers. We pray for the wellbeing of passengers and crew and will keep you updated as and when we receive further updates. Our helplines +97156 5463903, +971543090572, +971543090571, +971543090575, Puri told PTI on Friday. The helpline number to call in Sharjah for updates is +97165970303, the Gulf News reported. Air India Express has also established a helpline number in Sharjah at +971 6 5970303. The Air India Express is a wholly owned subsidiary of Air India and it has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. TV footage from the accident site showed the aircraft split into two pieces and the debris lay scattered on the ground. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among several leaders who expressed shock at the accident. Modi also spoke to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. "Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode. My thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. May the injured recover at the earliest," the prime minister tweeted. The mishap brought back memories of the crash of Air India Express flight IX 812 on May 22, 2010 at Mangaluru International Airport. The flight from Dubai had overshot the runway and plunged down the cliff into a wooded valley, killing 158 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-741
08-08-2020||India||Three rescue flights reach Kozhikode to aid passengers||Air India Express said on Saturday that three relief flights had been arranged to Kozhikode in Kerala to assist passengers and their family members affected by the plane crash a day ago. It stated that Air India Chairman and Managing Director Rajiv Bansal, and Air India Express Chief Executive Officer K Shyam Sundar had already reached Kozhikode. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode airport on Friday night while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing at least 18 people. Two special relief flights have been arranged from Delhi and one from Mumbai for rendering humanitarian assistance to all the passengers and the family members, the airline, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, said. "The Emergency Response Director is coordinating with all the agencies in Calicut (Kozhikode), Mumbai as well as Delhi, Dubai for effective emergency response," it said in a statement. "The AAIB (Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau), DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) & Flight Safety Departments have reached for investigating the accident," it added. Officials said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri would go to Kozhikode on Saturday. The airline said its chief of operations and the chief of flight safety had already reached Kozhikode. Eighteen people, including two pilots, have died in the incident, it said. "The four cabin crew members are confirmed safe." The aircraft was a Boeing 737. "We are aware of media reports from Kozhikode International Airport (Karipur Airport) in Calicut, India," aircraft manufacturer Boeing said in a statement. "We are gathering more information, and closely monitoring the situation. We have reached out to our customer to offer our assistance," it said. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. However, special repatriation flights have been operated by Air India and Air India Express since May 6 under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Delhi drive for job portal||Delhi’s employment minister Gopal Rai has announced a campaign to increase enrolments with the state government’s job portal, launched to beat back job loss caused by the lockdown. “Nearly 9 lakh job vacancies are still open and the employers are looking for people…. Till today, 8.64 lakh job seekers have enrolled with the portal. This shows that the number of job seekers is less than the number of jobs available,” Rai said in a webcast on Friday. Since its launch on July 27, the Delhi government’s Rozgar Bazar job portal, which allows job seekers and private employers to seek each other out, has received advertisements for 22 lakh jobs in 6,271 firms. Around 3.5 lakh ads have been weeded out on grounds of duplication and fake posts. Rai said 10 lakh vacancies had been filled up. He added: “We are aware of the fact that many construction workers will not have access to the Internet. I will request all the youths of Delhi that if you know any such person then please come forward and help them. There are various private websites for jobs but this website is completely free. “Many vacancies are still there, so more and more people should apply. From next week, the Delhi government will launch a poster campaign to reach out to more people,” Rai said. Jasmine Shah, the vice-chairman of the government think tank Dialogue and Development Commission, told The Telegraph: “We’re allowing applicants and companies from not just Delhi but all over the National Capital Region. In reality, we are getting applicants from all over India.” He said the publicity campaign would focus on middle class and working class neighbourhoods, which have been hit hardest by the job losses during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Unesco recognises two Odisha villages as Tsunami Ready ||Two coastal villages of Odisha, the first in the country, were on Friday declared “Tsunami Ready” by Unesco. With this India has become the first country in the Indian Ocean region to achieve this honour, the Odisha government. Unesco also handed over the ‘Certificate of Recognition’ to the state government on Friday. Additional chief secretary and managing director, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority (OSDMA), P.K. Jena said: “The Venkatraipur (Boxipalli) village of Rangeilunda block in Ganjam district and Noliasahi village in Ersama block of Jagatsinghpur district have been recognised by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of Unesco for their high degree of preparedness to face a natural disaster like tsunami. The two villages are completely ready to face any kind of tsunami and certificates were handed over to the communities of Venkatraipur and Noliasahi as Tsunami Ready villages in a virtual event.” Indian Ocean had first witnessed an earthquake-triggered tsunami on December 26, 2004. It killed more than 2.3 lakh people in 14 countries of the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready Programme of IOC-Unesco is a community performance-based programme that facilitates tsunami preparedness as an active collaboration of the community, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. The main objective of this programme is to improve coastal community preparedness for tsunami emergencies, to minimise the loss of life and property and to ensure structural and systematic approach in building community preparedness. OSDMA has implemented the Tsunami Ready programme in the state. The ministry of earth sciences had established a national board that visited different places and selected six villages in Odisha for this purpose. Jena said: “Disaster Management Plans at different levels have been prepared to address Tsunami disasters. Regular tsunami mock drills are being conducted at the tsunami prone villages as a part of International Tsunami Drills (IOWaves) and National Tsunami drills. The Early Warning Dissemination System (EWDS) for Last Mile Connectivity has been set up in the tsunami prone villages. This system addresses the existing gap for disseminating tsunami warning up to the community level. Regular awareness campaigns are being carried out in the tsunami prone area.” Odisha which witnessed a Super Cyclone in 1999 that left more than 10,000 people dead has been able to reduce the vulnerability of its people to natural disasters by building up resilience of communities over the years. “We as a state have learnt to live with disasters by strengthening our disaster preparedness from the community to the highest levels of administration. The state set up the first Disaster Management Authority of the nation in the aftermath of the Super Cyclone of 1999. Since then, Odisha has been marching ahead in the field of disaster management with the core principles set by the chief minister Naveen Patnaik,” said Jena. Jena said: “The state achieved this through intuitive planning and creating infrastructure in advance, empowering the communities to take charge of the situation through community-led efforts, decentralised governance through empowerment of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), use of technology in planning, monitoring and management. The officer said that with the award from the top world body Odisha has turned a role model in tsunami preparedness. “Now we plan to make the balance 326 villages and urban local bodies tsunami ready in one year’s time,” Jena added. The virtual event was organised by the Intergovernmental Coordination Group for the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System (ICG/IOTWMS) Secretariat in Perth, Australia and Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC) in Jakarta, Indonesia. Dr M. Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences (MoES) and G.V.V. Sharma, member secretary, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Govt. of India graced the event. International delegates, including Dr Srinivasa Kumar Tummala, Head-ICG/IOTWMS, Ardito M. Kodijat, Head, Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC), Prof. Dwikorita Karnawati DG, BMKG (Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysical Agency of Indonesia) & Chair, ICG/IOTWMS of Unesco-IOC participated in the programme. At the national level, Dr S.S.C. Shenoi, vice-chairperson, Unesco-IOC, former director, INCOIS & Former Chairman of the National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready; Dr. T.M. Balakrishnan Nair, Director (I/C) Indian National Centre for Information Services (INCOIS) and E. Pattabhi Rama Rao, Head-TWG, INCOIS & member-secretary, National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready were present at the virtual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Document debacle stirs ‘China mole’ question ||Congress veteran and former Union minister P. Chidambaram suspects the presence of “a Chinese mole” in the defence ministry and has hinted at a conspiracy to oust Rajnath Singh from the sensitive department. “Someone is out to get Rajnath Singh out of the Defence Ministry! Otherwise, why would the Defence Ministry website put out the truth about the Chinese aggression and occupation of Indian territory?” Chidambaram tweeted on Friday. “That single statement damaged Rajnath Singh (people ask, did the Ministry and the Army fail to act on the intelligence inputs and allowed the Chinese to bring troops and equipment and cross the LAC?) That statement also exposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s famous declaration that ‘no one intruded into Indian territory and no one is occupying Indian territory’. I suspect there is a Chinese mole in the Defence Ministry!” Chidambaram’s comments came in the context of a report on the defence ministry website acknowledging that the Chinese had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh. It was removed within hours after Opposition politicians portrayed it as government confirmation that Modi’s no-intrusion stand was false. Chidambaram, a former finance and home minister who knows the system inside out and tends to weigh his words, tagged the tweets to the Prime Minister, indicating his remarks were more than a political jibe by an Opposition leader. It’s no secret that Rajnath, like Nitin Gadkari, is not a member of Modi’s inner circle. Rajnath, home minister in Modi’s first term, was shifted to defence during the second so that Amit Shah could be home minister. Modi and Shah have consolidated their grip on the BJP since then, leaving no one in the party in any position to even offer resistance, let alone mount a challenge, to them. Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken was asked on Thursday whether the party suspected any conflict between the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the defence ministry that may have resulted in the report being uploaded and later removed. Maken said: “I will only say there could be a lack of coordination.” Chidambaram has now upped the ante by suggesting a conspiracy. From the outset, several statements from the defence ministry and the PMO had seemed to be at odds on the question of Chinese intrusion. Rajnath had said on June 2 that the Chinese troops had come in “significant” numbers, only for the Press Information Bureau, the government’s publicity arm, to clarify the next day that the defence minister hadn’t meant that the Chinese had crossed the Line of Actual Control. It’s unusual for the PIB to all but contradict a senior minister. On June 17, Rajnath had referred to negotiations to solve the standoff. Two days later, on June 19, the Prime Minister said that nobody had entered Indian territory. Modi and Rajnath appeared to be on different pages even during their visits to Ladakh in July. While the Prime Minister avoided any mention of intrusion and desisted from naming China while criticising “expansionism”, Rajnath said he was hopeful about the progress of the negotiations but could give no “guarantee”. Then, on Wednesday, popped up the report on the defence ministry website confirming the intrusion before being hastily pulled out on Thursday. “It was taken down this morning following instructions from the top brass as it could have triggered a political controversy,” a defence ministry official had told The Telegraph on Thursday. “Somehow, it had escaped us that its content did not match the Prime Minister’s earlier statement,” he had added. However, the external affairs ministry has been far more candid about the Chinese intrusion, citing Chinese efforts to erect structures “on our side of the LAC” and speaking of disengagement even after Modi’s no-intrusion claim. The Congress on Friday accused the BJP of hiring controversial Chinese companies to bolster its 2019 election campaign. “UCWeb Mobile got banned in July this year (when the government banned 59 Chinese apps amid the border standoff). In 2019, according to the expenditure report submitted by the BJP to the Election Commission, they hired this company to run their campaign,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a news conference. “It is the same Alibaba-owned company — UCWeb Browser — which was also red-flagged by the Modi government in 2017 for sending crucial data of Indians to China.” Mobile Internet company UCWeb is a subsidiary of the Alibaba Group and has developed the UC Browser. “What was the compulsion of involving the same company for elections which you had red-flagged two years ago?” Khera said. “There is another company called Gamma Gaana Limited. Po Shu Yeung, one of the directors of this company, is also the director in 10c India Pvt Ltd. Gamma Gaana Ltd is funded by (Chinese company) Tencent. Last month, the government banned it saying the company was directly connected with the PLA (China’s People’s Liberation Army, now locked in a standoff with India’s army). This company too was used by the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.” Khera added: “The third company, called SHAREit Technology, has an App called SHAREit which was banned by the government last month for being a threat to the ‘sovereignty and integrity of India’. It was also hired by the BJP in our elections last year. “We have seen evidence of the excellent relations between China and the RSS, the Prime Minister and several outfits and foundations with the BJP. But to involve companies closely linked to the PLA in our elections comes as a shock to every single Indian.” Khera had a few questions for the Prime Minister: “What exactly is your relationship with China? Why do you come across as submissive in the relationship with China? What influence does China wield on our establishment?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Delayed Covid data drive ||India’s health research agency has launched a project to create a database of coronavirus disease patients and their clinical records, four months after conceiving the idea and amid concerns in medical circles about a dearth of Covid-19 research in the country. The Indian Council of Medical Research on Thursday announced the project to establish a National Clinical Registry of Covid-19, containing details of the clinical course of the disease in the patients, their lab investigations and treatment protocols, and the outcomes. The council has named 15 medical colleges, including AIIMS, New Delhi, and the Institute for Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Calcutta, which will “mentor” hospitals across the country that have been invited to contribute to the registry. Data from the registry are expected to serve as a tool to help improve treatment strategies and predict the disease severity and outcomes, the ICMR said. The project had first been proposed in early April by the ICMR’s Covid-19 clinical research group. The council has issued a “letter of intent” inviting hospitals from across India to join the registry, which will require them to upload their patients’ clinical records in a standard format onto an electronic platform. The ICMR said the data would be used to generate weekly epidemiological and clinical reports, formulate treatment protocol, develop policy guidelines for decision-making, understand the predictors of disease severity, and examine India-specific issues such as Covid-19 among tuberculosis patients and malnourished populations. The data will also be used to probe the variations, if any, in the clinical features of the disease in India compared with other countries. Hospitals that receive at least 100 Covid-19 patients a month will be eligible, the council said. The data in the registry will be analysed by the council’s own researchers as well as other health researchers, who would need to send in their proposals. “The proposals for accessing the database for research will go through an established system of a screening committee,” Samiran Panda, a senior scientist and head of the council’s epidemiology and communicable diseases division, told The Telegraph. The project comes against the backdrop of concern among some health experts that India has not generated enough original clinical research on Covid-19 although its coronavirus count has crossed two million, with over 1.3 million patients recovered and over 41,500 deaths. India on Friday recorded 62,538 new Covid-19 cases, a fresh single-day high, raising the total number of lab-confirmed cases to 2,027,074, of whom 607,384 patients are under medical supervision, 1,378,105 have recovered and 41,585 have died. “Our numbers are our great advantage — the longer we delay such initiatives, the longer we’re missing opportunities to generate information that could guide policy or treatment,” said Oomen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. When the number of patients is large, he said, it is easier to pick up “signals” that might not be detectable among smaller groups of patients. “Suppose, there is an association that occurs once in 10,000 patients. It’s easier to pick the 10 signals from 100,000 patients,” John said. Detailed analyses of disease severity and mortality, for instance, among hospitalised patients could help yield insights into which subsets of patients within specific age groups or specific categories might be at high risk of severe disease or death, John said. A registry that consolidates clinical records of patients from around the country is a “good step in the right direction”, said Anant Mohan, a senior critical-care specialist at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Mohan and his colleagues at AIIMS had last month generated one of the few papers from India on Covid-19 patients. Their study had found that an overemphasis on fever as a symptom might lead to missing cases or delayed diagnosis. But this isn’t India’s first proposal to build a database of Covid-19 patients. Earlier this year, a private health research organisation and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, had proposed a 100,000-patient database. However, for multiple reasons, that proposal has not evoked the level of response that its proponents had hoped to receive. “In many hospitals, doctors are overwhelmed by patient care. Besides, much of the clinical records are on paper, and under a lockdown we couldn’t even send people to access patients’ records,” said a senior clinician-researcher associated with the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Saviour airplane breaks into two in Kerala||An Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai skidded off a wet tabletop runway, dropped 40 feet, smashed into a wall and broke into two after landing during heavy rain at the Calicut International Airport in north Kerala on Friday, killing at least 18 people. Among the dead were the Vande Bharat flight’s captain-in-command, Deepak Vasanth Sathe, his co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar and an 18-month-old child, officials said in Kerala. The impact of the crash completely destroyed the cockpit and ripped the fuselage until the front door, the officials said. Most of the dead were in the front seats. Out of the 190 people on board, all survivors have been admitted to two hospitals. It was not clear if each suffered injuries or whether some have been hospitalised as a precautionary measure.  The Boeing 737 was carrying 184 passengers, two pilots and four cabin crew members. The flight was carrying several people who had lost their jobs, suggested a purported Vande Bharat passenger list which mentions the “compelling” reason for travel during the pandemic outbreak. Based on preliminary accounts, aviation veterans suggested the first attempt to land amid heavy rain was aborted and the accident took place during the second attempt. The veterans added that landing requires more runway length if rain has made the surface slippery. Tabletop runways — called so because one or both of their ends could be adjacent to a steep precipice — are usually shorter than the others. In May 2010, an Air India Express from Dubai had overshot a similar tabletop runway in Mangalore, Karnataka, fallen into a deep valley and burst into flames, killing all but 8 of the 166 on board. Many among the 190 people on board suffered limb fractures; some had head and neck injuries. As many as 10 infants were on the plane, and a mother and her child were critical. It was a "miracle" that so many had survived, Riaz, who is from the neighbourhood, told reporters, adding that heavy rain had left the runway slippery when the 7.41pm accident happened. Passengers with minor injuries told reporters from various hospitals that the flight had hovered over the airport once before landing. "I felt the wheels touching down before realising that the aircraft was going down. Luckily, I was seated at the emergency exit. I opened the door and jumped out of the aircraft and ran until some local people took me to hospital," said a young passenger named Riyaz. The aircraft stopped after slamming into the boundary wall of the airport compound, located in a valley, about 40 feet below the runway. The cabin crew members were identified as Shilpa Katare, Akshay Pal Singh, Lalit Kumar and Abhik Biswas. Some of them are injured, the officials said. The airport is called Calicut International Airport after the old name of Kozhikode, the most important city in north Kerala. But the airport is actually located at Karippur in the neighbouring Malappuram district. "We rescued everyone (injured) in an hour and 15 minutes, except two people who got stuck at the tail section of the aircraft," Malappuram collector K. Gopalakrishnan told reporters at the accident site. He later said the two had been rescued too. He said that fire and rescue teams had averted a worse disaster by dousing the aircraft and the whole area with water. A statement from the directorate-general of civil aviation said the Boeing 737 had skidded all the way to the perimeter of the airport after touchdown and dropped into a valley. People from nearby towns rushed to the spot with whatever vehicles they could marshal and helped the emergency services extricate passengers caught in the mangled fuselage. Riaz, the resident from the neighbourhood who was among those who carried the injured to hospital, said: "It's a miracle how so many passengers and crew were swiftly evacuated." Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has assigned the minister for local bodies, A.C. Moideen, to coordinate the rescue operations. "All hospitals have been instructed to provide the best medical care," health minister Shailaja told a television channel. Television footage showed rescue workers moving around the wreckage in pouring rain, Reuters reported. Some of the passengers lay motionless on stretchers, brought into a hospital surrounded by health workers wearing masks because of the Covid-19 protocol. Air India Express AXB1344 was bringing back Indians stranded abroad because of the pandemic-induced restrictions on international travel. "Pained by the plane accident in Kozhikode," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Help centres were being set up in Sharjah and Dubai, PTI reported quoting the civil aviation ministry. All flights to Kozhikode will be diverted to Kannur until further notice. The probe into the 2010 Mangalore crash had found that the captain had misjudged the height while landing, resulting in the flight overshooting the runway located on a plateau. Additional reporting by PTI and Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Valley dad begs for body, if not son ||A man’s desperate pleas to militants to release his abducted soldier son but acceptance at the same time that he would bear no grudge if they consented only to send back the body has brought to the fore a dilemma that many Kashmiri fathers face when their children join the security forces. The father, Shopian resident Manzoor Ahmad, in the video appeal on Friday urges the militants to forgive and release his son, Territorial Army soldier Shakir Manzoor, but concedes that the insurgents are well within their rights to kill the army man. “My son was in the army, was an armyman. It is your job to fight the army, I have no complaints against you if you have killed him,” Ahmad says in Urdu. “I will have no complaints if the Mujahideen has abducted and killed him, but I will have a complaint if his body is not returned to me.” Many locals in Kashmir address militants as Mujahideen, a term of reverence that roughly translates to holy warrior. It is understandable for a father whose son could be in militants’ custody to use the word. “Don’t give me my son back (alive),” Ahmad says in the video before adding in the same breath: “If you don’t want to forgive (him), then return his body. I won’t reproach you.” Shakir, a resident of Reshipora village in Shopian, was reportedly abducted by militants on August 2. He had been dragged out of his car, which was torched, and taken away. The security forces are yet to trace the soldier. Police sources said locals found clothes purportedly of the soldier at three places in nearby Landoora village on Friday morning. The video of Ahmad’s appeal was shot when he had accompanied security forces to identify the clothes. Army men and sniffer dogs can also be seen in the video. The soldier’s abduction has triggered panic among families whose members are in the security forces or the police. Ahmad’s appeal is a reflection of the conflict that many fathers have to go through in Kashmir, a place so mired in complexities and a sufferer of repression and reprisal for so long that simple binaries of right or wrong dissolve into a gray area. Kashmiri fathers need their sons to land decent jobs, for which they apparently approve of their wards’ decision to join the security forces or the police. Thousands are inducted into the forces every year. On the other side, dozens of Kashmiri youths join militancy every year, many against the wishes of their parents. Joining militancy, at whose heart lies a struggle for “azadi (freedom)” for Kashmir, is fraught with risks and often ends in premature death. Thousands of Kashmiris traditionally join the funerals of militants but only a handful, relatives and acquaintances, are part of the last journeys of police and security force personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Long service in Indian Air Force||Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, who died in the crash in Kerala on Friday, had joined Air India after leaving the Indian Air Force in 2003, his former colleagues said. Sathe then shifted to Air India Express where he became a captain, they added. Captain Sathe was commissioned into the IAF in 1981 and retired in 2003, said Air India officials. “Captain Sathe was from the 58th course of the National Defence Academy, Pune,” PTI quoted Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) as saying in Pune. “Sathe passed out from the Air Force Academy with a Sword of Honour in June 1981.” “After retiring from the IAF and joining a commercial airline, he was keen to become a commanding pilot. He would ask a lot of questions during training sessions,” said a former pilot of Air India. “He had joined Air India in 2003-04 and was operating the Airbus A310,” said an official. The A310 is a wide-bodied aircraft. Later he shifted to Air India Express, a subsidiary of Air India, where he was operating the Boeing 737, a narrow-bodied plane, the officials said. The Dubai-Kozhikode flight Captain Sathe was commanding on Friday was a Boeing 737. Civil aviation ministry sources said Captain Sathe had made a first attempt to land amid heavy rain, which he had to abort. He made a second attempt, during which the plane crashed. “The instrument landing system guides a pilot till a certain height and then it is up to the pilot to see the runway touch point and decide on landing. The pilot has to assess whether he or she can complete the aircraft landing process after the touchdown,” said an air traffic control official. “When it rains heavily, as was the case in Kozhikode, the aircraft needs more runway length to finish the landing process because of the slippery surface.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Boards that gave artisans a voice scrapped||The Union textiles ministry has wound up two advisory panels that were the main forums where artisans could influence central policies but which had fallen into inertia for more than a decade. The All India Handloom Board and the All India Handicrafts Board were dissolved by the development commissioners for these sectors on July 27 and August 3, respectively. Both gazette notifications cited the same reason: “...In consonance with the Government of India vision of ‘Minimum Government and Maximum Governance’, a leaner government machinery and the need for systematic rationalisation of government bodies….” In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Laila Tyabji, chairperson of Dastkar, a handicrafts consultancy and marketing NGO, said: “All these years on, it remained the one official forum, however watered down, where the voices and views of weavers and craftspeople could be expressed directly. One place where representatives of the sector were present in considerable numbers, and were actually empowered to advise the government in policy and sectorial (sic) spending….” She added: “The spaces where people themselves can interact directly with government, or be part of their own governance, are certainly becoming leaner and increasingly few in number. It is worrying…. We will miss that wealth of collective wisdom at a time when craftspeople and the sector are struggling for survival and imaginative solutions.” A Handloom Board had first been set up in 1945 and functioned until 1947. The Handicrafts Board was set up in 1952 by freedom fighter Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Separate boards for handicrafts and handloom, and the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (started in 1957 and now under the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises) emerged from this body. The latest avatar of the handloom board came up in 1992. In a Mann Ki Baat episode in 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed that the boards for handloom, handicrafts, khadi and village industries were set up during Jana Sangh leader Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s tenure as industries minister. However, Mookerjee was in office only until 1950. During his tenure a Handloom Standing Committee with a handloom development fund of Rs 10 lakh was set up. Besides official members including the textiles minister, bureaucrats from the ministry and state government nominees, the boards include artisans and entrepreneurs from the sector. These boards’ goal was to provide policy inputs for promoting, developing and marketing these crafts and for coordinating the efforts of the various government agencies. Development commissioners were appointed for these tasks since the 1980s. The last notifications put up on the textiles ministry website relating to the two dissolved boards show that the term of the 121-member handloom board expired in 2018 and that of the 65-member handicrafts board in 2015. They had since then been vacant. The ministry’s annual reports over the last decade do not mention any significant work done by these boards. The ministry did not respond to queries on whether other boards, such as those for khadi and powerlooms, may also be scrapped. Jaya Jaitly, politician and veteran handicrafts activist, was a member of these boards several times and was most recently part of the Working Group on Handicrafts for the 12th Plan. She told this newspaper that after Chattopadhyay and her successor Pupul Jayakar, ministers became ex-officio chairpersons of these boards, which became avenues for accommodating people of influence. “They became utterly useless. Senior craftspeople demanded Padma awards during meetings. That was not the purpose of the boards,” Jaitly, founder president of the NGO Dastakari Haat Samiti, said. “Well-meaning members of cooperatives, designers and so on would give very divergent viewpoints. Nothing concrete came out if it. Bureaucrats did the policy-making and the boards were considered a nuisance.” The need, Jaitly said, was for an industry body for artisans. “We need to have artisans, federations, panchayats, movements, trade unions and NGOs to form such a body for artisans. Craftspeople have been voiceless but there are now representatives of the community who can speak for their betterment.… That did not happen in the boards for 30 years, so there is no point trying to beat them into shape now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||China arrest for Ladakh fatality ‘rumour’||China has arrested an Internet user on the charge of spreading rumours on Chinese fatalities in the June 15 clash with India in Ladakh by claiming that the deaths were the fallout of poor quality military vehicles supplied by a wholly state-owned automobile company. The arrest was reported in China Military Online, the English language news website of the People’s Liberation Army, on Thursday. The Net user has been identified only by the surname Zhou. He is reported to have spread rumours online that “the poor quality of military vehicles supplied by the Dongfeng Off-road Vehicle Co. Ltd. (hereafter referred to as Dongfeng) has caused the death of Chinese soldiers during the China-India border clash”. Zhou was arrested on August 4, a day after he claimed on WeChat Moments that corruption within Dongfeng had resulted in the substandard military vehicles. According to the website, Zhou had confessed to “his crime of rumour-mongering, showed remorse and written a sincere apology letter”. A copy of the apology letter in Chinese has been posted on the portal. China has till date only confirmed that there have been casualties in the June 15 clash in the Galwan Valley, that too about 10 days later in a briefing on the situation for foreign diplomats based in Beijing. The deputy director-general of the Boundary and Ocean Affairs department, He Xiangqi, had been quoted by Beijing-based media as stating that “casualties on the Chinese side were not very heavy”. Last month, the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had said, when asked why China was not giving details about the casualties, that Beijing had not gone into that detail as a goodwill gesture not to escalate tensions on the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-742
08-08-2020||India||Rahul flags RBI mood report||Rahul Gandhi on Friday predicted “more bad news” on the economy and job fronts while commenting on Thursday’s Reserve Bank of India report that described consumer confidence as being at an “all-time low”. “RBI reveals the real ‘Mood of the Nation’: People’s confidence at all-time low. Fear and insecurity at all-time high. Expect more bad news on the economy and jobs front,” Rahul tweeted. In another tweet, he accused the government of going missing in action in the battle against Covid-19. The Congress released a video of Rahul’s interaction with party leaders in Bihar on Thursday, where he blamed the Narendra Modi government’s politics for India facing problems on so many fronts. “What I said about corona in February has come true. I’m not happy to be proven right but it happened. Today I say what is being witnessed on the economic front is nothing; far more dreadful things are going to happen. You will see in six months,” Rahul told the meeting, held online. He said the job situation would turn grim as the Prime Minister had not accepted the Congress proposals to help the micro, small and medium enterprises and to transfer cash directly into the accounts of the poor. “India won’t be able to give jobs to crores of people. That means India’s resources being wasted. Millions lost their jobs during the lockdown but the government didn’t intervene. Not one rupee was given. Unemployment is going to play havoc,” Rahul said. Rather than blaming the failures of policy, Rahul pointed a finger at the BJP ideology. “What the RSS-BJP did is that they destroyed the structures built by the Congress over the past decades. These structures were the backbone of India and sustained the country for so long,” he said. “The coronavirus inflicted such damage because those structures were not there to help. Even the Chinese encroached upon our land only because they saw structural weaknesses.” Rahul recalled how the country was given barely four hours to prepare for the lockdown in March. “All industrialists were aware in advance that a lockdown was coming. But the poor migrant labours got stuck because only four hours were given,” he said. “I want to ask the people of Bihar — those who returned home from big cities — did your government stand by you in the hour of crisis? Did the government help you?” The Congress is likely to base its Bihar campaign on the plank of mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis by the Modi and Nitish Kumar governments. The party had sought a cash transfer into the bank accounts of the entire bottom half of the population during the lockdown, which snuffed out the earnings of the poor. Bihar was one of the worst hit, being home to the largest number of migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Italy case closure: SC sets terms||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to permit the Centre to withdraw all prosecution and proceedings against the Italian marines who shot dead two Kerala fishermen in 2012, saying the government of the European country must pay compensation to the victims even if the international tribunal had ruled that India had no jurisdiction to deal with the case. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde made it clear that unless it hears the views of the families of the two fishermen, it would not allow the Centre’s plea, no matter the ruling of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague. “First, let Italy pay them compensation, only then we will allow withdrawal of prosecution. Bring the cheques and the kin of the victims here,” CJI Bobde told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. On July 2 this year, the Permanent Court of Arbitration at Hague under the United Nations Convention on the Law of Sea ruled that India was entitled to claim compensation but could not prosecute the marines as it had no jurisdiction over them. Subsequently, the Centre had submitted before the Supreme Court that it would abide by the tribunal’s ruling and wanted to withdraw the cases relating to the marines. During Friday’s hearing, solicitor-general Mehta, appearing for the Centre, pleaded that the matter be disposed of. CJI Bobde turned down the request, saying: “We will not pass any orders until the victims’ families are heard. You have not challenged the international tribunal’s award. Now you are saying that the case be taken over by their country.” “This does not take care of the fixed compensation. There are some legal difficulties involved here. Neither does this take care of the trial,” the bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubrmanian, told Mehta. “There is a criminal charge before a special court (in Kerala) where the victims’ families are also appearing. Now without applying for withdrawal of prosecution there, how can you come here?” Justice Bobde remarked, while pointing out that the Centre had not bothered to implead the families in the apex court while seeking withdrawal of all prosecution against the Italian marines. “If you had done so, the victims’ families could have opposed that here…. We will not pass an order without the victims’ families being heard,” the CJI said. “You have accepted the award and you have not questioned it anywhere,” the CJI told Mehta, adding: “Now you are saying the Italian marines should be given their way to go to their country.” Justice Bobde said that although the international tribunal had ruled that India had no jurisdiction to prosecute the marines, Indian courts could not overlook the fact of the pending criminal trial in Kerala since the victims’ families were yet to get any compensation. “You (Italy) must pay adequate compensation to the victims,” CJI Bobde observed. The court will again hear the matter after four weeks. The two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, were on board an Italian vessel called Enrica Lexie when they had shot dead the two Indian fishermen off the Kerala coast on February 15, 2012, triggering a diplomatic row. India and Italy had at that time engaged in a legal battle over whether India had the jurisdiction to try the marines. While India had insisted that it had the jurisdiction, Italy had disputed it saying the incident had taken place in international waters, hence only the international tribunal on sea waters alone had the authority to try the dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Delhi High Court: List all expenses in matrimony dispute||Brand of mobile, wristwatch, pen, wages of maid, expenditure incurred on functions and festivals are among a long list of details which a husband and wife, embroiled in matrimonial dispute, will now have to disclose in the affidavits to be placed before the courts to determine their true income. This directive came from Delhi High Court which said on Thursday that a detailed affidavit of assets, income and expenditure of both the spouses is necessary to determine their true income and to fix maintenance, permanent alimony and right in the joint properties. Justice J.R. Midha, who was of the view that matrimonial jurisdiction deserves special attention and maintenance applications should be decided expeditiously, asked the subordinate courts to expedite the maintenance proceedings and make an endeavour to decide them within the prescribed time. “It is the duty of the court to ascertain the true income of the parties and then pass the appropriate order relating to maintenance. Truth is the foundation of justice. Dispensation of justice, based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery system. People would have faith in courts when truth alone triumphs. Justice based on truth would establish peace in the society,” the high court said in its 79-page judgment. The court said it was of the view that the mandatory filing of the affidavit of assets, income and expenditure by the parties in a detailed prescribed form should be incorporated in the statutes, as in the developed countries and asked the Centre to consider the suggestion. It appreciated the assistance rendered by senior advocate Sunil Mittal, amicus curiae Anu Narula and law researcher Akshay Chowdhary for extensive research on corresponding law in other countries. The court said it has examined the formats of the affidavits of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the parties in matrimonial litigation in the UK, the USA, Canada, Ireland, Australia, Singapore and South Africa and has incorporated some important questions and documents in the format. The high court had in 2015 issued directions and formulated an affidavit of assets, income and expenditure to be filed by the husband and wife at the very threshold of matrimonial litigation. Later the directions and format was modified by the court in May and December 2017. It again modified the directions and format of the affidavit in its Thursday’s verdict to make them more comprehensive and useful. According to the modified affidavit, a salaried person is required to disclose the particulars of his employment, including salary, dearness allowance, commissions, bonus, perks and income tax. The verdict said that a self-employed person has to disclose the nature of business/profession, share, net worth, number of employees, annual turnover, gross profit, income tax and monthly withdrawal. The parties are also required to disclose income from other sources like agriculture, rent, interest on bank deposits, investments, profits on sale of assets, particulars of immovable properties, financial assets including bank and demat accounts and foreign investments. In movable assets, they have to disclose motor vehicles, mobiles, computer, laptop, electronic gadgets, gold, silver and diamond jewellery, intangible assets and properties acquired by the family members or inheritance. The affidavit also requires them to disclose their standard of living, credit/debit cards, membership of clubs, social media accounts, domestic helps and their wages, mode of travel in city and outside, category of hotels, hospitals for medical treatment, frequency of foreign travel, brand of mobile, wristwatch, pen, expenditure ordinarily incurred on functions, festivals and marriage of family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Court relief for senior film and TV artistes||The Bombay High Court on Friday quashed the provisions of the two circulars issued by the Maharashtra government that barred TV and film artistes above 65 years of age from resuming shooting and related work during the coronavirus lockdown, terming them “discriminatory”. A bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla, while setting aside the government resolutions issued, held that such restriction was “discriminatory”, and breached the fundamental rights of the artistes to practise their trade and earn a livelihood with dignity. The court was hearing two petitions — one filed by 70- year-old actor Pramod Pandey and another by the Indian Motion Pictures Producers Association. The petitioners had challenged the resolutions issued on May 30 and June 23 explaining what was permitted and what wasn’t as the government relaxed some lockdown norms under its “Mission Begin Again” initiative. The government resolutions said that while the state was permitting a gradual resumption of some activities, including shooting and pre- and post-production work of films, television and OTT (over the top) programmes, those cast and crew members who were above 65 years of age would not be permitted to report to work at sets or studios. The government counsel, Purnima Kantharia, told the court that the prohibition had been imposed since those above 65 were at a higher risk of contracting the virus. The petitioners’ counsel, Ashok Saorogi, however, argued that such prohibition had been imposed only on the film and television industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||‘Middle path’ on education autonomy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has defined autonomy for academic institutions as a middle path between full government control and a sense of entitlement, while linking freedom to quality. At the Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under the National Education Policy (NEP), held through videoconference, the Prime Minister pitched for empowering higher educational institutions. “And I know that when the question of empowering the institutions arises, the word autonomy follows. We know that autonomy bears several views. One believes that everything must be run under the control of the government with strictness. However, the other believes that institutions by default must get autonomy,” Modi said. “In the first approach, it shows a mistrust towards the non-government organisations; and on the other hand, the second approach treats autonomy as an entitlement. The path to good quality education lies in the midway of both the opinions. The institutions that strive for quality education must be rewarded with freedom. It helps in encouragement of building of quality and gives everyone an incentive to grow,” the Prime Minister said. The academic autonomy of institutions has come under scrutiny in recent years as the government, through higher education regulator University Grants Commission (UGC), has been issuing instructions on various issues, including topics for research. Modi said the NEP would accelerate the process of granting autonomy to educational institutions. The Prime Minister said that for years the education system had remained unchanged, leading to lopsided priorities where people had been focussing on either becoming a doctor, an engineer or a lawyer. He said there had been no mapping of interests, abilities and demands. According to Modi, the NEP is oriented to enable the education system to motivate youths for a creative, curiosity-filled and commitment-driven life. He said the emphasis of the NEP was on education based on enquiry, discovery and discussion. The NEP focuses more on an inter-disciplinary approach where a student of science can also study subjects from the humanities stream.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Plea on Congress-China MoU absurd: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday dubbed “absurd” and dismissed a petition seeking an NIA or CBI probe under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act into an allegation that the Congress and its leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Communist Party of China in 2008. “How absurd it is! You are saying a political party has entered into an agreement with China?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani as soon as the matter came up for hearing. “How can a political party enter into an agreement with China? It is unheard of in law,” the bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, observed while dealing with a joint petition filed by advocate Shashank Shekar Jha and Goa journalist Savio Rodrigues. Jethmalani was appearing for the petitioners. The BJP and sections of the media had run a campaign recently accusing the Congress of striking deals with China and receiving donations, but the voices soon subsided in the face of a counter that pointed out that there was nothing illegal in such donations and that sections of the BJP and the Right-wing ecosystem have had similar dealings with China. According to the petition, the Congress and the ruling Communist Party of China had entered into an MoU in 2008 that had not been made public. The petitioners had alleged that the Congress, then running the government, and Sonia-Rahul had signed the MoU despite the multiple Chinese incursions between 2008 and 2013. The petitioners had claimed that the MoU dealt with various bilateral, regional and international issues, but the details were not available. “The agreement needs to be brought into the public domain. There are sinister motives… it is a very serious issue involving criminality,” Jethmalani submitted before the court. However, the CJI directed the petitioners to forthwith withdraw the petition or the court would dismiss it. CJI Bobde said the petitioners could file a better petition but if the court found that the allegations were false, “we will prosecute you”. “We will allow you to withdraw this. However, we must tell you that what you have averred is unheard of,” CJI Bobde said. The bench also said that the petitioners were free to approach Bombay High Court. Jethmalani then sought permission to withdraw the petition. The court treated the petition as “dismissed as withdrawn”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
08-08-2020||India||Landslide near Munnar wipes out colony||At least 15 persons were killed when a rain-triggered massive landslide swept down a small residential colony at Pettimudi near the picturesque hill station of Munnar in Kerala late on Thursday night, trapping under debris around 78 residents most of whom are tea garden workers. Fifteen persons have been rescued while around 50 people were still trapped under piles of stones and loose mud over 19 hours after the landslide. Mainly plantation workers from Tamil Nadu, the victims had no time to react when the massive landslip from the Rajamala hills crashed onto their row houses and church at Pettimudi around 10.30pm on Thursday. Located 19km from Munnar, Pettimudi is one of the divisions of the Kannan Devan Hills Plantations. According to emergency services, the Pettimudi colony had 40 houses in four rows, all of which have been wiped out. Southern India’s highest peak, the Anamudi that stands at 8,841ft above sea level, is located at Rajamala, 5km from Pettimudi. Even those in neighbouring villages who heard the thundering sound of the landslide could not inform the authorities due to poor mobile connectivity in the area, which has been witnessing heavy rain for the past 10 days that has also disrupted power supply. The incident came to light early on Friday when a watchman informed the authorities. A youngster who has been rescued and taken to Tata Hospital in Munnar told reporters in Tamil that he had lost his entire family. “Everything was over by the time some of us heard a sound like a thunder roll. I don’t know how many will survive,” he said, crying uncontrollably. An aged man told reporters that Pettimudi was not habitable anymore. “My family is under mud. No one can stay in this place anymore,” he said in between sobs. Rescue workers comprising the fire and emergency services, police and volunteers had to surmount a major impediment in reaching the accident site since the only bridge that connected the two banks of a river had been washed away in the 2018 floods that had wreaked havoc in Kerala. Although the state government had started building another bridge, work had to be stopped just before completion when the pandemic-induced lockdown began. The emergency services brought an excavator that worked non-stop until about 3pm to put up a girder and make a temporary pathway for vehicles with stones and mud. Before the bridge patchwork was done and emergency vehicles could move, the rescue workers had to take a detour of about 60km on foot through forests and tea plantations to reach Pettimudi as the Kanniyar river was in spate and could not be crossed. Sources said the vehicles were taking at least two hours to reach the accident spot after crossing the Periyavara bridge. Rescue workers from the National Disaster Response Force could move their heavy equipment only after the bridge opened. The inclement weather did not allow the government to deploy helicopters to airlift the injured to better-equipped hospitals in nearby towns and cities. Revenue minister E. Chandrashekaran told reporters that the government had contacted the air force for helicopters. “But air force officials said it would be extremely dangerous to operate in such weather,” he said. That left only ambulances to ferry the rescued to Tata Hospital at Munnar town in Idukki district. The government said several other hospitals had also geared up to treat the injured. The health department has dispatched 15 ambulances and a special medical team. Power minister M.M. Mani, who hails from Idukki district, said there would be no shortage of resources to treat the injured. “Our priority at the moment is to rescue as many people as possible. The weather has been hampering the rescue operations. But I am going there anyway,” he told reporters. The India Meteorological Department sounded a red alert for Idukki on Friday, warning of extremely heavy rain. Munnar MLA S. Rajendran said: “At least 200-300 people live there (Pettimudi). There are many lanes and a canteen at the location.” Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said: “The National Disaster Response Force has been deployed for the rescue operations in Idukki. The team was already stationed in the district. Another NDRF team is also being moved to Idukki.” Vijayan announced an ex gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and said all the injured would be treated for free. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish at the loss of lives. The Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet that an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund would be given to the next of kin of those killed in the landslide. Those injured will get Rs 50,000 each. The landslide has come at a time Kerala is bracing for another year of floods. Water levels have started rising in several dams that draw water from the Western Ghats. One of the worst affected district in the last two years of flooding, Pathanamthitta, is posed for another deluge as overflowing rivers have submerged roads and public places. Water levels have been rising even in remote areas of Kozhikode district. Nilambur in Malappuram district has witnessed flooding in the past few days as adjoining areas of Tamil Nadu have been lashed by heavy rain. The Kerala government has directed the districts’ administration to identify buildings that can be converted into relief camps, should there be a flood like in 2018 and 2019. Close to 500 people had died in the 2018 floods while about 120 perished the following year. Authorities in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta have sounded alerts with excess water being released from dams built across the rivers in these districts. Incessant rain in the hilly areas has caused a sudden rise in the water levels of the Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers flowing through Ernakulam district. Taking precautionary measures, the Ernakulam administration has opened camps at Aluva and Muvattupuzha. Several families have been shifted to the camps after floodwaters entered residential areas in Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Kochi and Parvur of Ernakulam district. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-743
