09-08-2020||India||Note ban, faulty implementation of GST, lockdown destroyed India’s economic structure: Rahul||The Congress youth wing launched a campaign on Sunday to “raise the voice” against unemployment, with Rahul Gandhi alleging that the Narendra Modi government’s decision of demonetisation, its “faulty” implementation of GST and lockdown have “destroyed” the country’s economic structure. The Opposition party said it launched the Rozgar Do campaign as never before have “we seen the figures, the scope, the degree of unemployment, which this country is suffering” now. “When Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister, he promised the youth of the country that he will give jobs to two crore youths every year. He sold a dream, but the reality is that 14 crore people have become unemployed due to the policies of Narendra Modi,” Rahul alleged. “Why did this happen? Because of wrong policies. Demonetisation, faulty implementation of GST and then lockdown -- these three steps have destroyed the economic structure of the country and the truth now is that India cannot give employment to its youth,” the former Congress chief said in a video message on Twitter. Therefore, the Youth Congress has hit the street to raise these issues in all towns, he said. The Youth Congress said the campaign will help raise the voice of the unemployed youth. “Anti-youth policies of the central government will be highlighted among the youth of the country through social and other media,” it said in a statement. “Please join the Rozgar Do programme and along with Youth Congress, get jobs for the youth of this nation,” Gandhi said and congratulated the Youth Congress on its foundation day. Expressing solidarity with the campaign, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said “youth power” is India’s strength. “As opposed to the BJP government’s job-destroying policies, there is a need to create more and more employment opportunities for the youth of India,” she said on Twitter. “Rozgar Do is the demand of young India. Employment is the need of young India,” she added. Other Congress leaders posted videos on social media voicing their concern over unemployment in the country. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the demand of every youth is “rozgar do (give employment)”. “We all demand, it is our right that the youth of the country should get employment on the basis of qualifications and get ahead in the progress of the country,” he said. Digvijaya Singh, Depender Hooda, Gaurav Gogoi, Rajeev Satav, Gaurav Vallabh and Ragini Nayak also called for increasing employment opportunities for the youth. Emphasising the need for the campaign, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said when Prime Minister Modi assumed office, the unemployment rate was 4.9 per cent, but in May 2020, it reached 29 per cent. Singhvi said there is also a negative GDP growth projection ranging from -4 to -7.5 per cent. Tax collections are down by 46 per cent and at least 12 crore people are supposed to have lost their jobs, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
09-08-2020||India||SIT formed by Kerala police to probe air crash||Kerala police on Sunday constituted a special investigation team to probe the Air India Express crash at nearby Karipur international airport on August 7, which killed 18 passengers, including the pilot and co-pilot. The 30-member team will be headed by Malappuram additional superintendent of police G. Sabu, a government release said. The police said a case has been registered under various provisions of the Aircraft Act and Indian Penal Code Sections 337, 338 and 304 A, based on the statement by one of the CISF personnel who was on duty near the site that day. Section 337 of the IPC deals with causing hurt to a person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others. Section 338 deals with causing grievous hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others, while 304 A deals with causing death by negligence. Eighteen people were killed and scores injured when the flight from Dubai with 190 on board overshot the table-top runway while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. At least 14 passengers of the ill-fated Air India Express remain critical at various hospitals, Malappuram district collector K. Gopalakrishnan said. Till now, 49 passengers have been discharged from hospitals. Air India Express on Sunday said that the mortal remains of the 16 passengers who lost their lives in the crash had been handed over to their families. The body of pilot-in command Deepak Vasanth was flown from Cochin to Mumbai and his funeral will take place on Tuesday, an Air India official said. Co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday at his home town in Mathura. Meanwhile, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) has initiated a probe into the accident with the support of flight safety officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
09-08-2020||India||Agonising wait for the remains of loved ones||"My people are buried under the soil. Can you give them back, Sir?" asked a wailing 70-year-old woman,looking at rescue workers in the hope of getting some information about the members of her family who went missing after Friday's devastating landslide. With each passing day, Karupayi's hopes of seeing her dear ones have given way to despair. As rescue officials pull out bodies, she rushes to see if it is that of her near and dear ones. Ten members of her family were buried under the massive mound of earth and slush that flattened a row of 20 one room row houses made of tin and asbestos sheets,housing at least 82 workers and their families, at Pettimudi in Rajamala. Karupayi's husband Shanmugham, three daughters, their husbands and three grandchildren are all buried under the soil. As rescue workers of NDRF, police and fire force personnel dug out bodies, Karupayi rushed to them asking "Have you got them?" Shanmugham, their daughters and sons in law were all workers at the tea plantation and living in the quarters along with children. On the fateful night, Karupayi was woken up by a huge sound and she came out of the house to see the horrifying sight of the landslide and immediately tried to alert her dear ones. However, everything was over in a flash and there was nothing remaining except massive boulders strewn around,she said. The toll in the landslide rose to 42 as 16 more bodies were recovered by Sunday evening. Ramar, another elderly person, is inconsolable as he had lost his son, daughter and 13 family members. "They have all gone. I will not go back without seeing them," he said. Sniffer dogs have been pressed into service to enable the retrieval of bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
09-08-2020||India|| 7 lakh samples tested for Covid in a day||Scaling up testing capacity, over seven lakh samples have been examined for COVID-19 in a day, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far to 2,41,06,535, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.

The number of recoveries too has surged to 14,80,884 with 53,879 coronavirus patients having recuperated and discharged in 24-hours, the highest in a day so far, pushing the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.01 per cent.

The ministry said the number of single-day tests has been growing exponentially and India has been testing over six lakh samples daily for several days.

"A record 7,19,364 samples have been tested on Saturday, the highest in a day so far. India is conducting around 500 tests for detection of COVID-19 per minute and the per-day testing capacity has increased over five lakhs," scientist and media coordinator at ICMR, Dr Lokesh Sharma said.

Such elevated level of testing will also lead to high number of daily positive cases, the health ministry said, adding states have been advised to firmly focus on comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation and effective treatment, following the Centre-led strategy of  “test, track and treat”.

The number of recoveries has surged to 14,80,884 with 53,879 coronavirus patients having recuperated and discharged in 24-hours, the highest in a day so far, pushing the recovery rate to 68.78 per cent. The fatality rate has further dropped to 2.01 per cent, the ministry said.

Recoveries are over twice the number of active cases (6,28,747) of coronavirus infection at present.

"The number of recovered cases has touched another high of 2.36 times the active cases. All patients are all under medical attention either in home isolation or in hospitals," the ministry said.

From 7.69 per cent on April 5, the recovery rate improved to 26.59 per cent on May 3, 48.37 per cent on June 7 and to 68.78 per cent as on date, it said.

"The widening gap between recovered and active cases, indicative of the higher number of recoveries as compared to those either in hospitals or in home isolation, is 8,52,137 at present," the ministry said.

It said the high number of recoveries is a result of focused implementation of various actions taken by the Centre, state and Union Territories towards ramping up hospital and clinical management infrastructure for providing quality clinical care based on the standard of care, as advised by the Union government in its Clinical Treatment Protocol.

"Due to these efforts, the case fatality rate has further slumped, touching an improved rate of 2.01 per cent today," the ministry said.

With a record single-day increase of 64,399 cases, India's COVID-19 tally mounted to 21.53 lakh, while the death toll climbed to 43,379 with 861 new fatalities being reported in a day, the health ministry's data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
09-08-2020||India||ED grills Rhea's brother for 18 hours||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned Showik Chakraborty, brother of actor Rhea Chakraborty, for about 18 hours in connection with a money laundering case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said on Sunday. Showik left the central investigative agency's office here in the Ballard Estate area around 6:30 AM after an overnight questioning session that began around noon on Saturday. Officials said Showik's statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and he was asked about his personal businesses, income, investments and financial dealings with his sister and Rajput. He was grilled by the agency for a few hours on August 7 as well. On the same day, his sister and prime accused in the case Rhea (28) was questioned by the agency for the first time for about eight hours. Rhea and her father Indrajit Chakraborty have been summoned to appear before the agency again on Monday. On Friday, the ED had questioned Indrajit, Rhea's chartered accountant (CA) Ritesh Shah and business manager Shruti Modi, who also worked for Rajput. The agency is understood to have questioned Rhea, who stated in her petition to the court that she was in a live-in relationship with Rajput, about her friendship with the late actor, business dealings and the developments that took place over the last few years between them. The ED's line of questioning, officials said, is revolving around Rhea's income, investments, business and professional deals, and links. Also under the ED's scanner is a property located in the city's Khar area and another in Navi Mumbai, both linked to Rhea, for the source of purchase and ownership. Agency sources have said they "want more answers" from Rhea over the alleged mismatch between her income, expenditure and investments. They said while Chakraborty has filed Income Tax Returns stating an income of about Rs 14 lakh, the value of her investments is reportedly higher. Her father, they said, is a retired defence personnel who gets a pension of about Rs 1 lakh per month. The sources said Rhea told the agency that she had made the property investments from her income, savings and has taken bank loans. Rhea has been accused by Rajput's father of abetting his son's suicide and she had initially refused to appear before the agency citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court that is slated to be heard on August 11. Her lawyer Satish Maneshinde had said Rhea is a law-abiding citizen and would cooperate with the probe. She has filed a petition in the apex court requesting that the case lodged by the Bihar police against her be transferred to the Mumbai police. She, through her lawyer, also shared a picture of a note on Saturday which she claimed was written by Rajput to express his gratitude for her and her family. Rhea also shared a photograph of a water sipper, which is a piece of movie merchandise from Rajput's 2019 film "Chhichhore". "The only property of Sushant that I possess," she said in a message sent along with the photo to the media. The ED, during the questioning sessions, is learnt to have confronted Rhea, Showik and Modi with certain bank statements that purportedly show transfer of small amounts into Showik's accounts from those of Rajput and Chakraborty. The agency had also summoned Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani to appear before it on Saturday in connection with the money laundering case that stems from the complaint filed by the actor's father with the Bihar Police in connection with his death. Pithani, an IT professional, is stated to be out of Mumbai at present and may appear before the agency on Monday. He has said in various news channel interviews that he was present in the Bandra flat on June 14 when the 34-year-old actor hanged himself. Pithani, stated to be living with Rajput for about a year, had earlier recorded his statement with the Mumbai Police as part of their accidental death report (ADR) probe in the case. Rajput's 74-year-old father K K Singh, who resides in Patna, had on July 25 filed a complaint with the Patna police against Rhea, her parents (including mother Sandhya Chakraborty), Showik, Rajput's manager Samuel Miranda, Modi and unknown persons accusing them of cheating and abetting his son's suicide. The CBI had re-registered this FIR as a fresh case on Thursday and named as accused the same people. Singh also alleged financial irregularities in bank accounts of his son. In the complaint, Singh alleged that Rs 15 crore was siphoned off from Rajput's bank account in one year to accounts of persons not known or connected to the late actor. Under the ED's scanner are at least two companies linked to Rajput and some financial deals involving Rhea, her father and Showik, who are stated to be directors in these companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Death toll in Kerala landslide rises to 28||The death toll in the massive landslide that destroyed a row of 20 houses of tea estate workers in the high range Idukki district of Kerala rose to 28 on Sunday with two more bodies being retrieved from the debris. "Three days after the settlements were swept away by devastating landslides at Pettimudi near Rajamala, authorities have now decided to take help of sniffer dogs to trace the persons buried under the debris," officials said. According to the government, 78 people were staying at the spot where the tragedy occurred. While 12 were rescued, 28 bodies were found. Officials said efforts were on to find the rest. The picturesque landscape of Pettimudi was flattened into a rough patch of boulders and mud with parts of asbestos and tin sheets seen scattered around. The incident is said to have occurred in the wee hours of Friday when a huge mound of earth fell on the "row houses" and two children and five women were among the deceased, most of whom were plantation workers from neighbouring Tamil Nadu. NDRF chief in charge of south Indian state, Rekha Nambiar is leading the 55-member team which is entrusted with the search and rescue mission. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Idukki, Malappuram and Wayanad districts on Sunday. Incessant rains, landslides and opening of shutters of dams across rivers have caused rise in water level in rivers and streams in central Kerala. Normal life of people living in low lying areas of Kottayam and Alappuzha has been affected with flood waters entering their homes. Low-lying areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts are heavily impacted due to flooding. Hundreds of families have been shifted to relief camps from-low lying areas including Kumarakom and Kuttanad regions of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts, they said. A car with a man was washed away in flood waters at Manarcad area in Kottayam district in the wee hours of Sunday. The NDRF team has launched a rescue operation for the missing person identified as Justin,an airport taxi driver and a native of Angamaly. Considering the spread of novel coronavirus, the authorities have opened separate camps for different categories of the flood affected people. In Ernakulam district, 1,203 flood affected people have been shifted to relief camps. While 1,118 persons have been lodged in general relief camps, 67 senior citizens are staying in camps for persons above 60 years of age. Eighteen persons are staying in the camps set for quarantined people, district administration officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Airlines staff gather at Delhi airport to pay respect to deceased co-pilot||Around 200 pilots and ground staff of various airlines gathered at the airport and paid their respects when the mortal remains of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who died in the Kozhikode flight crash, reached Delhi in the early hours of Sunday, officials said.

Pilot-in-command Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, 58, and co-pilot Captain Akhilesh Kumar, 32, were the ones operating the Air India Express flight that crashed at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala on Friday night. Both pilots, along with 16 other people onboard, have died in the accident.

"Kumar's mortal remains was brought to Delhi airport from Kochi on an IndiGo flight 6E2135 at around 2 am on Sunday," an aviation industry official said.

"Around 200 pilots and ground staff members of various airlines like IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air India and Air India Express gathered at the airport and paid their respects," the official said.

Kumar's mortal remains were then taken by road to Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, where his family resides, another industry official said.

The mortal remains of Sathe are likely to be taken to his family members in Mumbai on Sunday, according to the official.

The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway while landing in heavy rain, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two.

A total of 149 people have been admitted to various hospitals. Twenty-three have been discharged, while three are critically injured, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday after his visit to the Kozhikode Medical College, where many of the affected passengers have been admitted.

Puri had told reporters that Sathe, a former wing commander of the Air Force, was one of the most-experienced commanders with more than 10,000 flying hours and had landed aircraft 27 times at the Kozhikode airport. Kumar had a total flying experience of 1,723 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||10 patients killed in fire at Covid care facility in Vijaywada||As many as ten coronavirus patients were killed in a huge fire that broke out at a hotel which was being used as a Covid-19 facility in Andhra Pradesh's Vijaywada early this morning. There were 30 Covid patients and 10 staff members at the hotel at the time of the accident. The fire broke out at 5:15 am, officials said, adding that it was brought under control within 30 minutes. Twenty people have been rescued from the hotel so far, police said. Efforts are on to rescue others traped inside the building, they said. "The incident took place around 5 am. Around 22 patients are being treated in hospital. We are evacuating the entire building. The reason of fire appears to be a short circuit, as per the preliminary report, but we will have to ascertain," Krishna District Collector Mohammad Imtiaz said. Hotel Swarna Palace was being used by Ramesh hospitals on lease to treat Covid patients. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock and grief over the incident. He has instructed officials to conduct enquiry over the matter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah condoled the deaths in the fire incident and has assured all possible support to the chief minister. "Anguished by the fire at a Covid Centre in Vijayawada. My thoughts are with those who have lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover as soon as possible. Discussed the prevailing situation with AP CM @ysjagan  Ji and assured all possible support," PM Modi tweeted. "Deeply anguished by the news of tragic fire accident at a COVID-19 facility in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. Centre assures all possible support to the state govt. "My condolences are with the affected families in this time of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured," Shah tweeted. This the second fire incident at a Covid-19 facility in the country this month. On Thursday, eight coronavirus patients died in a huge fire that broke out in the intensive care ward of a private hospital in Gujarat's Ahmedabad. About 45 patients were admitted to the 50-bed hospital at the time of accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||A topper and helpful: Mom||Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, the veteran pilot of the Air India Express flight who died along with 17 others in the crash at Calicut International Airport in Kerala, had survived another crash in the early 90s when he was in the air force and had been in hospital for six months, his cousin said on Saturday. Captain Sathe had suffered multiple injuries in his skull but had returned to the skies by clearing tests due to his strong will power, cousin Nilesh Sathe said. Captain Sathe, 58, had been a wing commander in the IAF and had served at the force’s flight-testing establishment. Nilesh, adviser (finance) at the National Highways Authority of India, said in a Facebook post: “It’s hard to believe that Deepak Sathe, my friend more than my cousin, is no more…. Deepak was an experienced aerial operator with 36 years of flying experience. A passout of the NDA (National Defence Academy), topper in the 58th course and an awardee of the ‘Sword of Honour’, Deepak served the Indian Air Force for 21 years before joining as a commercial pilot with Air India in 2005.He had called me just a week ago and was jovial, as always.” “When I asked him about the ‘Vande Bharat’ Mission, he was proud of bringing back our countrymen from Arab countries. I asked him, ‘Deepak, do you carry empty aircraft since those countries are not allowing entry of passengers?’ He had replied, ‘Oh, no. We carry fruits, vegetables, medicines etc to these countries and never does the aircraft fly to these countries empty.’ That was my last conversation with him,” Nilesh wrote.“He survived an air crash in the early nineties when he was in the air force. He was hospitalised for six months with multiple skull injuries and nobody thought he would fly again. But his strong will power and love for flying made him clear the test again. It was a miracle,” Nilesh added. Captain Sathe is survived by his wife and two sons, both IIT Bombay graduates. Captain Sathe was the son of Brigadier Vasant Sathe, who lives in Nagpur with his wife Neela Sathe. Captain Sathe’s elder brother, Captain Vikas Sathe, was in the army and had died in a road accident while serving in Jammu, Nilesh said. A neighbour of Captain Sathe remembered him as a jovial and friendly man. The pilot had been living in the Nahar Amrit Shakti housing complex at Chandivali in Mumbai with his wife Sushma for nearly 15 years. “Everyone in the housing society knew Sathe sir and his wife. When he wasn’t flying, the couple would go on morning and evening walks,” said neighbour Pankaj Nagpal. “Sathe sir was jovial and friendly and exuded positivity,” he said. “Sathe sir used to have one or two flights every week. When we heard about the plane crash, we knew it was him,” Nagpal said. Captain Sathe’s elder son Dhananjaya lives in Bangalore. His younger son Shantanu lives in the US. Air India sources said the airline was making arrangements to bring Shantanu back to the country. Captain Sathe’s nephew said the pilot had planned to pay a surprise visit to Nagpur for his mother’s 84th birthday on Saturday. “Today is the birthday of Captain Sathe’s mother. He had last met his parents in March and had been constantly in touch with them over phone since then. They had last spoken a day before yesterday,” Dr Yashodhan Sathe, the pilot’s nephew, said on Saturday. “Captain Sathe had told some of our relatives that if flights are available, he would pay a surprise visit to his mother on her birthday,” he added. Neela said, tears in her eyes: “He used to tell me not to go out due to the pandemic. He would tell me that if something happens to me, he would feel bad. And suddenly this tragedy struck.… What can we do before the will of God.” She remembered him as being “top” in everything — be it studies or sports. “He was brilliant in table tennis, squash. He was also very good at horse riding,” Neela said. “Our son had also received the rare Sword of Honour. However, he would never boast about his achievements,” she said, adding that Captain Sathe was the first Maharashtrian to get all the eight IAF prizes. “He was very helpful and would do anything for others. During the Gujarat floods, he had saved the children of servicemen by carrying them on his shoulders,” Neela remembered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Rajasthan floor test looms, BJP MLAs on ‘excursion’ to Gujarat||The BJP is believed to have shifted some two-dozen of its Rajasthan MLAs to Gujarat, unsure of their loyalty in the run-up to the Assembly session where chief minister Ashok Gehlot of the Congress is likely to mount a bid to prove his majority. Officially, however, the BJP denied they doubted the intentions of the MLAs and said they had gone to Gujarat, a state it rules, on an “excursion” and to offer prayers at the Somnath temple. More than a dozen BJP legislators are said to be already in various places in Gujarat. On Saturday, another six were flown in a chartered flight from Jaipur to Porbandar. The Rajasthan Assembly session is scheduled to commence on August 14 and chief minister Gehlot, battling a rebellion by 19 Congress MLAs led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, could use it to prove his majority. Gehlot has lodged the remaining MLAs of the Congress at a hotel in Jaisalmer, fearing poaching by the BJP. “I’m very much aware of 12 MLAs of the party going for an excursion. Whenever the BJP legislature party meeting is held, the MLAs will be there,” Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia told news agency ANI on Saturday. “The BJP is intact. The Congress is spreading rumours,” he added. Although Poonia claimed that only a dozen MLAs of the BJP had embarked on the “excursion”, sources said a dozen more were already in Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Against this backdrop, former chief minister and the BJP’s tallest leader in Rajasthan, Vasundhara Raje Scindia, was in Delhi on Friday. She met party chief J.P. Nadda and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. BJP sources said Vasundhara had been called to Delhi for her views on the political crisis in Rajasthan and also to formulate the party’s strategy in the Assembly. 
Vasundhara, the party insiders said, was not keen to pull down the Gehlot government, a view that is against the line pursued by the central leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Air India Express crash: focus on plane touchdown spot||The Air India Express Boeing 737-800 that overshot the tabletop runway at Calicut International Airport on Friday had already passed the first 1,000 metres of the runway when it touched down, sources in the directorate-general of civil aviation said. Such a landing spot would have shortened the available stretch of runway by more than a third for the flight from Dubai, which dropped around 60 feet after skidding off the wet strip, killing 18 people including both the pilots. Aviation authorities are now looking into whether the remaining length of the runway was sufficient for the aircraft, which landed in windy and rainy conditions, to have stopped safely. What is clear is that the runway was wet, which would have affected the efficacy of the aircraft’s braking system, officials said. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the reasons for the accident were being investigated and that it would be premature to speculate on the precise cause. “The media is full of speculation — that he made two attempts to land... or if it was wind or rain (that caused the accident). First, let us try to get the facts correct. Let the facts come out,” he said. An Airport Authority of India (AAI) source said the length of Runway 10 — on which the plane landed — was “more than sufficient” despite being shortened two years go. “We shortened the runway from 2,860 metres to 2,700 metres (about 8,860 feet) two years ago. This has made the Runway End Safety Areas 240 metres long on either end of the runway. It is more than sufficient according to the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s norm.” An AAI spokesperson said the plane was scheduled to land on Runway 28 but the pilot could not sight it because of the rain in the first landing attempt and requested the use of Runway 10. Citing information from the air traffic controller, the spokesperson said the plane touched down near Taxiway C, which is approximately 1,000 metres from the beginning of Runway 10. He added that the visibility at the time of landing was 2,000 metres. The New York Times reported that “with the crash investigation just starting, Indian aviation officials are already beginning to pin the blame on the pilot, not the runway”. “The basic problem, as we understand it in this incident, is that on a runway of 8,500 feet, the plane landed after crossing one-third of the strip, beyond 3,000 feet,” the newspaper quoted director-general of civil aviation Arun Kumar as saying. “What normally happens under such conditions is that the pilot does a go-round and either tries to land again or not land at all, given the weather conditions. Touchdown must happen within the first 500 feet of the strip. The rules of aviation are too well laid out. Either the pilot goes around or should not have landed at all.” Puri said the aircraft’s black box and cockpit voice recorder had been found. A black box or flight data recorder logs the various parameters of the entire flight while the cockpit voice recorder can reveal the conversations between the pilots. “I’m confident that before long we’ll find out what happened in the last few minutes of the flight,” Puri told reporters in Karipur, where the airport is located. He tried to assuage fears about tabletop airports, one of which — in Mangalore, Karnataka — had in May 2010 seen a plane skid off it and kill 158 of the 166 people on board. “Tabletop airports are there in many places in the world... (including) our neighbouring countries. The flights operate with pilots who have the necessary experience,” Puri said. He said the captain of Friday’s flight, Deepak Vasant Sathe, had landed at Calicut International Airport 27 times. “He was a very experienced and highly decorated pilot,” Puri said. Sathe had retired as an air force wing commander before joining Air India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Nitish Kumar in talks with all parties on Covid||The Bihar government, reeling under the coronavirus disease, is consulting MPs, MLAs and MLCs from all parties through video conferencing to improve the pandemic’s management. The process has not only started highlighting the ground reality, but is also attracting noteworthy suggestions from the public representatives. The district magistrates of all 40 districts in the state are holding these virtual meetings in a phased manner since Thursday, and around a dozen of them have already gone through it. These meetings were started on the directions of chief minister Nitish Kumar, who yielded to the long pending demand of public representatives cutting across party lines that the government should confabulate with them in this crisis. The demand was raised during the daylong monsoon session also on Monday. Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA Suday Yadav from Jehanabad constituency pointed towards the weakness and lethargy being seen in the people who have defeated the virus and said at the meeting: “The state government and the district administration should provide a ‘nutrition kit’ to those who have recovered from corona so that they could bounce back to normal life quickly.” Suday said at the meeting that people in the rural areas of Jehanabad, who turned positive, have to struggle for days to get themselves tested again to find out whether they were still infected or have become negative. “Once a person living in any village here tests positive and is isolated at home, he has to wait endlessly to be tested again. The health department officials take him for granted and leave him to suffer instead of testing him again after 10 or 12 days to find out whether he is still positive or has turned negative. I suggested at the meeting that the government should envisage a plan to test such people again,” Suday told The Telegraph. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh, who happens to be an MLA from Kahalgaon constituency in Bhagalpur district, pointed out that things have improved over the last couple of weeks with more ventilators, PPE kits and other facilities, and expressed satisfaction about Covid situation in his area. However, he said that the Bihar government started preparing to deal with Covid-19 very late despite the fact that the Congress had been alerting both the central and the state governments. “The state government became alert very late and the virus had spread all over during this time. Besides, very few tests were conducted, so fewer cases were detected and the virus kept spreading silently. There was a scarcity of proper masks, PPE kits and other medical facilities and it worsened the situation,” Sadanand said. “The people also are not maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, and are roaming around in the markets. There is a need to make them aware about the crisis we are facing and enforce the lockdown more strictly,” the senior Congress leader added. Many legislators like Darauli MLA Mohammad Nemtullah in Gopalganj district could not attend the virtual meeting due to technical glitches in linking to it. On the other hand, ruling party parliamentarians and legislators were all praise for the efforts by the state government in tackling the pandemic. Ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) MP from Sitamarhi, Sunil Kumar Pintu, expressed satisfaction with arrangements in his area and said that the Covid centre functioning in his district was providing medical advice to quarantined or isolated people in a speedy and satisfactory manner. “The state government’s efforts to involve public representatives are commendable. There is a need to talk nicely and patiently to the infected people. It boosts their confidence and makes them feel happy and cared,” Sunil said. Asked about the virtual meetings with legislators and parliamentarians, a top government official told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity that the effort was “yielding good, workable suggestions and also revealing the things that need to be improved. It would have been better if we would have done this exercise earlier in April or May when the number of Covid-19 cases were less in the state.” Bihar has witnessed 71,794 coronavirus cases so far and 400 persons have succumbed to the disease. The last 24 hours saw 3,646 persons being found infected in around 71,500 tests done across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Covid: test-and-treat prod to Calcutta||The Union health ministry on Saturday asked authorities in 13 districts in eight states, including five in Bengal, to ramp up testing and improve monitoring and treatment of coronavirus disease patients after a similar exercise with 16 districts in four states on Friday. The 13 districts, including Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah and Malda, collectively account for 9 per cent of India’s Covid-19 cases and 14 per cent of virus deaths and report low tests per million population, the health ministry said. Health authorities have also observed a surge in daily new Covid-19 cases in four of the 13 districts — Kamrup (metro) in Assam, Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha in Kerala. The other districts are Patna (Bihar), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Delhi and Ganjam (Odisha). The health ministry, citing anecdotal reports of patients dying within 48 hours of admission into hospitals in some districts, has directed the district and state authorities to ensure availability of ambulances and “zero tolerance” for refusal of admission. The online meeting, chaired by the Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, also underscored the need for states to monitor asymptomatic Covid-19 patients under home isolation through physical visits or telephone consultations daily to detect signs of the need for hospital care early. The health ministry on Saturday recorded 61,537 new Covid-19 cases, raising the country’s total cases to 2,088,611 of whom 619,088 patients are under medical supervision in hospitals or homes, 1,427,005 have recovered, and 42,518 have died. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed infected cases — in Covid-19 patients has fallen to 2.04 per cent from around 3.36 per cent in mid-June. But Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Bengal have CFRs higher than the national average. The health ministry had called a similar meeting on Friday with authorities in Ahmedabad and Surat (Gujarat), four districts in Karnataka, eight districts in Tamil Nadu and two districts in Telangana that also have relatively high CFRs, high daily new cases and low testing rates. Ahmedabad, for instance, has recorded 1,625 deaths among 27,587 cases, a CFR of 5.8 per cent, while Calcutta with 907 deaths among 26,557 cases till Friday has a CFR of 3.4 per cent, and Delhi has a CFR of 2.9 per cent. The states have been asked to anticipate demand for hospital beds based on prevailing case loads and make advance preparations for oxygen supply and intensive care unit beds. The health ministry has also asked states to ensure that local hospitals join online video conferences organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, on Tuesdays and Thursdays, to provide guidance on effective clinical management of Covid-19 patients in state hospitals. Doctors estimate that around 85 per cent of Covid-19 patients do not require hospital care. Around 12 per cent will recover through oxygen therapy alone and only three to five per cent need ICU care, a critical care specialist at AIIMS, New Delhi, told The Telegraph. “But the clinical management of patients with severe disease is tricky — over the weeks, we have learnt how to manage patients better. We’re still learning,” said the AIIMS doctor. “We have to start the right medications and the right interventions in a timely manner.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Doctor toll at 196, plea to widen Covid cover ||At least 196 doctors across India have died from the new coronavirus disease, the country’s largest body of medics has said, urging the Centre to extend to the private sector the Rs 50-lakh special Covid-19 insurance available to government healthcare staff. The Indian Medical Association said on Saturday that 78 (around 40 per cent) of the 196 were general practitioners, who represent the first port of call for a significant proportion of patients with symptoms of fever, upper respiratory tract infections or influenza-like symptoms. The IMA’s list includes a 59-year-old ophthalmologist in Howrah, a 52-year-old paediatrician in Chandigarh, a 55-year-old radiotherapist in Patna, a 55-year-old neurosurgeon in Chennai and a 56-year-old ear-nose-throat surgeon in Bangalore, among others. General practitioners have died from Covid-19 in Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, the IMA said. Covid-19 “does not differentiate between the government and private sectors”, the IMA has said in a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. The letter also underscores that general practitioners “spend quality time in consultation” with their patients. The list of 196 doctors includes 43 in Tamil Nadu, 23 each in Maharashtra and Gujarat, 19 in Bihar and 16 in Bengal. It suggests that the Covid-19 death toll among healthcare workers in India is higher than the number of insurance claims the government has received. The Union health ministry had on July 31 said it had received 131 claims from the families of healthcare workers who had died on Covid-19 duty, releasing for the first time a number about casualties among healthcare staff. The Rs 50-lakh insurance scheme introduced earlier this year currently covers around 22 lakh healthcare workers from all categories, such as hospital ward staff, nurses, paramedics, technicians, doctors and specialists. The IMA has also expressed concern about what it says are anecdotal reports of doctors or their family members not getting beds for admission with Covid-19 symptoms, and reports of drug shortages at some facilities. Its letter to Modi urges the government to ensure adequate care for doctors, who are a special risk group. It says that every doctor’s life saved can potentially benefit thousands of patients, whom he or she might treat in future. “We’re asking the government to provide adequate attention to the safety and welfare of doctors during the pandemic,” Rajan Sharma, IMA national president and a signatory to the letter, said. The other signatory is IMA general secretary R.V. Asokan. Physicians tracking Covid-19 infections among healthcare workers in India have said the accounts of infections among doctors without known contact with coronavirus-positive cases point to community transmission of the virus, where the source of infection is difficult to trace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
09-08-2020||India||Maligned Malappuram responds with mercy||The denizens of Malappuram have responded with action that spoke louder than the slander of detractors. To sections of the Sangh parivar, the residents of Kerala’s lone Muslim-majority district have always been “cruel”, “extremist” and everything in between. Earlier this year, BJP leader Maneka Gandhi accused them wholesale of a tendency towards “criminal activity” after a trap set with explosives killed a pregnant elephant — except that it had happened in another district (Palakkad). Yet what Indians countrywide and abroad saw on Friday night was hundreds of Malappuram residents, such as Junaid Mukkood and Fazal Puthiyakath, rushing on their own to help victims of an airliner accident in their backyard. They risked harm to themselves from a possible fire or the coronavirus and spent their own money to arrange transport to hospital. The swiftness with which the first volunteers arrived at the site of the 7.41pm tragedy and the efficient way they mobilised reinforcements and vehicles seemed to corroborate the reputation for hospitality that the district enjoys among some who know it well. Less than five minutes after an Air India Express plane from Dubai had overshot the tabletop runway at the Calicut International Airport, fallen and broken into two, a group of 15 young men from the neighbourhood had arrived, leaving the comfort of their homes and braving the rain. Responding to their messages, or learning about the tragedy from social media or television, nearly 100 people from Kondotti — the town abutting the crash site — arrived, many with vehicles. People from across Malappuram and neighbouring Kozhikode continued to turn up till 2am, many hours after the last injured traveller had been taken to hospital in a rescue operation speeded up by all the public help. By early Saturday morning, people had begun lining up at the 16 hospitals across Malappuram and Kozhikode districts where the victims had been taken, responding to messages to donate blood. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and health minister K.K. Shailaja have thanked the public for their help, which they said had possibly averted a bigger tragedy. On Saturday evening, the death toll stood at 18 among the 190 on board. About 120 people were in hospital, 23 of them seriously injured, while 23 had been discharged. Junaid was sipping tea and luxuriating in the heavy rain from his home, just 20 metres from the western end of the airport, when he heard the deafening noise. “I ran out on the road and could sense something was amiss. I slipped on a shirt over my lungi and called friends who live nearby. We ran in the direction of the aircraft tail that we could see,” Junaid told The Telegraph on Saturday. “The gate on the airport’s boundary was locked and a lone armed guard was manning it. We were pleading with him to let us in when five men from the airport rescue team arrived. When we asked whether they needed extra hands, they allowed us in.” He added: “We could hear the passengers crying for help from the broken fuselage, and saw the two pilots slumped on their seats. The nose of the aircraft was smashed. Since we didn’t know how to extricate the pilots, we focused on rescuing the passengers.” The 15 did not stop to find out whether there was a fuel leak, and the possible danger of a fire. “Our priority was to save people. During the time we spent helping the rescue efforts, we forgot we were in a (Covid-19) containment zone,” he said. But fearless did not mean careless. Another member of the group of 15, Fazal, recalled how they got the entire neighbourhood to turn off gas cylinders and electricity. “We are no rescue experts, but we realised the need to avoid even the smallest of sparks anywhere in the area since we didn’t know whether the aircraft was leaking fuel,” Fazal said. Junaid received his first shock when he saw a small head protruding out of a pile of debris and luggage. It belonged to an injured one-year-old child. “Several passengers had been flung out of the plane when the fuselage broke. In the darkness we could glimpse a few people lying in the bushes. We later found that some of them had bones jutting out of gashed limbs,” he said. Since there weren’t enough ambulances around, the group sent out WhatsApp messages asking people from the neighbourhood to come with vehicles. “Within minutes, we saw vehicles from trucks to motorbikes rushing towards the spot. I took the child to a private hospital in Kondotti,” Junaid said. The aircraft’s nose had rammed against the boundary wall of the airport. “When the ambulances started moving through the service road next to the tarmac, we took it upon ourselves to get an excavator to demolish the portion of the wall on which the badly mangled nose was resting. This opened up a new rescue route,” Fazal said. He thanked the hundreds of Malappuram residents who had ferried the injured to hospital. “Passengers who had no major injuries were transported to hospital on motorbikes. This was before a large number of ambulances arrived,” he said. By 9.30pm, the disaster relief teams had rescued all but two of the survivors who had been caught in the tail portion. Extricating the duo took another 45 minutes. The rescuers prised open what remained of the cockpit to bring out pilot Deepak Vasant Sathe, who was already dead, and the severely injured co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who died later. “Our society played a massive role in the rescue operations. Those related to this sector say the rescue mission was exceptional. The local people and the rescue agencies did a great job,” chief minister Vijayan told reporters on Saturday. Minister Shailaja wrote on Facebook that the “depth of the disaster could be reduced only because of the good people from the neighbourhood”. “They engaged in the rescue mission ignoring even the Covid protocol,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Lockdown: Jobless dad kills self, 3 girls||A 42-year-old labourer, who had lost his job after the lockdown, killed himself and his three daughters by jumping into a well in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district, police said on Saturday. Rajesh Rajak used to work in Mumbai but had returned to his village Andhiyari, 40km from here, after losing his job. He and his wife frequently fought over their financial situation, said a local police official. They reportedly had one such quarrel on Friday night, after which Rajesh tied his daughters Anushka (10), China (8) and Sandhya (5) to his waist with a rope and jumped into a well near his house, he said. After the incident came to light in the morning, the police were alerted by villagers and the four bodies were fished out. The couple has another two-and-half-year-old daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Rahul flags vanishing files as an 'anti-democratic experiment' by Modi govt||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the trend of files relating to sensitive matters vanishing was an “anti-democratic experiment” by the Narendra Modi government, not merely a coincidence. Amid a controversy over a document on Chinese transgressions in Ladakh being pulled down from the defence ministry website, Rahul tweeted in Hindi: “As and when the country turns emotional, files go missing. Be it (Vijay) Mallya or Rafale, (Nirav) Modi or (Mehul) Choksi… the latest in the list of missing files is the documents relating to Chinese intrusion. This is not a coincidence (sanyog), this is an anti-democracy experiment (prayog) by the Modi government.” The Congress leader was playing on the Prime Minister’s use of the words “sanyog” and “prayog” in the context of the anti-CAA protests earlier this year. Addressing a public rally during the Delhi elections, Modi had said referring to the countrywide protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, from Seelampur to Shaheen Bagh: “Is this a mere sanyog? No, it is a prayog, motivated by a design to destroy the communal amity within the country.” What has lent credibility to Rahul’s allegation is the manner in which files relating to issues that could tarnish the image of the Prime Minister and the government have disappeared. The document that was withdrawn from the defence ministry website had contradicted the Prime Minister’s claim that none had forcibly entered Indian territory, nor had any Indian post been captured. Other documents that could damage the Modi dispensation have disappeared in the past. On the Rafale fighter jets, the Centre had told the Supreme Court in March 2019 that the documents relating to the French deal had been stolen from the defence ministry. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had told a three-judge bench that the highly sensitive and classified documents had been stolen and that reports based on them were appearing in newspapers. As a controversy erupted after Rahul attacked the government for not keeping the files safely, Venugopal later denied they had been stolen. In the case related to fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya earlier this week, the Supreme Court had to adjourn the hearing till August 20 after the judges found that some replies to the application filed in the matter were not available in the case records. The government officials concerned have been directed to furnish all the required details, including the names of the people who had dealt with the files concerning review petitions in the past three years. Earlier in June 2018, files pertaining to several economic offenders, including fugitive diamantaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, were said to have been destroyed in a fire at the income tax building in Mumbai. The Congress had then repeatedly accused the Modi government of protecting the fugitives.The BJP was in power in Maharashtra when the fire gutted the files. On Saturday, the 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Rahul called upon people to take a vow to fight for justice. He said in a tweet: “New meaning will have to be given on the 78th anniversary of Quit India to the ‘Karo ya Maro’ (Do or Die) slogan given by Mahatma Gandhi: Fight against injustice, don’t be frightened.” On the anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a week-long drive till Independence Day to rid India of garbage, describing it as the “Gandagi, Bharat Chhoro Saptah” (Filth, Quit India Week). If this sounded like a parody of the “Angrezon, Bharat Chhoro” call of August 8, 1942, that had inspired India in the final push for freedom, Rahul Gandhi had a prompt reply: “Why not! We have to go a step further and clean the constantly increasing ‘filth of untruth’. Will the Prime Minister initiate this satyagraha by telling the nation the truth of Chinese aggression?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Soil balls stuffed with bamboo seeds to grow a forest for elephants ||Forest officials in Odisha’s Cuttack are hurling soil balls stuffed with bamboo seeds into vacant areas inside a forest so that elephants can have their favourite food when they grow into plants and not raid nearby villages and agricultural fields. The divisional forest officer (DFO) of Athagarh, Sasmita Lenka, told The Telegraph: “Elephants often enter human habitations for want of adequate food in their natural habitats. If we can solve the problem by creating a solid food base for them, they will stop raiding human settlements. So, we decided to launch a drive to create more bamboo forests. But shortage of labourers (to sow so many seeds) and funds amid the coronavirus pandemic was a major constraint.” The Athagarh forest division then came up with the idea to create bamboo clusters without needing too many hands or much investment. “We decided to throw balls embedded with bamboo seeds into vacant plots inside the forest. Each orb, of the shape and size of a cricket ball, is made of 50 to 100 grams of good muddy soil and stuffed with 10 to 15 bamboo seeds,” Lenka said. “We also mix pesticides so that the seeds are not destroyed by insects. The balls are dried for up to 24 to 48 hours before being thrown into the barren forest patches,” she added. According to Lenka, there is no need to water the balls for the seeds to germinate as it is the rainy season. “We hope that of the 10-15 seeds in each ball, at least five will germinate. Then shoots will come out within a month and bamboo bushes will grow within a year. Once they are fully grown, they will remain there for a long time. We have already thrown 5,000 to 10,000 balls into the forest. At many places the seeds have germinated. We plan to thrown 50,000 to 70,000 bamboo balls,” she said. The immediate trigger for the plan was the havoc caused by a herd of 21 elephants from the Chandaka-Dampada forest division, close to Bhubaneswar, that had come to the Athagarh division in search of food. They ate and damaged paddy of local farmers. Incidents of man-animal conflict are reported almost daily in the area. The habitat of elephants has been disturbed by the expansion of Bhubaneswar city, officials said. “After a lot of deliberation we have come up with the plan of creating bamboo clusters. Once the plan is successful, we will submit a proposal to the forest department to create more bamboo forests using this method,” said Lenka, adding that the forest department had bought one quintal of seeds from a government firm at Jashipur in Mayurbhanj district. “Local people have also come forward to work as volunteers along with forest officials to prepare the bamboo balls and throw them into the forest. There is no need to look after the balls. The seeds will germinate automatically. We will also throw the balls into elephant corridors through which the animals move from one forest division to another,” Lenka said. An elephant requires up to 150kg of food a day. Biswajit Mohanty, the secretary of the NGO Wildlife Odisha, said: “Odisha elephants live a life fraught with danger all the time due to poaching, poisoning, electrocution, train accidents and being chased by forest squads. Although Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam have much larger populations of elephants, the elephant mortality rate is the highest in Odisha.” Mohanty added: “As many as 1,497 deaths have been recorded in the state since 1990.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||India, China equilibrium on Jaishankar's mind||The world has a lot riding on India and China given their size and impact, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said on Saturday, suggesting that the future of the ties between the two countries would depend on reaching “some kind of equilibrium or understanding”. During an online CII summit, Jaishankar was asked whether India and China would be able to become friends in the next 1020 years just like France and Germany had overcome their past to forge a new relationship. “We are neighbours of China. China is already the second largest economy in the world. We will be one day third. You can argue when. We are demographically two very unique countries. We are the only two countries in the billionplus (population) category,” he repled. “We are seeing a sort of parallel but differential rise of the two countries. But all of this is also happening when we are neighbours. To my mind what it does is, it puts a huge premium on reaching some kind of equilibrium or understanding between the two.” “Because not just in my interest, equally in their interests, and how to do that, I think is, one of the big challenges that we face. In their own way, somebody at their end would be saying something,” Jaishankar added. “And I would argue that the world actually has a lot riding on us given our size and given our impact…. There are problems; problems are well laid out. But certainly I feel, you know, (it) is very central to our foreign policy calculations,” Jaishankar added. Divisional commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on Saturday held a meeting at Daulat Beg Oldie, located at an altitude of 16,000ft, to discuss disengagement and deescalation at the Depsang Plains, adds our special correspondent in New Delhi. The fresh talks took place after five rounds of meetings at the corps commanderlevel (lieutenant generals) — the highest military dialogue — since June 6 failed to break the logjam. “The majorgenerallevel meeting started at 11am and ended at 7.30pm. The talks were positive but inconclusive,” said a government source. Asked about the rationale behind the majorgenerallevel talks when the highest military talks have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough, the government source said: “The issue of Depsang Plains was not discussed during the earlier corps commanderlevel talks. So, we decided to carry forward the dialogue process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
09-08-2020||India||Bande mataram! The Song||The story goes that sick and tired of hearing God Save the Queen at all official events and functions, 19th century writer Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay decided to pen the lyrics of Bande Mataram. Those days Bankim was serving as the deputy collector of Howrah. After attending one such ceremony in his homestead, Kanthalpara, 40 kilometres north of Calcutta, the rationalist and patriot hurried home and composed 12 lines at one go. (The part of the story that concerns the 12 lines is endorsed by Sabyasachi Bhattacharya’s research in his book, Vande Mataram: The Biography of a Song.) They begin — “Sujalam suphalam/Malayaja-sitalam/Sasya-syamala /Mataram/ Bande Mataram...” Bankim had used highly Sanskritised Bengali to describe his mother country in all her splendour. The English translation by Aurobindo Ghose goes, “I bow to thee, Mother,/Richly-watered, richly-fruited,/Cool with the winds of the south,/Dark with the crops of the harvests.” “That was probably in early 1874,” says Devajit Bandyopadhyay, singer, archivist and music scholar. In his soon-to-be-published book in Bengali, Bande Mataram — Rup Rupantar, he traces the socio-cultural and political underpinnings of the song that became a battle cry in the freedom struggle and, thereafter, part of life in pre-Independence India. At some point, the verses were turned into a slogan for nationalists and much later, a lethal weapon to destroy communal harmony in the subcontinent, making it a bone of contention between religious conservatives and secularists. According to Bandyopadhyay, after Bankim’s daughter and some close acquaintances bitterly criticised the heavily Sanskritised verses, Bankim hid the verses in the drawer of his writing table for the next seven years. They were published in 1881 in Bangadarshan, a literary journal founded and edited by Bankim. The lines sitting in an obscure corner of the page served as a space filler and were barely noticed. But it seems Bankim told a friend who criticised the poem, “You can’t possibly guess now if this is good or bad. But there will be a day when this song will be on the lips of the masses. I shall be dead by then.” In 1882, Bankim decided to include the verses in Ananda Math with 16 additional lines to suit the tenor of the novel inspired by the Sanyasi Uprising of the late 18th and early 19th centuries. In the foreword to the book The Fakir and Sannyasi Uprisings by Atis K. Dasgupta, historian Barun De writes, “Ananda Math was written about sanyasis leading a photo-jacquerie against arrogant and brutal British subaltern officers.” Sung by Santan Dal, a band of rebellious Hindu monks in a temple, the new stanzas allude to idol worship. Bankim writes, “Bahute tumi Ma sakti/Hridaye tumi Ma bhakti/ Tomari pratima gai/mandire mandire/ Twam hi Durga dasapraharana-dharini/Kamala kamala dala viharini... In the arm thou art might, O Mother,/ In the heart, O Mother, thou art love and faith,/ It is thy image we raise in every temple./For thou art Durga holding her ten weapons of war,/Kamal at play in the lotuses.” Says historian Chittabrata Palit, “As sanyasis were the central figures of Ananda Math, it is not surprising that they should sing religious hymns seeking freedom at a temple (Bhavani Mandir). According to Bandyopadhyay, the hymns were first set to tune in Raga Malhar (Qawwali beat) by the legendary musician Pandit Jadunath Bhattacharya of the Bishnupur Gharana. Jadu Bhatta, as he is referred to even now, happened to be Bankim’s music teacher. The song was performed at private recitals in the presence of Bankim quite a few times, notes contemporary scholar Haraprasad Sastri in his diary. A few years later, Rabindranath Tagore set to music the verses based on Desh ragini. The score was written by Tagore’s niece Pratibha Sundari in the family magazine Balak. A decade later, Tagore sang the whole song at the Calcutta session of the Indian National Congress with his elder brother Jyotirindranath at the piano. By that time, however, Bankim had passed away. Bankim died in 1894; in 1883 Ananda Math was staged at the National Theatre, later renamed Minerva Theatre, in Calcutta. The popularity of the song soared thereafter and Bankim was around to witness that. After Tagore’s recital, it became a tradition to inaugurate Congress sessions with Bande Mataram. In fact, it is still sung at the closing of every session of Parliament. The popularity of the song, however, reached its pinnacle in 1905. When the British Viceroy Lord Curzon decided to divide Bengal, thousands of people gathered at the Town Hall in Calcutta to protest the resolution; the gathered crowd sang Bande Mataram. It also came to be the chant for those who participated in the Swadeshi movement that was launched in reaction to the partition of Bengal. That year, Tamil poet laureate Subramania Bharati translated it; translations in Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati, Hindi, Telugu and Malayalam were also soon done. Companies such as H. Bose Cylinder Records, Nicole Records, Pathe and Gramophone Concerto Records brought out records of it sung by various artistes — from Tagore to Satya Bhushan Gupta, from Bhabani Charan Das to Pandit Omkarnath Thakur, from
Kesarbai Kerkar to Hirabai Barodekar. Sushil Kumar Chatterjee, better known as Nakubabu, a 96-year old sound designer and record collector, recalls about 80 different records. “Unquestionably this song ranks among the most popular songs in the history of recording,” he says. Bandyopadhyay has come across 86 recordings and 144 compositions of the song. There is one Ananda Bazaar & Hindustan Standard (publishers of The Telegraph) record, marked as AHR 1 in 1939. “It was a chorus in Raga Durga composed by Timir Baran. On the other side, the tune was played by an orchestra,” says Nakubabu, who has a copy. Set in the style of a march song, the record, featuring all five stanzas, was played during parades of the Indian National Army or Azad Hind Fauj in Singapore, some claim. There were other compositions that were never recorded, such as the one composed and sung by Vishnu Digambar Paluskar in Raga Kafi. It was heard only at a few Congress conventions. After his death in 1931, his disciple Omkarnath Thakur carried on the tradition. In fact, it was Omkarnath who sang Bande Mataram in Parliament in 1947. The immense popularity of the song had irked the British authorities. Indians were banned from singing or chanting Bande Mataram. Those who disobeyed faced police action, record shops were raided routinely and, if discovered, Bande Mataram records were destroyed. The song that united many Indians during the Swadeshi movement, however, led to divisions along communal lines in later years. When some political leaders and biplabis  (militant nationalists) suggested the song be made India’s national anthem, some found its imagery and rhetoric unacceptable. They found some verses “idolatrous”. Not just Muslims and Christians, some secularists, communists and atheists also raised objections. When many Congress leaders, including Subhas Chandra Bose, took the initiative to make Bande Mataram the national anthem, Nehru decided to consult Tagore. Tagore was of the opinion that the last three stanzas had got “accidentally associated” with Ananda Math and were likely to “offend some sects or communities”. Based on this, the Congress Working Committee accepted the first two stanzas of the song as “fit to be sung in national gatherings” but not formally adopted as the national anthem. That was in 1937. “This decision to compromise was bitterly criticised by many intellectuals, including scientist Jagadish Chandra Bose, Sister Nivedita and Subhas Chandra Bose,” says Bandyopadhyay. “Muslim intellectuals such as Rezaul Karim opposed the move,” he adds. And Gandhi wrote in the weekly newspaper, Harijan, “I would not risk a single quarrel over singing Bande Mataram at a mixed gathering. It will never suffer from disuse. It is enthroned in the hearts of millions.” Gandhi’s prophecy has been proven correct again and again in independent India. In 1997, when India celebrated her 50th year of Independence, film producer G. Bharat Bala revived the song in Hindi; Maa Tujhe Salaam was composed and sung by A.R. Rahman — Raga Desh Malhar with a strong Western influence. The most well-known version, however, is the one sung by Lata Mangeshkar in the 1952 film Ananda Math. It was set to tune by Hemant Kumar. It was re-recorded by Mangeshkar in 1996 to modern musical accompaniment. In the later years, other films also used the song. In Shyam Benegal’s Making of the Mahatma, Usha Uthup sings the song in a pop style; it is picturised on Gandhi doing a long march in South Africa. The All India Radio still opens its broadcast every morning with the vocal recital of the song in chorus. In the meantime, the bickering over its interpretations persist. “The fight over Bande Mataram is a result of a lopsided history projected by fundamentalists of all hues along with secular (mostly Marxist) historians,” says Palit. According to Marxist historians, Bande Mataram was a war cry of Muslim and Hindu ascetics alike fighting imperialists and feudal forces in 18th century Bengal portrayed in the novel Ananda Math. In 2006, Arjun Singh, the then HRD minister of the Congress-led UPA government, passed a directive asking all schools to ensure students sing the first two stanzas of the song. But after some Muslim clerics objected, the decision was rolled back. In 2018, Bande Mataram made headlines yet again when the then BJP president Amit Shah accused the Congress of initiating the division of the country by dropping the last two stanzas in 1937. This year, in early July, the Surat Municipal Corporation asked textile workers to sing the song while opening shop. The reason proffered — to foreground their solidarity with the rest of the nation and fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-740
