10-08-2020||India||Pilot-Congress rapprochement 4 days before Rajasthan Assembly||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will "work in the interest" of the Congress party and its government in the state, the Congress said on Monday after a meeting between the rebel leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi. The two leaders had a "frank, open and conclusive discussion", AICC general secretary (Organisation) K.C. Venugopal said in a statement. "Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three member committee to address the issues raised by Shri Sachin Pilot and the aggrieved MLA and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof," the statement said. Congress's Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and senior leaders Ahmed Patel and KC Venugopal will be on the promised three-member panel, NDTV reported. "Shri Sachin Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan," it added. "I had maintained from Day One that I would never join the BJP. I stand vindicated today," Pilot told NDTV.  He also told reporters that his rebellion was meant to flag "ideological issues". He also thanked Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for "taking the time to hear us out". Pilot also said, "There were some issues which we wanted to highlight. I did that", adding "I had been saying since beginning that all these things were based on principle. I always thought it was essential to raise these things in the party's interest." "I had been saying since beginning that all these things were based on principle. I always thought it was essential to raise these things in the party's interest," he added. The Rajasthan assembly session is scheduled to be held from August 14. Top Congress sources said Monday’s meeting with Pilot took place a little after noon at Rahul Gandhi's residence and a "positive outcome" was expected. Sources also confirmed that Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. According to sources close to Pilot, the meeting lasted for about two hours and the Pilot camp was assured that all issues raised by them will be resolved. Meanwhile, party sources said Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. They said among the options, one possible agreement discussed during the meeting was favourable voting by Pilot and MLAs loyal to him in case of a trust vote during the upcoming Rajasthan assembly session. Pilot and 18 other MLAs have rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, leading to Pilot's sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Party sources add that some of the rebel MLAs have also been in touch with the Congress leadership in the last few days. Sources also claimed that one of the MLAs was back to the Congress fold after being in touch with the party leaders. Other MLAs are likely to meet top party leadership soon and discuss their issues, they added. The Congress had a total of 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. This includes 6 MLAs who were previously with the BSP. Pilot and other rebel MLAs would face disqualification in case they defied the Congress whip on the floor of the house. With Ashok Gehlot firmly holding on to the remaining MLAs, top leadership are positive of resolving the rebellion raised against the state chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Air India Express plane crash: 8 injured passengers critical||The condition of eight, out of the 101 passengers, who were injured in the Air India Express plane crash at Karipur airport here and under treatment in various hospitals, remains critical, officials said. A total of 71 have been discharged till now, after being treated at various hospitals in Malappuram and Kozhikode. "A total of 71 persons have been discharged till now...101 are in various hospitals, out of whichthe condition of eight are critical," a senior official of the Malappuram district administration told PTI. Meanwhile, Malappuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said the district administration was planning to initiate the process to release the baggage of the passengers. "We want to release the baggage to the relatives and the passengers.It's more important. It normallystarts after three-four weeks but here we are trying to finish the process within two weeks," Gopalakrishnan said. The district administration had collected the baggage of the passengers soon after the rescue operations were over. Eighteen people, including the pilot and co-pilot of the AIE flight from Dubai lost their lives, when it overshot the tabletop runway at the airport here while landing in heavy rains and fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two portions on Friday night. Air India Express on Sunday said the bodies of 16 passengers, who lost their lives in the crash, have been handed over to their families. The bodies of the pilot and co-pilot of the AIE flight, were handed over to their families on Saturday. The body of co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar was cremated on Sunday in the presence of family members and officials of Air India and Air India Express at Mathura, his hometown, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Yediyurappa recovers from Covid-19, discharged from hospital||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has recovered 'completely' from Covid-19 and was on Monday discharged from a private hospital here nine days after being admitted, the state government said.  The 77-year old leader was admitted to the Manipal Hospital on August 2 after he tested positive for coronavirus.  "After recovering from Covid-19 completely, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has been discharged from the Manipal Hospital," an official statement said here.  Later, the chief minister himself tweeted about his discharge.  "Thank you everyone for your wishes and prayers. I have been discharged from the hospital and will be in self- quarantine. Deeply grateful for your affection and support. I look forward to getting back to the routine very soon," he said.  Pictures released by the Information Department showed a team of doctors giving a bouquet and along with paramedics greeting the chief minister.  Yediyurappa, in his trademark all-white attire and wearing a face mask, was seen in another picture walking out of the hospital, acknowledging the staff's wishes with folded hands.  During his hospitalisation, officials had said the Chief Minister was engaged in work like signing files and holding review meetings.  On August 2, Yediyurappa had tweeted that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and was being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors though he was fine.  The veteran BJP leader was in home quarantine last month after some staff members in his office-cum-residence were found infected with the virus. Though subsequent Covid-19 test results then were negative, later he had tested positive leading to his hospitalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Don’t make me a scapegoat of political agendas, Rhea tells SC||Actress Rhea Chakraborty has told the Supreme Court that she should not be made a "scapegoat of political agendas" in the actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, alleging that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was allegedly behind the "registration of an FIR in Patna" against her. In an affidavit filed before the apex court on Monday, she claimed the "sad incident" of Rajput's death unfortunately occurred in the wake of elections in Bihar and this led to the issue of suicide being isolated and "blown out of proportion in the media”. The apex court is scheduled to hear Chakraborty's plea tomorrow (Tuesday). The actress said she had already been "convicted" by the media in the matter even before any foul play had been established. In an additional affidavit filed in the apex court, Chakraborty said that she had "no objection" if the top court referred the case to CBI by its order and "even if the CBI investigates the matter the jurisdiction will still be with the courts at Mumbai and not at Patna". Chakraborty filed the affidavit in the top court which is seized of her plea seeking transfer of an FIR, lodged against her by Bihar Police in Patna on a complaint by Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh, to Mumbai. In her additional affidavit, she said that two actors --- Ashutosh Bhakre and Sameer Sharma -- were reported to have committed suicide in the last one month and "yet no whisper about the same in power corridors." "In case of death of Sushant Singh Rajput, Chief Minister of Bihar is reported to be responsible for registration of FIR in Patna," the affidavit claimed, adding, "The sad incident of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput who hailed from Bihar unfortunately occurred just in wake of elections in Bihar. This has led to the issue of suicide of deceased being isolated and blown out of proportion." "The issue is blown out of proportion in media. Media channels are examining and cross-examining all the witnesses in the case. Petitioner (Chakraborty) is already convicted by media even before a foul play in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput is established," it alleged, adding, "Petitioner urges before this court that she should be protected and not be made scapegoat of political agendas". Referring to a provision of the CrPC, which deals with offence triable where the act is done or consequence ensues, the affidavit said it appeared to have been "misconstrued to usurp jurisdiction in Bihar under political pressure".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Second attempt to cap OIL gas well fails||The second attempt to shut Oil India's damaged well at Baghjan in Assam, which has been spewing gas uncontrollably for 76 days, failed on Monday when the iron cable to lift the lid snapped, the PSU said.  This was the second attempt in ten days.  The company said in a statement that when the blow out preventer (BOP) stack alignment was underway to insert the studs one of the two bull lines connected with the Athey Wagon, the equipment for fighting oil field fire which was lifting it, came out from the socket due to excessive heat.  "From the safety point of view and stability required for alignment of the BOP stack on the well head, experts decided to safely remove the BOP stack from the well head.  Operations will resume after carrying out necessary rectification jobs," it added.  The BOP is a very heavy metal cover weighing several tonnes that is placed at the mouth of any gas or oil well to stop leakage of the fuel from under the ground.  Oil India Ltd (OIL) spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika told PTI that experts were trying to put the blow out preventer (BOP) at the mouth of the well, which is on fire since June 9, but the wire snapped due to excessive heat.  "After placing the BOP at the well mouth, experts tried to fit the spools. But as there was constant fire, the cable broke.  "Our experts are working on to repair the cable. As soon as it is ready, we will try again," he added.  The first attempt to shut the damaged gas well had faced a setback when the wagon or hydraulic lift used to put a lid on the mouth gave in and toppled over on July 31.  Well number 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district has been spewing gas uncontrollably since May 27 and it caught fire on June 9, killing two of OIL's firefighters at the site.  On July 22 three foreign experts of a Singapore company invited to assist OIL and ONGC experts for putting out the inferno, received burn injuries while they were removing a spool from the well head.  Hazarika said that the injured experts have left the country and two others from the company are working at the site".  OIL said it continues to face protests and blockades across few of its wells and field locations leading to heavy loss in production in the last few months.  "OIL's cumulative loss of crude oil and natural gas has been 24,968 MT and 60.2 MMSCM respectively," the release said.  The PSU said that various assessments and impact studies of the blowout as well as the blaze is on in villages and nearby forest areas by multiple agencies such as ERM India, TERI, CSIR-NEIST and IIT-Guwahati.  OIL said that surveys for assessment of damage for compensation by the district administration are in progress in both Tinsukia and Doomdooma circles.  The total number of families surveyed for assessment of damage for compensation till August 9 in Doomdooma and Tinsukia circles is 2,739.  Over 9,000 people were initially shifted to 13 relief camps after the well suffered a blowout in May and subsequently caught fire last month, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot meets Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Ahead of the crucial Rajasthan assembly session from August 14, rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Monday met party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra here, amidst indications of a possible breakthrough. Top Congress sources said the meeting took place a little after noon at Rahul Gandhi's residence and a "positive outcome" was expected. Sources also confirmed that Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. According to sources close to Pilot, the meeting lasted for about two hours and the Pilot camp was assured that all issues raised by them will be resolved. Meanwhile, party sources said Pilot has been in touch with the top Congress leadership and a formula for his return was being worked out. They said among the options, one possible agreement discussed during the meeting was favourable voting by Pilot and MLAs loyal to him in case of a trust vote during the upcoming Rajasthan assembly session. Pilot and 18 other MLAs have rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, leading to Pilot's sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Party sources add that some of the rebel MLAs have also been in touch with the Congress leadership in the last few days. Sources also claimed that one of the MLAs was back to the Congress fold after being in touch with the party leaders. Other MLAs are likely to meet top party leadership soon and discuss their issues, they added. The Congress had a total of 107 MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly. This includes 6 MLAs who were previously with the BSP. Pilot and other rebel MLAs would face disqualification in case they defied the Congress whip on the floor of the house. With Ashok Gehlot firmly holding on to the remaining MLAs, top leadership are positive of resolving the rebellion raised against the state chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Plane crash: 56 injured passengers discharged from hospitals||The Air India Express said on Monday that 56 passengers, who were injured in the plane crash in Kozhikode, have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining complete fitness. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said on Saturday that 149 people have been admitted to hospitals, 23 have been discharged, while three are critically injured in the B737 plane crash. The Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway during landing at the Kozhikode airport in heavy rain on Friday night, fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into two, killing 18 people, including the pilots. "The Chief Executive Officer, Air India Express Ltd as well as Regional Head-Southern Region continue to remain in Calicut (Kozhikode) to render continuous support to the family members," the airline said in a statement on Monday. "As on date, 56 injured passengers have been discharged from various hospitals after obtaining their complete fitness," it added. Air India Express, a wholly owned subsidiary of national carrier Air India, has only B737 aircraft in its fleet. The airline said on Sunday that the mortal remains of 16 passengers killed in the plane crash have been handed over to their families, and added that authorities were investigating the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee tests positive for Covid-19||Former president and senior leader of the Indian National Congress Pranab Mukherjee said on Monday he has tested positive for Covid-19. Mukherjee, in a tweet from his official twitter handle, said he got himself tested while visiting a hospital on a seperate purpose. The reason for his visit to the hospital is unknown yet. He has further urged all people who came in contact with him throughout last week to self-isolate themselves and get themselves tested for the virus. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala along with several other party leaders wished a speedy recovery to Mukherjee. "We wish former President Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery from Covid," the Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Abhijeet Mukherjee, the son of the former president, also tweeted, "I wish my father a speedy recovery ! I appeal to all my countrymen to pray for his speedy recovery & good health." Several leaders from across the political spectrum also wished him a speedy recovery. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, "I have come to know former President of India Sh. Pranab Mukherjee has tested positive for Covid-19...concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery." "Wishing Sri Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery. I am sure he will be out of this sooner than later," said Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge. Union minister Piyush Goyal also wished good health for Mukherjee, and said he is confident that the former president will quickly recover from the virus. Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, "Astonishing and matter of concern that former President Pranab Mukherjee tested positive for COVID per press reports. Very active, regular walker, wish him quick recovery and restful convalescence." The news comes a week after BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah tested positive for the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||SC to hear 2009 contempt case against Bhushan, Tejpal||The Supreme Court on Monday said further hearing was required in the 2009 criminal contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal to examine whether comments on corruption against judges per se amounted to contempt or not. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra and comprising justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari posted the matter for hearing on August 17. The top court had in November 2009 issued contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was then editor of the magazine. On August 4, the apex court had made clear to Bhushan and Tejpal that it would hear the case against them, if it does not accept their explanation" or "apology in the matter. The apex court had on August 4 said that the court has not received the explanation/apology submitted by Bhushan and Tejpal so far and would pronounce its order on whether to accept them or not. Explanation/apology submitted by Prashant Bhushan/Respondent No.1 and Tarun Tejpal/Respondent No.2, have not been received so far. In case we do not accept the explanation/apology, we will hear the matter. We reserve the order, the bench had said in its last week order. During the brief hearing conducted through video-conferencing last week, the bench had said it does not want to curtail the freedom of speech and expression but for the contempt there is a thin line. On July 22, the top court had issued notice to Bhushan in a separate suo motu contempt proceedings initiated against him for his alleged derogatory tweets against the judiciary, saying his statements prima facie "brought the administration of justice in disrepute". The apex court had on August 5 reserved its verdict on the contempt case against Bhushan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
10-08-2020||India||Rhea, family at ED office for 2nd round of questioning||Actor Rhea Chakraborty, her father and her brother appeared before the Enforcement Directorate today for questioning in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case. This is the second time that the probe agency will question Ms Chakraborty. In addition to Ms Chakraborty, her brother, Showik Chakraborty, and father, Inderjit Chakraborty, the Enforcement Directorate has also summoned Siddharth Pithani (a friend of Sushant Singh Rajput), who had ignored a summons to appear on Saturday. Post 2 PM, Rajput's friend and roommate Siddharth Pithani also arrived at the ED office and his statement is expected to be recorded too. On Friday, Rhea was questioned for more than 9 hours. She, her brother, and former manager Shruti Modi were questioned in separate rooms at the agency's office in Mumbai, sources said. The Enforcement Directorate has filed a money laundering case against Rhea and five others over "suspicious transactions" worth ₹ 15 crore. The case was filed after the agency acted on a FIR filed by Mr Rajput's father with Bihar police, accusing Ms Chakraborty of illegally transferring that amount from his son's bank account. Sources in the agency said money from Mr Rajput's bank accounts had been transferred to Ms Chakraborty but it was nowhere near the alleged one. Agency sources, however, said that they "want more answers" over alleged mismatch in income, expenditure, and investments. They said while Rhea has filed Income Tax Returns stating an income of about Rs 14-18 lakh, the value of her investments is reportedly higher. Her father, they said, is a retired defence personnel who gets a pension of about Rs 1 lakh per month. The sources said Rhea told the agency that she had made the property investments from her income, savings and has taken bank loans. Rhea has been accused by Rajput's father of abetting his son's suicide and she had initially refused to appear before the agency citing her appeal pending before the Supreme Court that is slated to be heard on August 11. Her lawyer Satish Maneshinde had said Rhea is a law-abiding citizen and would cooperate with the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Bihar doctor deaths blamed on inferior PPE||Bihar’s government doctors have pinpointed the “substandard” and “porous” personal protection equipment kits supplied to them as a key reason for the large number of medics dying or getting infected with Covid-19 in the state. “Most of the 19 doctors who have died of the coronavirus disease and the 400-plus others infected in the state are government doctors,” said Dr Sunil Kumar, private practitioner and honorary secretary of the Bihar branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), India’s largest association of doctors. State health department sources said the PPE kits had been provided by the Centre, which had obtained them from a PSU and other agencies. “Just compare the quality of the PPE kits given to government doctors with those worn by ministers and IAS officers on the rare occasions when they visit hospitals, and you will understand,” Dr Kumar told The Telegraph. He said the poor quality of the PPE kits was a key reason behind the “high infection rate among doctors in Bihar”, and that the IMA’s repeated appeals to health minister Mangal Pandey and his bureaucrats had “gone unnoticed”. Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary to the state health department, accepted that the quality of the PPE kits “was very bad”. An official said the state government was now planning to buy the protective kits from the market, where they cost between Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,500. A government doctor said on the condition of anonymity that the PPE kits were “flimsy, badly stitched and felt more like raincoats than protective gear”. Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the IMA’s Bihar branch, said the situation was scary for everyone given the shortage of doctors in the state. Bihar has just 4,500 doctors working in the district, sub-divisional, referral and block-level hospitals against 12,000 sanctioned posts. Almost half the 4,000 sanctioned posts of doctors at the state’s 12 medical college hospitals are vacant. On Friday, the IMA had revealed that 196 doctors had died of Covid-19 across the country, with Bihar accounting for 19 of the deaths. “Of the 400-plus others infected, 45 are battling for their lives at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna,” Dr Ajay Kumar, who had retired as joint secretary, state health services, and is now a private practitioner, said. It’s not just the quality – “there’s an acute scarcity of PPE kits and N-95 masks in the remote areas of the state”, Dr Sunil Kumar said. A government doctor posted in Kaimur district, around 190km southwest of Patna, agreed: “The supply has been erratic and the material seems porous. We got some supplies this week but can’t say anything about the future.” Dr Amitabh, general secretary of the Bihar State Health Services Association, a body of government doctors, dismissed this newspaper’s question about the quality of the PPE kits. “The doctors have not been asked to conduct tests to find out whether they are of good or bad quality,” he said. Amrit, appointed principal secretary to the state health department on July 27, said: “We are going to look into the issue. I went to Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur recently for an inspection and found the quality of PPE kits was very bad. We are going to take steps.” A senior official with Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited, said that with PPE kits now available in the market, the state would buy them directly. “We have received 6 lakh PPE kits from the Centre, of which 4 lakh have been distributed. Yes, we have received complaints about them. In any case, we’ll start procuring them on our own very soon and make sure they are of standard quality,” he said, asking not to be identified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Defence ministry to stop importing 101 items to boost domestic production||The defence ministry on Sunday announced it would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner from December to try and strengthen the country’s fledging defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed upon the domestic industry within the next 6 to 7 years.” Although the proposed amount need not be distributed equally, the annual break-up ranges from Rs 57,000 crore to Rs 66,600 crore. This is higher than the Rs 45,700 crore India spent on importing defence equipment in 2018-19. The domestic defence players in India now include Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, the Adanis, Anil Ambani, the Tatas, the Hindujas, L&T, Kalyani Group and Mahindra Aerospace. The government did not reveal the share of the 101 items in India’s current import bill. India is now among the top three arms importers in the world. Among the embargoed items are high-technology weapon systems like “artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, radars”. Announcing the list, Rajnath tweeted: “The ministry of defence is now ready for a big push to Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. MoD (ministry of defence) will introduce import embargo on 101 items beyond given timeline to boost indigenisation of defence production.” He called the decision a “big step towards self-reliance in defence”. Responding to Rajnath’s tweet that the decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry, Vipin Narang, MIT professor, tweeted: “Because DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) has an… excellent track record of doing this, having ‘not produced a single weapons system that could alter the country’s strategic situation’ (Cohen and Dasgupta, Arming without Aiming, p.26).” Narang, an expert on nuclear security and terrorism, was referring to the book Arming Without Aiming (Stephen Cohen and Sunil Dasgupta), which deals with India’s dependence on foreign suppliers for weapons. Defence ministry sources said Rajnath’s announcement had been expected following the Centre’s May declaration that it would draw up a negative import list for defence. Rajnath said his ministry had prepared the list after consulting all the stakeholders, including the military and public and private-sector companies, to assess the Indian defence industry’s current and future capability to manufacture ammunition and equipment. A military veteran said later: “The big question is, do we have enough indigenous capability? The embargoed items like artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars are still at various stages of development by the DRDO.” What is needed is a policy intent to reduce the import of critical components, he said. “If material components are imported and assembled in India, what is the purpose behind such an embargo? India cannot be atmanirbhar (self-reliant) by being hostage to import procurements.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||PM Modi launches farm fund with a riddle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday officially launched a Rs 1-lakh-crore agriculture infrastructure fund but failed to mention in his Hindi address that only Rs 10,000 crore would be released this year — and that won’t come out of the government’s coffers. The funds will be used to provide loans to create community farming assets and post-harvest farm infrastructure, including cold-storage chains, in the villages. The creation of the fund was first announced as part of the Rs 20-lakh-crore Atmanirbhar Bharat package unveiled in May. It has taken close to three months to wrap up the funding details. “The duration of the scheme shall be from (financial year) FY2020 to FY2029 (10 years),” the English translation said. The corresponding sentence in the Hindi version did not mention the duration. The break-up provided by officials later did not square with the 10-year schedule, underscoring the lack of clarity that has dogged the scheme from its inception. Officials said the loans would be disbursed for four years starting with a sanction of Rs 10,000 crore in the current year and Rs 30,000 crore each in the next three financial years. The end of the fourth financial year from now will coincide with the next general election in 2024. The loans will be provided to primary agri-credit societies, farmer groups, farmer producer organisations, agri-entrepreneurs, start-ups and agri-tech players — a broad mix of beneficiaries — at a time the government has already articulated its resolve to open up the farming sector to commercial interests. The funds will be provided as loans by banks and financial institutions. The government will provide budgetary support in the form of an interest subvention of 3 per cent on the loans and a credit guarantee fee. “All loans under this financing facility will carry an interest subvention of 3 per cent per annum up to a limit of Rs 2 crore. This subvention will be available for a maximum period of seven years. In the case of loans beyond Rs 2 crore, the interest subvention will be limited up to Rs 2 crore,” an official said. There will be no financial outgo in the current fiscal as the moratorium for repayment under this financing facility may vary subject to a minimum of six months and a maximum of two years. The credit guarantee will be provided under the Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE), which was recently launched by the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises along with the Small Industries Development Bank of India. Under the scheme, loans of up to Rs 2 crore are covered by the credit guarantee. In the case of farmer producer organisations, the credit guarantee may be availed from a special facility created within the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DACFW). The government is looking to leverage the strength of the entire banking sector to backstop the facility. Officials said all scheduled commercial banks, scheduled cooperative banks, regional rural banks (RRBs), small finance banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) may provide the financing facility after signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) or the DACFW. The trade-off is that these institutions will get refinance support from Nabard -- perpetuating a circularity of funding at a time when excess liquidity is sloshing around in the financial system, with the banks preferring to park money in low-yielding government bonds rather than lend it out and risk inflating their stock of bad loans. The credit guarantee is just the sort of support the banks have been insisting on before they work up their confidence to lend at all. Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said: “The government needs to put money in the pockets of farmers, especially at a time when economic growth is critically dependent on expansion of agricultural output. Though there is a lack of farm infrastructure in the country, the fund is unlikely to spur agri-growth or meet the immediate needs of the farm sector.” The Prime Minister transferred Rs 17,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers under the PM Kisan scheme. With the latest transfer, the scheme has provided over Rs 90,000 crore to more than 10 crore farmers since its launch in December 2018, an official statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Nepal objects to Jaishankar’s Buddha statement ||Nepal on Sunday objected to foreign minister S. Jaishankar’s statement that the Buddha was one of the “two greatest Indians ever”, forcing India to move swiftly to smother a possible new irritant in the already strained relations. That the Buddha’s birthplace of Lumbini is located in Nepal “remains beyond doubt and controversy and thus cannot be a subject of debate”, Nepal’s foreign office said. Its statement cited how Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in 2014 said that “Nepal is the country where the apostle of peace in the world, Buddha, was born”. India’s external affairs ministry responded quickly, saying: “EAM’s (external affairs minister’s) remarks yesterday at the CII event referred to our shared Buddhist heritage. There is no doubt that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, which is in Nepal.” Jaishankar’s comment had come at an interactive session organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry on Saturday. Naushad Forbes, co-chairman of Forbes Marshall, had asked him whether there was “a place for moral leadership in India’s foreign policy or is that being Jimmy Carter in 2020 (being impractical and putting principle ahead of interest)?” Jaishankar began his reply saying: “Who are the two greatest Indians ever you can remember? I would say one is Gautam Buddha and the other is Mahatma Gandhi — the greatest Indians that the world remembers.” Through the day, Jaishankar took a drubbing from Nepali social media handles for what they saw as an affront. Raising the matter at a government level, Nepal’s foreign office spokesperson said: “It is a well-established and undeniable fact proven by historical and archaeological evidence that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, Nepal. Lumbini, the birthplace of Buddha and the fountain of Buddhism, is one of the Unesco world heritage sites.” The spokesperson added: “It is true that Buddhism spread from Nepal to other parts of the world in the subsequent period. The matter remains beyond doubt and controversy and thus cannot be a subject of debate. The entire international community is aware of this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Shiv Sena sees ‘harass’ plot in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Rarely has the death of a movie star stirred sections of the political class like Sushant Singh Rajput’s. What had earlier appeared to be a slugfest between two state governments, Maharashtra and Bihar, has now turned into a triangular affair with the central government seeking to take control. Many believe that soon the matter would become a direct clash between the central government and Maharashtra, where political developments late last year left the BJP wounded like never before. The Modi government’s keen interest in incidents surrounding the young actor’s death, which by all available evidence seems a case of suicide, was evident in the swiftness with which a CBI probe was ordered. The Centre has already deputed the Enforcement Directorate, an agency tasked to fight economic crimes. On Friday, the Centre petitioned the Supreme Court to become a party in the plea of Rhea Chakraborty, actress and Sushant’s rumoured girlfriend, seeking the transfer to Mumbai of an FIR lodged by the deceased actor’s father in Patna. The Shiv Sena’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Vinayak Raut, on Sunday alleged a “clear political motive” in the way the Bihar government and the Centre have been dealing with the Sushant case. “There is definitely an attempt to harass the Uddhav Thackeray government. The central government is trying to misuse its powers by ordering a CBI probe,” Raut told The Telegraph. “Mumbai police have been conducting a detailed inquiry. They should be given time,” he added, questioning the haste in ordering a CBI probe without any recommendation from the Maharashtra government. “Have Bihar police ever acted so promptly on complaints by common people in the state?” he asked. Raut said the Centre had been trying to harass and “destabilise” Uddhav’s government from Day One. “This (to institute a CBI probe) is a villainous action by the central government. They can’t digest the fact that they lost power in Maharashtra,” another Sena MP, Arvind Sawant, said. Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Sunday alleged a “conspiracy against the Maharashtra government”. The BJP had initially played from the sidelines as political ally and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar moved fast in Patna. Bihar police lodged an FIR and rushed officers to Mumbai to launch a probe. After a face-off with Mumbai police over jurisdiction, Nitish recommended the transfer of the Patna FIR to the CBI. The Centre, without wasting any time, accepted the suggestion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||DMK MP Kanimozhi questioned on Hindi||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Sunday said a CISF official had asked her if “she was an Indian” as she could not speak Hindi. “Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if ‘I am an Indian’ when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi,” Kanimozhi, who is also the DMK women’s wing secretary, posted on her Twitter account. The CISF said it had ordered an inquiry while asserting that it was not its policy to insist upon any particular language. According to party sources, the incident occurred in Chennai when the MP was at the airport to board a Delhi flight in the afternoon. She has reached the national capital and she will be there for a few more days for official engagements. “I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi,” she tweeted with the hashtag “hindiimposition”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Samajwadis and Mayawati resurrect axe-wielding Brahmin to counter Yogi||The heartland’s Mandal parties appear to be vying to hold up Parashuram as an alternative to the BJP’s Ram and woo the Brahmin community that is frustrated with the government of Kshatriya leader Yogi Adityanath. Legend has it that the battleaxe-wielding Parashuram, a Brahmin and the sixth incarnation of Vishnu, had gone on Kshatriya-killing sprees 21 times and had challenged the young Ram -– a Kshatriya and Vishnu’s seventh avatar — to a faceoff. On Saturday, the Samajwadi Party declared it would install Parashuram statues in all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh, starting with a “108 feet high” statue in Lucknow. The announcement came at a time the Brahmins’ longstanding aversion to the “anti-Brahmin” Adityanath had deepened over the unsolved assassinations of several Brahmin Hindutva leaders and state police’s “fake encounter” killing of gangster Vikas Dubey and five of his fellow Brahmin henchmen in July. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati, who had in 2007 won power by forging a Dalit-Brahmin alliance that has long come apart, was quick to react to the Samajwadi announcement. On Sunday, she castigated the Samajwadis as “fake sympathisers of Brahmins” and promised to set up hospitals named after Parashuram as well as his statues across the state if voted to power in the 2022 Assembly elections. “The Bahujan Samaj Party government will build hospitals and guesthouses in Uttar Pradesh in the name of Parashuram, the symbol of the faith of Brahmins. Similar programmes will be implemented in the names of heroes of every community,” she said. Since the killing of Dubey and his men, the legend of Parashuram has been cropping up in private conversations among Brahmins, who have been stressing that the fiery avatar was the “original Ram”. Parashuram was named “Ram” by his parents, with “parashu” (battleaxe) later prefixed to his name because of his exploits with the weapon. Certain versions of the Ramayan claim a meeting between the two avatars during which Ram successfully met a challenge set by Parashuram, who admitted defeat. Neither Mayawati nor the Samajwadis have ever before shown any great affection for Parashuram. The Yadavs, who have traditionally been the Samajwadi mainstay along with Muslims, are worshippers of Krishna while the Dalits who form the BSP vote bank have their own pantheon of saints and leaders. Some political observers believe that the two parties’ newfound love for Parashuram also reflects an effort to counter the mileage the BJP is likely to gain from its Ram temple push in Ayodhya. Saturday’s Samajwadi announcement had come from former state minister Abhishek Mishra, a Brahmin, whom party chief Akhilesh Yadav had sent to Jaipur to place the order for the stone statues. “People should not see our move as a political gambit. We believe that some heroes of India should receive due respect,” he told reporters. Mishra said his party had formed a Parashuram Chetna Peeth Trust to execute the statue programme. Manoj Pandey, a former Samajwadi minister and a Brahmin, said: “This idea (of Parashuram statues) first came to members of the Prabuddh Mahasabha, an organisation of enlightened citizens that I head. I suggest that people stop looking at the matter from a political angle.” The Mahasabha was formed in 2016 to try and bring the Brahmins under the Samajwadi fold. Attacking the “casteist” Samajwadis on Sunday, Mayawati recalled how they had “opposed” her when, during her stints in power, she built statues, monuments and memorials to Dalit leaders including Jyotiba Phule, Narayana Guru, Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram. “They should have installed Parashuram statues when they were in power. We will install bigger Parashuram statues than theirs,” she told a news conference. Mayawati had, however, also got her own statues installed at several places in Lucknow and Noida — one reason for her annoyed Brahmin allies to dump her in the 2012 elections that the Samajwadis won. Brijesh Pathak, minister for rural engineering in the Adityanath government, had on Saturday dismissed the Samajwadi statue programme. “Those who mistreated the Brahmins in the past are now trying to woo them in the name of Parashuram. People will reject the casteist party in the elections,” he had said. Brahmins’ anger with Adityanath had been simmering since the assassination of BJP leader Rakesh Sharma in Hapur last September and that of Hindu Samaj Party leader Kamlesh Tiwari in Lucknow in October. Their fury boiled over when the police eliminated Dubey and his gang members days after they had ambushed and killed eight cops. Mayawati had at the time said the “encounter” killings had sown “fear in the mind of the Brahmins”. The Samajwadis have also decided to build statues to 1857 hero Mangal Pandey in every district of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Plea to CJI: Improve tabletop runway safety measures  ||A senior lawyer has written to the Chief Justice of India requesting that the Supreme Court register on its own a writ petition on the Calicut airport tragedy with the aim of improving safety measures relating to tabletop runways. G.R. Mohan mailed the letter on Sunday, asking the apex court to get the Centre and aviation authorities to “evolve proper guidelines and safety measures” to prevent such accidents. An Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai, with 190 people on board, had overshot the tabletop runway amid heavy rain at Calicut airport on Friday evening, dropped more than 40 feet and broken into two. The accident killed 18 people, including both the pilots, while 23 remain critical. “It is pertinent to note that time and again air accidents are taking place due to callous attitude and failure to strictly follow Section 5, 7 of the Aircraft Act, 1934, and Rules 74, 78 of Aircraft Rules, due to which this Hon’ble Apex Court has to step in to direct the ministry of civil aviation to evolve proper guidelines so as to save the precious lives of the citizens of our country,” Mohan has written. These sections and rules deal with the government’s role in framing, enhancing and enforcing aviation safety regulations, investigating air accidents and taking preventive steps. Mohan had earlier himself filed a writ petition with Karnataka High Court after a similar accident on Mangalore airport’s tabletop runway killed 158 people in 2010. That plane, also an Air India Express flight from Dubai, had overshot the runway and hit an illegally built wall, the impact breaking the wings within which the fuel tanks were located. The heat of the engines sparked a fire that killed all but 8 of the 166 passengers and crew members. Karnataka High Court had disposed of the case after the final hearing in March 2011, taking into account a memo filed by the directorate-general of civil aviation about safety measures being taken up. The risk involved in tabletop runways, especially when the weather is bad and the visibility poor, has been debated since the Mangalore accident. “Three more such airports are in our country, i.e. Shimla, Himachal Pradesh; Pakyong, Sikkim; and Lengpui, Mizoram. I respectfully submit that safety issue and payment of compensation were raised in my WP (writ petition) No. 19862 of 2010,” Mohan has written. Aviation officials have suggested the length of the tabletop runway at Calicut airport and the safety areas on its ends are “more than sufficient” by the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s norms. They said Friday’s flight had already passed the first 1,000 metres of the runway when it touched down, thus shortening by more than a third the available stretch of the 2,700-metre runway, which rain had made slippery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||10 die in fire at Covid care hotel in Vijayawada||Ten patients died on Sunday at a star hotel converted into a coronavirus treatment centre in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada as they tried to flee a fire suspected to have been caused by a short circuit, the government said. Vijayawada police commissioner B. Srinivasulu confirmed the deaths. All the victims were patients, Andhra Pradesh deputy chief minister (health) A.K.K. Srinivas said. There were 40 patients undergoing treatment at the private facility and 10 staff members of the private hospital running the centre. According to sources in the Andhra Pradesh disaster response and fire services department, the fire apparently broke out because of an electrical short circuit in the hotel’s front lobby and spread to the first and second floors. The panicked patients tried to escape to safety using the main stairway after they noticed smoke. “They should have actually used a different stairway on the rear side and that would have saved their lives. Unfortunately, they used the main one in a panicky situation and got caught in the fire,” a fire official said. While one of the victims was charred to death, nine died of asphyxiation, according to the police. The firefighters and National Disaster Response Force personnel used ladders to bring down people who were stranded inside the hotel. The hotel leased by a private hospital to treat coronavirus patients had “violated” safety rules, fire safety director Jairam Naik said. “The fire alarm did not go off at the time of the accident and there was a delay in opening the rear door. Investigation has been initiated and there will be action against the hotel management,” he added. The Andhra Pradesh government announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 50 lakh each to the kin of the 10 victims. State home minister M. Sucharita said an electrical short circuit appeared to be the possible cause of the fire. A manager of the public sector Bharat Electronics Limited, who tested positive three days ago, was among the dead. A pastor who came on Saturday night to see his wife, who was a patient, died in the fire along with her, the police said. A retired government officer and a retired police sub-inspector, both aged about 80 years, were among the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-738
10-08-2020||India||Youth Congress targets Prime Minister on lost jobs||The Youth Congress on Sunday ran a social media campaign demanding jobs from the Narendra Modi government, alleging that the unemployment rate was at an all-time high because of wrong policies and mishandling of the economy. Top Congress leaders, who participated in the #RozgarDo campaign, argued that it was erroneous to blame the pandemic for the miserable scenario as the Modi government’s policies had ensured a constant rise in unemployment since 2014. They insisted that the unemployment rate had already reached a 45-year high before this March, when the pandemic hit India and triggered a harsh lockdown that resulted in massive job loss. Rahul Gandhi recalled that Modi had promised to create two crore jobs every year but had ended up destroying over 14 crore jobs in the past six years. “This happened because of wrong policies. Three wrong decisions — demonetisation, flawed GST and lockdown. These three decisions destroyed the economic structure of the country. Now the truth is that India cannot provide employment to its youth. I am happy that the Youth Congress has hit the streets to highlight the gravity of the crisis,” the Congress leader said in a video message. While Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas said there was no sector that had not witnessed massive job loss because of Modi’s flawed policies, many other party leaders claimed that creating employment opportunities was never the priority of the government. They argued that the government was now trying to lay the entire blame on the pandemic but the truth was  the crisis had been deepening over the past few years and the Prime Minister was only trying to deny the reality and divert the nation’s attention. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said at a news conference: “The RozgarDo campaign is an expression of the pain and agony of millions of youths and migrant workers who do not have livelihood options. In May 2014, when Modi took over, the unemployment rate was 2.9 per cent, which grew to 8.9 per cent in March 2020 before corona. In May 2020, it was 29 per cent. There is an estimate that 12 to 15 crore people have lost their jobs during the lockdown. It is not only because of corona, but (also because of) the gross mismanagement of the economy by the government.” Singhvi also raised the Chinese aggression. “The talk of robust nationalism, 56-inch chest and showing red eyes to China have all turned out to be empty slogans,” he said. The Congress spokesperson continued: “At the Depsang Plains in Ladakh, reports say 17,000 soldiers of the fourth motorised infantry division have been posted by China, contrary to reports of disengagement. “The Nepal government has deployed its military to build a road under the Darchula-Tinkar project (to increase access to China). They are doing it so fast as if they have to go to war tomorrow. We don’t know what influence the Indian government can exert on our traditional friend Nepal to avoid getting under this Chinese influence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
10-08-2020||India||Covid tit-for-tat on soldier body||An unverified militant audio has claimed that a slain soldier’s body would not be returned to his family in view of pandemic protocol and pointed out that the security forces cite the same reason while dealing with bodies of killed insurgents. If true, this will be the first such tit-for-tat action by militants for the security forces’ refusal to return bodies of insurgents killed in encounters to their families citing Covid-management measures that prohibit large gatherings. Funerals of slain militants attract large crowds in the Valley and many believe the security forces are using the pandemic as a ruse to prevent the galvanisation of public sentiments and pro-azadi protests. Police said they were investigating the authenticity of the audio, which surfaced on social media on Sunday, but clarified there was no confirmation that the soldier had been killed. Shakir Manzoor, a resident of Reshipora village in Shopian and a soldier in the Territorial Army, was reportedly abducted by militants on August 2. He had been dragged out of his car, which was torched, and taken away. The soldier’s father, Manzoor Ahmad, had in a passionate video appeal on Friday urged militants to forgive and release his son but said he would have no complaints if they had killed him, seeking only the return of the body in that case. The speaker in the audio doing the rounds on Sunday identifies himself as Abu Talhah but does not name any militant group. Claiming that Shakir has been killed, the man says in Urdu: “We understand the pain of the soldier’s parents and his family but his body was not returned to his family due to the coronavirus and to avoid crowding at his funeral. It is similar to what the army is doing. They do not return the bodies of the Mujahideen (as militants are usually called in Kashmir) and bury them at unknown places.” The man in the audio claims that they have performed the last rites of the soldier. While justifying the killing, the speaker also claims that Kashmiris working in the security forces are not mending their ways. The audio specifically mentions two slain Hizbul Mujahideen operational commanders, Burhan Wani and Riyaz Naikoo, and says they too had warned those helping the Indian forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-739
