11-08-2020||India||Railways suspends all regular passenger services indefinitely||Indian Railways has stated that all regular passenger train services will remain suspended till further notice, but 230 special trains will continue to be in service. "This is to bring to the notice of all concerned that as decided and informed earlier as well, regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended till further notice," a statement from the Railways said. "It may be noted that 230 Special Trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate. Local trains in Mumbai, which are presently being run on limited basis only on the requisition of state government, will also continue to run", it said. The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on a regular basis and additional special trains may be run based on the requirement, the national carrier said. However, all other regular trains and suburban trains run before the lockdown will remain suspended for the time being, it said. All special trains 12 pairs running on the Rajdhani routes since May 12 and 100 pairs operating since June 1 will continue. The limited special suburban services which began recently in Mumbai to ferry essential services personnel identified by the local authorities will also continue to run, officials said. Earlier, the national transporter had suspended all services till August 12. With the suspension of passenger trains indefinitely, Indian Railways has estimated a loss of around Rs 40,000 crore in its passenger business for this fiscal. The extension of the suspension comes at a time when active Covid-19 cases in India stand at 6,39,929, while 15,83,489 people have recovered, according to the Union Health Ministry. On Tuesday, a single day spike of 53,601 Covid-19 cases pushed India's virus caseload to 22,68,675 with the death toll climbing to 45,257.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
11-08-2020||India||Amusement parks incurring losses, wants permission to open||Amusement parks in the country on Tuesday urged the government to allow reopening as the restrictions are causing huge losses, which may lead to job cuts. The Indian Association of Amusement Parks and Industries (IAAPI) has already submitted the standard operating procedure to be followed to the Union Home and Health ministries, Prime Minister's Office, and the chief ministers of different states. "The amusement and water parks are running into huge losses since their closure on March 15 due to the lockdown," IAAPI president Ajay Sarin said. There are nearly 150 such parks in the country, including the famous Ramoji Film City, which give direct employment to around 80,000 people and indirectly provide livelihood to nearly three lakh, he mentioned. "We are fearing huge job losses if these parks are not allowed to reopen and the present estimate of the loss is Rs 2,000 crore," he said. Gatherings can be easily controlled in the amusement parks and it is also possible to maintain social distancing, Sarin claimed. "Even the water parks are safe as the chemicals used there can kill any kind of virus," he added. Sanitisation of employees and all individual units inside the parks are also mentioned in the SOP, he informed. Sarin said that if the parks are allowed to reopen, at least they will generate some revenue though footfalls will be very low, adding that the parks are in a very bad shape. In the SOP, they have also mentioned mandatory download of the Aarogya Setu app, among other measures. He said the SOP has been prepared after consulting experts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
11-08-2020||India||10 states account for 80 per cent Covid cases, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday noted that 10 states account for 80 per cent of active COVID-19 cases, and asserted if the virus is defeated in these states, then the country will also emerge victorious in its fight against the pandemic. At a video conference with chief ministers and representatives of these 10 states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, Modi said the recovery rate has gone up which, he added, meant that government efforts have proved to be effective. The Centre and states have been able to work as a team in the fight against COVID-19, he said. "Our experience so far is that containment, contact tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapons against the pandemic, with experts of the view that if cases are identified within 72 hours of onset, then infection slows down to great extent," the prime minister said. He emphasised on the need to trace and test all those who come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours. This should be followed like a "mantra", with the same earnestness as washing hands, maintaining social distance and wearing masks, he said according to an official statement. The prime minister pointed out that the number of active cases in the country stands at over six lakh, and most of them have been reported from the 10 states. Today, 80 per cent active cases are in these ten states. Hence the role of all these states is very big in the fight against coronavirus, he said. He told the participants that such meetings and discussions are necessary as new situations are emerging amid the pandemic. "Pressure on hospitals, pressure on our health workers, lack of continuity in everyday work. They bring a new challenge every day" Modi elaborated. He said there was a need for the ten states to sit together, review and discuss. "... from this discussion, we also leant a lot from each other's experiences, best practices" he said. Modi said it was a matter of satisfaction that the average fatality rate in India has been going down and noted that it has been very low compared to the world average. He noted that the number of daily tests has reached almost 7 lakh and is increasing continuously, which has helped in early identification and containment. The average fatality rate in the country is amongst the lowest and is continuously going down. The percentage of active cases is reducing, while the recovery rate is increasing, he said. He noted that these steps have boosted the confidence of people, and said that the target of bringing down the fatality rate below one per cent can be achieved soon. States where testing rate is low and where the positivity rate is high, the need to increase testing has come to the fore. Especially in states like Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana, he said. Modi noted that people have become aware and are ably assisting these efforts, as a result of which the country has been successful in using home quarantine so effectively, the statement said. He said at one point of time, cases in certain districts of UP and Haryana, and Delhi became a matter of concern. He also referred to statement of the Delhi government about COVID-19 cases and recounted the experience of Home Minister Amit Shah in preparing a roadmap for tackling the pandemic together with Delhi and nearby states. According the statement, he said the main pillars of this strategy were segregation of containment zones and focus on screening, especially of those in high risk category. The results of these steps are there for all to see, he said, adding that steps like better management in hospitals and increasing ICU beds also proved very helpful. The chief ministers provided feedback on the ground situation in their states. They praised the leadership of the prime minister for the successful management of the pandemic and thanked him for his constant guidance and support, it said. They talked about tests being conducted, steps taken to increase testing, use of tele-medicine and efforts to ramp up health infrastructure. They requested further guidance by the Health Ministry for conducting sero-surveillance, while also suggesting setting up of an integrated medical infrastructure in the country. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh emphasised that the government is making all possible efforts in this battle against the virus, which have been praised by the World Health Organization as well, the statement said. Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare presented an overview of COVID cases in the country, noting that the rate of growth of cases in some states is higher than the average rate, and requested the states to focus on optimal utilisation of testing capacity. He emphasised on the need for reporting accurate mortality figures and also talked about perimeter monitoring of containment zones with the help of local communities. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and minister of state for Home were also present at the interaction. Chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh were invited for the virtual meet. "Karnataka was represented by the deputy chief minister," the statement said. Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan attended the meet along with state Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
11-08-2020||India||4G services on trial basis in one district each of J&K: Centre to SC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that a special committee looking into the issue of internet restoration in Jammu and Kashmir has decided to provide 4G internet access on a trial basis in limited areas of the union territory after August 15. A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana was told by Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, that the committee has decided that trial will be done in one district each in Jammu and Kashmir division. He said that the Committee has decided that access to 4G internet in J&K will be given in a calibrated manner and outcome of the trial will be reviewed after two months. The bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai said this is a fairly good stand on the part of the respondents (Centre and J&K administration). High speed internet service in J&K was suspended in August last year when the Centre announced revocation of its special status and bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories -- Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. On May 11, the top court had ordered the setting up of a"special committee" headed by the Union Home Secretary to consider pleas for restoration of 4G internet services in J&K, saying national security and human rights need to be balanced in view of the fact that the UT has been"plagued with militancy". On August 7, the top court had asked the J&K administration to explore the possibility of restoring 4G services in certain areas of the Union Territory. At the outset, Venugopal said the Centre has filed an additional affidavit on the issue, and that the special committee had held its meeting on August 10.  "The committee was of the view that threat perception continues to be high," Venugopal said, adding that restrictions on high speed internet are not posing any hindrance in the Covid-19 pandemic management and health care services. The committee was of the view that "overall situation was not conducive for lifting restrictions on high speed internet", he said, adding that it decided however to permit "easing of some restrictions in specified areas which are less sensitive, subject to strict monitoring and periodical review". Venugopal said the committee has decided that access to high speed internet would be provided on a trial basis in a calibrated manner and its impact on security will be assessed. He said restrictions would not be eased around the LoC and the prime criteria for the areas where restrictions could be eased is that the region should have a low intensity of terror activities. The top court closed NGO's plea seeking contempt proceedings against the Union Home Secretary and Chief Secretary of J&K for their alleged "wilful disobedience" in complying with the court's May 11 order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee health condition worsens||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has worsened and he remains on ventilator support, the Army's Research and Referral (R&R) Hospital said on Tuesday, a day after he underwent a brain surgery. The 84-year-old was admitted to the military hospital around noon on Monday, and had also tested positive for Covid-19 prior to the surgery. "Shri Pranab Mukherjee's health condition continues to remain critical at Army Hospital (R&R) Delhi Cantonment. The former president, who underwent lifesaving emergency surgery for brain clot on 10 August 2020, has not shown any improvement and his health status has worsened. He remains on ventilatory support," the hospital said in its latest statement. It earlier said the former President was admitted to the hospital at 1207 hours on August 10, 2020 in a critical condition. "Workup at the hospital revealed a large brain clot for which he underwent emergency life saving surgery," the hospital earlier said. A multidisciplinary team of doctors is constantly monitoring the health of the former president. Mukherjee tweeted on Monday that he had tested positive for COVID-19 and urged people who had come in contact with him in the last week to isolate themselves and get tested for the novel coronavirus. Soon after the news of his hospitalisation, wishes poured in from various quarters for his early recovery and a number of leaders sent their wishes on Twitter. President Ram Nath Kovind also spoke to Mukherjee's daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee and enquired about his health on Monday evening. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the R&R Hospital on Monday and enquired about the former president's health. Singh was at the hospital for around 20 minutes. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also sent in his best wishes to the former president and wished him early recovery. A powerful orator and scholar, Mukherjee had been a Congress stalwart before he was elected as India's 13th President and served from July 2012 to 2017 in the top post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Shah Faesal quits politics||Shah Faesal, the IAS topper and medical doctor who left the civil services for public life, has announced his decision to quit politics, becoming a casualty of the abrogation of Article 370. Faesal, the only Kashmiri to top the IAS exams, had resigned from the civil services to launch his political party last year. Many saw him as a potential chief minister and an alternative to traditional forces such as the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party. Faesal, 37, soon found himself in uncharted territory as the Centre abrogated Article 370. He, along with thousands of others, was arrested and continues to be under house arrest. He was not available for comment but the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM), the party he founded last year, said he was calling it quits. “Dr Shah Faesal had informed the state executive members that he is not in a position to continue with political activities and wants to be freed from the responsibilities of the organisation,” a statement said. The party has accepted his request “so that he can better continue with his life and contribute whichever way he chooses”. On Sunday, Faesal had changed his Twitter bio, which identified him as the JKPM chief, triggering speculation that he could exit politics. Faesal had announced his resignation from the civil services in January 2019 and, two months later, launched the JKPM. He had been one of the sharpest critics of the abrogation of Article 370. He was detained under the Public Safety Act while on his way to Harvard to pursue a course. He was released in June this year and placed under house arrest a day later. Faesal’s resignation from government service was never accepted and speculation is rife that he might rejoin the bureaucracy. Shah’s success in the civil services exam has inspired many young Kashmiris to sit the exam. This year, a record 16 candidates cleared the exam from Jammu and Kashmir. The JKPM said it would appoint vice-president Feroze Peerzada as its interim chief until formal elections can be held for the post of party president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan contempt case hearing before Justice Arun Mishra retires ||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine on merit lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s 2009 statement alleging that at least “half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt”, prima facie not accepting yet his expression of regret. “Before reaching to any finding whether the statement made as to ‘corruption’ would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard. List the matter on 17.08.2020,” the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari said. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan, appearing for son Prashant, had urged the court to defer the matter until physical hearings resumed. But the court said it would hear the matter on August 17 through videoconferencing. Justice Mishra, who heads the bench, retires on September 2. Last week Bhushan had expressed “regret” for the statement. “In case we do not accept the explanation/apology, we will hear the matter,” the bench had then said. The bench headed by Justice Mishra will hear a plea filed by Arun Shourie, Bhushan and N. Ram on the constitutional validity of a legal provision dealing with criminal contempt. It was earlier listed before another bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph, adds PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Disquiet-hit Sachin Pilot tests truce waters||Sachin Pilot on Monday met Rahul Gandhi in a dramatic turnaround that could bring down the curtain on the vicious internal war in the Congress that had jeopardised the party’s government in Rajasthan. At night, Pilot told the media that he had raised certain issues with the party leadership and thanked it for hearing him out. He had been talking to a few top Congress leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, over the weekend to explore whether reconciliation was possible at this late stage. He finally visited Rahul’s home on Monday afternoon to discuss his grievances. A broad understanding has been reached on the return of the rebels although the issues will take time to resolve. Late in the evening, the general secretary in charge of the All India Congress Committee, K.C. Venugopal, said in a formal statement: “Sachin Pilot has met with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and expressed his grievances in detail. They have had a frank, open and conclusive discussion. Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan. “Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three-member committee to address the issues raised by Pilot and the aggrieved MLAs and arrive at an appropriate resolution thereof.” Priyanka, Venugopal and party veteran Ahmed Patel are on the committee. Pilot and 18 other MLAs had rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan, which led to Pilot’s sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Asked if the crisis was finally over, a senior leader said: “Nothing is final in politics until it is done but Rahul would not have met Pilot without a broad understanding about a patch-up. We expect the MLAs to return to Rajasthan soon. Whatever issues are there can be resolved mutually. We have been saying this publicly from the very beginning. It’s good that the Pilot camp has realised its follies now.” Sources said it had been decided that the Pilot camp would not set conditions but efforts would be made towards an honourable rehabilitation. While the rebels’ main demand — the removal of Gehlot as chief minister — is not on the table any more, no decision has been taken whether Pilot will return to Rajasthan as deputy chief minister. The leadership is aware of the irreconcilable differences between Gehlot and Pilot. Insiders believe the Pilot camp’s change of heart was forced by two factors — the inevitability of the Gehlot government’s survival and the cracks in the rebel group. A leader told The Telegraph from Rajasthan: “There was extreme unease in the rebel camp and six MLAs were in touch with us. These MLAs were willing to defy Pilot as the impression that they were destabilising the government in connivance with the BJP had made them uncomfortable. They assured us they would vote for the government on the trust motion.” Even Pilot, who had initially expected to have 30 MLAs on his side, got unnerved by the fortification made by the Gehlot camp and his failure to lure away certain MLAs he had thought were loyal to him. Gehlot, fully backed by the high command as manifested through the constant presence of Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken in the Jaipur and Jaisalmer hotels, has prevented further depletion of the flock. He is also said to have successfully worked on several BJP legislators who would have propped him up if there was a shortfall in numbers. While the BJP’s most powerful leader in Rajasthan, Vasundhara Raje, appeared unexcited about the toppling game, the doubts about the loyalty of some MLAs had forced the party to take them to Gujarat. This, coupled with the behaviour of six MLAs in the Pilot camp, had deepened the impression that the government would sail through the crisis, rendering the rebellion meaningless. Had six MLAs betrayed him, Pilot would have been left hamstrung with an uncertain political future. That the Congress has agreed to accommodate him after such a rancorous politico-legal battle in which the BJP clearly got involved indicates two things — one, the central leadership has made a pragmatic assessment of the fate of the state government; and two, the high command values Pilot both emotionally and politically. Gehlot was obviously not willing to compromise. He got a resolution passed at the legislature party meeting on Sunday night suggesting the rebels’ votes were not needed for the government’s survival. Although Pilot, who had indisputably a bright future in the Congress, will now struggle to regain his clout and may have to grapple with a trust deficit for some time, both Rahul and Priyanka are said to favour his rehabilitation being made comfortable. If he does not immediately return to Rajasthan politics, he will be given the post of national general secretary. If he returns to Rajasthan, he is unlikely to regain both the posts of state unit president and deputy chief minister. A key rebel, Bhanwarlal Sharma, who had been suspended from the party, had already arrived at the chief minister’s home in Jaipur on Monday evening. Sources said six more MLAs would reach Jaipur by late night irrespective of the final deal with Pilot. Sharma was Gehlot’s bitterest critic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Delhi violence: Jamia probe call||A group of Left-leaning women activists on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the February 10 incidents outside Jamia Millia Islamia University, alleging police brutality against students and residents. No reaction was immediately available from Delhi police on the allegations levelled by the National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW). The organisation claimed that its “fact-finding” team had spoken to the victims of the violence that occurred when students and residents gathered outside the university’s gate No. 7 to take out a march to Parliament against the amended citizenship law and National Register of Citizens. The NFIW team alleged that the police attacked the protesters without a warning. “Those who suffered grievous injuries include around 35 men and 17 women. One of the students told the NFIW team that his spleen had ruptured,” the activists alleged. The NFIW demanded that the Union home ministry “give a white paper” on the events of February 10 and a judicial inquiry be ordered into the incident. “A team of doctors should investigate the nature of injuries of the survivors,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Sunni Central Waqf Board to invite Yogi for Ayodhya stone-laying ceremony||The Sunni Central Waqf Board will invite Yogi Adityanath to the stone-laying on the five-acre alternative site in Ayodhya where it will build a mosque and other structures, the trust set up to oversee the construction has said. The statement by the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation belies a public comment made by the chief minister on August 4 that “the (Sunni board) trust will not invite me to their programme in Ayodhya”. Adityanath had added: “And more precisely, I’m not going to attend it.” “We will invite the chief minister and expect that he will actively participate in the construction of the structures we have planned,” Foundation (trust) member Athar Hussain, a community leader, told reporters in Lucknow on Monday. Another Foundation member, asking not to be named, suggested the trust might make it easier for Adityanath by splitting the stone-laying for the mosque from that for the other structures and inviting the chief minister only to the latter event. Apart from a mosque, the Sunni board intends to build a hospital, community kitchen, library and research centre on the five-acre land. “We don’t want to annoy anybody. While we want the chief minister to attend all our events to initiate the project, we might organise two foundation stone-laying functions — one for the mosque and another for the rest of the structures,” the trust member said. “At our meeting to be held early next month, we may resolve to invite the chief minister to our second programme. His Hindutva identity can, for him, be an obstacle to attending an event for the construction of a mosque.” The Supreme Court had last November handed the 2.77-acre disputed plot to the Hindu side while asking the central and state governments to allot a five-acre plot to the Sunni board to build a mosque somewhere else in Ayodhya district. On Friday, the Ayodhya administration transferred five acres in village Dhannipur, 30km from Ayodhya town, to the Sunni board. Hussain said the trust had rented an office at Burlington Square in Lucknow, where its first meeting would be held in the first week of September. It would decide everything from the site map to the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||CBSE: PM's Atmanirbhar Bharat to make way into student essays||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for an Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Central Board of Secondary Education wants students to delve into the concept and suggest a road map. The national board has written to all its 24,000 affiliated schools to encourage students of Classes IX, X, XI and XII to take part in an online essay competition on any one of the 10 sub-themes related to self-reliance. One of the sub-themes is —While I exercise my rights, I must not forget to undermine my duties to usher in an Atmanirbhar Bharat. The other sub-themes include Digital India for Atmanirbhar Bharat: Opportunities on Covid-19 and Beyond and India at 75: A Nation marching towards Atmanirbhar Bharat. A school principal said the choice of sub-themes echoed what “the government wants to propagate” among schoolchildren. “The schools should have been allowed to decide sub-themes related to the main theme,” she added. An official of the central education ministry said the government had decided the sub-themes for the competition. The students have been asked to upload the essays on www.MyGov.in by August 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Nepal not cooperating on flood management: Nitish Kumar ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Nepal was not cooperating on flood management. “Bihar’s water resources department takes care of flood management along the border on the basis of the Indo-Nepal treaty. However, the Nepal government has not been extending full cooperation in the recent years, Nitish told Modi during a videoconference on floods at which the Prime Minister and six chief ministers were present. “This year also the Nepal government did not extend cooperation in repairing the existing embankment in Madhepura district and another on no man’s land along the border close to Madhubani district,” he said. “Our officials tried to talk to their Nepal counterparts and resolve the issue, but they did not cooperate. The repair works that should have been completed by mid-May was completed only by June-end and we have been able to strengthen embankments within our border limits. There is a need to pay attention to this situation,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Future uncertain for Madras crocodile park ||India’s largest crocodile park may have as little as four months before it runs out of funds to feed animals, pay staff and do research, as ticket revenue shrinks after coronavirus lockdowns choked the flow of visitors, park officials said. Annual sales of around 5 million tickets usually make up roughly half the revenue of the park, located about 40km from Chennai, but it has been shut since March 16, with no prospect of reopening in sight. The lockdowns during the summer vacation season have cost an estimated Rs 1.4 crore ($187,000) as visitors dropped by almost 2.5 million, said Allwin Jesudasan, the director of the Madras Crocodile Bank. “Our present funding situation will allow us to stay functional for another three or four months,” he told Reuters. Started in 1976 by US-born snake expert Romulus Whitaker, who has also won recognition for his conservation work, the park is spread over 8.5 acres. It is home to more than 2,000 crocodiles and alligators, as well as reptiles such as turtles, tortoises, lizards and snakes. “Our senior staff have taken a voluntary 10-50 per cent pay cut on their salaries and we have cut down our activities to just the critical ones,” the park said in an appeal for funds on its website. But the future of its staff and animals was not immediately clear after funds are exhausted. The Madras Crocodile Bank Trust and Centre for Herpetology, which has bred more than 5,000 crocodiles during its existence, houses 14 of 23 existing crocodile species, three of them endangered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-735
11-08-2020||India||Army ‘fake encounter’ probe in Kashmir||Rajouri resident Mohammad Saleem has been frantically searching his cousin and friend Ibrar Ahmad, a class XII student, and two other relatives missing for the past three weeks. After “rumours” surfaced on social media that they might have been killed by security forces across Pir Panchal mountains in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district on July 18, he was overwhelmed with anxiety since Sunday. There is no way for him to confirm, as the “rumours” suggested, that the three men killed by security forces in a gunfight in Amshipora village of Shopian and declared “unidentified militants” could be his missing relatives. So, he requested this correspondent to share the picture showing the three bodies. “I have seen the picture,” cried Saleem, 19, after this newspaper sent him the picture that was available on the social networking sites, through WhatsApp. “The one in the middle is my brother Ibrar (cousin)…I am shocked, can’t understand how this can happen. I will go crazy. He was few years younger to me and we would play together,” he said. The families live in Peeri village of Jammu’s Rajouri district, 25km from the district headquarters. Saleem and some other relatives had travelled all the way to Rajouri town to meet the senior superintendent of police, who reportedly told him to wait till evening for confirmation. Saleem alleged the picture leaves no doubt that his relatives were killed in a fake encounter. If true, it could be the first reported instance of a fake encounter — the bane of three-decades-long militancy — in years. Security forces and police have faced many allegations of killings innocent people in fake encounters and dub them militants for rewards and promotions. Saleem identified the man next to Ibrar in picture as his 25-year-old sister’s husband and namesake, and father of a child aged 3. He said the third, whose face is not visible in the picture, could be Imtiyaz, 22, their relative and the third missing person. Jammu journalist and author Zafar Choudhary, who is the elder brother of Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Choudhary, wrote on Facebook that the three killed in Amshopora were “his distant relation”. “I have just spoken to family, they’ve identified them beyond any doubt. They don’t remember the exact date of speaking to them last but say the news of death came on (the) 22nd day of losing contact with them,” he wrote. Saleem said the three had left their homes in Peeri village of Rajouri to work as labourers in Kashmir on July 16 to earn livelihood. “They are from very poor families. Ibrar’s father works (as a labourer) in Saudi Arabia. You will be shocked to find the condition of their homes and there was no way they could be linked with militancy,” he said. “On July 17, they spoke with their families on the phone. The same evening their phones were found switched off. We have been trying to locate them since then.” Jammu activist Guftaar Ahmad said the three belong to poor Gujjar families. He said the families has lodged a missing report in Rajouri on Sunday but the police has not responded so far. Defence spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia said the army has launched an investigation based on the social media reports. “We have noted social media inputs linked to the operation at Shopian on 18 July 2020. The three terrorists killed during the operation have not been identified and the bodies were buried based on established protocols,” he wrote in a text message to The Telegraph. Shopian police chief Amritpal Singh did not respond to calls and text messages from this newspaper. Both the army and the police had claimed to have killed the three “militants” in a joint operation on July 18. Army brigadier Ajay Katoch told reporters on July 19 in Shopian that three “terrorists” were killed in the gunfight. “Our search party was moved into target house, which was a newly constructed small single house. While the search party moved inside, it came under fire from inside the house. The search party immediately got deployed, lobbed grenades, and retaliated the fire which came from inside,” he had said. ‘In the ensuing action, three terrorists were neutralized. Dead bodies of terrorists, along with arms ammunition and IED material was handed over to J&K police.” The officer claimed the area had not seen any operation for quite some time before the one on July 18 and it will further curtail the recruitment of militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||CPI urges Pinarayi Vijayan government to oppose draft EIA notification||A senior CPI leader has openly urged the Left government in Kerala to file its objections to the draft environment impact assessment notification before the last date on Tuesday. Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam on Monday reminded the Left government that it had a duty to show the right path to the rest of the country. “I am not someone who thinks what the Kerala government says is only (meant) for Kerala,” Viswam told The Telegraph on Monday. The CPI is a partner in the CPM-led coalition government in the southern state. “The LDF government of Kerala is liable to show the right path to the country when the BJP governments at the Centre and states follow the path of environmental degradation and anti-people policies,” he said. The EIA is a process under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, preventing industrial and infrastructure projects from being approved without proper evaluation and scrutiny. This process is essential for ensuring every project passes through the rigours of the EIA prior to the grant of an environmental clearance. Some of the major concerns about the draft EIA 2020 are that it allows hitherto non-permissible projects without even prior clearance of the environment ministry. This includes petroleum and petrochemical industries, biomedical waste treatment plants, pesticides and construction activities, all of which were disallowed by the existing EIA. The new EIA also reduces the time for public response from 30 to 20 days. Viswam’s statement came with just a day to go for states and other stakeholders to respond to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate changes to the amended EIA that has already been widely criticised by environmental groups over the dilution of the old notification on preserving nature. “When Kerala witnessed heavy flooding in 2018, our chief minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) had declared that the new Kerala we are going to build will not be the old Kerala and it would be a Kerala that respects nature,” recalled Viswam. “I feel those words have great relevance. So the LDF’s promise is for development that respects nature and respects the people,” he said. “The response is (already) delayed. But the government has to call for withdrawal of the notification with the full realisation that EIA 2020 is dangerous for the environment,” said Viswam. P.A. Muhammed Riyas, the national president of the CPM’s youth wing, the Democratic Youth Federation of India, said: “There is no doubt that the LDF government will convey its objections and oppose this draft. But my question is what are the Congress-ruled states doing about it? “If cleared, this draft will straightaway write off our natural wealth to large corporations. This an anti-democratic and anti-people proposal that will destroy our nature.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||EIA: Congress terms new rule changes disastrous||The Congress on Monday joined a chorus of opposition to the Centre’s moves to modify existing rules relating to the environmental impact assessment process that governs development projects, describing the proposed changes as “dangerous” and “disastrous”. The draft environmental impact assessment regulations 2020 proposed by the Union environment ministry could lead to long-term, widespread environmental destruction if notified, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former environment minister Jairam Ramesh said in independent messages. Several environmental groups and over 60 former senior bureaucrats, including IAS officers, had last month called on the Narendra Modi government to revise the proposed EIA 2020 modifications. The critics had said while the government claimed it wanted to expedite and introduce greater transparency in the EIA process, the modifications would lower levels of public scrutiny and safeguards on environmental protection. The EIA process, introduced through a legislation in 2006, provides for a formal assessment of the likely impacts of development projects on the local environment and takes into account public opinion from the resident communities. “The EIA 2020 draft placed by the BJP government for public feedback is not only disgraceful, it is dangerous,” Rahul said, pointing out that the proposals will exempt polluting industries such as coal mines as well as highways and railway lines passing through dense forests. The EIA draft “seeks to silence the voice of communities who will be directly impacted by the environmental degradation”, Rahul said, and referred to a proposal to provide projects post-facto EIA approval as a “terrible idea”. “I urge every Indian to rise up and protest against it (EIA 2020)…. If EIA 2020 is notified by the government, the long-term consequences of the widespread environmental degradation will be catastrophic for us and future generations of Indians,” Rahul said. Jairam Ramesh on Monday wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, saying the EIA draft was “fundamentally flawed and makes a mockery of the Prime Minister’s many statements on the need to protect India’s environment”. Javadekar had on August 5 written to Ramesh saying the draft notification had been kept in the public domain for comments and that the suggestions and concerns expressed by Ramesh were “unfounded and based on misinterpretation”. The environment ministry, which released the draft notification in March this year, has set August 12 as the deadline for receiving suggestions and comments. “This is only a draft, not the final notification. The draft will be finalised after taking into consideration suggestions and comments received,” Javadekar said on Monday. However, Ramesh, who is chair of the parliamentary standing committee on environment, forests and climate change, said environment ministry officials had briefed the standing committee on August 7 and iterated his multiple “strong points of objection”. Ramesh has pointed out that the proposed reduction of public consultation period from 30 days to 20 days means the public will have less time to engage with the material available on potential impacts of the proposed project, seek advice and decide how best to express opinion and ask questions. He also pointed out that the draft notification would reduce public access to relevant information as the project proponents would need to provide the EIA report only in English and not in the local or regional languages as hitherto required. In a separate message to the Congress party’s research department, Ramesh said the proposed changes would reduce the role of public hearings. “Good, bad or imperfect, public hearings are an essential aspect of environmental impact assessment,” Ramesh said in an online video message. “Now that role has been curtailed dramatically.” Ramesh said the changes would also open a window for ex-post facto approval, which means project proponents could start a project and then receive environmental clearance. “It really makes a mockery of the environment impact assessment process,” he said. He also said many projects would be exempt from the EIA, adding that this is another source of grave concern. A group of 63 former bureaucrats had last month written to Modi, saying the proposed EIA 2020 would deliver a “most serious and long-lasting blow to the environment”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Probe plea in Ugandan prisoner death||The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, an NGO, on Monday sought an independent inquiry into the circumstances that led to the death of a Ugandan woman in Tihar jail. Jesca Sarah Kafeeco, 43, died at a Delhi hospital where she was admitted on July 25 for a surgery on her right hand for injuries suffered during a scuffle after a protest by foreign prisoners on June 16 demanding release on interim bail amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Jail authorities have reportedly cited the ‘use of minimum force’ as the cause of her injuries, and that itself warrants an enquiry by the National Human Rights Commission,” the CHRI said in a statement. “There are a range of vulnerabilities that foreign national prisoners face in India and these have intensified after the pandemic.” “Blanket denial of bail and parole for foreign nationals, curbs on communication with family and lawyers, suspension of regular hearings in courts, delayed consular access, suspension of international flights”, are among factors heightening the stress, said Madhurima Dhanuka, CHRI’s programme head, prison reforms. The CHRI said the committee should have taken cognisance of the situation and faulted it for not passing any directions for ascertaining the special needs of foreign prisoners. A similar representation by male foreign prisoners in Tihar was also rejected last month, the statement said. While many national and international bodies have called for the release of prisoners during the pandemic, “focussed attention must be provided to each foreign national prisoner, through remote access to consular representatives, who must ascertain that they are in good health, and are being provided appropriate facilities in prison”, said Sanjoy Hazarika, international director, CHRI. The CHRI also called upon the National Legal Services Authority, mandated to provide free legal services to all persons in custody, to conduct specialised campaigns across the prisons in the country to ascertain the rights of foreign nationals. It also stressed the need for the new expert committee set up by the NHRC to document the specific impact of Covid-19 on foreign nationals, and recommend appropriate steps to state governments and the Centre. It urged the Supreme Court to frame guidelines for their release to address certain procedural inadequacies in grant of bail/parole to foreigners. Dhanuka stressed that the CHRI has received several requests for assistance — via its urgent action desk — over the past few months: on release of foreigners, legal representation, communication with families and ascertaining provisions of basic amenities in detention centres. These warrants affirmative action by appropriate authorities. The inquiries highlight the growing impact of Covid-19 on foreign prisoners, she said. According to the Prison Statistics India, 2018, there are 5,168 foreign national prisoners in India, of which 15.2 per cent are women. Their vulnerabilities have been detailed in the CHRI’s “Strangers to Justice: A report on foreigners in Indian prisons”, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Snags hit Delhi University online exam kickoff||Delhi University on Monday kicked off its final-semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams in the online mode amid complaints of examinees struggling to upload the answer scripts and visually challenged students failing to find scribes. Most students and teachers had opposed online exams citing the digital divide, that is, the lack of quality devices and Internet connectivity among rural and poor students. However, the university went ahead with its Open Book Examination programme following a clearance from Delhi High Court. The Centre and the University Grants Commission want all the universities to hold final-semester exams by September, offline or online. So far, only individual institutes and smaller universities had done so. Delhi University, with its about 70 affiliated colleges, has rural and urban students from across the country. It had asked the examinees to download the question papers, write the answers on plain paper and upload their photos on the examination portal. The first paper for the BSc honours courses began at 7.30 in the morning. By 10.30am, reports were pouring in about students’ difficulties in uploading the answers. “I uploaded my answers but received no acknowledgement. I eventually sent images of the answer paper as attachments to the email addresses of DU and my college,” a student, who did not wish to be identified, said. DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said that many students from rural ar-eas and Jammu and Kashmir could not take the exams “because of a lack of proper gadgets or high-speed Internet”. Among the worst affected were visually challenged rural students, who could not arrange for scribes in their villages. “We have been highlighting the digital divide for months,” Jha said. He said the lack of invigilation that online exams from home entail leaves a lot of scope for malpractice and impersonation. The university, which has not revealed the percentage of students who were able to take the online exams, will later hold offline exams for those who could not. Abha Deb Habib, assistant professor at Miranda House College, said that scheduling the test at 7.30am had inconvenienced students who took the exam from common service centres. “In a WhatsApp group of my students, a large number among the 42 students wrote that they had not received confirmation that their upload had been accepted,” Habib said. She criticised the university for asking the students to mention their names on the answer papers. “The students are never asked to mention their names. A name can indicate the region the student comes from, or the student’s caste or religion. It’s better if names are not asked,” she said. Normally, before an exam, the university issues each examinee with a roll number, but this was not done this year because of the disruption caused by the pandemic. An email and a text message sent to vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi seeking his comments on the students’ complaints and the teachers’ concerns evoked no response. The academic session at DU and some of the IITs began from Monday, and in the online mode. Other institutions funded by the central government are to start their classes online later this month. Rudrashish Chakraborty, a teacher at Kirori Mal College under DU, said eye contact in the classroom was the best indication a teacher could receive about the level of a student’s absorption in the lesson. “Teaching is not about delivering a lecture alone; it’s more about the connect the teacher has with the students, which helps them understand concepts better,” he said. “In online teaching, the students are mostly listeners whose faces are not visible. This is not an effective mode.” IIT Bombay, which began online classes on Monday, has decided to supply a laptop with broadband connectivity to each poor student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||32 Jharkhand communities seek inclusion of ‘Sarna’ religion||The 32 tribal groups of Jharkhand have decided to boycott the 2021 national Census if their longstanding demand for the inclusion of “Sarna” as a specific option in the column for religion is not accepted, community leaders have said. They highlighted that with the Centre dropping the “Others” option from the religion column for Census 2021, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions: Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh. “We have started an awareness campaign among tribal people at the panchayat and block levels about the decision,” Bandhan Tigga, Ranchi-based dharm guru (priest) of the Raji Padha Sarna Prarthana Sabha — a religious body of the Oraon, Munda and Santhal tribes — told The Telegraph. “If necessary, we’ll launch a massive agitation not only in Jharkhand but also in other tribal states. There’s a ploy by the Centre to merge the tribal communities with the Hindus or other religious denominations, undermining their separate identity.” Till 2011, people who opted for the “Others” option could also spell out their religion in words as, for example, “Sarna”, “tribal” or “Parsi”. But the official document counted them all merely as “Others”. Now the government has taken away even this option. Karma Oraon, a tribal academic, alleged this was a BJP “conspiracy to bracket the tribal people with Hindus” and threatened to petition the Supreme Court against the Registrar-General of India, who oversees the Census, if a code for Sarna was not adopted. Sarna followers are worshippers of nature. Only small numbers of people from Jharkhand’s 32 tribal groups — who make up more than 26 per cent of the state’s population — identify themselves as Christian, Hindu or Muslim. The tribal communities have for decades been demanding a separate code for Sarna in the Census. The demand was part of the Assembly election manifesto of the UPA, which wrested power in Jharkhand from the NDA last year. Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon had on Sunday, World Tribal Day, announced: “The Assembly will pass a resolution seeking recognition of a separate Sarna Dharma code and send it to the Union government.” Karma Oraon, principal of the Bishu Bhagat Mahila College in Bero, Ranchi, said: “In the 1951 Census (the first in Independent India), ‘tribe’ was available as the ninth option under the religion column. It was later removed, leading to the tribe (members) being counted under different religions, which has caused great harm to the identity of the tribal people.” He added: “Till 2011, a seventh option, ‘Others’, was provided and most tribal people opted for it. But now even that has been removed. We smell a conspiracy by the BJP-led central government to bracket tribal people with Hindus. We will file a PIL in the Supreme Court against the Registrar-General of India if we are not given a separate Sarna code.” Dashmat Hansdah and Baiju Murmu, tribal heads of the Jugsalai and Kolhan zones, respectively, said they were ready for any agitation to safeguard their communities’ constitutional rights. “We have been granted rights under Article 25(1) to practise our religion. If Jains and Buddhists, with smaller populations than tribal people, can have their separate religious codes, why can’t we?” Hansdah said. Bandhu Tirkey, MLA from Mandar, said at least 85 lakh tribal people from eastern India followed the Sarna faith. The 2011 Census had counted 84 lakh Buddhists and 44 lakh Jains. Tribal groups from 19 states had staged a daylong agitation in Delhi last year demanding a separate Sarna code in the 2021 Census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||UGC terms awarding of degrees without exams illegal||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Monday told the Supreme Court that any decision by individual states to award degrees to final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses without conducting exams would per se be illegal and invalid. Appearing for UGC, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that Maharashtra and Delhi, which had decided to cancel the final-year exams and award degrees on the basis of their internal assessment, could not do so because they were bound by the UGC guidelines to complete the exams either offline, online or a blend of both before September 30. “Delhi and Maharashtra have taken the decision to cancel exams in state universities. That is against the UGC rules. UGC is the only body that can prescribe rules for conferring a degree. States cannot change rules… It’s not in the interest of students to not have exams. Such degrees won’t be recognised if there are no exams,” Mehta told the bench also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah. The bench then asked the UGC to file an affidavit justifying its stand that Maharashtra and Delhi could not cancel the exams or award degrees under the Disaster Management Act 2005. It posted the matter for further hearing on August 14. The Delhi government had earlier informed the court that it had decided to cancel all final-year exams on account of the Covid crisis and was not bound by the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the UGC mandating the completion of final-year post-graduate and undergraduate exams by September 30. Instead, it wanted to award degrees on the basis of internal assessment marks. The Maharashtra government had also taken a similar stand. The apex court was dealing with a raft of petitions seeking quashing of the July 6 circular issued by the MHA and the commission to universities across the country to complete final-year exams by September 30. Students complained that the order exposed them to severe health risk on account of the pandemic. Several individual students and youth organisations had filed separate petitions seeking either the postponement of the exams or announcement of final-year results on the basis of internal assessment marks as was done in the case of CBSE and ICSE students. On June 26, the apex court had cleared the decks for the cancellation of the unfinished CBSE/ICSE board exams for Classes X and XII scheduled from July 1, allowing the respective boards to adopt internal assessment marks as one of the criteria for declaration of results in view of the pandemic. In the present case, the petitioners have essentially challenged the MHA notification dated July 6 providing for the compulsory conduct of final term examination by universities and institutions and the revised guidelines on examination and academic calendar for the universities issued by the UGC on the same day. Another bench of the Supreme Court headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar on Monday issued a notice to the Centre on a petition seeking the filling up of 3,373 post-graduate medical seats under the All India Quota in NEET 2020 that have been vacated by the original allottees. The original allottees had vacated the seats after securing seats in AIIMS, PGI Chandigarh and JIPMER Puducherry. The petition filed by Dr Raghuvir Saini and other aspirants had contended that if the vacant All India Quota seats were not filled by the MCI and other authorities, then they would be reverted to the respective state quotas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Tsunami Ready tag on Odisha villages   ||Two coastal villages of Odisha, the first in the country, were on Friday declared “Tsunami Ready” by Unesco. With this India has become the first country in the Indian Ocean region to achieve this honour, informed Odisha government. Unesco also handed over the ‘Certificate of Recognition’ to the state government on Friday. Additional chief secretary and managing director, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority (OSDMA), P.K. Jena said: “The Venkatraipur (Boxipalli) village of Rangeilunda block in Ganjam district and Noliasahi village in Ersama block of Jagatsinghpur district have been recognised by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of Unesco for their high degree of preparedness to face a natural disaster like tsunami. The two villages are completely ready to face any kind of tsunami and certificates were handed over to the communities of Venkatraipur and Noliasahi as Tsunami Ready villages in a virtual event.” Indian Ocean had first witnessed an earthquake-triggered tsunami on December 26, 2004. It killed more than 2.3 lakh people in 14 countries of the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready Programme of IOC-Unesco is a community performance-based programme that facilitates tsunami preparedness as an active collaboration of the community, community leaders, and national and local emergency management agencies. OSDMA has implemented the Tsunami Ready programme in the state. The ministry of earth sciences had established a national board that visited different places and selected six villages in Odisha for this purpose. Jena said: “Disaster Management Plans at different levels have been prepared to address tsunami disasters. Regular tsunami mock drills are being conducted at the tsunami prone villages as a part of International Tsunami Drills (IOWaves) and National Tsunami drills. The Early Warning Dissemination System (EWDS) for Last Mile Connectivity has been set up in the tsunami prone villages. This system addresses the existing gap for disseminating tsunami warning up to the community level. Regular awareness campaigns are being carried out in the tsunami prone area.” Odisha which witnessed a Super Cyclone in 1999 that left more than 10,000 people dead has been able to reduce the vulnerability of its people to natural disasters by building up resilience of communities over the years. “We as a state have learnt to live with disasters by strengthening our disaster preparedness from the community to the highest levels of administration. The State set up the first Disaster Management Authority of the nation in the aftermath of the Super Cyclone of 1999. Since then, Odisha has been marching ahead in the field of disaster management with the core principles set by the chief Minister, Naveen Patnaik,” said Jena. Jena said: “The state achieved this through intuitive planning and creating infrastructure in advance, empowering the communities to take charge of the situation through community-led efforts, decentralised governance through empowerment of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), use of technology in planning, monitoring and management. The officer said that with the award from the top world body Odisha has turned a role model in tsunami preparedness. “Now we plan to make the balance 326 villages and Urban Local Bodies tsunami ready in one year’s time,” Jena added. The virtual event was organised by the Intergovernmental Coordination Group for the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System (ICG/IOTWMS) Secretariat in Perth, Australia and Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC) in Jakarta, Indonesia. Dr M. Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) and G.V.V. Sharma, Member Secretary, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Govt. of India graced the event. International delegates including Dr Srinivasa Kumar Tummala, Head-ICG/IOTWMS, Ardito M. Kodijat, Head, Indian Ocean Tsunami Information Centre (IOTIC), Prof. Dwikorita Karnawati DG, BMKG(Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysical Agency of Indonesia) & Chair, ICG/IOTWMS of UNESCO-IOC participated in the programme. At the national Level, Dr. S.S.C. Shenoi, Vice-Chairperson, UNESCO-IOC, Former Director, INCOIS & Former Chairman of the National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready; Dr. T.M. Balakrishnan Nair, Director (I/C) Indian National Centre for Information Services (INCOIS) and E. Pattabhi Rama Rao, Head-TWG, INCOIS  & Member-Secretary, National Board on implementation of Indian Ocean Tsunami Ready were present at the virtual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||2 held for Covid rumours in Odisha||Odisha police on Monday arrested two persons on the charges of spreading rumours about Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) failure to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Police took action after an audio clip of the conversation between the two persons was circulated and shared on the digital platform of a private news channel. The private channel is owned by the family of BJP national vice-president Baijayant “Jay” Panda. Panda, who was once the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, is at loggerheads with him on various issues. The Odisha government as well as the ruling Biju Janata Dal feel that the channel owned by Panda’s family is deliberately targeting the government with ulterior motives. In a press release, the Bhubaneswar-Cuttack Police Commissionerate said: “The said clip was reportedly propagated by a news channel named OTV. On examination and prima facie investigation, it has been found that the audio recording has been prepared and circulated, edited, uploaded and propagated with mala fide and mischievous intention as the clip contains misleading and false information about Covid pandemic.” The release further said: “The mischievous conversation is trying to make others believe that there is false corona positive reports, persons are being shifted to hospital falsely showing them positive, there is certain target for number of patients to be fetched by hospitals etc. This goes against the guidelines related to the management of the present disaster and violates many legal provisions, thus attracting criminal actions.” The arrested duo have been identified as businessman Biswajit Mohanty, 47, and Laxmikanta Behera, 46, an employee of Ortel Communication that is widely perceived to be owned by the Panda family. However, the OTV management has made it clear that the Panda family has no control over Ortel Communication. “Odisha police have arrested two men who posted their phone chat online. Their ‘crime’? One of them allegedly tested Covid +ve & spoke of fake ‘treatment’ at massive govt cost. This just the latest of massive Corona related corruption scams in Odisha. Will #FoE activists speak up?” Baijayant Jay Panda tweeted. In the audio, Laxmikanta had shared his experience with his friend Biswajit about his treatment at the hospital after being tested positive for Covid-19. Biswajit had recorded the conversation and shared it on social media without Laxmikanta’s knowledge. Laxmikanta has made it clear that he had no intention of doing this and his friend had circulated the audio without his knowledge. Speaking to The Telegraph, OTV News editor Radhamadhab Mishra said: “We have just uploaded the viral audio on our digital platform. Even we have made it clear that it is not ours. We did not even carry the viral audio in our bulletin. On this issue, we had also contacted the BMC commissioner, but he did not respond. Where was the need for the police to come at midnight and serve notice to us. It is nothing but harassment.” Mishra also made it clear that Ortel has no connection with the Panda family. The BMC had registered a case against the channel on August 7, a day after the audio clip was uploaded on its social media site. OTV chief financial officer Manoranajan Sarangi told the media: “OTV and Ortel communication are separate entities. For the last 15 years, the companies are being run as different entities under the Registrar of Companies (ROC). Panda family has no control over Ortel and its board is under suspension. Ortel and OTV are different companies and run by their own managements.” The media fraternity is divided over the issue. Many journalists have condemned the police action on OTV and termed it as an attempt by the government to gag the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Nod to keep green areas out of coal auction in Chattisgarh||Union minister for coal and mines Pralhad Joshi has agreed to the request of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel to keep coal mines in dense forest areas and elephant corridors in the state out of the upcoming auction of coal blocks. Baghel made the suggestion during a meeting with the minister at the chief minister’s house in Raipur recently, according to an official statement. The chief minister demanded that the additional levy of Rs 4,140 crore which was deposited by industrialists to the Centre according to the instructions of the Supreme Court before 2014, should be transferred to the state. Joshi agreed to the demand saying that the central government has filed an application in the Supreme Court for disposal of the aforementioned amount, based on which a decision will be taken soon. In the meeting, Baghel also demanded transfer of the penalty amount of Rs 10,129 crore to the state, based on the Supreme Court’s decision in a common cause case. Baghel also made the following demands during the meeting — issue of guidelines to South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) to increase production in Gare Pelma mines immediately, utilisation of waterlogged coal mines for safe drinking water supply and irrigation, return of land to the state government after completion of the mining process and immediate action on the SECL mines that have been shut down for proper disposal of fly ash. On this, Joshi gave consent for formation of a joint team of Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, SECL and state officials. Baghel also requested that with approval of Coal India Limited chairman on the proposal to provide coal to local small-scale industries according to their requirement, the state government should be appointed as an agency for this purpose. While discussing the topics related to the ministry, the state government requested for amendment in the royalty rates of iron ore. Baghel said that under the National Exploration Mineral Trust (NMET), Chhattisgarh has deposited about Rs 300 crore with the Centre. He drew the attention of Joshi towards simplification of rules for the use of this amount and for authorising the state governments to select minerals for mineral exploration. The minister agreed to the demands. In a presentation given by the Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain, it was said that despite the reserves of about 150 billion tonnes in India, coal is being imported from Australia, Indonesia and other countries. Therefore, there is a need to make India self-sufficient by properly planning for adequate exploitation of the coal available in the country, it said. Coal India chairman Pramod Aggarwal, SECL CMD A.P. Panda, additional chief secretary to the chief minister, Subrata Sahu, principal secretary (forest), Manoj Pingua, secretary to the chief minister, Siddharth Komal Pardeshi, secretary (mineral department) Anbalagan P, principal chief conservator of forests Rakesh Chaturvedi and director (mineralogy), Sameer Vishnoi, and other senior officials of the central and state government were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-736
11-08-2020||India||Schools ask about birth history, grandparents ||A private school in Gurgaon has on its admission form sought information on the occupations of the children’s grandparents, and another has demanded details of the children’s and their mothers’ medical histories. These questions from the Kunskapsskolan School and the Shiv Nadar School have prompted educationists to level charges of RTE violation, privacy breach and possible caste or class-based selection. Both schools have defended the questions and denied they would be used to eliminate or select students. Many Gurgaon schools recently released their admission forms for the session beginning next January. Kunskapsskolan’s form asks for the mother’s age during pregnancy, the mode of delivery, and the child’s Apgar (appearance, pulse, grimace, activity, respiration) score at birth. The Shiv Nadar School has sought to know the occupation of the grandparents. Many schools across the country do ask about the parents’ professions but rarely does any invoke the grandparents’ occupation — which can be a clearer indicator of caste because it relates to earlier times, less conducive to social mobility. Officials of both schools said their admission forms had carried these questions for several years. They argued that the information gleaned helped meet the children’s special needs, if any, and provide them the benefits of any special knowledge that any grandparent possessed. Controversy broke out after some people wrote about the forms on social media. Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, said the questions on the children’s and their mothers’ medical histories violated the Right to Education Act and amounted also to a breach of privacy. “A mother’s age during pregnancy or the mode of delivery is personal information. Asking for such information is a breach of privacy,” she said. “To claim that this would let them (the school) decide if a child has special needs is specious and mala fide. More significantly, the RTE Act bans any kind of screening process for admission. This violates the law.” Section 13 of the RTE Act says: “No school or person shall, while admitting a child, collect any capitation fee and subject the child or his or her parents or guardian to any screening procedure.” Kunskapsskolan said it needed the medical histories to determine whether some of the children had “developmental vulnerability”, and to address it. “Developmental vulnerability” refers to the risk of a child having a difficult start to school and of her educational challenges harming her long-term health. “Kunskapsskolan has always been an inclusive school and continues to cater to students with neuro-diverse needs. We also believe in providing personalised education to each child and understand that the learning graph and ways for each student will be different,” the school told The Telegraph in an email statement. “The questions regarding the birth history of the child, like age of the mother at the time of pregnancy, mode of delivery, and Apgar score are to understand if the child has a probability of developmental vulnerability. These details help the professionals at school to acknowledge the specific needs of the child to provide adequate and effective support.” According to the school website, the Kunskapsskolan Educational Program (KED) was conceptualised in 1999 in Sweden. It focuses on personalised education and individualised goals based on each student’s needs and abilities. “We at Kunskapsskolan are looking at students being successful academically, emotionally and socially, and this information helps us understand how best we can support the child. This information is not used for elimination and does not impact the admission process,” the school’s statement said. “However, as a school, we need to be clear and confident that we are in a position to support the child in his/her journey at school.” Asked whether Kunskapsskolan schools sought these information from parents in Sweden too, a school official said they didn’t have to because the Swedish government issues cards to children detailing their special needs, if any. Dr Sunil Dargar, a Delhi pathologist, questioned the method adopted by the Gurgaon school to assess the children’s probable developmental vulnerability. “No detailed data are provided to the parents at childbirth, so they cannot provide most of the information sought. Only when there’s a significant event like delayed crying, etc, it may be revealed to the parents,” he said. Even if the parents have all the information sought, he said, these data cannot by themselves determine whether the child is developmentally vulnerable. “Just data will not help determine whether the child has special needs, it’s observation of the child that may reveal this. Redundant data collection helps nobody; it only aggravates the confusion,” Dargar said. The school’s email responses to this newspaper were silent on the contention that the information sought didn’t necessarily establish whether the child might be developmentally vulnerable, and the charge that seeking the information violated the RTE Act. Venita Kaul, professor emerita for education at Ambedkar University, said a school may ask the parents generally whether their children have any special needs. “But asking every parent to give such data is not right,” she said, arguing such practice suggested the possibility of profiling and biased selection. The Shiv Nadar school said it often invited grandparents with special knowledge to interact with its students, hence the questions about their occupation. “Shiv Nadar School has a robust and a transparent admission process that provides equal opportunities to students of all backgrounds. The school believes in involving the parents in the teaching-learning process of the child,” it said in a statement. “In our admission form, we only ask for grandparents’ professional background and not their education qualification. This information is not an eligibility criterion but a way to develop learning partnership. For example, a judge or a lawyer can talk to our students about law, while a farmer can help our students learn about agriculture.” But Kaul questioned the way the data were being collected. “The grandparents can share their new or unique knowledge in any area. But instead of seeking this information on the admission form, the school should have asked for a statement whether any grandparent could help enrich the classroom practices,” she said. Rampal too said the school could very well seek the information on grandparents’ “expertise” after the admission process was over. “When the school has put it (the question) on its admission form, it can clearly be used to select children for admission, which is a violation of the law,” she said. The Kunskapsskolan global chain has formed a joint venture with Gyandarshan Eduventures Private Limited to set up schools in India. There are two such schools in Gurgaon, one in Lucknow and a fourth in Bangalore. “Kunskapsskolan Eduventures is a joint venture between Kunskapsskolan Education Sweden AB and Gyandarshan Eduventures Private Limited. Kunskapsskolan Eduventures develops and provides Kunskapsskolan’s offer and services in India,” the school website said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-737
