12-08-2020||India||IAF writes to Censor Board objecting 'undue negative' portrayal in 'Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl'||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has written a letter to the Censor Board objecting to its "undue negative" portrayal in the movie Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl, said a senior official. The movie was released on streaming platform Netflix on Wednesday. According to the official, the letter mentions "concerns related to the movie's portrayal of gender bias as an institutional work culture" at the IAF. The movie is based on the life of IAF officer Gunjan Saxena who became the first woman pilot to take part in the 1999 Kargil war. It has been produced by Karan Johar's Dharma Productions. "The IAF has written a letter to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) objecting to certain scenes in the movie 'Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl' wherein it has been portrayed in undue negative light," the official said. The official said a copy of the letter has also been sent to Netflix. "Before the release of the film, the IAF had requested Dharma Productions to modify or delete the objectionable scenes. However, it did not take any action," the official noted. The Defence Ministry had written to the CBFC last month raising strong objections to the depiction of armed forces personnel in some web series, sources said. It had urged that production houses may be advised to obtain a no-objection certificate from the ministry before telecasting any film, documentary or web series on an Army theme, they added. The ministry had received some complaints raising strong objections about the portrayal of Indian Army personnel and the military uniform in an "insulting manner", they said. The sources said the communication last month was also sent to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
12-08-2020||India||AYUSH minister Shripad Naik tests positive for coronavirus||Union minister of state for AYUSH Shripad Y. Naik on Wednesday announced he has tested positive for Covid-19. In his tweet, the he said he's going into home isolation because he's asymptomatic. "I underwent Covid-19 test today & it has turned out assymptomaically positive. My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation. Those who have came in contact with me in last few days are advised to get tested for themselves and take required precautions," Naik tweeted. Naik, who heads the Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) Ministry, also asked all those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested as well. Naik is the fourth and latest minister in the Narendra Modi cabinet to test positive for the virus. Amit Shah, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Vishvas Sarang, Dharmendra Pradhan tested positive earlier are already hospitalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||UP accident: Over 15 bikers brought to police station and questioned||Over 15 motorcycles were brought to a police station here on Wednesday and their owners questioned over the death of a 20-year-old woman, who was visiting home from the US, in a Bulandshahr road accident, police said. Information has also been sought on all Bullet motorcycles registered in the district from the assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), they added. The police said 15-20 bike owners were questioned. The woman, Sudiksha Bhati, died on Monday morning near Aurangabad when she met with an accident while riding pillion on a motorcycle with her younger brother. She was pursuing a graduation course in entrepreneurship at the Babson College, Massachusetts (US), and was scheduled to go back on August 20. Her family has alleged that the accident happened because two motorcycle-borne men were following her two-wheeler and harassing her. Jitendra Bhati, the deceased's father, said on Tuesday: “Sudiksha had gone to see some relatives at her maternal uncle’s village in the Aurangabad area of Bulandshahar district (40km from Dadri) two days ago. She was returning with her brother on Monday morning when two youths on two Bullet motorbikes began chasing them. “My son told me that they were not only passing lewd remarks but also making obscene gestures. They were also doing stunts on their motorcycles. This continued for about 3km. Then one of them overtook my son’s motorcycle and suddenly applied the brakes. My son’s bike hit the Bullet and Sudiksha fell on the road and suffered head injuries.” Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said the road accident took place near the border of Charaura Mustafabad village in the morning of August 10. According to eyewitness Hemant Sharma, a Bullet motorcycle in front of the two-wheeler in which Sudiksha and his brother were travelling hit the brakes due to a milk tanker coming from the opposite side, he said. Because of this, the motorcycles collided, leading to injuries to Sudiksha, Singh said. He added the woman's brother had not mentioned anything about harassment to the police at the time of the incident. In a purported video that has surfaced on social media, Bhati's brother said, "We were on a motorcycle at a speed of 30 km per hour. The men on the Bullet were riding near us and applied brakes on their vehicle suddenly...The Bullet had 'Jat Boys' inscribed on its number plate and its number started with UP-13." The Bulandshahr Senior Superintendent of Police has constituted a three-member SIT, led by Circle Officer (city) Diksha Singh, to probe the matter. The district police has filed an FIR against two unidentified people on the basis of a complaint by Sudiksha's father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Bangalore: 3 killed after police open fire to quell angry mob ||Atleast three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage irked over a social media post allegedly put out by a Congress legislators relative, as a city locality witnessed arson and violence. "Three people have died (in police firing)," Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said. Further, 110 people have been arrested in connection with the incident at Pulakeshi Nagar here. Scores of persons, including around 50 policemen, were injured in the violence that erupted on Tuesday night and continued till the wee hours of Wednesday, apparently prompted by the communally sensitive online post. The Congress MLAs residence and a police station were among those targeted by the angry mob, prompting the government to issue a stern warning that rioting and law and order issues will not be tolerated. Pant said Naveen, who allegedly posted the social media post has been arrested and appealed for peace. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the "attack on the residence of MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy and the DJ Halli police station and riot are condemnable." "Already given directions to initiate stringent action against the criminals (and) the government has initiated all the measures to contain violence," he said. The attack on police, media persons and common citizens was unpardonable. The government will not tolerate such instigation and mischief, he added. On Tuesday night, irked by the social media post, hundreds of people went on a rampage and set DJ Halli police station on fire. They torched many police and private vehicles, smashed the belongings of MLA Murthy and those of his sister. An ATM was smashed into pieces. To disperse the mob, police resorted to lathi charge, lobbed tear gas shells and later opened fire, killing three people. One of the victims has been identified as Yasin Pasha. The victims father Afzal told reporters that his son was innocent. "My son operated a meat shop in the area and had gone for dinner when the police opened fire and he died. He is innocent and was not involved in any arson," he said, claiming that some outsiders who came in hordes and damaged property were responsible for the violence. Meanwhile, curfew has been imposed in the affected areas in and around DJ Halli and KG Halli. Legislator Murthy appealed against violence. "I appeal to my Muslim brethren that we should not resort to violence for the fault committed by some miscreants. There is no need to fight. We all are brothers. We will get the person punished as per law. We will also be with you. I appeal to the Muslim friends to be calm," he said in a video message last night. Congress MLA and former minister B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan termed the violence as unfortunate. "I am hopeful police will take action against all those who are responsible for this. I also request everyone to stay calm and maintain peace in the area," Khan tweeted. Shivaji Nagar Congress MLA Rizwan Arshad too appealed to the people to maintain peace and harmony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Kerala CM objects to green draft||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday broke his silence on the draft environment impact assessment 2020 notification and cautioned that if implemented in the current form it would lead to serious ramifications. “In the current form, it will lead to serious environmental issues. Hence, Kerala cannot agree with many of its recommendations,” Vijayan said. He urged the Centre not to take a final call without holding detailed discussions with all the states. “One of the main objections that we have is related to mining. As per the draft no environmental clearance would be needed for mining activities in areas between 5 and 100 hectares. But we want environmental clearance made mandatory for all mining activities in more than two hectares of land,” he said. “The draft notification has reduced the time for public hearing from 30 to 20 days. We want it to be retained at 30 days since shortening the period would not be appropriate,” he said. Another objection the Kerala government had was about the proposal to eliminate district environment impact assessment committees. “These district committees have a key role to play in protecting environment. We want them to be retained,” Vijayan said. He did not mention anything about putting the objections in paper and sending them to the minister for environment. But the CPM has been raising objections to the EIA 2020 and urged the Centre not to provide any relaxation that would harm the environment. CPM Rajya Sabha member from the state, Binoy Viswam of CPI had on Monday ticked off a debate about the state government’s delay in conveying its objections to the centre. Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kareem, in a letter to environment minister Prakash Javadekar, on Tuesday, raised strong objections about the draft notification and pointed out it would pave the way for corporations to exploit natural resources. “It maybe redrafted taking the opinion of all stakeholders and considering the interests of the environment, the people and the country to further strengthen the environment regulation structure,” Kareem said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Desertions that doused desert storm||Sachin Pilot, who is now projecting his rebellion as a fight for “principles”, appears to be making a virtue out of a compulsion because he had little option left but to surrender to the Congress after a key associate betrayed him. Top sources revealed to The Telegraph that the veteran Bhanwar Lal Sharma, one of the main conspirators to pull down the Ashok Gehlot government, slipped out and met Congress general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal on Sunday. He expressed deep regret for his actions and pledged his support and that of five more MLAs to the Congress. Another MLA slipped out on Sunday night and reached Jaipur on Monday morning. Venugopal, in consultation with Ahmed Patel, asked Sharma to return to Jaipur immediately and meet chief minister Ashok Gehlot. His absence created panic in the Pilot camp, which was on a hunt for him. Sharma, 75, spent Sunday night in hiding, at a relative’s place in Delhi, and left for Jaipur early next morning. The Congress had planned to present him before the media by Monday afternoon. After his lieutenant’s exit, Pilot was left with no option and swiftly decided to call it quits. While Sharma was already on his way to Jaipur in the morning, Pilot met Rahul Gandhi at 1pm. The meeting was set up through Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who Pilot got in touch with only after he realised that Gehlot had sailed through the crisis. It was presumed that Sharma left for Jaipur because Pilot met Rahul, but it was actually the other way round. Sharma, a seven-term MLA, had fled with all the secrets and plans of the Pilot group, signalling a collapse of the rebellion. A Congress leader told The Telegraph: “Pilot moved swiftly in a smart act instead of returning to the party after August 14 when Gehlot would have proved his majority. That would have further diminished his stature and bargaining capacity. It is the magnanimity and grace of Rahul Gandhi who embraced him despite full knowledge of the developments. Rahul knew there is no threat to the government at all.” Party leaders, however, are willing to let bygones be bygones and make life easy for Pilot. One senior leader said: “Leadership is not developed overnight. We have invested heavily in Pilot and he has developed into a formidable leader. He is young and has committed a mistake in impatience. That was juvenile and we have forgiven him. Things should be normal for him after a short cooling-off period.” Assessing the role played by various leaders during this unseemly episode, insiders believe the maximum credit should go to the 100 Congress MLAs who refused to yield under abnormal pressure and allurements. “It is primarily because of them that we won this war. Gehlot was vigilant and protected his flock with amazing energy and political acumen. Only after these two, the role of strategy-makers comes,” one source said, insisting that this was a wonderful example of collective effort as both seniors and younger leaders worked together to protect the party’s pride. Four persons played a critical role in salvaging the situation: Ahmed Patel, K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken. They poured in all their energies to crush the rebellion of their “dear friend Pilot” who would not have expected the party to stand behind Gehlot with such solidity. The management was so effective that Congress MLAs, apparently so saleable in Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and other states, refused to take the bait in Rajasthan. Asked about the gossip in political circles about the pressure mounted by Farooq Abdullah, who is Pilot’s father-in-law, one leader said: “That’s rubbish. Why did that pressure not work before he revolted? Why not when he opted for vicious legal battles? Why did the pressure become effective only when the survival of the Gehlot government became inevitable? The Congress has defeated a rebellion with deft management and the credit to Pilot is that he avoided crash-landing. He abandoned the self-destructive path in time.” Asked about the bitterness, party communications chief Surjewala said: “Some bitterness and heated exchanges did happen but it is a closed chapter for us now. With Rahul Gandhi’s foresight and resolve to take everybody together, we have overcome this crisis. Now we will work together to focus on Rajasthan’s development and fighting Covid-19. Pilot has reaffirmed his faith in the Congress and his commitment to serve the party. All the differences will be resolved now.” On the BJP’s involvement in the month-long drama, he said: “The BJP was so eager to pull down the government, fishing in troubled waters to grab power by hook or by crook. They hired three aircraft to take their MLAs to Gujarat because they were not sure of their loyalty. They could not hold a meeting of their legislature party even once.” Congress leaders do acknowledge the positive role played by BJP veteran Vasundhara Raje, who was not willing to aid the conspiracy hatched by Gajendra Singh Sekhawat in collusion with his central bosses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||SC clears air on Hindu women inheritance right||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that a Hindu woman is entitled to an equal share of the property as the male heir irrespective of whether the father or the mother died before 2005 when the Hindu Succession Act was amended to allow women an equal share in parental property. However, the court made it clear that if the property had already been bequeathed before 2005, a female heir would not be able to claim any share if nothing had been left for her. Before the 2005 amendment to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, only the male heir had the right to inherit parental property. Prior to the 2005 amendment, Section 6 provided that if the parent had given a share of the property to a woman, it would be with her only till her lifetime, following which it would be distributed among her male coparceners or their male heirs. The woman had no right to sell or give away the property. The Hindu personal Mitakshara coparcenary (matters relating to succession) law, widely prevalent in the country, not only contributed to discrimination on the ground of gender but was also oppressive and negated the fundamental right of equality guaranteed by the Constitution. On Tuesday, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra cleared the air as various two-judge benches of the apex court had taken contrary views on the matter of inheritance by a female heir if the parent had died before the 2005 amendment. While some benches had held that the amendment had retrospective effect, some others had said their rulings would have prospective effect, prompting the matter to be referred to a three-judge bench for an authoritative pronouncement. In the Prakash & Others vs Phulavati & Others (2016) case, the last ruling in the matter before Tuesday’s, a two-judge bench had ruled that Section 6 of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, which gives a woman the right to have an equal share in parental property, would not apply in cases where the parent had died before the amendment came into effect on September 9, 2005. Overruling the earlier judgments, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday: “It is not necessary that there should be a living, coparcener (heir) or father as on the date of the amendment to whom the daughter would succeed. The daughter would step into the coparcenary as that of a son by taking birth before or after the Act.” Justice Mishra, who authored the judgment, wrote: “The expression used in Section 6 is that she becomes coparcener in the same manner as a son. By adoption also, the status of coparcener can be conferred. The concept of uncodified Hindu law of unobstructed heritage has been given a concrete shape under the provisions of Section 6(1)(a) and 6(1). “…Thus, it is not at all necessary that the father of the daughter should be living as on the date of the amendment as she has not been conferred the rights of a coparcener by obstructed heritage. “The effect of the amendment is that a daughter is made coparcener, with effect from the date of amendment and she can claim partition also, which is a necessary concomitant of the coparcenary. “Hence, we respectfully find ourselves unable to agree with the concept of ‘living coparcener’, as laid down in Prakash v. Phulavati. In our opinion, the daughters should be living on 9.9.2005.” The bench, which also had Justices Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah, clarified that if the property had already been written in the name of an heir before the amendment came into effect, the woman would not be able to claim a share. The bench asked high courts to dispose of within six months all pending disputes on the issue in terms of Tuesday’s judgment. “We understand that on this question, suits/appeals are pending before different high courts and subordinate courts. The matters have already been delayed due to legal imbroglio caused by conflicting decisions. The daughters cannot be deprived of their right of equality conferred upon them by Section 6. Hence, we request that the pending matters be decided, as far as possible, within six months,” the Supreme Court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Banging plates shows results: India tops Covid claptrap list ||India had the highest counts of rumours and misleading information about the new coronavirus disease circulating on social media and online platforms, followed by the US and China, a study on the Covid-19-related infodemic has suggested. The study by health researchers in Bangladesh has identified India, the US, China, Indonesia and Brazil as the top five among 87 countries where rumours, stigma or conspiracy theories circulated as infodemic waves from January to early April, the timeframe of the survey. Their exercise, described as the first global study to track and document adverse impacts, including deaths, from Covid-19-related misinformation, has counted 357 rumours, stigma or conspiracy theories circulating in India, 307 in the US and 189 in China. “It wasn’t possible for us to trace the actual sources of the rumours,” M. Saiful Islam, who led the study, told The Telegraph over phone from Dhaka. Islam is an infectious disease specialist at the International Centre for Diarrhoreal Disease Research, Bangladesh. The study, which scanned online platforms including fact-check agency websites, Facebook and Twitter, has been published in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. Many rumours related to false or unsubstantiated claims about remedies that might cure or prevent the infection — cow urine, cow dung, alcohol, rose water, vinegar gargles, warm socks, goose fat, sesame oil, vitamin C, vitamin D and hot drinks laced with turmeric or cinnamon — were circulating among people through social media across the world. Scientists in India have independently tracked at least 28 hoaxes or rumours shared through social media accounts — some misleadingly touting tea, garlic, kalonji seeds, steam inhalation and nasal rinses as remedies, some claiming air-conditioners, houseflies and mosquitoes spread the infection, and one even claiming that clapping hands can drive away the virus. After the March 22 event when Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to bang pots and pans to honour healthcare workers engaged in combating the coronavirus, scientists say, a rumour emerged that vibrations from sound can eliminate the virus. “There was blind belief in such things — many people believed the messages they received,” said Aniket Sule, a faculty member at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai, who is among the scientists in India who created a website to debunk Covid-19 hoaxes. The study by Saiful Islam and his collaborators in Australia, Thailand and Japan has documented cases of deaths or illness, discrimination, physical harassment and violence resulting from such rumours about cures or prevention. In India, at least 12 persons, including five children, fell sick after drinking liquor made from the seeds of the Datura plant after watching a video claiming the seeds provide immunity against Covid-19. In Iran, doctors documented over 800 deaths among over 5,800 people hospitalised after drinking methanol as a remedy against Covid-19. At least 60 of them have gone blind. In Qatar, two persons ingested disinfectants. The misleading information also triggered stigma and discrimination. Doctors in India and Australia have reported harassment and discrimination by neighbours. The Chinese in some countries have faced discrimination and racial abuse amid misleading messages claiming “Chinese dietary habits have caused Covid-19” or the “Chinese had manufactured Covid-19”, or “every disease has come from China”. Rumours, stigma and conspiracy theories have the potential to decrease community trust in governments and international health agencies, M. Saiful Islam and his colleagues wrote in their study, pointing out that rumours can mask credible infection prevention and control strategies. “Policymakers should track misinformation in realtime and correct wrong information,” M. Saiful Islam said. “Since misinformation spreads so quickly through social media, policymakers should also use this platform to spread correct information.” M. Saiful Islam said the idea to track rumours about Covid-19 occurred to him after he noticed a doctor in Bangladesh suggesting on a social media account that the coronavirus would go away with the approach of summer. “There was no evidence for this at all,” M. Saiful Islam said. “But so many people appeared to believe it.” In Bangladesh, he said, there have been other rumours too, one with tragic consequences. A mother who learnt her son was infected with Covid-19 died after suffering a heart attack. M. Saiful Islam said: “She had heard this absurd rumour that people infected by Covid-19 would be killed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||BJP MP calls BSNL staff ‘traitors’||BJP parliamentarian Ananth Kumar Hegde, infamous for spewing communal poison, has now targeted government telecom company BSNL by claiming that it is “packed with traitors” and calling for its privatisation and sacking of its employees. Hegde, who represents Uttara Kannada in the Lok Sabha, was addressing a gathering at Karwar on Monday when he accused BSNL of providing poor service to his hometown. Hegde, sources said, was apparently angry over a recent flood of tweets to the Union minister for telecommunications seeking 4G spectrum for BSNL. Hegde is heard saying in the video clip, with a seemingly like-minded audience cheering him on: “This company is packed with traitors…. BSNL has become a blot on the nation and it has to be finished.” “The Prime Minister is talking about Digital India and is even providing funds for that. Even the technology is ready, but they (BSNL employees) are not ready to work,” the MP from Karnataka added. “BSNL has an arrogant system. Just imagine how arrogant they are as even our government has not been able to set it right,” he went on, suggesting that the only option was to privatise the company. “We have so far removed some 85,000 employees. More retrenchments would be needed in the coming days. Whatever it is, it has to be privatised. That’s the only way out,” Hegde said. Over 80,000 employees of the loss-hit BSNL last year opted for a government-introduced voluntary retirement scheme. The Centre, however, had informed Parliament in March this year that it would not sell or privatise BSNL and its subsidiary MTNL and had spoken of plans for a revival package. The All Unions and Associations of BSNL, a collective of trade unions, held a meeting in Bangalore on Tuesday and condemned Hegde’s comments. The state president of the BSNL Employees’ Union, the most popular labour wing of the company, C.K. Gundanna, told The Telegraph that they would write to the President, Prime Minister, communications minister and the BSNL chairman in Delhi about Hegde’s statements. “So far he had been spewing communal venom against anyone opposed to his ideology. Now he has turned against a company like BSNL that has rendered yeoman service to our country,” Gundanna said. “He is accusing us of not working. For his information, we laid an under-sea cable from Chennai to Port Blair only yesterday to have our own dedicated line to provide all services to the people of Andaman and Nicobar islands,” the trade union leader said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had himself hailed the 2,300km submarine project for fast Internet to Andaman and Nicobar and tweeted: “Kudos to those who worked on this!” Gundanna said telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had promised to give 4G spectrums to BSNL way back in April 2019. “That was one of the conditions for shrinking our manpower. But now there is no talk of 4G,” he said. Gundanna disputed Hegde’s claim that the government had provided enough funds for BSNL. “The government has not paid us one rupee. Government departments have huge dues towards unpaid bills for our service. Our contract workers haven’t been paid salaries for one year,” he said. Besides VRS, many BSNL employees have left due to non-payment of salary. “From 1,60,000 employees on December 31 last year, we are right now around 60,000. How is it possible to provide great service with such reduction in manpower and no fresh recruitments?” Gundanna asked. Hegde, who had been a Union minister in the previous Modi government, is known for making communally charged and intemperate comments and also getting away with it. This time too, the BJP has not said anything about his attack on BSNL. Earlier, Hegde had courted controversy by calling the freedom movement “an adjustment with the British” and appearing to be critical of Mahatma Gandhi. He had called S. Sasikanth Senthil, an IAS officer who resigned in the wake of the abrogation of Article 370, a “traitor” and said a government servant should not question the decisions of the government. In the run-up the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Hegde had kicked up a storm by lampooning Rahul Gandhi for saying he was a Brahmin and making communally loaded statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||Prepared for LAC long haul: Military to govt||The Indian military brass is believed to have told a parliamentary panel that the forces are ready for a long haul along the Line of Actual Control with Chinese troops having strengthened their positions at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh. “The top brass led by Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has said that the disengagement and de-esclation between the two sides may take a long time and the forces are prepared for deployment in the harsh winter to counter Chinese aggression,” said a government official. The chief of defence staff and other senior military officers have briefed the parliamentary panel on defence on the Chinese aggression along the LAC, the official said. Since the standoff began in early May, the Chinese have deployed nearly 40,000 troops along the LAC. So far, five rounds of military talks at the corps commander level between the two sides since June 6 have failed to break the logjam. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is yet to show any sign of relenting or backing off from the areas that India used to control, including the Pangong Lake and the Depsang Plains. Beijing’s latest claim on Pangong Lake areas have triggered a scare in India’s security establishment, and also among military veterans, who fear the Chinese are trying to establish “a revised status quo” in the region. Recently, a physical verification conducted by the Indian Army suggested that despite the claims of disengagement by the PLA, the Chinese troops were still very much present inside territory India claims as its own at the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. Besides hindering patrolling by the Indian Army at multiple points, the Chinese forces have made offensive deployments along the LAC and brought in tanks and artillery guns. India has made mirror deployments at the friction points to counter the Chinese threats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||4G in one district each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that restoration of full-fledged 4G mobile Internet services in Jammu and Kashmir would not be possible because of security concerns but that on a pilot basis, it would be restored in one district each in the two divisions of the Union Territory from August 15. Attorney general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Justice N.V. Ramana that the special committee constituted by the Jammu and Kashmir administration held three rounds of meetings with various stakeholders on August 10 where the decision was arrived at keeping in mind border security and national interests. “Committee is of the view that the threat perception in J&K continues to be very high. Internet restrictions are not posing any hindrance to Covid care, education or business. Given the current security scenario situation, it is not yet conducive to restore high speed Internet access to mobile phones,” Venugopal told the bench also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and B.R. Gavai. The bench was dealing with a contempt petition filed by the Foundation for Media Professionals, an NGO, alleging wilful default by the Centre and J&K administration in not complying with the bench’s May 11 judgment directing the government to set up a committee to review the restoration of full-fledged Internet services. Internet services, mainly 4G connectivity, had been withdrawn in the wake of abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, with the government pleading that it would otherwise aid terrorists to intensify their activities in the two Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
12-08-2020||India||BJP leader killed in UP  ||A BJP leader was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district while he was out for a morning walk on Tuesday. Police said four attackers fired four bullets on Sanjay Khokhar at Chhaprauli while he was walking in his agricultural field, and fled. “He had gone to his agricultural field at around 6.30am. He was walking on the elevated divider between the fields when four persons hiding there opened fire. Khokhar received one bullet in his head and another in his chest and was declared brought dead at the hospital. We have formed several teams to identify and arrest the killers,” said Baghpat superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Singh. Khokhar, 52, was a former district president of the BJP. The villagers said no candidate could win the panchayat election in Chhaprauli without the support of Khokhar. The deceased had joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh 20 years ago and was a BJP member for the last 15 years. Khokhar was also a government school teacher. There are framed pictures of Khokhar with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at his residence. A villager said Khokhar was preparing to contest the Lok Sabha election from Baghpat. This is the 8th murder of a Sangh parivar leader in Uttar Pradesh in three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Chased by bikers, US student falls to death||A girl pursuing higher education in the US died in her native Uttar Pradesh after falling off her brother’s motorcycle when two bike-borne youths who had allegedly been chasing the siblings, making lewd comments and gestures and performing stunts, caused an accident. The Uttar Pradesh police chief, even before a probe had been conducted, initially said the incident was just a road accident and rejected the allegations of harassment and bike stunts, but took a more accommodating stand after the 19-year-old girl’s father chastised him bitterly and accused the police of not taking the case seriously before the media began reporting on it. The tragedy unfolded when Noida girl Sudiksha Bhati, 19, who had been pursuing an undergraduate degree in entrepreneurship from Babson College in Massachusetts on a scholarship from an Indian company, and her younger brother were returning from a relative’s home in Bulandshahr district on Monday morning. Sudiksha, who had done her schooling from the VidyaGyan Leadership Academy run by the Shiv Nadar Foundation in Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) and got admission to Babson College in 2018, had returned to India by a repatriation flight in May because of the pandemic. Jitendra Bhati, Sudiksha’s father who runs a small dhaba in Dadri, Gautam Buddha Nagar, said on Tuesday: “Sudiksha had gone to see some relatives at her maternal uncle’s village in the Aurangabad area of Bulandshahar district (40km from Dadri) two days ago. She was returning with her brother on Monday morning when two youths on two Bullet motorbikes began chasing them. “My son told me that they were not only passing lewd remarks but also making obscene gestures. They were also doing stunts on their motorcycles. This continued for about 3km. Then one of them overtook my son’s motorcycle and suddenly applied the brakes. My son’s bike hit the Bullet and Sudiksha fell on the road and suffered head injuries.” Sudisksha was taken to hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. Her younger brother has suffered minor injuries. Atul Srivastava, the superintendent of police of Bulandshahr, said: “We have registered a case against the two unidentified motorcycle-borne goons and will arrest them.” However, Uttar Pradesh police director-general H.C. Awasthi initially rejected the allegations of molestation and bike stunts. “Prima facie, it is a case of road accident. There is no information of stunts or molestation.” But after Sudiksha’s father criticised the comments, the media reported the incident and CCTV footage showed the Bullet-borne youths chasing the siblings’ bike, Awasthi said: “We are probing all angles.” When reporters had informed Jitendra about Awasthi’s initial comments, the bereaved father had said: “The DGP can say this because the victim is not his daughter. Two goons followed my son’s motorcycle on two Bullets for about 3km. They frequently overtook my children’s bike to harass and terrorise them. The DGP can say anything. The police didn’t register my complaint on Monday. They rushed to my house today (Tuesday) when the news was flashed on television channels. The case was registered 24 hours after I submitted my complaint (in Aurangabad).” Former chief minister and BSP chief Mayawati condemned the incident. “Sudiksha Bhati, a talented student…, lost her life because of the molesters. It is sad, shameful and most condemnable. How will our daughters move forward? The UP government must take legal action against the guilty persons.” After taking over as chief minister in 2017, Adityanath had formed “Anti-Romeo Squads” with cops as members to check harassment of women. However, squad members themselves were found involved in various crimes, including sexual harassment. The squad is currently defunct.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Cotton, jute advisory panels axed||After abolishing the advisory boards for handloom and handicrafts, the Union ministry of textiles has abolished the three remaining advisory panels for cotton, jute and powerlooms. The wording of the notifications dated between August 3 and 4, give the same reason: “In consonance with the Government of India vision of ‘Minimum Government and Maximum Governance’, a leaner government machinery and the need for systematic rationalization of government bodies.” The terms of the members of all these boards had expired more than three years ago. The term of the Cotton Advisory Board members were extended although ministry officials have not clarified if the terms of others were extended too. Only the advisory boards have been abolished. Textiles secretary Ravi Capoor did not respond to queries on whether any institutional platform would be offered for cultivators, manufacturers, traders and scientists to offer their advice for policies that affect the sector. Rajeev Jaiswal, a former jute mill owner and peasant leader from Bihar’s Katihar, was inducted into the Jute Advisory Board in 2016. He told this paper that he was unable to make any impact on policy. “The cost of cultivating jute is much higher than the price a farmer gets for it. Through the Jute Krishak Seva Swawlambi Samiti of Araria, we organised public hearings of jute cultivators with several district collectors in Bihar. In the board meetings too, I raised our demand for rate fixation. Low and uncertain prices is the biggest bane of jute. Earlier the cotton industry procured several of our products, but now they have stopped too.” In 2017, Jaiswal got a loan to save his ailing jute mill, which finally shut down in 2018 after it became unviable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Faesal ready to return to govt, Kannan stays firm||Shah Faesal, the IAS topper who left the civil services last year to join politics, had on Monday announced his decision to quit politics and is now willing to work with the government again. Unlike him, Kannan Gopinathan, the IAS officer from Kerala who had resigned last year against the abrogation of Article 370, is determined not to backtrack on his decision. “No, I will not do it…. Government has (already) filed an FIR against me for not rejoining duty,” Kannan told The Telegraph over phone. The former IAS officer from Kerala appeared surprised by Faesal’s willingness to rejoin but said he respected his decision. “There could be compelling reasons for an individual to take a decision. I cannot imagine what he must have gone through the last one year. To be honest, we let him down…. What was his crime for which he was put under house arrest or jailed?” Kannan said he was distraught by the Centre’s decision to scrap Article 370 and the clampdown that was imposed. “That was not expected in a democratic country. The rights of people were blatantly disregarded. I don’t agree with what is happening, you cannot shut down an entire state, that is not the country I would want India to be,” he said. In contrast,  Faesal told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “I’m not averse to working with the government knowing that public service is the best way to bring change.” “One unfortunate result of my resignation was that an act of dissent came to be seen as an act of betrayal. I was very hurt when people started calling me an anti-national.” Faesal suggested he was reconciled to the abrogation of Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||No Galwan inquiry, says Army||The army on Tuesday dismissed media reports that it had conducted a court of inquiry into the June 15 clash with Chinese troops in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. “No such inquiry has been conducted or ordered by the Indian Army,” it said. Earlier in the day, there were reports that “a formal Court of Inquiry (CoI) had been conducted by senior officers headed by 15 Corp Commander, Lt Gen. BS Raju, “into the standoff at Galwan, orders that preceded the incident and as well as actions taken by troops after they came under attack by the People’s Liberation Army while verifying the disengagement process”. Media reports also claimed that the report was submitted to the top brass of the army and action was now awaited. Reports also quoted sources to say that the inquiry was “necessary” to evaluate if standing operating orders need to be “modified” to prevent a repeat of the incident. Since the violent clash on June 15, Indian and Chinese armies have had several rounds of diplomatic and military talks for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from the multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh but the PLA continues to hold its newly claimed zones inside Indian territory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Poet whose words took a life of their own||Urdu poet Rahat Indori, whose powerful and lucid poetry filled halls, connected with the young and old alike and lent itself to protests against oppression such as that against the new citizenship regime, died after a heart attack at a hospital here on Tuesday while being treated for Covid-19. He was 70. The teacher-turned-poet had been admitted to hospital on Tuesday morning after he tested positive. He is survived by three sons and a daughter. Indori had tweeted on Tuesday morning: “After initial symptoms of Covid-19, my corona test was done yesterday which came out positive. Pray that I defeat this disease as soon as possible.” Indori’s career in poetry spanned 50 years, during which the Urdu scholar was one of the biggest mushaira (poetry symposium) draws in the country and someone who fearlessly called a spade a spade. Indori translated the mood of the nation in his poetry, which was emotive, direct and political. He famously wrote: “Sabhi ka khoon hai shaamil yahan ki mitti mein, kisi ke baap ka Hindustan thodi hai (Everyone’s blood is mingled in this earth. Hindustan is no one’s property).” When these lines written three decades ago were used on posters and banners during the anti-CAA protests last winter, Indori told The Indian Express: “I wrote this ghazal some 30-35 years ago, though I don’t remember the exact year or the context in which it was written…. Had even forgotten about it, but I don’t know what’s happened in the last three to four years that like a crop rises again, these words have risen again. “Now, wherever I go, people request me to recite this but it’s unfortunate that it’s often taken as a sher by a Muslim. Yeh kisi ek mazhab ka sher nahi hai (these lines are not for any particular religion). They are for everyone. I wrote this sher as an Urdu poet and as a citizen of India. This country is not the property of any particular individual, party or religion.... But I am happy that people are using it to raise their demands; that they are using it to add weight to their voice; that it’s being used as a call for peace in the country.” Indori had also written on the atmosphere of intolerance and cow vigilantism. He penned the lyrics of some Bollywood songs. Earlier this year, Indori’s poem “Bulati hai magar jane ka nahi” took a life of its own on social media and was immensely popular among youths. Lyricist-poet Gulzar said Indori’s death was an “unquantifiable loss”. On Tuesday, lines from another Indori poem circulated on social media: “Main mar jaaun to meri eik alag pehchaan likh dena, lahu se meri peshaani pe Hindustan likh dena (If I die, write a new identity for me. With blood, write Hindustan on my forehead).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||BJP puts off Jaipur meet||The BJP on Tuesday deferred a scheduled meeting of party MLAs in Jaipur to strategise for the Assembly session beginning on Friday and claimed it had no role in the political crisis in Rajasthan. The development followed the return of 19 rebel Congress MLAs led by deposed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot to the party fold a day earlier, dashing the hopes the BJP may have been harbouring of pulling down the Ashok Gehlot government. “The meeting (of MLAs) has now been deferred to Thursday. We are reworking our strategy,” the leader of the Opposition in the Rajasthan Assembly, Gulab Chand Kataria of the BJP, told reporters in Jaipur. Replying to queries on the Gehlot government’s crisis blowing over, Kataria denied any involvement of the BJP and slammed the Congress for the situation. “The BJP had no role to play. It was due to a clash between Gehlot and Sachin Pilot that the people of the state suffered,” he said. The Assembly session, which the Gehlot camp got ratified from the governor after days of experiencing one stumbling block after another, was seen as primarily aimed at creating an opportunity for the Congress government to prove its majority amid the rebellion by Pilot. Despite Kataria’s claim, the general perception was that the BJP, particularly its central leadership, had been actively working behind the scenes to stoke rebellion and destabilise the Gehlot government. The BJP’s efforts, according to insiders, failed because Pilot couldn’t get enough MLAs to reduce the Gehlot government to a minority. For the purported overthrow bid to succeed, at least 25 MLAs would have been required, while the Pilot camp could manage 19. Cracks were said to have appeared in the already numerically challenged Pilot camp. Many believe that the plan failed also because Rajasthan’s most powerful BJP leader, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje Scindia, refused to play ball with the central leadership. Vasundhara, who enjoys a good rapport with MLAs cutting across party lines, kept herself aloof and maintained near-total silence as other st-ate leaders of the BJP claimed that the days of the Gehlot government were numbered. A BJP ally, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP Hanuman Beniwal, had gone to the extent of accusing Vasundhara of trying to save the Gehlot government by asking MLAs not to side with Pilot. Internally, the reluctance of Vasundhara to play a role in jeopardising the Congress government has not gone down well with the top leadership but it is believed to be finding it hard to act, given her influence in the state. Some pointed out that the clouds over the Congress government lifted after Vasundhara travelled to Delhi to meet BJP chief J.P. Nadda on Friday. BJP sources claimed that during her meeting with Nadda, Vasundhara discussed the political situation in Rajasthan and clearly said the party would burn its fingers if it tried to bring down the Gehlot government as Pilot did not have the required support. Kataria on Tuesday said Vasundhara would participate in the meeting of BJP MLAs on Thursday, a day ahead of the Assembly session, appearing to suggest that she had not wavered from the party line. The BJP had shifted some two-dozen of its MLAs to neighbouring Gujarat in a bid to keep its flock intact in preparation for the Assembly session. The BJP sources said Vasundhara was not happy with that decision as many of the lawmakers were her loyalists. Despite the Congress appearing to have weathered the storm for now, many in the BJP insisted that the differences between Gehlot and Pilot would persist and fester for the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Pilot: I never left Congress, did not revolt||Sachin Pilot’s dramatic somersault to slip back into the Congress’s embrace, bringing to an abrupt end the feud that had shaken the government in Rajasthan, is a rare development in Indian politics. Defections and betrayal are common in politics but few have come back after going this far. After a rebellion that generated bitterness, legal wrangles and the grave charge of playing into the hands of the BJP, Pilot has returned to the Congress fold. Pilot explained his actions while refusing to concede there was any revolt in an interview with The Telegraph. Excerpts: Q: You are back in the Congress but are you happy with whatever happened over the last month? Pilot: I never left the Congress. We were very clear from the beginning that we are raising some genuine issues within the party. Nobody does this happily. We were constrained to do this. Q: Given the sordid drama that it triggered, do you think you could have raised these issues differently, ensuring that your actions did not acquire the form of a revolt? Pilot: It wasn’t a revolt. And if you insist it was, let me tell you we never planned it that way. It doesn’t give us any pleasure or comfort to recall whatever happened. What do you do when your own government sends you notices for sedition? How can anyone tolerate this? FIRs are lodged, MLAs are suspended, police are unleashed on us. The acrimony was increased so much at the very outset…. You do feel like fighting for your honour under these circumstances. We were only raising issues with the central leadership. We had come to Delhi because issues raised calmly in the past were not addressed. But we were mischievously branded as BJP agents. What do we do when somebody is hounding us? We fight back. Q: But what would the chief minister do if you destabilise his government, if there is evidence of deal-making with the BJP? Not only the chief minister, the Congress formally said several times that you were playing into the BJP’s hands. Pilot: There was never the question of leaving the Congress. I made it repeatedly clear that joining the BJP was out of question. What you are saying is precisely the reason for our anger, compelling us to fight back. But we never spoke a word against the party, against our leadership, even against the chief minister. The MLAs who came with me are not ordinary people; some of them have been the backbone of the party for decades, they went to jail fighting for Indira Gandhi. They were called BJP agents. But we did not utter a word against Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi or even (Rajasthan chief minister) Ashok Gehlot. Personal attacks were made on me. But I avoided responding to them. Q: There were allegations that you accepted the BJP’s hospitality in Haryana, the BJP’s support systems and protection. Pilot: Any allegation can be made. We never accepted the BJP’s hospitality. The MLAs were paying from their pocket. The BJP knew I had no intention of joining them. Q: In this ugly episode, which was primarily triggered by you, has your political career been disrupted? Have you hurt yourself by your miscalculation and misstep? Pilot: I am not in politics for a personal career. We had to raise some issues of principles and I did it because we had to deliver on the promises made to the people. All of us worked very hard for five years to bring the Congress back and we wanted that those who worked hard should be recognised, respected. They made certain promises to the people and they should be in a position to deliver after coming to power. It is never about posts and personal ambitions for me. It is only about principles and justice. Q: Will you return to the Rajasthan government or get a role in the high command structure? Pilot: We have put forward our grievances before the leadership. A three-member committee will examine them. We have been assured that all issues will be sorted out. We don’t want vendetta against those who raised their voice. The high command is very sensitive about this and has assured us this will not happen. As far as my role is concerned, I will serve the people in whatever capacity the party asks me to do that. Posts and positions are not the be all and end all of politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||PM prod to 5 states to ramp up Covid-19 testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked five states, including Bengal, to further ramp up testing for the new coronavirus disease as part of nationwide efforts at early identification of cases and containment to break chains of transmission and reduce Covid-19 mortality. Modi, in a videoconference with the chief ministers and representatives of 10 states that account for around 80 per cent of the country’s Covid-19 cases, also underlined a target to reduce mortality among Covid-19 patients to less than 1 per cent. The current mortality rate among lab-confirmed Covid-19 patients is 1.99 per cent. Modi said the average fatality rate in India was among the lowest in the world and had been continuously reducing. Union health ministry figures show that the case fatality rate has dropped from 3.36 per cent on June 18 to 2.77 per cent on July 10 to 1.99 on August 11. The 10 states — Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh — accounted for more than 513,000 (80 per cent) of the 639,929 Covid-19 patients under medical supervision on Tuesday. Modi said if the virus was defeated in these 10 states, the entire country would emerge victorious in the battle against Covid-19. The Prime Minister also said there was an urgent need for Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh to ramp up their testing for early detection of cases, containment, contact tracing and surveillance. Modi emphasised the need to trace and test all those who had come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours. “A view has emerged that if we defeat the coronavirus in 10 states, the nation will also win,” Modi said, according to tweets put out by his office. “There is urgent need to increase testing in states where the rate is low and the positivity rate is high,” the Prime Minister said. “It has emerged from the discussion that there is an urgent need to ramp up testing in Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana,” a release from the government said, quoting Modi. The positivity rates — or the proportions of persons found positive among those tested — in these states is “on the higher side”, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said while explaining their need for more testing. Public health experts view high positivity rates as the result of either large epidemics or restricted testing in which only those with the most obvious symptoms are tested. Under restricted testing, patients with mild symptoms are likely being missed and could continue to spread the infection. Health officials have said all states should perform at least 140 tests per day per million population, citing a threshold for comprehensive testing set by the World Health Organisation, and seek to achieve positivity rates of below 5 per cent. Bhushan said on Tuesday that all states had fulfilled the testing target but some states were yet to achieve the positivity rate goal of below 5 per cent. Bengal, for instance, has a test positivity rate of 8 per cent, while Gujarat has a positivity rate of 8.8 per cent. Modi also lauded the efforts of the states and talked about “Team India”. “Everyone has shown a great degree of cooperation and the team work displayed by Team India has been remarkable,” he said, stressing that the target now was to bring down the fatality rate to 1 per cent and saying it was achievable. Modi, according to the government release, referred to the success of Delhi in containing the virus and appreciated the role of Union home minister Amit Shah in preparing the roadmap for tackling the pandemic in the capital. “The main pillars of this strategy were segregation of containment zones and focus on screening.… The results of these steps are there for all to see,” Modi told the 10 chief ministers, according to the release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||ITBP jawan springs to poor farmer’s aid ||An Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan has come to the rescue of a cash-strapped Odisha farmer who was struggling to arrange money for paddy transplantation in his fields. Harekrushna Mahalik, who hails from Jhinkiria village in Bhadrak district, had become desperate as monsoon has already set in and any delay in paddy transplantation would have ruined his chances of having a good paddy harvest this time. While he found arranging money a challenge because of corona pandemic induced lockdowns he was also unable to find workers for the transplantation job as most feared contacting the virus. The labour charge demanded by the few who agreed was beyond the capacity of Mahalik whose only son has deserted him while all his four daughters are married and settled with their husbands and unable to come to support him. The only support Mahalik had was his 62-year-old wife who does odd jobs and earns anywhere between Rs 600 and Rs 800 per month. But that would hardly suffice for the transplantation work. It was under these circumstances that ITBP jawan Jyotirmaya Pandab from the neighbouring Arasa village came to Mahalik’s rescue. Mahalik said: “I can’t find work because of corona pandemic and my only son has deserted me. As the rains have set in I was at my wit’s end how to do the paddy transplantation work in my field. Labourers would have demanded around Rs 5,000 which I didn’t have. Then someone suggested that I approach Jyotirmaya who lives in the neighbouring village. I had heard stories about his generosity.” When Mahalik approached Jyotrimaya, who has earlier served on Indo-Chinese border in Arunachal Pradesh and Kashmir, he immediately agreed to help. “I agreed as I believe in slogan coined by our former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri — Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan. I went to his field with my club members last Wednesday and carried out the transplantation work. The same night I left for Delhi to join my duty,” said Jyotrimaya over the phone from Delhi. Jyotirmaya said Mahalik had ploughed his land and sown paddy seeds during May and the seeds had germinated and grown up to a level where immediately replantation of saplings was needed. “If we had not stepped it, all his saplings would have been destroyed and he would have had to forego this year’s crop,” said 37-year-old Jyotirmaya, who is currently serving as a Havildar in the ITBP. In fact, Jyotirmaya has become a household name in the area after taking to social service in a big way during the past five years. “When I come to my village on leave, I am disturbed by the plight of people. So I started helping them with medicines and even took them to hospitals. With the support of all, we started an organisation called Jivan Jyoti in 2016. With more than 300 members, it is now helping people in distress. In my absence, its members are continuing our social service drive,” said the jawan. He said, “But this time during my leave, I encountered a new kind of problem. People have no work and are locked up in their homes and whiling away time playing cards. Even people were not ready to come out to their fields for the fear of being infected by corona virus. “When I saw Mahalik’s helplessness, I thought of going to his field to carry out replantation work. We finished the job in a few hours.” Mahalik’s wife Sabitri said, “We are getting 20 kg rice per month and one kg of arhar dal from the government. But we need money to meet our other needs.  I manage to earn Rs 600 to Rs 800 by doing odd jobs but that is hardly enough. Sometimes, we manage with a single meal. Who would have given us Rs 5000 for paddy transplantation. The jawan Babu has came to our rescue. God blesses him.” Mukundpur Grampanchayat Sarpanch, Kirtan Chandra Rout heaped praise on the ITBP jawan. “He is not only doing social service he is a source of inspiration for others and because of him around 30 youths from our area have already joined different military and police organizations. He trains local youths in the village playground when he comes on leave. “Under his guidance, the local youths practice physical exercises throughout the year to maintain their physical fitness,” said sarpanch Rout. Havildar’s elder brother Khayamamaya Pandab said, “He has roped in people with military background for social work in our area. Even the physical training of local youths continues during his absence. He sometimes helps by making suggestions through WhatsApp.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-733
12-08-2020||India||Sanjay Dutt diagnosed with stage four lung cancer: Reports||Sanjay Dutt has been detected with stage four cancer, media reports said. The actor had been admitted to Mumbai's Lilavati hospital on August 8 after he complained of breathlessness. He was discharged on Monday. After Dutt was admitted to the hospital, he was tested for Covid-19. But hospital sources were quoted by media outlets as saying that he tested negative. It was reported later that fluid had accumulated in his chest. His cancer analysis came positive. On Tuesday, the actor said that he would be taking a "short break" from professional commitments to focus on medical treatment. He requested that there be no speculation regarding his health. Putting out a statement on Twitter, Dutt said with people's love and support, he would be "back soon". Many people took to the social media platform in support of the actor. Adhyayan Suman wrote:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-734
