13-08-2020||India||Father's plea to SC to confirm transfer of Sushant case to CBI||Sushant Singh Rajput's father on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to confirm the transfer his son's suicide case to the CBI and direct the Mumbai police to render all assistance to the central probe agency. Mumbai Police was "not investigating the matter properly", Krishna Kishore Singh alleged in his written submission to the apex court. The Bihar government and Rhea Chakraborty, against whom Krishna has filed an FIR in Patna for allegedly abetting Rajput's suicide, also filed their written submissions to the top court on the actress' plea seeking transfer of the FIR to Mumbai. Famous actor Raput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. In the submission, settled by senior lawyer Vikas Singh, Krishna referred to various judgements and said, it would be expedient in the interest of justice for this Court to confirm the reference to the CBI as justified and further direct Maharashtra Police at Mumbai to render all assistance to agency in the matter. He further said that he was certain that the Mumbai police was not investigating the matter properly and were continuing with inquest proceedings indefinitely, when clearly under S.174 CrPC the inquest report has to be prepared forthwith basically to determine the cause of the death and as to whether there were any suspicious circumstances surrounding the said cause or not... Bihar Police has the jurisdiction to probe his FIR, Krishna said, adding that the role of Mumbai Police was completely dubious as an inquest report should have been submitted forthwith, and even if it is to be assumed that the police was doing a preliminary inquiry in the matter, it cannot continue for more than seven days. He accused Mumbai Police of not investigating Sushant's prior messages or acknowledge the fact that he was in some kind of problem. "Mumbai police instead of investigating prior messages sent by the deceased's family on WhatsApp on February 19 and 25, 2020, has taken a stand that no written complaint was registered and thus no action whatsoever was taken in that regard by the Mumbai Police. Such inexplicable explanation is contrary to Section 154 (1) of CrPC which clearly states that any information (even if given orally) of cognizable offence ought to be considered for registration of FIR as held in", his submission said. Krishna alleged that Chakraborty was examined four days after the incident, giving her ample time to destruct the evidence and influence the witnesses. He also alleged that Rhea was hand in glove with an important witness, who even after registration of FIR shared e-mails with her. In its submission on Thursday, the Bihar government said that Mumbai Police neither registered an FIR on the actor's suicide nor did it extend any support to Patna Police for investigating the case on "account of political pressure". "It is apparent that it is on account of political pressure in the State of Maharashtra that neither the FIR has been registered by the Mumbai Police nor did they extend any cooperation to Bihar Police in discharging their obligation to conduct investigation expeditiously," said Bihar government, in its submissions filed through lawyer Keshav Mohan. Chakraborty however said that the transfer of investigation to the CBI at the behest of Bihar Police was without the state's jurisdiction in the case. The apex court had on August 11 reserved its order on Chakraborty's plea and asked the parties concerned to file their written submissions by Thursday. On August 11, the Bihar government told the Supreme Court that political clout has not allowed Mumbai Police to even register an FIR in the Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide case, even as the Maharashtra government maintained Bihar completely lacks jurisdiction in the matter. The FIR in Patna has been registered against Chakraborty and others for alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
13-08-2020||India||PM unveils faceless tax regime, promises fairness ||In a major overhaul of tax administration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday unveiled faceless tax assessment and appeals to reduce the scope for corruption and overreach by officials, and said a taxpayers' charter is being implemented to ensure a free, fair and transparent tax environment. Launching the 'Transparent Taxation - Honouring The Honest Platform' through video conferencing, he said the taxpayer base at just 1.5 crore in India is very low and urged those who owe taxes to come forward and honestly pay their dues and contribute to nation-building. The taxpayers' charter and faceless assessment are the next phases of direct tax reforms aimed at easing compliance and rewarding honest taxpayers as the government looks to rebuild the pandemic-hit economy. While, faceless assessment that does not require the taxpayer to visit any office or meet any official, and taxpayers' charter will be implemented from Thursday, the faceless appeal will come into force from September 25, he said. "The tax system may be turning faceless but it promises fairness and fearlessness for taxpayers," he said. Modi said, till now the tax office in the city of residence was handling the scrutiny, appeal, and notices of an individual taxpayer. Now, a central computer will pick up tax returns for scrutiny based on risk parameters and mismatches and then will allot them randomly to a team of officers in any city. The scrutiny by these officers will be reviewed by officers at another randomly selected location. Notices, if any, will be sent only by centralised computer system, and taxpayer can respond to them electronically without the requirement of visiting a tax office or meeting any official. This, he said, will end the era of "jaan pehchan" (acquaintance) to get scrutiny or notices settled. The Prime Minister said taxpayers' charter provides for fair, courteous, and reasonable treatment while treating taxpayers as honest. It expects taxpayers to be honest and compliant and pay taxes in time. While the number of people filing income tax returns has increased by about 2.5 crore in the past few years, actual taxpayers at just 1.5 crore out of a population of 130 crore "is very very less," he said. "Those who are capable must voluntarily come forward and pay their dues and contribute to the development of the nation," he said. Modi said, economic reforms in the past were done under compulsions or pressure which did not yield desired results. "For us reforms mean reforms based on policy, reforms that are holistic and not piecemeal and one reform forming the base for other," he said. "Reform is a continuous process." The tax system needed fundamental and structural reform because it was brought in when India was under colonial rule, he said. "Compliance becomes difficult where there is complexity," he said adding laws should be less in number and should make taxpayers happy. "We brought in 'Vivaad Se Viswas' scheme so that maximum cases get resolved outside court. As a result, in a short time, about 3 lakh cases were resolved," Modi said. Listing taxation reforms undertaken by his government since 2014, Modi said the Goods and Services Tax amalgamated dozens of taxes, thresholds fixed for pursuing tax matters in different courts and a dispute resolution scheme brought in to reduce litigation. Also, tax rate has been reduced. "There is no tax on income up to Rs 5 lakh (for individuals). Tax slabs for income higher than Rs 5 lakh have also been reduced. India is now among the nations with lowest corporate tax," he said. "Attempt has been that the tax system should be seamless, painless, and faceless," he said. While seamless means tax administration does not complicate, painless means simple rules and technology. Three main features of the platform unveiled on Thursday are faceless assessment, faceless appeal, and taxpayers' charter, he said adding the focus is on making the tax system "people-centric and public friendly." Four factors for changes in the taxation system are due to policy-driven governance, belief in people's honesty, the use of advanced technology, and efficiency in the bureaucracy, according to Modi. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the budget for 2020-21, had announced a 'taxpayers' charter' to empower citizens by ensuring time-bound services by the Income Tax department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
13-08-2020||India||Ram Janmabhoomi trust head tests positive||The head of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust in Ayodhya, who shared stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other VIPs during the groundbreaking ceremony for a Ram Temple last week, has tested positive for coronavirus. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was among the five people on the stage at the grand ceremony at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on August 5. The others on the stage were Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Governor Anandiben Patel and Mohan Bhagwat, chief of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP's ideological mentor. A statement from the chief minister's office said the CM had spoken to DM Mathura, Das' followers and Dr Trehan of Medanta Hospital. Adityanath requested for immediate medical attention towards Das' condition at Medanta, the statement said. It added that he has directed Mathura District Magistrate to provide all possible support and medical attention to the patient. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust was formed earlier in the year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced its formation on February 5. It was set up to oversee construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. Days before the ceremony, a priest, Pradeep Das, and 14 policemen on duty in the Ram Janambhoomi complex had also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
13-08-2020||India||Delhi rains: Heaviest spell of the monsoon season ||Delhi witnessed the heaviest spell of rains this monsoon season on Thursday, which inundated low-lying areas and threw traffic out of gear. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Ayanagar weather station recorded 99.2 mm rainfall, the maximum in the city, till 8.30 am. The Palam and Ridge weather stations gauged 93.6 mm and 84.6 mm precipitation respectively. Light rains will continue over the next two to three days, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 68 mm rainfall, according to the IMD. Rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. Vehicles moved bumper to bumper during the morning rush hours, as the downpour led to heavy waterlogging at key road stretches. The Delhi Traffic Police reported an incident of a tree being uprooted near the high court, which led to traffic snarls. The Raja Garden and Mayapuri flyovers also witnessed heavy waterlogging. The incessant rains damaged a drain near the Khaira village T-point on the Dhansa road, where metro construction work is going on, the traffic police said. The affected 200-metre stretch of the road has been closed for traffic. Over 40 locations in north Delhi got inundated due to the downpour, including areas in Mukherjee Nagar, Fateh Puri, Burari, Rohini, Narela and West Patel Nagar, according to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). NDMC mentioned that waterlogging took place at 41 locations. Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media platforms. The downpour is expected to bring down the rain deficiency in the national capital. Till Wednesday evening, the city had recorded 72 per cent less rainfall than normal in August so far, the lowest in 10 years, according to the IMD. The shortage reduced to 14 per cent by Thursday morning. Overall, Delhi has recorded 35 per cent less rains in the monsoon season so far. Srivastava said the city witnessed "continuous rains overnight" and more rainfall is expected during the day. "The axis of monsoon remains close to Delhi-NCR. Also, there is a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal also fed moisture," he said. Earlier, the IMD had predicted one or two spells of heavy rains between Tuesday and Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||India records highest single-day spike in Covid cases||With a record single-day increase of 66,999 cases, India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 23,96,637 on Thursday, while the number of patients who have recovered from the disease surged to 16,95,982, pushing the recovery rate to 70.77 per cent in the country, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 47,033 with 942 people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The case fatality rate in the country has declined to 1.96 per cent. There are 6,53,622 active Covid-19 cases in the country presently, which account for 27.27 per cent of its total caseload. India crossed the 20-lakh mark in terms of Covid-19 cases on August 7. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 2,68,45,688 samples were tested in the country till August 12, including 8,30,391 on Wednesday, the highest number of tests performed in a day. Of the 942 fresh deaths, 344 were reported from Maharashtra, 119 from Tamil Nadu, 112 from Karnataka, 93 from Andhra Pradesh, 54 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 39 from Punjab, 18 from Gujarat, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Delhi and 11 each from Telangana and Rajasthan. Nine fatalities were reported from Odisha, eight from Jammu and Kashmir, six each from Assam and Kerala, five each from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Puducherry, four from Uttarakhand, three each in Bihar, Goa and Haryana and one case was recorded in Tripura. Of the total 47,033 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of 18,650, followed by Tamil Nadu (5,278), Delhi (4,153), Karnataka (3,510), Gujarat (2,713), Andhra Pradesh (2,296), Uttar Pradesh (2,230), West Bengal (2,203) and Madhya Pradesh (1,048). So far, 822 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 675 in Punjab, 665 in Telangana, 503 in Haryana, 498 in Jammu and Kashmir, 416 in Bihar, 305 in Odisha, 197 in Jharkhand, 161 in Assam, 140 in Uttarakhand and 126 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 109 Covid-19 deaths, Puducherry 96, Goa 89, Tripura 44, Chandigarh 26, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 21, Himachal Pradesh 18, Manipur 12, Ladakh nine, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one. The ministry stressed that over 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that a state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's condition unchanged, in coma||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged and he is deeply comatose, the Army's Research and Referral hospital said on Thursday. Doctors attending to him said Mukherjee has stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilator support. The former president was admitted to the hospital on August 10 and was operated upon for removal of a clot in the brain. He also tested positive for Covid-19. "The condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning, He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilatory support," a statement from the hospital said. With rumours doing the rounds, his son and former MP Abhijit Mukherjee said, "My father Shri Pranab Mukherjee is still alive and haemodynamically stable." "Speculations and fake news being circulated by reputed Journalists on social media clearly reflects that media in India has become a factory of fake news," he said on Twitter. The former president's daughter Sharmistha Mukherjee tweeted, "Rumours about my father are false. Request, especially to the media, not to call me as I need to keep my phone free for any updates from the hospital."  Pranab Mukherjee was the President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Bangalore’s sons protect temple||More than 100 Muslim youths formed a human chain to protect a Hanuman temple as mobs went on the rampage in nearby areas of Bangalore on Tuesday night following an offensive social media post. A few kilometres from the temple, three people died when police fired to quell arson and vandalism. In the middle of the mayhem, the youths guarded the temple for over three hours till the police had brought the situation under control past midnight. Hanif, one of the youths who stood guard, later said: “We are sons of this city and it is our responsibility to stand up when it matters. At least my friends and I had not done anything like this before last night, but I promise to stand up for what is right.” A. Nadeem, who had stepped out with his friends to buy dinner from a small restaurant near the scene of violence at Kaval Byrasandra in the city’s east earlier in the evening, told The Telegraph that he and his friends started getting messages about the arson attacks around 9pm. “We noticed around 10 people standing outside the Hanuman temple with hands locked in a human chain. We got the message and joined them,” Nadeem said. “I had no idea that the mob had torched the house of our MLA (the Congress’s Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy), which is very close to the temple. But once I saw the messages about the violence circulating, I informed more friends who joined us in the human chain,” Nadeem said. Although there was no one inside the temple, Nadeem and his friends thought it would be unwise to leave it without any protection. “All that’s needed is one twisted brain and a stone. So we stayed put till past midnight when the riot cops came out in large numbers in the area,” he added. Hanif echoed him and said they wanted to ensure nobody touched the temple. “Anything like that would have worsened the situation. That apart, we wanted to send a message of peace to everyone,” Hanif said. None among the attackers, however, came near the temple. “Some of the boys with us kept saying we should stand there even if we were attacked. But fortunately, none of the protesters came after us,” Hanif said. Nadeem and Hanif said they were not trying to claim credit for what was a team effort. “Just because we are talking to you doesn’t mean we were the ones behind the human chain. It was a team effort and each of the more than 100 people who joined hands was responsible for the idea,” Nadeem said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Communal attack on journalists||Three journalists from The Caravan magazine were assaulted by a crowd on Tuesday while investigating signs of fresh communal tension since August 5 in northeast Delhi, which witnessed riots in February. “On the afternoon of 11 August, three journalists with The Caravan — Shahid Tantray, Prabhjit Singh and a woman journalist — faced a brutal attack while reporting in the nation’s capital,” the magazine said in a statement. “The incident began while the journalists were taking photographs of saffron flags that had been put up in the area…. Some men approached them and told them to stop. One of the men, who was wearing a saffron kurta and had a bandage on his arm, identified himself as a ‘BJP general secretary’. He asked Tantray for his identity card.” The statement added: “The mob launched their attack upon realising that Tantray was Muslim. During her attempt to get away from the attack, the woman journalist faced sexual harassment from a middle-aged man who exposed his genitals to her.” The woman journalist, who had got separated from her colleagues, has told police that a group of young men surrounded her and began “making cheap and lewd comments and started saying ‘Dikhao, dikhao (Show, show)’.” As she walked away, “a middle-aged man in a dhoti and a white T-shirt, with a bald head and a slim ponytail, stood in front of me. He then opened his dhoti and exposed his genitals while looking at me.” On her way to the police station, she was hit on the “head, arms, chest, hips” by another group. The magazine said: “She was finally able to escape with the help of a police official, who took her to Bhajanpura police station. Before the mob found the woman journalist, it had continued its attack on the other two journalists. Tantray was abused with communal slurs…, threatened with murder, and repeatedly slapped and kicked.” The magazine added: “When Singh tried to intervene, the mob kicked him as well…. Two police officials who were present at the scene were unable to prevent the mob from attacking the journalists. Ultimately, more police officials arrived at the scene and they were able to take the two journalists to the Bhajanpura police station.” All three escaped with minor bruises. The Caravan statement said no FIRs had yet been registered on the journalists’ complaints. It said the journalists “were in the area for follow-up reporting in connection to an earlier story by Singh and Tantray on local women’s allegations of assault and sexual harassment at the hands of the Delhi police”. The office of the deputy commissioner of police (northeast Delhi) had tweeted on Tuesday: “Today afternoon some journalists were taking photographs and interviews in the communally sensitive area to which local people objected. Police acted swiftly to pacify the situation. Complaints filed by both sides and being enquired into.” On Wednesday, the police issued a rejoinder denying The Caravan’s report on alleged sexual harassment of women at Bhajanpura police station on August 8. On the assault on their reporter, the police PRO, deputy commissioner Eish Singhal, said in the rejoinder: “They were taking pictures which led to heated exchange of words between media persons and local people. Police personnel acted swiftly and brought media persons to the police station. “Taking pictures without consent may provoke those present and create law and order problems including communal problems. Journalists of Caravan and a lady of the locality had given cross-complaints which are being enquired into and appropriate legal action will be taken on conclusion of the enquiry.” The Press Clubs of India (Delhi) and Chandigarh have spoken out against the attack. The PCI has invited author Arundhati Roy and activist Prashant Bhushan to speak on this at the club on Thursday. “If journalists continue to be attacked in this fashion, the eyes and ears of society will be silenced,” the PCI’s office-bearers said in a statement. “We demand the following: 1. The immediate registration of a proper FIR, which the police have so far refused, and 2) a judicial probe to establish the obstacles being placed in the path of journalists reporting the spread of the communal virus since February this year in a communally sensitive part of Delhi. Such a probe should be set up by the elected government of Delhi.” The Chandigarh Press Club, of which Singh is a senior member, demanded the “arrest of the goons who attacked the journalists”. Club secretary-general Saurabh Duggal said he would be writing to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Union home minister Amit Shah, who oversees the Delhi police. “Delhi authorities need to stop hesitating and launch a formal investigation into the attack on three journalists with The Caravan magazine, which occurred in broad daylight in India’s capital,” said Steven Butler, Committee to Protect Journalists -- Asia program coordinator, in Washington DC. “Police must ensure journalists are not targeted for their work, and should ensure that members of the press of all faiths can work freely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Biden picks Kamala; lotus pond guarded||Kamala Harris, an Indian-origin and African American senator, has been picked by Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic candidate for the US presidential elections later this year, to be his running mate. The choice represents the land of opportunity America has always promised to be before that goal began looking like a chimera under the Donald Trump White House. But Tuesday night’s development did not seem to sit easy with the Right wing in India, which did not display any of the effervescence that it reserves for those of Indian origin who do well elsewhere. While it was only natural that nobody in the Narendra Modi government would comment on something so internal to American politics, bhakt land too remained quiet against the backdrop of Harris’s inclusive politics and reputation for taking up civil rights issues. The lone exception was BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, who appreciated a report on her being picked by Biden with an introductory tweet that said: “First Indian and Asian woman to get the nomination as official VP candidate.” Madhav was promptly reminded by many that Harris identified herself more as “black” or African-American because of her Jamaican father. Harris has explained this in her political memoir, The Truths We Hold: An American Journey: “My mother understood very well that she was raising two black daughters. She knew that her adopted homeland would see Maya and me as black girls and she was determined to make sure we would grow into confident, proud black women.” Harris’s mother Shyamala Gopalan, a Tamil, was a breast-cancer scientist who had emigrated to the US to pursue a doctorate in nutrition and endocrinology at UC Berkeley. Those who commented across social media platforms after Harris’s name was announced seemed essentially to be urging the Indian diaspora in the US not to be taken in by the India part of her origin. They highlighted that she had been against India’s actions in Kashmir and the new citizenship regime -- though there is no record of her actually speaking out against the latter. On Kashmir, Harris, who had been a contender for the Democratic nomination for President before bowing out in support of Biden, is on record commenting not on the dilution of Article 370 but on the subsequent clampdown. “We have to remind the Kashmiris that they are not alone in the world. We are all watching. There is a need to intervene if the situation demands,” she had been quoted as saying by the US media in September last year. Harris was not the only Democratic contender for the presidential ticket to speak up for Kashmiris. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, too, had raised the issue during their race for the nomination. Later in December, Harris spoke up in support of Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, who has been critical of New Delhi’s Kashmir policy, after India insisted that she be dropped from a Congressional delegation that was to meet external affairs minister S. Jaishankar in Washington. Reacting to the decision of the US lawmakers not to yield to the Indian demand to exclude Jayapal, Harris had tweeted: “It’s wrong for any foreign government to tell Congress what members are allowed in meetings on Capitol Hill. I stand with @RepJayapal and I’m glad her colleagues in the House did too.” If the Right wing in the Indian diaspora was busy running Harris down, the liberals and those opposed to the Hinduvta advocates in the US came out in her support. In a congratulatory message, Hindus for Human Rights said: “As beneficiaries of America’s welcome to immigrants and minorities, like your family, we stand ready to work with you to help reclaim America after the sad chapter of the last four years.... “Our organisation’s members are Hindus of conscience who take a firm stand against Hindu nationalism, both in India and in the US — which is as dangerous to Indian democracy as white nationalism is to American democracy.... So it is our earnest hope... you will also be actively engaged in reclaiming the traditional US-India relations.… As you are aware, all of these core values have been under great threat in both the largest democracies, under the pressure of the Trump-Modi camaraderie.” The Global Indian Progressive Alliance (GIPA) too came out with a statement in support of Harris that said: “A loss of Biden-Harris will further empower Hindutva-laden saffron supremacists within the Indian American community, and we simply cannot afford that with the trend of a global shift to extreme Right-wing leaders.” Asked how Harris’s choice as running mate would affect the Indian vote, which has traditionally been Democratic, Manish Madan, GIPA founder and professor of criminal justice at Stockton University, said the Hindutva-led saffron supremacist lobby would pressure the Biden-Harris campaign to mellow down its positions on the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Register of Citizens and the human rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “It is important for people to recognise that Biden-Harris have spoken up for the values that India as a country has long stood for (secular and pluralistic values) and, importantly, echo many progressive Indian American voices,” Madan said. Biden’s agenda for Muslim Americans on his campaign website mentions both Kashmir and the CAA. “In Kashmir, the Indian government should take all necessary steps to restore rights for all the people of Kashmir. Restrictions on dissent, such as preventing peaceful protests or shutting or slowing down the Internet, weaken democracy,” it says. Further, it says that Biden has been disappointed by the measures the government of India has taken with the implementation of the NRC and its aftermath in Assam and the signing of the CAA into law. “These measures are inconsistent with the country’s long tradition of secularism and with sustaining a multi-ethnic and multi-religious democracy,” the agenda says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||India on Russia vaccine site list||Two Russian entities have named India among several sites for planned large-scale efficacy trials and mass production of a candidate coronavirus vaccine that has been approved by Russian regulators without the crucial final round of tests. But health officials in New Delhi have signalled that India is not ready yet for the trials and the mass production. The Gamaleya National Centre that developed the vaccine and Russia’s sovereign wealth fund have said on a website on the vaccine that they plan to conduct the large-scale “Phase 3” clinical trials in Brazil, India, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The Gamaleya centre and the Russia Direct Investment Fund have also said they plan to “start mass production” of the candidate vaccine in other countries, including India, Brazil, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, South Korea and Turkey. The plan is to ramp up production to 200 million doses by the end of 2020, including 30 million doses in Russia, they said. Russia’s approval of the candidate vaccine on Tuesday without the completion of efficacy trials has baffled researchers worldwide. They have stressed that vaccines should be approved only after rigorous clinical trials to assess safety and efficacy. Indian health officials and researchers on Wednesday said that the information available in the public domain about the Russian vaccine was not sufficient yet to build the confidence to proceed with large-scale trials in India. A senior scientist and member of a government expert panel tasked with formulating India’s strategies for developing Covid-19 vaccines told The Telegraph that he had no knowledge of a proposal for Phase 3 trials of the Russian vaccine in India. The panel, chaired by Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul and including representatives of the Union health ministry, the Indian Council of Medical Research and the states, met on Wednesday and advised the states “not to chart separate pathways of procurement” (of vaccines). A senior health official underlined that the Russian candidate had been approved even before the start of Phase 3 trials. The Gamaleya centre and Russian fund have said that the Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials that assess early safety and efficacy were completed on August 1, that is, 10 days before the Russian health ministry’s regulators approved the vaccine on August 11 for mass vaccination. They have said that Phase 3 clinical trials involving more than 2,000 people in Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Saudi Arabia and the UAE “will start on August 12”. A senior health official in India told this newspaper: “This vaccine has not even undergone Phase 3; this vaccine is not even mentioned in the World Health Organisation’s inventory of (candidate) vaccines against Covid-19.” A senior virologist said that Phase 3 studies were critical for safety and efficacy assessment, for Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials can only demonstrate early safety and the vaccine’s ability to produce an immune response. “Any protein injected into the body can produce an immune response. The key question is: does this antibody response protect the recipients from future infections?” said Sudanshu Vrati, executive director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana). “We need large-scale population studies to answer this question.” Phase 3 trials enrol two large groups of people. One group gets the candidate vaccine; the other does not. Such trials count the proportions of people who develop the infection among the vaccinated group and the non-vaccinated group. If significantly fewer vaccinated people develop the infection, the vaccine is said to be protective. “We should moderate our expectations -– we should not be too excited about a vaccine,” the health official said, stressing that even the WHO had iterated that the earliest a safe and effective vaccine could be available was early 2021. A WHO document on global Covid-19 vaccine efforts lists 28 candidates that have entered human clinical trials and 139 other vaccines under various phases of pre-clinical and laboratory development. India had in mid-July started early safety and efficacy trials of two home-grown candidate vaccines, and is about to start large-scale efficacy trials of a candidate developed by researchers at Oxford that has already undergone safety and efficacy trials in the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Army plans giving young Kashmiri militants choice to temporarily relocate to more peaceful parts of the country||India is considering offering young Kashmiri militants an escape from a life of violence by temporarily resettling them in more peaceful parts of the country, according to a top military commander in the Valley. Lieutenant Gen. B.S. Raju revealed the plan for a new scheme to offer a way out of militancy during a telephone interview from his headquarters in Srinagar. He said recommendations had been submitted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and that the plan, while not finalised, was in an advanced stage. “These are young boys who need to be taken care of for a period of time,” Raju said, adding that could involve temporarily settling them outside of Kashmir. Past efforts to persuade fighters to put down their guns have had mixed success. But Raju said the military had recommended the scheme to take a longer-term approach to rehabilitating ex-militants. “The bottom-line is that it will have a structure that will help and give confidence to the people who are opting to surrender,” Raju said. More than 50,000 people have died during more than three decades of insurgency. About 200,000 military and paramilitary troops are deployed in the Valley. Raju said militant attacks have dropped by nearly 40 per cent compared to last year. Last August, Modi changed the political landscape by taking away Jammu and Kashmir’s status as India’s only Muslim-majority state, splitting it into two Union Territories and removing the special privileges afforded to Kashmiris. Promising a concerted effort to develop the region economically, Modi said the move was needed to integrate Kashmir more fully with the rest of the country, but critics said it would further alienate Kashmiris. Since the start of the year, Indian security forces have killed around 135 militants, most of them recruited locally. The military estimates that there are currently around 180 militants operating with various groups active in the Valley, Raju said. Some 70 Kashmiris are reckoned to have been recruited by these groups since the start of the year, about a dozen less than during the same period a year ago. “We wish that this should drop further, and finally cease altogether,” Raju said. Currently most surrenders are conducted in line with a 2004 policy that provides a lump sum payout of Rs 150,000 ($2,000), a small monthly stipend, free vocational training and cash payments for weapons handed over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||From pit where ‘2 hungry dogs’ ate, a view of Kerala||When the starving Dalit schoolboy came to the local landlord’s house seeking food, a pit was dug at a corner of the courtyard in keeping with the practice of the times and rice gruel poured into a plantain leaf folded into it. By the time the boy began eating it, the upper caste landlord had released his hungry pet dog to share the gruel from the same pit. It was “a competition between two hungry dogs”, M. Kunhaman — the unfortunate schoolboy who has since turned into an eminent economist — writes in the partly autobiographical Ethir, released in June as an e-book. In the book, whose title roughly translates as “opposite” or “adversary”, the 70-year-old author has described the humiliation and misery suffered by Dalits in Kerala from a personal viewpoint. In doing so, he has held a mirror up to the state’s claims to a progressive legacy and questioned its Marxist rulers’ much-trumpeted land reforms, and the currently fashionable efforts to blend Marx with B.R. Ambedkar, whose ideas he sees as “poles apart”. “Kerala is always boasting that it has an egalitarian society with strong notions of social justice. But if a Dalit wishes to sit in the chief minister’s chair, he will have to be reborn as a bug,” Kunhaman writes. Kunhaman’s own life has been a long battle against discrimination, where every victory was followed by a fresh hurdle. When he overcame a series of obstacles to stand first in MA economics from Calicut University in 1974 — giving Kerala its first Dalit postgraduate topper since K.R. Narayanan, who rose to become President — it brought no happily-ever-after ending. “There was a felicitation (for Kunhaman) in Palakkad at which two senior Kerala ministers were chief guests. I reached the place borrowing money from a neighbour for the bus tickets. A gold medal was presented on the occasion but it was sold within three days to buy food and grocery items for the family,” he recalls in his book. This was followed by two wasted years chasing in vain after jobs — any kind of small-time government job. Even when he topped the written test for an economics lecturer’s post with Kerala University, he was denied on the pretext that the varsity had no “reserved post for Dalits”. A disappointed Kunhaman went off to earn a PhD at the Centre for Development Studies in Thiruvananthapuram, where the renowned economist K.N. Raj was his guide. Eventually, Kunhaman did partially conquer the Kerala University hurdle and taught there for several years before moving to the Tuljapur campus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Maharashtra, where he says he found discrimination less prevalent. Today, many consider Kunhaman’s in-depth studies of land distribution and agrarian relations across the country to be unmatched. Kunhaman was born at Vadanamkurissi village in Palakkad district to landless Dalit farm workers Chorona and Ayyan, who belonged to the Panan community, the lowest among Kerala’s Dalits. He describes his early years as an unending battle against poverty, fear and an inferiority complex that left its fingerprints in the form of a lifelong lack of self-confidence. As a child, he would have to douse his hunger by collecting leftover food from local households. The thatched hut in which his family lived had just one kerosene lamp, and his night reading would be disrupted whenever his mother took it away to the kitchen to make rice gruel. Kunhaman’s fight against caste bias began when he was a Class III student. When the class teacher claimed that Dalit children had enrolled only for the free noon meal of uppuma — a wheat porridge served at Kerala’s government schools long before the current midday meal programme came into being — Kunhaman protested and gave up the meals. He starved every noon for the rest of his school years. It was on one such afternoon, when he found the hunger unbearable, did he apply to the local landlord and had to compete for his lunch with a dog. His book eloquently discusses Marxism, Naxalism, liberalism, capitalism and caste and scrutinises the legacy of Kerala’s “renaissance” — kicked off by spiritual leader Narayana Guru’s socio-cultural reforms in the late 19th century. It also carries his reminiscences about the Marxist theoretician and former chief minister E.M.S. Namboodiripad, of whom he has much good to say. “Despite his Brahmanical background, E.M.S. Namboodiripad had the openness to consider Dalits his equals. He used to come to our huts and was comfortable sitting on the floor smeared with cow-dung paste,” the book says. “On numerous occasions, I attended meetings chaired by EMS and criticised him and Marxist political philosophy. EMS never showed any intolerance. He once told me that he liked criticism and was not God that he should fear criticism.” But Kunhaman also mentions his disappointments with latter-day Marxist leaders, who repeatedly spoke of appointing him vice-chancellor of Kerala University or member of the Kerala State Planning Board but never honoured the assurances. He believes the upper castes plotted to keep him out. The Kerala planning board has had no Dalits for a long time; Kerala University has had no Dalit VC ever. “Former chief minister V.S. Achuthanandan and Kerala’s finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on many occasions assured me positions in the state hierarchy to utilise my expertise for the betterment of the poor .... But nothing happened,” Kunhaman writes. He believes that the Indian Marxists bear something of Brahmanical exclusivity within them and can therefore not represent Dalit interests. Kunhaman is therefore critical of the demands by Leftists and Ambedkarites for a joint platform: “Finding common ground between Marx and Ambedkar is a sheer waste of time. They are poles apart.” He says: “What we require is large-scale Dalit participation and involvement in all areas of administration and governance.... There must be more Dalits with radical intelligence and good scholastic capabilities.” For Dalit empowerment, Kunhaman advocates more control by the community over money and resources. “Dalits have to focus more on amassing wealth and controlling it wisely,” he writes. “In my opinion, the economic liberalisation has benefited at least a segment among the Dalits. New capitalist Dalits have emerged. The formation of the Dalit Chamber of Commerce is part of such liberation.” Kunhaman believes that Kerala’s vaunted land reforms of 1970, enacted by a CPI government with Congress backing, have failed to benefit the Dalits and tribal communities. “The land reforms have created a new set of oppressors. The working class got no benefit. Only democratic discourse can help empower the weak,” he writes. Ethir, published by the Kottayam-based DC Books, has already become a publishing sensation in Kerala. The book is to be launched in physical form sometime soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Bihar parties divided on poll timing ||Bihar is the first state scheduled to go to polls since the coronavirus pandemic hit, but the ruling and Opposition parties are divided on whether elections should be held now. The state has reported over 90,000 Covid cases and 465 deaths. It is also reeling under floods that have affected over 75 lakh people. Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party Janata Dal United (JDU) has consistently stressed the need for holding the elections before the current Legislative Assembly’s tenure expires on November 29. Veteran politicians attribute the JDU’s stand to its fear of President’s rule if elections are not held on time. Power will move out of Nitish’s hands to the governor, and by proxy, to the Centre where ally BJP is at the helm. “Nobody can be trusted completely in politics. President’s rule will give an edge to the BJP. It will call the shots and control the administrative machinery in the state for the duration, and may emerge from the shadows of the JDU to become the senior partner in the alliance instead of its current status as a junior one,” a senior JDU leader, who has been with Nitish for around three decades, told The Telegraph on condition of anonymity. Asked why the party is insisting on holding polls on schedule amid the pandemic, JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi argued that if elections could be held in Sri Lanka, Singapore, South Korea, Rwanda, Belarus and parts of the US, why not Bihar. Asked if the JDU fears the possibility of President’s rule, Tyagi said: “Why should there be President’s rule? Neither is the law and order situation bad nor is there any emergency-like situation. If it is imposed in Bihar then there should be President’s rule in all the states in the country. We are facing natural calamities. Nothing can be done about them.” Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has been vociferous about its demand that the elections be deferred in view of the pandemic. It has appealed to the Election Commission to postpone the polls. “What if the elections turn out to be a super-spreader coronavirus event? We have written about this to the EC though holding elections is its prerogative. How will it protect so many officials and voters? How can we approach the households where people have become infected or have died? Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed his concerns about the Covid situation in Bihar,” RJD national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha said. Manoj skirted the issue of President’s rule, saying human lives were more important than holding elections. However, RJD sources said the party was not averse to President’s rule in the state for two reasons. It will weaken Nitish and also give RJD the time to regroup and strengthen itself if party chief Lalu Prasad is released on bail in November. Lalu’s presence would boost the morale of the Opposition in the state. He is currently serving time in Ranchi after being convicted by a CBI court in four out of six fodder scam cases relating to fraudulent withdrawals of over Rs 1,000 crore. He has been acquitted in one case, while another is still in the trial stage. “In October, Laluji will be completing half of the sentences in all the cases in which he has been convicted. There is a provision for bail in such a situation. We are waiting for the time and will file for bail,” RJD MLA and Lalu’s close confidant Bhola Yadav told The Telegraph. The Congress has also written to the Election Commission to defer the polls in the light of the pandemic and the floods. “This is not an appropriate time to hold elections in the state,” Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha said. The BJP appears nonchalant. “We respect the EC and will abide by whatever decision it takes,” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said. BJP sources said the party would sweep the polls with the JDU if they are on time and will enjoy the fruits of power if any postponement leads to President’s rule. The approach road to a Rs 509-crore bridge over the Gandak river collapsed under pressure from floodwaters in Bihar’s Gopalganj district before its inauguration by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday, prompting the Opposition to allege corruption and question the hasty launch of projects. The Bangra Ghat Mahasetu has an 11km approach road in Gopalganj district and 8km in Muzaffarpur district. Nitish inaugurated it via videoconference along with several other projects. “A 30-metre breach in the approach road happened around 7km away from the bridge on the Gopalganj side on July 26. It was a result of seven breaches in the Gandak embankment,” road construction department principal secretary Amrit Lal Meena told The Telegraph. Meena said the main bridge and all smaller bridges and culverts were safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-731
13-08-2020||India||Police open fire on arsonists, 3 die in Bangalore||Three youths were killed when police fired at violent protesters who had indulged in widespread arson here in reaction to an offensive social media post and had refused to back off despite requests from minority community leaders. After Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s nephew P. Naveen made the Facebook post, thousands of protesters hit the streets in an eastern neighbourhood of Bangalore late on Tuesday night and torched the lawmaker’s house, a police station and hundreds of vehicles. The MLA distanced himself from his nephew. “He is my sister’s son, but my family has nothing to do with them. We have not been in touch with him for 10 years,” Murthy told reporters. The violence in the DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits saw youths attacking the police with stones and sticks. The rioting left more than 60 policemen, including deputy commissioner Bhimashankar Guled, injured. Pleas for peace by the Congress’s minority leaders fell on deaf ears. While Naveen was arrested late in the night for the derogatory post, close to 150 protesters had been picked up by Wednesday evening as several teams of policemen were deployed to trace those involved. The trouble started when some 15 youngsters gathered outside Pulakeshinagar MLA Murthy’s residence at Kaval Byrasandra around 9pm on Tuesday, but there was no inkling of the violence that would break out a couple of hours later. As news spread that Naveen had not been arrested, more people hit the streets and joined the protesters outside Murthy’s house. By 11pm, there were a few hundred protesters chanting slogans and seeking Naveen’s arrest. Murthy later told reporters that none was in the house at the time of the protest. The protesters vandalised the house before setting it on fire. They then torched the MLA’s brother’s under-construction house in the next compound and did not leave until riot police arrived about 40 minutes later. Around the same time, two other groups targeted the police stations at DJ Halli and KG Halli in the area. More than 1,000 people gathered outside DJ Halli police station and hurled stones before entering the compound where they set ablaze around 200 motorbikes seized for various offences. The group also set fire to the basement where vehicles were parked. Three protesters died when the police opened fire to disperse the mob. By then, rumours had spread that Naveen was under safe custody at KG Halli police station, prompting another large group of protesters to head there and burn down police vehicles. Congress MLAs Rizwan Arshad and Zameer Ahmed rushed to the area, hoping to calm down the protesters. But the leaders had to beat a retreat as the protesters were in no mood to relent. R. Kaleemullah of Swaraj Abhiyan, who was with the two Congress MLAs, later told The Telegraph most of the protesters were in their teens. “Many of them were young boys aged between 14 and early twenties. When I tried to send them away from DJ Halli police station, a few of them told me, ‘we are not afraid of dying’,” said Kaleemullah. “It was very clear whether they were under the influence of alcohol or drugs. They didn’t look normal and were not ready to listen to anyone,” he added. The entire area remained shut on Wednesday as the police declared prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 in the KG Halli and DJ Halli police station limits. Charred vehicles, shards of glass from broken windows, stones and bricks lay strewn on the deserted roads. Murthy later met revenue minister R. Ashok to seek police protection for his family. “I need protection from the government after this incident,” the MLA told the minister in front of reporters. Murthy said that for the past 25 years he had been living with his Muslim brethren but never faced such a problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Two police officers ‘stand out’ on excellence medal list||A police officer accused of shielding BJP politicians in the Delhi riot probe and another leading the National Investigation Agency’s Bhima-Koregaon inquiry that has cracked down on rights activists are among 121 cops who received the Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation on Wednesday. Delhi deputy commissioner of police Rajesh Deo heads the special investigation team that has been accused of selectively targeting Muslim accused while probing the late-February communal violence that killed 53 people. Vikram Mukundra Khalate, NIA superintendent of police, leads the investigation into the Bhima-Koregaon case, which links a December 31, 2017, Ambedkarite event in Pune to an alleged Maoist plot to target the Prime Minister’s rallies. A fortnight ago, the NIA had arrested Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu M.T. in the case, where the accused include academics, lawyers, activists and litterateurs. Deo had also supervised the investigations into last winter’s violence at the Jamia Millia Islamia and Jawaharlal Nehru University. The probes have so far not nailed any of the policemen accused of thrashing Jamia students or the alleged ABVP-led goons who ran wild at JNU. In February this year, the Election Commission had passed strictures against Deo and barred him from Assembly poll duties for suggesting a link between the Aam Aadmi Party and a gunman who had fired in the air near Shaheen Bagh. Deo’s riot probe carries no reflection of the Delhi minority commission’s findings, which accuse Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and some other BJP politicians of “fanning communal sentiments” through incendiary speeches before the February violence. One of the panel’s key charges is that BJP politician Kapil Mishra, a former Delhi minister who had lost the February 8 Assembly polls, triggered the riots through a speech in Maujpur on February 23. The panel also found that the “violence followed an organised and systematic pattern” and was “selectively targeted towards the Muslim population”. It alleged the “police were complicit and abetted the attacks”. But the police probe says “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet indicating any role being played by” any prominent political leader in “instigating and/or participating in the riots”. Contacted, Deo declined comment on the minority panel’s fact-finding report. Asked why the police had not acted so far against the BJP politicians accused in the report of fanning communal sentiments before the February violence, he said: “I’m not aware of any such report.” Earlier this year, after Delhi youth Kapil Baisala had fired in the air near the anti-citizenship-act protest site in Shaheen Bagh, Deo had called a news conference to allege a link between him and the AAP. The Election Commission had then sent a notice to the police commissioner saying Deo’s statements “referring to a political party”, at a time investigations were “still going on”, could “adversely” affect the elections. Deo had said that images seized from Baisala’s phone had established that a year ago he and his father Gajendra Singh had joined the AAP. The claim was immediately lapped up by the BJP. Deo had also released to the media photos showing a man resembling Baisala with AAP leaders. Baisala’s father had denied that he or his son was involved with any political party. After the December 15 violence on the Jamia campus, leaked footage had shown uniformed police personnel mercilessly beating up youngsters in a reading room. In the chargesheet on the nearby street vandalism that had preceded the campus raid, however, the police claimed their objective in entering the campus had been to “safeguard the students” against outsiders who had barged in. The chargesheet also claimed that the students had suffered their injuries in a stampede and stone-throwing. No progress has been made in the probe into the mob attack at JNU, allegedly by ABVP-led goons. “The medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise such excellence in investigation by investigating officers,” the Union home ministry said in a statement. Among the recipients are 21 women. The awardees include 15 personnel from the CBI, 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, 8 from Uttar Pradesh, and 7 each from Kerala and Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Plea for Covid mess probe ||Six former bureaucrats have petitioned the Supreme Court seeking a judicial probe into the Centre’s alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis that they say has caused a massive loss of lives and jobs and compromised citizens’ fundamental rights. They have demanded a commission of inquiry headed by a former apex court judge, with its members including experts from the fields of public health, epidemiology, medical science, law and the social sciences. “The nationwide lockdown that was announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on 24.03.2020 with merely four hours’ notice was arbitrary, irrational and without due consultation with experts or state governments,” the petition, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, says. “In spite of being the harshest and most restrictive lockdown in the world, it has failed to arrest the spread of the disease.... India is now the fourth worst-affected country.” The petition argues that the government’s response to the pandemic and its “deleterious impact on the lives and livelihoods of citizens is a definite matter of public importance and warrants the appointment of a commission (of inquiry)”. The joint petition moved by K.P. Fabian, M.G. Devasahayam, Meena Gupta, Somasundar Burra, Amit Bhaduri and Madhu Bhaduri is to be heard on Friday by the bench of Justices L. Nageshwar Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat. It says the Centre’s handling of the pandemic has “led to a severe infraction of the fundamental rights of people” and seeks accountability from the government for these alleged lapses: The petition highlights these specific points: The government “failed to nip the problem in the bud by conducting effective screening and surveillance of international passengers coming into India as well as carrying out a public awareness campaign from January itself when India had very few cases of Covid-19”, the petition says. “Nearly six crore people between the ages of 20 and 39 lost their jobs in April itself and the livelihoods of 40 million migrant workers have been abruptly disrupted,” the petition says. “In the absence of adequate food and shelter provisions being provided by the respondent (government), these migrant workers have been left to fend for themselves, with many walking thousands of kilometres to return to their hometowns/villages.” The petition alleges that because of the lack of “advance planning or social security measures by the respondent, the lockdown has deprived these migrant workers, daily wage earners and other vulnerable people of their right to livelihood, which has been held to be a part of (the) right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution”. “Finally, the right to life of healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and other medical staff, has been compromised owing to the respondent’s inexplicable delay in scaling up the procurement of PPE,” the petition says. The petitioners have accused the Centre of ignoring the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority on February 4, which suggested that large gatherings be avoided. They have alleged that numerous large political gatherings took place after these guidelines were issued, including the government-sponsored event in Gujarat to welcome US President Donald Trump on February 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Consensus on gratuity time but not scope ||The government has agreed to reduce to one year the requirement of five years of continuous service to be eligible for gratuity but limited the scope to those employees with fixed-term contracts. Labour unions and the parliamentary standing committee on labour, however, have iterated the demand that the benefit be extended to all sections of employees, not only fixed-term workers whose employment ends with the lapse of the contract period and who are mostly low-ranked staff such as labourers, factory operators, helpers and drivers. An official in the labour ministry said the government was planning to insert a specific provision in the draft Industrial Relations Code to make it obligatory for employers to pay gratuity to those fixed-term employees who have completed a year of service. He said the government had informed the parliamentary standing committee on labour about the plan to reduce the ceiling. “As it is fixed-term employment, it is coming in a big way. We want the workers to get the gratuity also. So one year will be more appropriate,” the report of the committee on industrial code has quoted the labour secretary as saying. According to the Payment of Gratuity Act, gratuity is paid at the rate of 15 days’ wages for every year of service. Now, employees are eligible for gratuity only if they have worked for a minimum of five years continuously. The government’s decision has failed to satisfy the standing committee on labour and workers’ organisations. In its latest report on the Social Security Code, the standing committee headed by BJD parliamentarian Bhartruhari Mahtab has recommended extension of the benefit of the reduced ceiling to all types of employees. “The committee desires that the time limit of five years as provided for in the Code for payment of gratuity be reduced to continuous service of one year. Such provision be extended to all kinds of employees including contract labours, seasonal workers, piece rate workers and fixed-term employees and daily/monthly wage workers,” the report said. Mahtab told The Telegraph that social security has to be universal. Gratuity is a key component of social security and cannot be denied to sections of employees, he pointed out. “Our recommendations are for universalisation of social security. Gratuity is paid as part of full and comprehensive compensation to workers for the services rendered. Employments for a shorter duration are increasing. There is no logic for extending a relaxation in norms to only fixed-term employees and excluding the others,” the leader from Odisha said. The employment of contract workers is renewable. Workers in the unorganised sector, which makes up the vast majority of India’s workforce, have no contracts. All of them stand to lose out if the proposed relaxation is not extended to them. Shyam Sundar, a professor of human resource management at Xavier School of Management (XLRI), Jamshedpur, said the demand for a reduction of work tenure for gratuity was justified. “The practice of ‘gig’ (short-term and on-demand employment contracts) has been rising in the manufacturing and service sectors in India in recent years. Post-Covid, it will rise further, given the product market uncertainties. Also, gig might suit youths and female employees, which will increase their labour force participation. Therefore, the call for gratuity for employees with short tenures makes sense and is fair,” Sundar said. Mahtab, the MP, said the committee had recommended that if a company engages a worker on a fixed-term contract for more than two terms, it should be considered permanent appointment. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has also demanded that the reduced gratuity ceiling be applicable to all types of employees. “We want the employers to contribute a gratuity amount on a monthly basis. The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation should maintain a parallel gratuity account for all workers,” said Virjesh Upadhyay, the BMS general secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
13-08-2020||India||Pique tests Sachin Pilot rehabilitation  ||The political compromise struck with the Congress rebels hasn’t obliterated the bitterness generated over the past month, making it extremely difficult for the central leadership to immediately visualise any role for Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “It is too early to predict what will happen, but rehabilitating Pilot as deputy chief minister or the state (Congress) chief looks very difficult now. No commitment has been given to him and the return is unconditional. We are aware of the unease and reservations among Congress workers and MLAs and that will be factored in whenever the three-member committee (set up to resolve the Rajasthan impasse) decides the future course.” The 100 MLAs who remained loyal to the party are said to be angry at what they perceive as casual handling of the crisis by the high command, wondering how a compromise could be reached without talking to both sides. They have asked general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pandey, and chief minister Ashok Gehlot to arrange for a meeting with the high command as no decision can be taken without hearing their version of the unseemly developments. Although a report will be submitted to the central leadership on every aspect of the crisis, the MLAs have demanded a personal meeting with Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi as the Pilot-led rebellion that not only shook the government but gave the Congress a bad name in the midst of the pandemic cannot be taken lightly. Many MLAs expressed anger on Tuesday night in front of Gehlot who requested them to move on now that a reconciliation has been reached after Pilot returned to the party fold. Talking to the media on Wednesday morning, Gehlot said: “I have told them forgive and forget. In the larger interest of the party and the country, we should accept those who have come back and focus on serving the people. After all, the primary task is to protect democracy, which is in peril. It is natural for the MLAs to be upset. It is not easy to keep the flock together for such a long time. They all had to be kept in hotels. It is remarkable that they stayed united.” The MLAs were on Wednesday brought back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer but not allowed to go home. They are back in Hotel Fairmont under strict security despite the crisis blowing over, indicating that Gehlot is not taking any chances and the suspicions have not evaporated. Although the MLAs belonging to the Pilot camp too have reached Jaipur, they did not join their colleagues at Fairmont Hotel. Even Pilot stayed at home, meeting his supporters there, instead of calling on the chief minister. They are unlikely to meet before the legislature party meeting that may happen on Thursday or the day after. Although central leaders believe the situation will become normal in a few days and hesitation is not unusual after such a bitter crisis, Rajasthan leaders have not taken kindly to the statements and interviews given by Pilot after the reconciliation. A leader told this newspaper over phone from Jaipur: “The high command should have taken care to warn these people against making fresh attacks on the chief minister. Pilot has laid the entire blame on the chief minister, accusing him of ordering an investigation by the SOG (special operations group) of Rajasthan police, as if what was being probed is of no significance.” The SOG probe had been ordered into allegations of horse-trading, based on audio tapes of purported conversations between a Union minister from the BJP and a Congress rebel. A central leader of the Congress, too, felt that Pilot could have avoided his candid talk and allowed the tensions to subside. The situation is still simmering and nobody in Rajasthan, neither Gehlot nor central observers Avinash Pandey, Randeep Surjewala and Ajay Maken, have spoken to Pilot so far. Sources said how to break the ice was an issue yet to be decided. The Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, who has been talking to Pilot, will reach Jaipur on Wednesday night and decide the strategy in consultation with the leaders already in Rajasthan. Interestingly, however, the rebel MLAs other than Pilot who have returned have begun meeting and talking to Gehlot, reaffirming their faith in his leadership. Some of them have even expressed regret and promised not to repeat their actions in the future. Pilot’s lieutenant Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked as minister and suspended from the party, went to the extent of saying the “respect for Gehlot in our hearts is intact” and iterated that they never spoke a word against him or the central leadership. The BJP in Rajasthan will move a motion of no confidence in the state assembly against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said on Thursday, reports PTI from New Delhi. Vasundhara Raje and other top Rajasthan BJP leaders met earlier today to plan for the session. It was the first meeting of BJP MLAs since the Congress rebel crisis broke out early July, pushing the Ashok Gehlot government to the verge of collapse. After the meeting, Kataria told reporters that the motion of no confidence will be moved in the assembly session which is beginning from Friday. On the other hand, Congress on Thursday revoked the suspension of Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, two MLAs who had rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot government. They were suspended from the party's primary membership last month over their alleged involvement in a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-732
