14-08-2020||India||Bhushan guilty of contempt, Supreme Court explains why||The Supreme Court has come down heavily on activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, ruling that he had damaged “the dignity and authority of the institution” by two tweets and was therefore guilty of contempt. The court will announce its sentence on August 20. The bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, said one tweet referring to the Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on a Harley Davidson motorbike damaged the reputation of both the court and the chief justice. It added: “Fearless and impartial courts of justice are the bulwark of a healthy democracy and the confidence in them cannot be permitted to be impaired by malicious attacks.” Unusually, there was no indication about who had written the 108-page judgement delivered by the three-judge bench. The court also ripped into Bhushan’s second tweet which had criticised the role of the last four chief justices of India and accused them of weakening democracy by their actions. The tweet, the judges said, “give an impression, that the Supreme Court has a particular role in the destruction of democracy in the last six years and that the last four CJIs had a more particular role in the same.” Bhushan’s lawyer Dushyant Dave argued during the hearing that both tweets were made in good faith and with a view to upholding the reputation of the judiciary. Dave declined to comment on the judgement, saying: “I won’t speak on it now.” During the hearing, Dave had gone at length into the reasons why Bhushan was concerned about the court’s reputation such as sexual harassment charges against former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi and the manner in which the hearing on the charges against him had been carried out. Dave also argued that the comments about the judges had been in relation to their personal capacities and not against the court itself and therefore could not be treated as contempt of court. On this assertion, the court commented: “The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of Indian democracy. The tweet clearly tends to give an impression that the Supreme Court……has in the last six years played a vital role in destruction of the Indian democracy. There is no manner of doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of the judiciary.” On the tweet about Bobde on the motorcycle, the judges said: “The impression that the said part of the tweet attempts to give to a layman is, that the CJI is riding a 50 lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur without a mask or helmet, at a time when he has kept the SC in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice.” The court added: “In our considered view, the said tweet undermines the dignity and authority of the institution of the Supreme Court of India and the CJI and directly affronts the majesty of the law.” It added: “Making such (a) wild allegation, thereby giving an impression that the CJI is enjoying riding an expensive bike while he keeps the SC in lockdown mode and thereby denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice, is undoubtedly false, malicious and scandalous.” The court also argued that if Supreme Court judges were not protected from attack there might be “a possibility of the judges getting an impression that they may not stand protected from malicious attacks, when the Supreme Court has failed to protect itself from malicious insinuations, cannot be ruled out.” Turning down Dave’s request for magnanimity, the judges said: “Magnanimity cannot be stretched to such an extent, which may amount to weakness in dealing with a malicious, scurrilous, calculated 104 attack on the very foundation of the institution of the judiciary and thereby damaging the very foundation of the democracy.” After giving short shrift to the key arguments, the three judges, in their judgement, also shot down a plea that the correct procedure for taking up a contempt case had not been followed and that it had to be routed via the attorney general. The court rejected this argument outright, saying that the court had full powers to take up the case suo motu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
14-08-2020||India||Shah tests negative, to stay at home for a while||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus, on Friday said he has tested negative. Shah, 55, also said that on the advice of the doctors, he will be in home isolation for the next few days. "Today, my corona test report has come and it is negative. I thank God and also express my heartfelt gratitude to all those who wished for my recovery and gave strength to my family. I will be in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of doctors," he tweeted in Hindi. He also thanked the doctors and paramedical staff of Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon, where he was admitted, for giving him treatment and in helping him fight the coronavirus infection. On August 2, Shah himself said on Twitter that he had tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
14-08-2020||India||Over 4,000 invited for Red Fort I-Day event||Over 4,000 people including diplomats, officials and media personnel have been invited for the Independence Day ceremony at the Red Fort and it is being organised maintaining a balance between dignity of the event and factoring in Covid-19 protocols, the defence ministry said Friday. It said the seating arrangement has been made under the guiding principle of Do Gaz ki Doori (maintaining distance of two yards) between any two guests, adding that members of the guard of honour have been under quarantine. "With an eye on safety, NCC (National Cadet Corps) cadets have been invited to witness the event (instead of young school children) and they will be seated at Gyanpath," it noted. All invitees have been requested to wear masks, it said, adding that an adequate number of masks are being kept handy for distribution at various points of venue. "Similarly, availability of hand sanitizers at pre-defined locations has been done. Display boards are placed discreetly to attract the attention of invitees," the ministry said. In order to facilitate people's seamless movement and to avoid crowding, seating enclosures and walkways have been laid with wooden flooring and carpeting. Additional door frame metal detectors with adequately spaced markings have been provided to avoid queuing and to ensure smooth passage for all the invitees, it mentioned. "Most of the parking areas have been brick lined and paved in order to ensure smooth entry and exit of vehicles to the maximum feasible extent," it said. Thermal screening at all entry points for the invitees has been planned, it mentioned. It said a thorough sanitization of the premises inside and outside the Red Fort is being carried out on a regular basis. The ministry said the participation is only through invitation and those who do not have formal invites should "refrain from coming to the venue". "About 4000 plus invites have been issued to officials, diplomats, members of public, media etc," it added. Ceremonial drills, it said, have also factored in due social distancing norms as well as other precautionary measures. The ministry said, "Adequate medical booths along with Ambulances stationed at four locations, one near the Rampart, one in Madhavdas Park and two in 15 August Park, to cater to any attendee who is detected having any symptoms related to Covid-19 during entry." Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed 24 lakh on Friday after 64,553 more people tested positive and the recoveries rose to over 17 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
14-08-2020||India||Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot wins vote of confidence ||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot won the vote of confidence in the state Assembly after a month of political turmoil in the ruling goverment following the sudden rebellion by Sachin Pilot and his loyalist MLAs. Rajasthan Parliamentary Affair Minister Shanti Dhariwal on Friday moved a motion of confidence in Rajasthan Assembly. Replying to the debate on the motion, Dhariwal blamed the Centre for trying to "topple" the governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Goa, using money and power, but said a similar attempt in Rajasthan would not succeed. Referring to Akbar, he said the Mughal emperor had to taste defeat in Mewar of Rajasthan during his quest to expand his empire. Similarly, BJP's attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government were defeated, he added. BJP's plan to move a no confidence motion against the Ashok Gehlot-led government was nipped to the bud with the Congress deciding to use the confidence motion as a counter strategy. In a House of 200, the Congress party has 107 MLAs and the support of Independents and allies. The BJP has 72 members. Sachin Pilot's seating in the Assembly caused much speculation and jeers among the opposition on Friday. Pilot was seen seated far across from the CM Ashok Gehlot, right next to the opposition benches. When asked about it, the former deputy CM quipped, ""When I came to the house and found that my seat had been changed, I was wondering why. When I sat there (pointing to the government benches), I was safe. Now I am next to the opposition. Then I realized I have been sent to the sarhad (border). That is because only the bravest and most powerful warrior is sent to the border".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
14-08-2020||India||Bangalore riots: 60 more arrested||Bangalore police have arrested 60 more persons in connection with Tuesday night riots in parts of the city, official sources said on Friday. "Continuing arrests in D J Halli and K G Halli case, another 60 accused arrested, including Kaleem Pasha. Total number of arrests is now 206," official sources said. Kaleem Pasha, husband of BBMP Nagavara Corporator Irshaad Begum, and is said to have instigated the rioters, they said. The BJP took a dig at the opposition Congress following the arrest. "Kalim Pasha, husband of @INCKarnataka corporator arrested. 4 senior functionaries of SDPI arrested. Still State Cong leaders trying to shift blame. Not condemning riots. Eyes only on upcoming BBMP elections. #CongressAgainstDalits (sic)," BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh tweeted. The role of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) behind the mob violence in parts of Bangalore has come to light and investigation will go deep into it and their connections, Home Minister Basavaraj Bomai had said on Thursday. Three persons were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshi Nagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLAs residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by rioters, who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister. Meanwhile, officials said, most of the arrested who are at Parappana Agrahara Central prisons are being sent to Ballari central jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
14-08-2020||India||Bhushan guilty of contempt: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday held activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said it would hear on August 20 the arguments on quantum of sentence to be awarded to Bhushan in the matter. A contemnor can be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. The apex court had on August 5 reserved its verdict in the matter after Bhushan had defended his tweets, saying they were against the judges regarding their conduct in their personal capacity and they did not obstruct administration of justice. On July 22, the top court had issued a show cause notice to Bhushan after initiating the criminal contempt against him after taking note of a petition. While referring to the tweets by Bhushan, the apex court had earlier said these statements are prima facie capable of "undermining the dignity and authority" of the institution of the Supreme Court in general and the office of Chief Justice of India in particular, in the eyes of the public at large. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Bhushan in the matter, had said the two tweets were not against the institution. Bhushan has made immense contribution to the development of jurisprudence and there are at least 50 judgments to his credit , Dave had said, adding that the court has appreciated his contributions in cases like 2G scam, coal block allocation and in mining matters. Referring to the ADM Jabalpur case on suspension of fundamental rights during the Emergency, the senior advocate had said that even extremely uncharitable remarks against the judges were made and no contempt proceedings were made out. In a 142-page reply affidavit filed in the matter, Bhushan had stood by his two tweets and had said the expression of opinion, however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable to some , cannot constitute contempt of court. Bhushan, in the affidavit, has referred to several apex court judgements, speeches of former and serving judges on contempt of court and the stifling of dissent in a democracy and his views on judicial actions in some cases. Preventing citizens from demanding accountability and reforms and advocating for the same by generating public opinion is not a ''reasonable restriction'', the affidavit had said, adding that the Article 129 cannot be pressed into service to stifle bonafide criticism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Terrorists open fire at a police convoy in Srinagar, 2 killed||A convoy of Jammu and Kashmir policemen was attacked by terrorists on the outskirts of Srinagar this morning resulting in the death of two, police said. The incident took place at Nowgam, on the outskirts of Srinagar city. Three police personnel were injured in the attack, two of whom died during treatment at the hospital, police said. "Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon police party near Nowgam Bypass. 3 police personnel injured. They were shifted to hospital for treatment where two among them attained martyrdom. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow," tweeted the Kashmir Zone police. The attack comes despite security being on high alert in the wake of Independence Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Lab plan for returned students ||The government is considering the possibility of allowing students pursuing research in foreign universities who have had to return to India during the pandemic to use laboratories in institutions funded by the Centre for the time being. The education ministry discussed the subject at a meeting with the heads of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) two weeks ago. A “Stay in India and Study in India Committee” set up to suggest measures to tide the education sector over its pandemic-induced problems is looking into the proposal on the research scholars. “The committee is examining a proposal to allow research scholars enrolled in foreign universities in the US, Europe and elsewhere to do their work at the labs of centrally funded institutions in India,” AICTE chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe, a member of the committee, told The Telegraph. Sahasrabudhe added: “They are unable to go back (to their universities abroad) due to the Covid-19 outbreak. They should be able to avail themselves of the facilities (here) till they go back.” All educational institutions are closed at least till August 31. Sudhir Kumar Sopory, former vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said the research scholars’ foreign supervisors have to first agree to such an arrangement. “This is possible. But the supervisors of the students in the foreign universities should have trust in the research work their understudies would be doing in Indian institutions. It can be done through collaboration,” Sopory said. He said several labs in India were of international standards and offered facilities similar to those in foreign institutions. Sachin Maheswari, dean of Delhi University’s faculty of technology, and Rajani Ranjan Singh, faculty member at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University in Lucknow, doubted whether such an arrangement would work. “This will be feasible to a limited extent. It will depend on the scope to accommodate (the research scholars from foreign universities) and the willingness of the lab-in-charge to share equipment (with them),” Maheswari said. Singh underlined that research scholars have to make a security deposit to ensure there is no mishandling of equipment, and that the materials required for research are expensive. Singh said professors in India would also have to agree to guide these research scholars from foreign universities for a limited period. Sahasrabudhe, the AICTE chairman, said the modalities were being worked out. The Stay in India and Study in India Committee is to also suggest measures to address the needs of students aspiring to go abroad. Nearly six lakh Indian students are pursuing higher studies abroad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Key plea challenging constitutional validity of contempt provision withdrawn||Veteran journalists Arun Shourie and N. Ram and lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Thursday withdrew their Supreme Court petition that had challenged the constitutional validity of the provision that criminalises contempt for “scandalising” the court. The bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, who is scheduled to retire in the first week of September, allowed the withdrawal plea but made it clear the petitioners should not return to the Supreme Court with the petition after some time. They have the liberty to approach an “appropriate forum”, the court said. The bench is already hearing two contempt cases against Bhushan and is scheduled to pronounce on Friday the judgment in one of the cases that deals with two tweets by the lawyer. The plea filed by Shourie, Ram and Bhushan was originally listed before another bench, of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and K.M. Joseph. The petition was later listed before the bench headed by Justice Mishra as the two contempt cases against Bhushan were already pending before it. The bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari was to hear the petition of Shourie and the two others on Thursday. Senior counsel Rajeev Dhavan, representing the petitioners, said he was withdrawing the petition since the bench already had a lot of other matters to deal with. Dhavan initially sought permission to withdraw the petition with the liberty “to file it at a later stage”. Citing the other cases before the bench, he said: “I do not want this matter to get entangled with the others or vice versa.” Justice Mishra said: “We are allowing withdrawal but not permitting you to file the matter before us again.” Dhavan said the petitioner would approach Delhi High Court at a later stage. Dhavan cited the letter that the advocate-on-record for the petitioners, Kamini Jaiswal, had sent to the apex court registrar on Wednesday seeking permission to withdraw the petition. “I have been instructed by the petitioners to request for withdrawal of the instant writ petition with liberty to file the same or similar petition in future before an appropriate forum. Therefore, I would be requesting the hon’ble court to allow the petitioners to withdraw the above writ petition with the aforesaid liberty,” the letter said. The petition had sought the quashing of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, as violative of Articles 19 (freedom of speech) and 14 (equality) of the Constitution. The section defines what constitutes criminal contempt and lays down what “scandalises or tends to scandalise, or lowers or tends to lower” the authority of a court. The section invites a maximum punishment of six months in jail. There is another form of contempt — civil — which deals with wilful disobedience to any judgment, decree, direction, order, writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Record tests and spike; fall in fatality rate||India on Thursday recorded 66,999 new patients with the coronavirus disease, a new single-day high, after testing a record 830,391 samples the previous day and a further fall in case fatality rate to 1.96 per cent. However, the number of Covid-19 patients under active medical supervision at home or in hospitals increased by 9,674 from 643,498 on Wednesday to 653,622 on Thursday, with the highest single-day recoveries at 56,383. The Union health ministry said the case fatality rate — the proportion of mortality among laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 patients — had “further regressed” to 1.96 per cent from 1.99 per cent earlier this week, a steady decline from 3.3 per cent in mid-June. The new cases have raised the total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections to 2,396,637, of whom 1,695,982 patients have recovered and 47,033 have died, including 942 deaths over the past 24 hours. Public health specialists say India’s epidemic appears to be progressing exactly as had been expected, displaying steady growth as the virus continues to spread among the vast majority of the population still susceptible to the infection. “Neither record high new cases nor record high recoveries should surprise anyone,” said Oommen John, a public health expert at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “This is a very infectious virus, but the vast majority of infected patients either remain asymptomatic or show mild symptoms.” The health ministry said the week-wise average daily samples tested had increased sharply over the past month from around 230,000 samples in early July to more than 630,000 samples in the week ended August 11. Health officials have pointed out that such a dramatic rise in the number of daily samples tested has been possible through the rapid expansion of testing capacity — from only one lab in January to over 1,400 now. The health ministry also said on Thursday that it had delivered over 30 million N95 masks, 12.8 million personal protection equipment kits and 22,533 “made-in-India” ventilators to states and Union Territories and central institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Barn fuels gunfight queries||A largely intact barn stands in a secluded spot surrounded by an ocean of apple orchards in this village, asking silent questions about the army’s claim of a “gunfight” at the site in which it killed three young men last month. The army says the trio were unidentified militants who had fired at its soldiers from inside the barn. But a few families in Rajouri, Jammu division, say the slain youths were three missing cousins who had travelled to Kashmir to work as labourers but were killed in a staged encounter. A police team led by a deputy superintendent left for Rajouri on Thursday to collect DNA samples from members of these families so they can be matched with the samples taken from the slain youths. Mohammad Yosef, the distraught father of the “missing” Ibrar Ahmad, 25, said he and his son were the only males in the family who lacked an army background. He wondered how the army could kill a man from a family full of serving and retired soldiers. “Seven people from my family are soldiers or former soldiers. My brother, Hawaldar Bashir Ahmad, is a Kargil war veteran. Another of my brothers is a retired honorary captain. Five other relatives are in the army,” Yosef told The Telegraph over the phone. “I challenge the army to prove they (the slain youths) were militants. I have faith in the government and hope the guilty will be punished.” Yosef said his son, father of a two-year-old boy, used to work as a labourer in Kuwait but could not go back to the Gulf because of the pandemic. The alleged gunfight took place in the early hours of July 18 at the barn, built recently by Jamnagri resident Mohammad Yousuf Bhat to store his apples. Two days earlier, two men from Rajouri — Ibrar Ahmad, 17, and his brother-in-law and namesake, 25 — had left for Chowgam in Shopian to work as labourers. One of their relatives, Imtiyaz, 22, was already working as an apple-orchard labourer in Chowgam, 8km from Jamnagri, and they meant to join him. The families last spoke with them on July 17 evening. By the next day, the phones had stopped ringing. Questions over the army’s version had surfaced soon after the “encounter” but no one came forward to claim the bodies for three weeks. The families of the “missing” men from Rajouri, living across the Pir Panjal mountains around 130km away, were continuing their search. It was on August 10 that the families stumbled upon social media pictures of the three “dead militants” and confirmed they were their missing children. The barn bears hardly any signs of a gunfight. It’s not only almost intact but has only a handful of bullet marks. In most encounters — routine in the Valley — the houses where militants take shelter are riddled with bullets before being blown apart by shells and explosives. Local people said the roof of the barn had been stacked with hay and caught fire. They said they saw soldiers removing tin sheets from the roof in the morning. The barn stands deep inside the orchards, with the closest habitation being Seer Mohalla, home to 25 Gujjar families some 200 metres away. Mohammad Ashraf, an orchardist and a member of one of these families, said he had heard gunshots at 2.30am on July 18. “For the next few hours, there was no firing. Around 6 in the morning, more firing followed. Around 7am, the army knocked on our doors and asked us to accompany them and confirm whether the slain youths were local militants,” Ashraf said. “We saw three bodies lying on the ground. We told them that we didn’t know them. We had suspicions (about the army account) as they (the dead youths) were wearing ordinary clothes and looked like labourers.” Ashraf said he was surprised not to find any cordon around the village. During all encounters, the security forces seal the area off to prevent the militants escaping. “None of us had seen any soldiers in our village while the gunfire was going on,” Ashraf said. Police sources said they had misgivings about the encounter and arrived at the site in the morning to find the media already assembled several hundred metres from the spot. Normally, the army, police and the paramilitary forces carry out anti-militant operations together. A police handout on July 18 said the operation had been carried out by 62 Rashtriya Rifles, with the police and the CRPF joining later. Farida Banu, a landlady in Chowgam, confirmed that the three “missing” men had rented an accommodation from her on July 17 afternoon for Rs 1,600 a month. Farida said the three had bought the essentials to run the kitchen. She said she did not find them at their lodgings the next morning. “The door was closed from the inside but nobody answered our knocks. We peeped through the window, which was open, and found nobody inside,” she said. Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said the police were investigating the families’ claims. He said they were also checking the call details of the three “missing” youths, from the phone numbers provided by the families, to ascertain whether they were in touch with militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Debate over toxic debates||The death of Congress spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi on Wednesday has triggered a discussion in the party on the perils of participating in TV news channel debates that it feels are designed to divert attention from matters of grave concern and camouflage the Narendra Modi government’s failures. Tyagi, 52, is said to have felt extreme unease during a debate on Wednesday afternoon on the Bangalore violence and fell unconscious soon after. He passed away within half an hour after suffering a cardiac arrest. The Congress has launched an online campaign against the perceived agenda and conduct of a section of TV channels and BJP spokespersons. The Congress had for a while stopped sending representatives to TV debates, and Rahul Gandhi has begun addressing the public directly through social media because of the blatant bias of the news channels. During Wednesday’s debate, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had repeatedly called Tyagi “Jaichand”, a medieval king whose name is synonymous with the word “traitor”, and said that applying a tilak on the forehead did not make one a Hindu. For several hours the hashtag “Arrest Sambit Patra” trended on Twitter after Tyagi’s death. Although it is far-fetched to hold Patra or the anchor of the programme responsible for the tragedy, the Congress believes this should trigger a discussion on the quality and intent of talk shows telecast daily on most news channels. Veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel initiated the discourse with a blunt tweet: “It is high time TV channel owners, editors and anchors introspect on how some in the industry have reduced news debates to a meaningless, poisonous and potentially fatal activity. At times words can have the same impact as bullets.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Till when (will) toxic debates and poisonous spokespersons continue to kill the language of restraint and dignity? Till when (will) this business of TRP be sustained by such debates? Till when (will) the poison to divide Hindus and Muslims consume the soul of this nation?” The party also posted several messages on its website, including one that said: “What a truly nationalist media should have normalised: Holding the government accountable. What did they normalise: Hate, lynchings, name-calling, personal attacks, sensationalism.” Many Congress spokespersons posted videos to bring on record the discriminatory attitude of some television anchors who make no effort to hide their intent of helping the Narendra Modi government. Gourav Vallabh, a Congress spokesperson, said: “I can understand what pressure Tyagi felt during the debate. Our patience and grit are tested daily. To begin with, the title of the debates is chosen mischievously to send out a divisive message, to create animosity in society. The title declares the BJP victorious even before the debate.” Vallabh added: “The panel is carefully chosen — one BJP spokesperson, one RSS man, one expert with BJP links and one Congress spokesperson. When the debate starts, only the Congress spokesperson is questioned while the BJP spokespersons are protected by the anchors. We are abused and insulted, vulgar language is used against top leaders, baseless allegations are made. We hardly get time to respond; when we speak, we are either muted or the volume is reduced. Tricks like taking a break or technical disruption are also deployed.” Alleging that the topics of the debates are chosen also to fit into the larger agenda, Vallabh asked: “Have you heard any debate on the attempts to dilute environmental laws or the new education policy in the past 15 days?” Another Congress spokesperson, Supriya Shrinate, said: “We cannot avoid discussing the nature of debates on TV channels anymore. The poison spread in the public sphere has to end. Most TV debates are abuses, personal attacks, meaningless talk and character assassination. The greatest responsibility lies on the anchors and editors to ensure vulgar language and irrelevant talk are avoided and discussions become meaningful and decent.” Party spokesperson Akhilesh Pratap Singh said: “TV studios have become dens of churning poison. Anchors habitually spit poison and execute the BJP’s agenda instead of giving news. Creating disaffection among communities is their main purpose. Media owners should introspect and kick out anchors doing this on a regular basis.” Senior spokesperson Mohan Prakash weighed in: “I have seen two-three generations of BJP spokespersons and TV anchors but never experienced such toxic debates and vulgar language. In my view, the standard has been lowered because of the influence of the top leadership, the hostile language spoken by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah on political rivals. It is not that these spokespersons do not have an adequate vocabulary. The abusive and threatening tenor is by choice.” Former information and broadcasting minister Manish Tewari, also a Congress spokesperson for long, said: “Acerbic and obnoxious questions are thrown at the Congress by anchors and fellow panelists. What is happening is not structured discussion but looks like WWF (the American wrestling show now called WWE). Rajiv’s death should be a trigger for revisiting the debate formats on TV. For how long will the public space be vitiated for TRPs? I request the I&B ministry to cancel the licences of channels that violate the licensing code and regulation acts.” Asked for the reasons behind the Congress’s aggressive campaign, party media secretary Pranav Jha explained: “TV debates over the last seven-eight years or so have become unabashedly coloured, biased. Their aim appears to not inform but damn individuals, the Opposition, and polarise people by deliberately rousing baser, negative emotions. Is the vulgar tamasha done to enhance TRP or to further the BJP’s divisive agenda? Are the vicious debates organised on the instructions of the powers that be? I have seen our spokespersons angry and frustrated so many times because of the naked bias of the anchors.” Jha added: “Have we, as the audience, become so frivolous and mean as to tolerate this toxicity? It’s time that the people take the lead and boycott such TV shows! Look at the orchestrated plan — all the TV channels were discussing the Bangalore violence yesterday and asking ‘why are the Gandhis silent’? Doesn’t it clearly indicate the sinister agenda and how TV channels have become the ruling party’s mouthpiece?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Cloud on online NEET, foreign centres ||The National Testing Agency, which conducts NEET for undergraduate medical courses, on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it would not be possible to allocate overseas centres or hold online exams for students based abroad in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This implies that aspirants will have to take the exam, scheduled on September 13, in the offline mode unless the apex court decides otherwise. On July 29, the Supreme Court had issued a notice to the NTA, the Centre and the Medical Council of India on a plea by around 4,000 students from Singapore, the Gulf and West Asian countries seeking the allocation of overseas centres for the NEET medical undergraduate exam or its postponement until the Covid-19 crisis blows over. In its affidavit, the NTA submitted that upon receiving representations from a large number of foreign students for setting up overseas centres, it had sought the views of the MCI. However, it said the MCI, in a letter dated May 21, had clarified “that as the examination is conducted through Multiple Choice Questions in paper book format given to all candidates and, uniformity has to be maintained for all candidates, therefore, NEET (UG) examination should not be conducted in online mode by respondent no. 2 (NTA) for candidates abroad”. Citing its earlier stand in Kerala High Court, the NTA submitted that “the manner as to how examinations have to be conducted is a policy decision and, is, purely within the domain of the examining body, viz. MCI and whether centres for conducting such examination should be provided in foreign countries is in the province of MCI to decide”. “MCI has taken its decision and, there is nothing on record which shows that the said decision of MCI is arbitrary or illegal particularly in the light of the fact that NEET (UG) is a uniform entrance examination and, to maintain uniformity for all candidates, it has to be conducted at the same time, on the same day, throughout India. It was for this reason that the said examination cannot be conducted in online mode.” On why the exam cannot be conducted abroad, the NTA said: “NEET (UG) has to be conducted in single shift at the same time, on the same day to maintain uniformity and, further, the question papers and other exam materials are to be transported from NTA headquarters to a large number of examination centres in various cities, which would require meticulous planning for safe and secure delivery of the same at the examination centres on time.” The NTA has also rejected the argument of foreign students that exam centres had been set up in some cities abroad for JEE (Main) 2020. The agency said the two were not comparable. “No parity can be drawn between JEE (Main), which is for a non-medical course, and NEET (UG) which is for a medical course. The number of seats in engineering colleges in comparison to the number of seats in medical colleges within the country is much more.… Thus medical seats attract stiffer competition compared to engineering seats,” the NTA said, pointing out that more than 15 lakh students vie for the NEET every year. “It is respectfully submitted that around 15 lakh candidates appear for NEET (UG) every year and 15,97,426 candidates have registered for NEET (UG) 2020, whereas about 8 lakh candidates appear for JEE (Main). Since there are a large number of candidates (more than 15 lakh), it is not feasible to conduct NEET (UG) 2020 in online mode in single shift for all candidates, in order to maintain the same difficulty level. “Therefore, there is no discrimination between the candidates of NEET (UG) and JEE (Main) nor there is any violation of the fundamental rights of the candidates of NEET (UG) as claimed in the writ petition,” it added. Around 4,000-odd overseas medical aspirants had pleaded that if they were not allowed to compete with their counterparts in India, it would be a violation of their fundamental right to equality guaranteed under Article 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Gehlot to Pilot: Our own are our own||Sachin Pilot on Thursday visited Ashok Gehlot’s residence and the two leaders shook hands, following which the Rajasthan chief minister said “apne toh apne hi hote hain (our own are our own after all)”. This was the first time Gehlot and Pilot met after the month-long acrimony ended. After the meeting, Gehlot urged the party’s legislators to forget the unpleasant chapter and forge solidarities afresh to serve the people of Rajasthan. The chief minister will move a motion of confidence in the Assembly on Friday. The survival of the government appears no longer in doubt after the return of the 19 disgruntled MLAs. Gehlot said the grievances of each MLA would be addressed and he was ready to meet all of them individually. Later, a smiling Gehlot and Pilot appeared before the media for a formal photo-op. The Congress also revoked the suspension of two senior MLAs — Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh — who had been accused of plotting the fall of the Gehlot government. The Congress will, however, find it difficult to withdraw the police case against them. The BJP has decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Gehlot government on Friday in what is being viewed as a symbolic move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Temple trust priest tests Covid-19 positive||Nritya Gopal Das, the chief of the trust set up to build the Ram temple, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, eight days after he had shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya. The 82-year-old chairman of the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had travelled to Mathura to participate in a Krishna Janmashtami programme on Wednesday when he complained of a sore throat, breathlessness and other Covid-19 symptoms at night. On the instructions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Nritya Gopal Das has been shifted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, where Union home minister Amit Shah too is being treated for the novel coronavirus infection. At the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya on August 5, Nritya Gopal Das had been seen in close proximity of Modi at least thrice — once when the Prime Minister had greeted him at the beginning by touching his folded hands, again when Modi was laying the foundation stone of the temple and yet again when the Prime Minister had bent down to speak to a seated Nritya Gopal Das while leaving. On none of these occasions had Nritya Gopal Das been wearing a mask. Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said the process of identifying those who had come in contact with Nritya Gopal Das in the recent past had started. Other than Modi, who launched a tax drive on Thursday, the others who had been seen near Nritya Gopal Das at the August 5 event included Adityanath, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, temple trust general secretary Champat Rai and Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel. Sanjeev Yadav, the chief medical officer of Mathura, said Nritya Gopal Das’s throat swab sample had been sent for examination on Wednesday night itself and the report came positive on Thursday. If Nritya Gopal Das developed the sore throat and breathlessness — symptoms of Covid-19 — on Wednesday, experts believe it is unlikely that he was infectious eight days ago. Although the gestation — the period during which a person is infected, but does not show any symptoms — for Covid-19 is up to 14 days, researchers have estimated that infected people can spread it to others only two or three days before their symptoms emerge. It is unclear when Nritya Gopal Das himself became infected because in rare instances, a person might develop symptoms within two days of becoming infected and on average patients might develop symptoms between 5 and 7 days after becoming infected. Nritya Gopal Das lives in Ayodhya, where he is the Mahant of the Maniram Chhawani temple. He visits Mathura during Krishna Janmashtami. Chief minister Adityanath said he had asked administrative officers to make every arrangement for the treatment of Nritya Gopal Das, the oldest surviving Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader who had been among those at the forefront of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the 1990s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-729
14-08-2020||India||Rs 1-lakh Covid fine proposal||The Odisha government on Thursday sent a proposal to governor Ganeshi Lal to promulgate an ordinance to make the law governing Covid-19 guidelines more stringent. The proposed ordinance will empower the government to impose a penalty of up to Rs 1 lakh on people violating Covid guidelines. Additional chief secretary in charge of health, P.K. Mohapatra, told The Telegraph, “A proposal to this effect was passed by the cabinet on Wednesday. As the Assembly is not in session, we forwarded a proposal to the governor on Thursday based on the cabinet’s decision. Once it is signed, the ordinance will be promulgated.” Sources said under the ordinance, the government will be empowered to impose fines up to Rs 1 lakh on those violating social distancing norms and organising marriage functions in violation of rules. “We are noticing that people are inviting even 1,000 people for marriage functions. We want to curb such practices. Earlier, the fine was only up to Rs 10,000. We want to enhance the fine in public interest,” said a senior official. He said a detailed notification will be issued after the ordinance comes into force. According to the law, a maximum of 50 people can be invited to a marriage function and they need to maintain social distancing norms and wear masks. Last month, a businessman in Berhampur had arranged a marriage function for his son inviting more than 1,000 guests in alleged violation of the norms. Under the proposed new law, the maximum punishment stipulated for such offences is two years. According to the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment Ordinance) 2020, anybody who disobeys any regulation or order made under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, is liable for imprisonment up to two years. After the new ordinance is promulgated, the violator will be liable for imprisonment up to two years or a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both, sources said. On the imposition of fine for not wearing masks, Mohapatra said, “We don’t want to follow Jharkhand which has imposed a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh for not wearing masks. In Odisha, the first two violations will attract a fine of Rs 1,000 and any further violation will be punishable with a fine of Rs 5,000. Earlier, this fine ranged between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000. It has already been implemented since August 1,” said the official. Sources said the government was forced to take the ordinance route to make the regulations stricter as people have been found wilfully disobeying Covid-19 guidelines. “Even the chief minister (Naveen Patnaik) is making repeated pleas to people to observe the laws,” the official said. Meanwhile, the coronavirus tally in the state reached 52,653 with the detection of 1,981 new cases on Thursday while 314 people have died due to the infection. The state, which plans to conduct 50,000 tests per day, conducted 40,711 tests on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-730
