15-08-2020||India|| 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' forms crux of PM's I-Day speech||'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' was the centrepiece of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Independence Day address as he presented a broad outline for spurring India's growth in diverse sectors and asserted that the coronavirus pandemic cannot halt the country's march towards self-reliance. In his seventh straight Independence Day speech from the ramparts of Red Fort on Saturday, Modi also delivered a warning to India's hostile neighbours saying the armed forces have given a befitting reply to those who challenged the country's sovereignty "from LoC to LAC" in their own language. The prime minister made a host of new announcements, including the launch of a national digital health mission under which health IDs will be given to everyone and connecting all six lakh villages with optical fibres in 1,000 days, and promised the holding of assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir after the delimitation exercise is over. In a reference to the border row with China in eastern Ladakh, Modi said: "Respect for India's sovereignty is supreme for us and the world has seen in Ladakh what our brave jawans can do to maintain this resolve. I salute all those brave soldiers from the Red Fort." "From LoC to LAC, anyone who casts an eye on the sovereignty of the country, the armed forces of the country have responded to them in the same language," Modi said. The prime minister's comments came in the midst of India's festering border row with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and rising incidents of ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan. The country is fighting terrorism as well as expansionism with determination, Modi said in remarks aimed at Pakistan and China. Dressed in his customary 'kurta pyjama' and safa, the prime minister, in his nearly 90-minute address, dwelt at length on his 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign as he gave a call for reducing imports and pushing exports of finished products in place raw material, saying the country will have to move forward with the mantra of 'Make in India' as well as 'Make for World'. 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is no longer merely a word but has become a mantra and captured people's imagination, he said. Modi also touched upon the much-anticipated issue of vaccine for Covid-19 and said three vaccines are in various phases of trials in the country. He said that a roadmap is ready to innoculate all citizens in the shortest possible time with their mass production after scientists give a green signal. Modi also listed out a number of reform measures undertaken by his government which resulted in a record Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the country last year. The prime minister said India's policies, processes and products should be the best in the world and only then the idea of "shresth Bharat" (best India) will be realised. On foreign policy issues, Modi said today neighbours are not only those with whom India shares its geographical boundaries but also those with whom "our hearts meet". While talking about the need for overall economic growth and making the country self reliant, Modi, at the same time, said humanity must retain a central role in this process. The prime minister began his address by paying tributes to freedom fighters and security forces while also remembering Aurobindo Ghose, a freedom fighter and spiritual philosopher whose birth anniversary falls today. Hailing 'corona warriors', including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitation workers who have been continuously fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the country will achieve victory over coronavirus with the resolve of its over 130 crore citizens. In the midst of coronavirus pandemic, Indians have resolved to become self-reliant, the prime minister said, adding this is not a word but a mantra for all people. Speaking of self-reliant India, he said many concerns are raised about it and acknowledged the challenges ahead, but asserted that there are "crores of solutions" offered by the country's citizens to "lakhs of challenges". Vocal for local should be the mantra of India, he said. He said his government has freed farmers of their constraints, and they can now trade their products freely on their terms. India's freedom struggle, he said, became a challenge to forces of expansionism while attempts were made for hundreds of years by various rulers to root out India's culture and traditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||I-Day: the nation celebrates||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||Vijayan and ministers at crash site in quarantine||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and several ministers on Friday went into self-quarantine after at least 20 rescue officials with whom they had interacted in the aftermath of the plane crash at Calicut International Airport a week ago tested positive for Covid-19. Other than Vijayan, 75, those who have quarantined themselves at home are health minister K.K. Shailaja, agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, transport minister A.K. Saseendran, ports minister Kadannapalli Ramachandran, higher education minister K.T. Jaleel, excise minister T.P. Ramakrishnan, local administration minister A.C. Moideen and Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. The security and personal staff of these dignitaries have also proceeded into quarantine. Vijayan, Shailaja, Moideen and Jaleel have tested negative for the coronavirus but will still remain in quarantine. P.K. Kunhalikutty, the Lok Sabha MP of Malappuram and IUML leader who had visited the crash site on Saturday, has also isolated himself. The area where the accident took place is a corona containment zone. Apart from the ministers, those who had visited the accident spot last Saturday and interacted with the officials who had taken part in the rescue operation and have now tested positive were governor Arid Mohammed Khan, Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, junior Union minister of external affairs V. Muraleedharan and Kerala chief secretary Vishwas Mehta. The leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, had gone to the site on Sunday along with several leaders of his party. It was not immediately clear if the Congress leaders would also quarantine themselves. Among the over 20 officials who have tested positive for Covid-19 are Malappuram district police superintendent U. Abdul Karim, collector K. Gopalakrishnan, assistant collector Vishnu Raj, sub-collector Anju KS and assistant collector Vishnu Raj. While Karim tested positive on Thursday, the others were detected infected with the novel coronavirus on Friday. The infected officials had been present at the crash site last Friday (August 7) and had also gone to the hospitals where the injured had been taken. All the 20-odd officials were already in quarantine when their tests returned positive. Health minister Shailaja had asked all those who were part of the mission to isolate themselves. Kerala director-general of police Loknath Behera has also gone into self-quarantine as he had met both Gopalakrishnan and Karim on August 8. The Malappuram district health department has ordered all the media personnel who were at the accident site to isolate themselves. District police chief Karim’s gunman tested positive for the virus in the immediate aftermath of the accident. One of the passengers on the Air India Express flight from Dubai that had overshot the tabletop runway and plummeted 60ft, killing the two pilots and 16 passengers, had been corona-positive and was being brought under precautions as part of the Vande Bharat repatriation mission. The rest of the 190 passengers and crew had escaped with injuries, mainly due to the prompt intervention of local people who had rushed to the spot before rescue teams arrived and pulled them out of the wreckage. The district collector, district police chief and the sub-collector had been among those who were on the ground during the rescue and relief work. Malappuram district has been reporting about 200 cases daily on an average for the past several days. Junaid Mukkood, one of the 15 locals who were the first to reach the accident site and began rescuing the passengers and crew from the aircraft that had broken into two pieces, said on Friday that they were waiting for their test results. “The health department took swab samples from many of us today morning. Since they are doing the RT-PCR test, we will have to wait for two to three days for the results to be declared,” Mukkood told The Telegraph. All the local people who had participated in the rescue have been in home quarantine. “I don’t have any symptoms. But let’s wait for the result,” Mukkood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||RBI shock for Centre||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has decided to transfer Rs 57,128 crore as dividend to the Centre for 2019-20, which is substantially lower than the record payout of Rs 1.76 lakh crore last year. The sharp moderation in the sum compounds the problems for the Centre at a time when it is grappling with a parlous treasury resulting from poor tax collections after  the outbreak of Covid-19. The country’s fiscal deficit has already widened to Rs 6.62 lakh crore, or 83.2 per cent of the budget estimates, in the first quarter of this fiscal. In the 2020-21 Union budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had budgeted for a dividend payout of Rs 89,649 crore from the RBI and state-owned banks. The surplus transfer from the central bank had been pegged at Rs 60,000 crore. The decision to transfer over Rs 57,000 crore was taken at the 584th meeting of the Central Board of the RBI, chaired by governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday. The dividend payout had snowballed into a huge controversy in 2018 and led to sharp differences between then RBI governor Urjit Patel and the Narendra Modi government over the size of the central bank’s balance sheet. It eventually led to the resignation of Patel and the appointment of a committee headed by former RBI governor Bimal Jalan to decide on the economic capital framework of the RBI. The panel’s recommendations had been accepted before the massive payout last year. The RBI earns its profits from trading in currencies and government bonds as well as printing notes and coins. Traditionally, the RBI used to set aside a part of these earnings to meet its operational and contingency fund requirements before transferring the rest to the government in the form of dividend. The RBI’s reserves consist of two parts: the first is a contingent reserve buffer (CRB) that the Bimal Jalan committee described as “realised equity”, and the second is a notional fund called the currency and gold revaluation account (CGRA) that represents the unrealised revaluation gains arising from exchange rate movements and the rise in gold prices. The Jalan committee had recommended that the Centre had no right to dip into the CGRA fund. It also said the RBI could retain between 5.5 and 6.5 per cent of its balance sheet size in the CRB fund and transfer any excess to the Centre as dividend. The CRB, which the Jalan panel termed a “rainy day” fund, is a specific provision that the RBI maintains to meet unexpected and unforeseen contingencies, including depreciation in the value of securities, risks arising out of monetary or exchange rate policy operations, systemic risks and any other risks. In 2018-19, the CRB fund stood at 6.8 per cent of the balance sheet corpus. So, the central bank decided to cap the size of this fund at the minimum mandated level of 5.5 per cent and transferred an excess risk provision as a one-time outgo of Rs 52,637 crore to the Centre. In addition, the RBI transferred a surplus of Rs 123,350 crore from its balance sheet. A part of the payment had been made in the form of an interim dividend of Rs 28,000 crore on March 28, 2019 -- with the rest being transferred in August that year. The RBI has a financial year that ends on June 30. The details of the latest RBI transfer will be known when the central bank comes out with its annual report for 2019-20 sometime later this month. Ananth Narayan, senior India analyst at the Observatory Group, said in a note in June that in the year ending June 2019, the RBI had kept its realised equity at the minimum level of 5.5 per cent and transferred the rest to the government. “Since then, the RBI’s balance sheet has expanded by 29 per cent. To maintain realised equity at 5.5 per cent of the balance sheet, it would have to retain about Rs 65,000 crore of earnings when it closes its books in June 2020.… The overall balance sheet has expanded 29 per cent over the past year, from Rs 41 trillion to Rs 53 trillion (around 26 per cent of the GDP). This is on the back of an increase in holdings of foreign currency assets, a revaluation gain in the value of foreign currency assets, an increase in holdings of government bonds, and an increase in rupee advances to Indian banks,” Narayan said in the note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||‘Complex’, not simple like PM’s China claim||The Indian foreign ministry on Friday reaffirmed that the disengagement process with China was a “complex” process that would take time, again raising questions about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s earlier contention that no one had entered or was occupying Indian territory. Responding to questions, ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said “some progress had been earlier made” on the broad principles of disengagement agreed between the two militaries and the special representatives. “I must add that translating these principles on the ground is a complex process that requires re-deployment of troops by each side towards their regular posts on their respective sides of the LAC,” he said. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest... achieving this requires agreed actions on both sides.” Srivastava said: “We therefore expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation.” After the July 14-15 military talks, too, the foreign ministry had described the disengagement process as “complex”. Srivastava did not specify where “some progress had been earlier made”. Reports say the Chinese have stayed put in territory they have occupied in the Depsang Plains and the Pangong Lake. Nor did Srivastava respond specifically to the reiteration by the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, that the “onus is not on China”. “The Indian side crossed the LAC for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops,” Sun wrote in his embassy’s magazine, China-India Review. Srivastava repeated India’s contention that resolving the border issue was essential to the development of the bilateral relationship. China insists the two should be delinked. In Beijing, Indian ambassador Vikram Misri met Major General Ci Guowei, director of the office of International Military Cooperation of the Central Military Commission, and briefed him on India’s stand on the border situation. Earlier this week, Misri had similarly briefed Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the office of the Communist Party of China’s central committee foreign affairs commission. Srivastava did not say why Misri had met these two officials and what they had discussed, but said more meetings were likely. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police has told the government that Indian and Chinese troops have had multiple clashes in May-June — apart from the May 5 and June 15 face-offs — and both sides suffered injuries in these, sources said. So far, the army has admitted only two clashes: the June 15 fight that killed 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley and the May 5 stones-and-fists battle near the Pangong Lake that left several from either army injured. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the China frontier; the army remains behind it. The latest revelation comes in a recent ITBP letter to the Union home ministry in which it recommended the President’s gallantry medals, awarded on the eve of Independence Day, for 21 of its personnel, the sources said. The letter said these 21 had fought the Chinese at various patrolling points in May-June. The sources would not reveal how many clashes took place and on which dates. However, the ITBP received no gallantry medal on Friday. At least 290 of its personnel have already been awarded the director-general’s commendation rolls and insignia for incidents related to China. The ITBP also issued a public statement on Friday describing how its personnel had fought off advancing Chinese troops, but mentioned no dates. “ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured Indian Army troops to the rear,” the statement said. “Even when the ITBP troops fought whole night, they received minimum casualties.... At places, they gave determined standoff about 17 to 20 hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||Neither scared, nor silent: An explosion of outrage ||If the Supreme Court decision to hold lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt for two tweets was meant to have a chilling effect and scare people in general and lawyers in particular into silence, it drew the exact opposite response on Friday. The floodgates burst open. Within hours, the two tweets that had offended the court — one on the Chief Justice posing on a Harley-Davidson and the other on the role of the judiciary in the past six years — were dug out and re-posted by many not just in support of Bhushan but in a show of defiance. As in the protests against the citizenship law, it was not the political class but the ordinary citizen who took the lead in voicing outrage at a judgment that many saw as an attempt by the apex court of the land to place itself above scrutiny. Many of these ordinary citizens were lawyers who are well aware of the risks they run in confronting the Supreme Court, but as one of them put it: “This is an attack on all lawyers.” The irony of the verdict coming on the eve of Independence Day wasn’t lost on people either. Historian S. Irfan Habib tweeted: “…I don’t think even the British ever punished dissenting or even critical voices of lawyers, poets, writers and intellectuals this way.” Another historian, Ramachandra Guha, said: “Through this act, the Supreme Court has let itself down, and has let the Republic down too. A dark day for Indian democracy.” Salman Anees Soz, son of former Union minister Saifuddin Soz, brought up the Supreme Court’s recent decision to dismiss a case against his father’s year-long house arrest because the Centre said he was not in detention. “The Supreme Court of India finds a citizen’s criticism contemptible but remains silent when the government brazenly lies to it. As a citizen, I find this situation contemptible,” he tweeted. Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi waded in with a reminder: “When talking of contempt, can we forget that the criminal contempt case regarding Babri Masjid has been pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court for nearly 28 years?” Pune-based political scientist Suhas Palshikar said: “One may not agree with everything said in a tweet but that surely doesn’t deserve a 105-page essay resulting in a pronouncement of ‘guilty of contempt’.”But the BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya pulled out an old tweet of Bhushan’s where he had favoured contempt proceedings against a judge and gave the lawyer’s critics — he has many on both sides of the political divide — something to talk about. The general mood though could be summed up in two tweets. One simply posted an old Hindi film song: “Jo tumko ho pasand, wahi baat kahenge. Tum din ko agar raat kaho, raat kahenge. I will say only what you want to hear. If you say it is night when it is day, I will say it is night.” Another quoted Shakespeare: “And speak I will. I am no child, no babe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||Bhushan guilty, iron hand needed: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday convicted advocate Prashant Bhushan of “criminal contempt”, terming two of his tweets on the judiciary “malicious”, “scurrilous” and scandalous and accusing him of an offence that needed dealing with “an iron hand”. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari will pronounce the sentence on August 20 after hearing Bhushan. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt is jail for six months or a fine or both. The minimum fine is Rs 1,000 but there is no upper limit. One of Bhushan’s tweets had been about Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on a Harley-Davidson motorbike and the other had alleged that democracy had been destroyed under the past four CJIs in the last six years “even without a formal Emergency”. The court said the tweets had eroded public confidence in the judiciary and could not be construed as coming under a citizen’s fundamental right to free speech and expression, guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. Justice Mishra, who authored the judgment, said: “He (Bhushan) has expressed his opinion that the Supreme Court has played a substantial role in allowing the destruction of democracy and further admitted that (a part of one of the tweets) is regarding the role of the last four Chief Justices in particular in allowing it.” The court said: “It is common knowledge that the emergency era has been considered as the blackest era in the history of Indian democracy. The impression which the said tweet tends to give to an ordinary citizen is that when the historians in future look back, the impression they will get is that in the last six years democracy has been destroyed in India without even a formal emergency and that the Supreme Court had a particular role in the said destruction and the last four Chief Justices of India had a more particular role in the said destruction.” The court noted: “There cannot be any manner of doubt that the said tweet is directed against the Supreme Court…. The top court added: “It is clear that the criticism is against the entire Supreme Court and the last four CJIs. The criticism is not against a particular judge but the institution of the Supreme Court and the institution of the Chief Justice of India….” The court said the tweet had reached “millions of people” and “such a huge extent of publication would also be one of the factors that requires to be taken into consideration while considering the question of good faith”. The court broke down Bhushan’s tweet about Justice Bobde on a Harley-Davidson bike into two parts and interpreted them separately. Referring to the part where Bhushan had written that the “CJI rides a (Rs) 50 lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without a mask or helmet”, the court observed: “This part of the tweet could be said to be a criticism made against the CJI as an individual and not against the CJI as CJI.” On the part where Bhushan had written that “at a time when he keeps the SC in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental rights to access justice”, the court said: “Undisputedly, the said part of the statement criticises the CJI in his capacity as the Chief Justice of India, i.e. the Administrative Head of the judiciary of the country. “The said tweet is capable of giving an impression to a layman that the CJI is enjoying his ride on a motorbike worth Rs 50 lakh belonging to a BJP leader at a time when he has kept the Supreme Court in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice.” The bench said the claim that the Supreme Court was in lockdown was “factually incorrect even to the knowledge of” Bhushan himself. The bench underlined that the court had not been functioning physically to avoid gatherings during the pandemic, but had been operating via videoconferencing. The court said its benches had sat 879 times online between March 23 and August 4 and heard 12,748 matters. “Making such wild allegation thereby giving an impression that the CJI is enjoying riding an expensive bike while he keeps the SC in lockdown mode and thereby denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice is undoubtedly false, malicious and scandalous,” the court said. The bench said the Indian judiciary is not only one of the pillars on which democracy stands but is the central pillar and bedrock of the rule of law. “An attempt to shake the very foundation of constitutional democracy has to be dealt with an iron hand. The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of the Indian democracy,” it said. “The tweet clearly tends to give an impression that the Supreme Court, which is a highest constitutional court in the country, has in the last six years played a vital role in the destruction of the Indian democracy. There is no manner of doubt that the tweet tends to shake the public confidence in the institution of judiciary.” Justice Mishra said there was no doubt that the court was required to be magnanimous in the face of criticism. However, such magnanimity cannot be stretched to an extent that may amount to weakness in dealing with a malicious, scurrilous, calculated and damaging attack on the very foundation of the judiciary, he added. “If such an attack is not dealt with with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations. Fearless and impartial courts of justice are the bulwark of a healthy democracy and the confidence in them cannot be permitted to be impaired by malicious attacks upon them,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
15-08-2020||India||What I have learned since last year||The Jamia Millia Islamia student who shielded a journalist from police lathis The India I have learnt through my textbooks is entirely different from the India that I am facing now. I always believed in the unity and diversity of India as a country. But the condition of the minorities is pathetic and it’s getting worse day by day. I am looking forward to an India in which everyone should be able to live by asserting their identity and believe in  an India which is inclusive of all different ideologies. Though I don’t have hope in this government I have hopes in the citizens of this country. She used the traditional kolam to protest against the CAA The main thing I learnt about the state is how vicious it can become.  The kind of harassment we faced only reminded us of what we are fighting for and against whom. Our futures are at stake, our values are on trial. I am confident we will win. But the only sad part is that our fight is no longer only with the government, it’s with the hate mindset of our societies. She wore an abaya and hijab and held a placard that read: “Mr Modi, I am Indulekha, identify me by my dress?” The secular foundations of India are currently under tremendous stress. Contemporary India, as many would argue, looks more saffron in its ideological makeup than at any other point since Independence. Let us hope for a future when the Chakra will lead our nation, and not the Saffron, White or Green. Creative producer who juggled her job and multiple protests in Mumbai, where she also distributed food and water I did not follow politics until 2014, and last December was the first time I took part in any public demonstration... I learnt that I liked being a part of a movement bigger than myself. I learnt that I could be passionate and driven. I just needed to find in life where to direct that passion and drive — and for a brief moment, that was directed towards the protests and the demand for  change…. We need to peacefully demand the kind of change that we deserve. Hailing from Bathinda, he volunteered at the langar at Shaheen Bagh I can’t say that things will get any better now. Look at Safoora Zargar (a pregnant student who spent more than two months in jail)… The people of India must think about whether this new nationalism the government is talking about will fill our stomachs or get us better education or hospitals.  All I know is that it is those who struggle that are remembered and not those who grow old in anonymity by not doing anything for the country. She was at the forefront of the women-led vigil against the citizenship thrust at Park Circus Maidan I learnt that I was seriously unaware about my country and my inner potential. I loved the discovery of the secular ethos of my country and my countrymen from the way they came out on the streets to protest against the CAA-NPR-NRC. It was sacred because they were on the streets for one of the basic rights — ‘right to life’. The rage, the logic and the confidence of the protesters also made me realise things about myself. I learned that I could be on the streets for days and can withstand the cold night without any roof. In the wake of the Covid-19 curbs, me and some like-minded people have been running a digital campaign against the CAA-NPR-NRC. We face non-stop trolling but the days of struggle on the streets have instilled courage in us. We are not scared. We know that we can give a tough competition to anyone in power because we, the people, are the real authority. The principal of Bishop’s College, Caleb was at many a rally Calcuttasaw against the new citizenship regime The past year has made me feel fearful of whether my rights as a person following a minority faith in this country will be respected. It has also been a year where one has watched with despair the growth of majoritarianism at the expense of true democracy and human rights (Kashmir comes immediately to mind). I feel we have gone backwards in many ways and it will only take a long and sustained struggle to recover the secular and democratic way of life that once we Indians enjoyed. Part of the anti-CAA protests in Chennai I have learnt to judge this country not by the actions of violent and hateful people, but by the vast majority that toils and gets by while maintaining their dignity against great odds. The government, I realise, has become a disaster that ordinary people have to confront and manage. I am certainly hopeful. India has survived much hate, and while there are many that would like to kill the idea of India with their hate, there are far more that live the idea of an inclusive India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Trust vote won, Gehlot blames Modi and Shah||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday laid the entire blame for the recent political instability in the state on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, stressing their dubious record while glossing over the rifts within the Congress that had triggered the crisis. Gehlot, who won the confidence motion by a voice vote in the Assembly after Opposition members desisted from demanding a division, contested BJP leaders’ allegation that the state had suffered for over a month amid the pandemic only because of intra-Congress feuding. Senior BJP leaders Gulab Chand Kataria, Satish Punia and Rajendra Rathore accused the chief minister of weaving a false narrative by blaming them and the central government for the turmoil. Gehlot, however, stuck to his tactic of attacking the BJP and minimising any reference to Sachin Pilot and his group of rebels, the compromise engineered by the high command having tied his hands. He asked the state BJP leaders to worry about the “two-man rule in the country” and warned them about their own fate if democracy failed to survive. The crisis was “a conspiracy by your high command”, he told Kataria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||NIA grills two Delhi University teachers||Two teachers of colleges under Delhi University were questioned by the National Investigation Agency on Friday in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence, days after the NIA acted against two other teachers of DU. While Prem Kumar Vijayan, who teaches English at Hindu College, and Rakesh Ranjan, who teaches economics at Shri Ram College of Commerce, were being questioned, groups of students and teachers condemned the “RSS-BJP regime’s increasing use of repressive laws and manipulation of investigation and judicial processes to eliminate critical thinking and democratic opposition”. Vijayan told The Telegraph that he was questioned from 3.30pm while Ranjan was quizzed from 11.30am. “They were civil and offered me food. They wanted to know my role in Bhima-Koregaon and the defence committee (on jailed professor G.N. Saibaba. I had no role in Koregaon. They asked me details of all social media and other accounts I have online. I was told that I could be called again,” Vijayan said. Earlier, the NIA had arrested DU teacher Hany Babu M.T. in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case and professor Apoorvanand Jha over the Delhi riots in February. Vijayan, Ranjan and Hany Babu are part of the Committee for the Defence and Release of G.N. Saibaba, a disabled former DU teacher serving a life sentence for links with Maoists. Several students and teachers of Hindu College have circulated a public plea demanding an immediate end to the use of state agencies to “harass our Professor P.K. Vijayan”, the release of all political prisoners “wrongfully arrested” in the Bhima-Koregaon case, the arrest of the known perpetrators of “anti-Dalit violence” and the repeal of all “draconian laws such as UAPA, NSA, AFSPA and sedition used to criminalise mass movements”. Students and alumni of SRCC are circulating a statement in solidarity with Ranjan: “Even the Indian State had to recognise his excellence when he was felicitated with the Distinguished Teacher Award in 2009. Only 7 teachers have been awarded this prestigious label in DU Economics by the President of India. We offer our full support to him. We are in complete opposition to this kind of legalised harassment in the garb of ‘investigation’. This is not what our professor deserves. This is not what our democracy deserves.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Why there is still a spring in the step||Hum laaye hain toofan se kashti nikaal ke Iss desh ko rakhna mere bachchon sambhal ke. We have brought the boat home through the storm, Treasure this country and keep it safe, my children. This Independence Day comes in the middle of a pandemic that has seen millions of Indians stripped of livelihood and dignity and forced into breadlines. The endless march of the poorest, often barefoot and hungry, carrying children and the elderly, away from the big cities was a spectacle that would shame and shiver anyone. Too many died on the way, 16 at one go, their rotis and chappals strewn by the railway tracks where their sundered bodies lay, cut to pieces by trains that would not ferry them. India had not experienced such heartbreak in the more than 70 years of her existence. This Independence Day comes also amid the sadness of witnessing the foundation of a temple being laid on the ruins of a mosque, brought down by a criminal act, in a country where the Constitution promises that all religions are equal. Thugs had demolished the mosque, the Supreme Court ruled that a temple would be built in its place and the Prime Minister played the master of ceremonies. This wasn’t the India we had set out to build in that midnight hour when we awoke to life and freedom as the world slept. Yet, amid the despair, there is a spring in the step of this Independence Day that had gone missing for some years as hate spread its tentacles. There is a glimmer of hope that will not be snuffed out. Not by the grim news from the economy, which gets grimmer by the day. Not by the fear of a ravenous China gobbling our land. Not by the friendless foreign policy hole that India seems to have dug itself into. Not by the lies told by the government. Not even by the sorry figure that our institutions and media continue to cut every day, crawling because they have no spine to stand up. “Iss desh ko rakhna mere bachchon sambhal ke,” the song exhorted. An appeal from the generation that won us August 15, 1947, to the generations after — keep India safe. It’s an appeal the children took to heart this year, stepping up to grasp the baton. The students rose in protest not against the lack of jobs and opportunities for themselves, although they have good reason to, with unemployment at a 45-year high. They came out for the idea of India that a new citizenship matrix — othering one religion — had threatened to destroy. They came out against hate. Abandoning fear of reprisal, they erupted in protest after spontaneous protest across the country. On December 19, four days after the girls and boys at Jamia were attacked for protesting against a discriminatory law, India answered to the call of “We the people. Hum Bharat ke Log”. Streets across cities filled up with people of all ages, classes, religions and every walk of life. “Hum kya Chahein?” Corporation Street in Calcutta asked. “Azadi,” August Kranti Maidan in Mumbai answered. “NRC se Azadi, CAA se Azadi, RSS se Azadi.” As these protests rippled across the country, in a corner of Delhi called Shaheen Bagh, Gandhi came alive. Civil disobedience and non-violence went from being phrases that we read in history books to a living demonstration in front of us. What unfolded is unlike anything most of us have seen before. The only parallel to this organic uprising of ordinary people from disparate backgrounds, from every religion, from every corner of the country and from all age groups — newborns in their mothers’ laps to a 94-year-old who had been at August Kranti Maidan on the date that gave the ground in Bombay its name, August 8, 1942 — would be the Independence movement. The peaceful protests, of which Shaheen Bagh became the unwavering symbol, were a celebration of India by the people of India. There were songs, speeches, poetry, art workshops and readings of the Constitution. If this is heartening, the very visible Muslim participation is uplifting, because they came as Indians and Muslims, not shy to wear the skullcap as they held aloft the Tricolour, taking on for the first time all those who had over the years told them to go to Pakistan. Religion has nothing to do with nationality. Yet, for years, one community had been asked repeatedly to prove its loyalty or leave the country. With the CAA and the NRC going beyond the taunts and emerging as a real threat to their Indian identity, a line was crossed and a dam burst. India’s Muslims, who had kept their grief on Babri Masjid to themselves, came out in ceaseless waves. “We are Indian by choice, not by chance,” one popular poster proudly proclaimed. It was this conspicuous presence that the Prime Minister tried to use to pit Indian against Indian when he said the protesters could be identified by their clothes. But Indulekha and countless other young women gave a resounding reply, donning the hijab although it wasn’t a garment that represented their faith. Hijab and bindi became a familiar combination at protests across cities. Carol singers, men and women, turned out in skullcaps and hijab to celebrate Christmas in a church. A group of Sikhs ran a langar for the protesters at Shaheen Bagh. People from all communities joined every day. Then the pandemic sprang upon us and cut short the protests. The police emerged from the shadows and clapped into jails many of those who had spoken up for their own rights and for the rights of others. The courts took their time. Yet this cannot wipe out the message from the kolam on the Chennai street to the skullcap: “You are not alone. I have your back.” Starting this past December, a generation that grew up in the post-Babri-demolition India led a fight for the all-inclusive India that Mahatma Gandhi had fought for, and fought in a manner that would have made him proud.  The visuals of girls of Jamia ferociously protecting a fellow student from police lathis, throwing a ring around him, will be an abiding image. Protests rise and they ebb. That is their nature. But they rise again. And again. As they did from 1857 to 1947. Those that are trying to impose their majoritarian writ upon the country today can use brute power as well as the British did, of this there is no doubt. But Jallianwala Bagh did not stop India’s march to freedom. Nor did the repeated imprisoning of the top leaders of the movement or the hangings of so many young freedom fighters. Last August, who would have thought that ordinary Indians would be out on the streets fighting hate? In these past years, when every effort had been made to diminish Gandhi, who would have thought that a generation that has grown up in an age of strident Hindutva would bring alive his life’s lessons in a renewed struggle for the same idea of India that was the kernel of the Independence movement? The Dandi March of 1930 is possibly the most electrifying campaign of that movement. Even Gandhi’s staunchest supporters had confessed to being bewildered when he conceived of it, wondering why he was choosing salt of all things to protest about. But talking about the 24-day march later, Jawaharlal Nehru was to say: “It seemed as though a spring had been suddenly released.” It lit the spark that culminated, several more movements, jail terms and 17 years later, in the day when Nehru would speak of India’s tryst with destiny. The salt tax law did not get repealed. But Independence did come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
15-08-2020||India||Forum slams Sikkim move on power project||The Affected Citizens of Teesta (ACT) has expressed “shock and disappointment” over the way the Sikkim government has sought to power NHPC’s proposed Teesta Stage IV project at Dzongu in North Sikkim by appointing an expert panel. The ACT noted that the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha had all along been opposed to the project to honour the sentiments of the local Lepcha people. Gyatso Lepcha, ACT secretary, said the appointment was even more shocking because the matter was sub-judice. “There is a writ petition pending before the honourable High Court of Sikkim challenging the social impact assessment on the power project. Despite the matter being sub-judice, it seems the government is hell-bent on doing the bidding of the NHPC,” he told The Telegraph on phone. Dzongu is considered to be the natural habitat and reserve of the Lepchas, who are acknowledged as the original inhabitants of the Himalayan state. The ACT is fundamentally opposed to the power project in the area, and has been at the forefront of the long-drawn protest campaign. Lepcha accused the SKM of going back on its words. “We hope and trust the government will not repeat the mistake of the previous government. The SKM had promised so much in terms of sustainable development of Sikkim, but surely this is not what it meant by sustainable development,” he said. He sought the help of all environmental organisations, civil society, universities, and others to save the last stretch of the Teesta river that has not been exploited for commercial purpose and, equally, the land which is indigenous to the Lepchas. The Lepchas as a community have been opposed to the project since the time it was conceptualised in the early years of the 21st century. Famously, in the latter part of the last decade, two Lepcha youths from Dzongu had sat on a hunger strike from June 22, 2007 to September 27, 2009 against the project. Officials in the power department pleaded ignorance on the issue of the appointment of the expert panel. Jacob Khaling, who is both the spokesman for the SKM and political secretary to chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay), did not take calls from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-728
