16-08-2020||India||BJP and Congress lock heads over Facebook hate speech row||The Congress and BJP, on Sunday. locked heads over an article published in The Wall Street Journal that suggests Facebook has been lenient over allowing hate speeches posted by the ruling party members. The article cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders who claim that the company’s senior India policy executive Ankhi Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh, who made communally charged posts targeting Muslims. The article further noted that Das “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr. Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. Facebook has denied all allegations and said it was still reviewing whether it had to act against Singh. On Sunday evening, Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the article stands as an expose of the BJP fake news and hate speech propaganda. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted: "The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology would certainly wish to hear from @Facebook about these reports & what they propose to do about hate-speech in India.” Senior BJP leader and Union minister for electronics and information technology and communications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, launched a counter attack on Twitter and said that the Congress party had no locus standi to question the BJP. “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP and RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook to weaponise data before the elections and now have the gall to question us?” Prasad tweeted. Cambridge Analytica's website said the company provided its services during the Bihar election in 2010 to a political party in India. The website of the Indian affiliate of Cambridge Analytica, Ovleno Business Intelligence (OBI), mentioned the BJP, Congress and the Janata Dal (United) of Nitish Kumar as clients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Tribute to Vajpayee on his second death anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and prime minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday.

They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at 'Sadaiv Atal', the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital, in paying respects to him. Modi said India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards the nation's progress.
"Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation's progress," Modi said, tweeting a nearly two-minute-long montage of old photos in memory of the former prime minister. The montage features photos and videos of Vajpayee taken during his long career in politics. NDTV reports Modi's voiceover playing in the video, as saying: "This country will never forget Atal ji's sacrifice. Under his leadership India held its head high as a nuclear power. As a politician, a Member of Parliament, a minister or Prime Minister, Atal ji has performed very well in many roles. Many great things can be said about Atal ji's life, and no one aspect is lesser than the other. His speeches used to be talked about. In future if some expert analysed his speeches, the strength in his silence would turn out many times stronger than his speeches. In parliament also, he would only say a few words. People would get the message from his silence..." Vajpayee, the first BJP prime minister, had passed away on this day in 2018.

A statesman and saffron stalwart, he was fondly remembered by other senior BJP leaders.

Home minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw "good governance" being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee.

The Modi government is striving for the welfare of the poor and good governance by keeping his ideas at the centre of its work, Shah added.

Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Vajpayee's tremendous contribution towards pubic life and India's development will always be cherished, and his vision for the country will continue to inspire coming generations. The Twitter handle of the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations tweeted a video of Vajpayee speaking at the UN General Assembly in 1997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Covid-19: 63,490 fresh cases, recovery rate 71.91 per cent||India's Covid-19 tally increased to 25,89,682 with a single-day spike of 63,490 cases, while the total number of recoveries rose to 18,62,258 pushing the recovery rate to 71.91 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.

The death toll due to coronavirus infection climbed to 49,980 with 944 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.

India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 when the country registered 53,601 new instances of the infection.

The case fatality rate has declined to 1.93 per cent.

There are 6,77,444 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which comprise 26.16 per cent of the total caseload in the country.

India had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7.

According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15 with 7,46,608 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||‘Fitting reply’ on Prime Minister lips, not China ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India had from “LoC to LAC” given a fitting reply to those who had challenged its sovereignty, striking a note similar to his no-intrusion claim two months ago and again failing to name China. He also dwelt on the theme of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”, Jammu and Kashmir and the Ram temple during his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort. “From LoC (Line of Control) to LAC (Line of Actual Control), whenever India’s sovereignty has been challenged, our soldiers have answered in a language they (the enemy) understand,” Modi said. “The world can see what Indian soldiers can do to maintain this resolve.” Modi may have been alluding to the June 15 face-off in the Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh in which the Chinese killed 20 Indian soldiers. Four days after the clash, the Prime Minister had asserted that no one had entered Indian territory or captured any Indian post. The government later claimed he was referring to the post-June 15 situation, which would suggest that Indian soldiers had thrown out any possible intruders. Since then, Modi has remained silent as satellite imagery and unofficial accounts of ground-level assessments suggested the Chinese had ensconced themselves and built structures inside India-claimed lines at multiple locations in Ladakh. The foreign ministry has, however, several times referred to the “disengagement process” and described it as “complex” — the latest assertion coming on Friday — implying the Chinese were inside India-claimed territory. Sporting a saffron-and-white turban, Modi delivered his speech amid tight security and a guest list restricted by the Covid-19 outbreak. He seemed to be indirectly acknowledging the strains in relations with several neighbouring countries. “A neighbour isn’t just someone who shares a geographical boundary with us but those who share a bond of the heart — where the relationship is respected,” Modi said. He said that neighbourly ties were now linked to “security, progress and trust”. Modi claimed that India’s relations with the West Asian countries had never been so good. Reports have mentioned deep concern among West Asian governments about the Modi dispensation’s decisions on Jammu and Kashmir last year and its crackdown on anti-citizenship-act protesters. He devoted a sizeable part of his 86-minute address to his “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (Self-reliant India) campaign, on which he had spoken in detail several times earlier. In an address to the nation in May, the Prime Minister had proposed an economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore to make India “self-reliant” in the post-Covid world. This week his government declared a resolve to have more defence equipment manufactured in India. On Saturday, too, Modi tried to conjure the vision of a strong and prosperous India as a global manufacturing hub, saying the country needed to move beyond “Make in India” to add the fresh objective of “Make for the World”. He acknowledged the numerous challenges to becoming self-reliant in a competitive world but, playing the optimist amid the pervasive economic gloom, said there were many solutions too. Modi said: “I know there are lakhs of challenges but there are crores of solutions too. I’m confident that India will realise this dream. I’m confident of the abilities and potential of my compatriots. Once we decide, we do not rest till we achieve our goal.” Modi described how his government was building roads and other infrastructure along the LAC — the Chinese frontier — from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh to secure the country. The Prime Minister touched on the Ram temple and the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status but provided no new perspective. He said the “amicable” resolution of the decades-old Ayodhya dispute and the beginning of the temple’s construction were an “inspiration for the future”. He didn’t explain what he meant by “inspiration for the future” but stressed that the people’s conduct in peacefully accepting the Supreme Court verdict was “unprecedented”. Some hard-line Hindutva leaders have been making noises about reigniting the demand for temple construction in Mathura and Varanasi at sites where mosques now stand. Modi claimed the new Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir had seen a lot of development in the past one year and promised to hold elections there after completing the ongoing delimitation exercise. He said three candidate Covid-19 vaccines were going through various stages of clinical trials, and that the government was ready with a plan to make the vaccines available to the people once they cleared the tests. The Prime Minister also spoke on women’s empowerment and referred to his government’s efforts to make sanitary napkins available to the poor at Re 1 each through the Jan Ausadhi centres. He said a panel had been formed to determine what the minimum age of marriage should be for women, and mentioned the abolition of the instant triple talaq. Strength & Courage. Peace & Truth. Fertility & Growth. Life in Movement. My country stands for these values. I promise to do the same on this day of 15th August and forever. We don’t need anymore guidelines for being a true Indian, than these laid down by the colours of our Indian flag. Happy Independence Day to all. Jai Hind. Shah Rukh Khan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Oli, Modi sidestep thorns in phone call||Nepal Premier K.P. Sharma Oli sought to break the ice that had settled on bilateral relations with India over the past few months with a phone call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday afternoon that was described by both sides as a courtesy call on India’s Independence Day. The two Prime Ministers are said to have steered clear of the irritant that soured relations this summer after Kathmandu released a new Nepal map that included three areas that India claims — Kalapani, Lipu Lekh and Limpiyadhura —in retaliation to New Delhi’s inauguration of a new road via Lipu Lekh to Kailash Mansarovar. Nor, sources said, did Modi and Oli discuss scheduling a meeting of the foreign secretary mechanism to address the boundary issues. According to readouts issued by the two foreign ministries, the two Prime Ministers discussed the Covid-19 situation and Oli congratulated Modi on India’s election to the United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent member. The telephone conversation — the first in four months of strain — comes days before a scheduled meeting of the joint oversight mechanism set up in 2016 to review ongoing bilateral economic and development projects. Earlier in the day, Oli had tweeted an Independence Day greeting to Modi, which was duly acknowledged. “Congratulations and greetings to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji, the Government and people of India on the happy occasion of the 74th Independence Day. Best wishes for more progress and prosperity of the people of India,” Oli had tweeted. Modi replied: “Thank you PM @kpsharmaoli Ji for the Independence Day wishes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Appeal: Verdict lowers Supreme Court dignity, reverse it||Civil liberties organisations Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) have said the Supreme Court’s conviction of lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets has “lowered its own dignity in the eyes of the ordinary person” and that it would “be more damaging of the image” of the court. Bhushan was on Friday convicted of criminal contempt of court for two tweets, one of which spoke about the destruction of democracy while the other referred to the current Chief Justice of India. The CJAR has urged the apex court to reconsider its decision, saying the judiciary must “command respect” and not demand it. “By convicting Mr Bhushan for criminal contempt, we believe that the court has lowered its own dignity in the eyes of the ordinary person in India. Once hailed as one of the ‘most powerful constitutional courts’ in the world, it is unfortunate that the court is intolerant of even the most temperate and well-intentioned criticism,” a statement from the CJAR, whose members include former apex court judge Justice P.B. Sawant, said. “We call upon each and every sitting judge of the Hon’ble Supreme Court to reconsider this decision that has, more than anything, harmed the court’s own prestige and dignity in the eyes of the public.” The PUCL said Bhushan’s conviction would reinforce the view that the apex court “will not allow any public questioning or criticism of its functioning”, and would hurt its image more than Bhushan’s tweets could. The CJAR said that Bhushan, who is its convener, cannot be held guilty of contempt because the tweets were “expressions of his anguish and a bona fide criticism of the court and the Chief Justice of India”. It said Bhushan’s freedom of expression was protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and “cannot be stifled by such a conviction”. “When the functioning of the court has been disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic and important cases concerning the rights of millions are being adjourned for weeks and months, the haste with which the court has proceeded to hear and convict Mr Bhushan is unseemly and sends a message of stern consequence to those who choose to express themselves in manners that are not palatable to judges,” the CJAR said. “The judiciary commands respect and never demands it. It earns respect through its impartial and effective decisions and interpretation. The Supreme Court has enjoyed a hallowed status due to the work of progressive and thoughtful judges who have expanded human rights and defended liberty. Respect and dignity cannot be demanded from citizens on the threat of contempt. According to the CJAR, few dare speak up against the judiciary because of the swift retribution of contempt. “Criminal contempt to prop up the court’s dignity (as opposed to other forms of contempt), is an archaic, obsolete law, in long disuse in its country of origin and abolished in several other countries,” it said. “It is time to free ourselves from the yoke of this stifling law, to look deeply into its purpose, and ensure that it is not used to silence opinions that seek accountability and reforms in the functioning of the judiciary.” The PUCL’s statement said the court’s finding would only strengthen the view that like other democratic institutions in India, it was cracking down on dissent. “The SC (Supreme Court) too is unwilling to acknowledge serious issues about the way the judicial system is functioning and is acting in a manner which would silence democratic voices, using the draconian power of ‘contempt of court’,” said the statement, issued by Ravi Kiran Jain, national president of the PUCL, and D.V. Suresh, its national general secretary. “We would like to point out that Prashant Bhushan is not the first person to raise serious and critical questions about the administration of justice in the highest court of the land.” The reference was to the January 2018 news conference held by four Supreme Court judges — Justices J. Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan Lokur and Kurian Joseph — where they expressed their disagreement with then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra over the allotment of cases to benches and other matters. “In particular, the issues raised by the four senior judges are central to the independence of the judiciary: manner of deciding the roster and composition and strength of benches, integrity of judicial process, institutional integrity, transparency in appointment of judges, etc. They had clearly and openly indicated that these vital principles have not just been flouted but ethically compromised,” the PUCL said. Quoting the four judges, it said: “There have been instances where case(s) having far-reaching consequences for the nation and the institution had been assigned by the Chief Justices of this court selectively to the benches ‘of their preference’ without any rational basis for such assignment. “While the language and content of the tweets (by Bhushan) may not be agreeable or palatable, the fact remains that Prashant Bhushan was only articulating a widespread view amongst many sections of the public, raising questions about the response of the apex court. “The correctness of Prashant Bhushan’s views about the role of former CJIs may be debated, but the fact remains that many sections of society feel that the structures of democracy are being dismantled and destroyed before our very eyes and the constitutionally mandated institutions are failing to play their independent, monitoring role. “In such a situation the SC, to which people still look up with respect and hope, is increasingly being seen by people to be supportive of the State and unresponsive to democratic and constitutional concerns.” The PUCL described Bhushan as an “indefatigable fighter for constitutional values and the ordinary citizen” and said his conviction for the tweets would only reinforce the view that the “SC will not allow any public questioning or criticism of its functioning and is not averse to using contempt laws to silence voices seeking transparency and accountability of the judiciary”. “Ironically, it is this view which will be more damaging of the image of the SC rather than the import of the tweets of Prashant Bhushan,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Health ID with digital records||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a national digital health mission he said would enable doctors to access their patients’ entire medical records and help people fix appointments with doctors and make payments through keyboard strikes. Some health experts applauded the announcement saying the mission’s components could benefit patients and healthcare institutions, but cautioned that implementing the plan could be even more challenging than Aadhaar was. “Every Indian will be given a health ID,” Modi said in his Independence Day speech. “This health ID will work like a health account of every Indian. This account will contain your details of every test, every disease, the doctors you visited, the medicines you took and the diagnosis.” Doctors and experts enthusiastic about the plan said standardised records and error-free data entry would be critical. They underlined that people across India have for years detected errors in their voter I-cards, driving licences, Aadhaar cards and other such documents. “The intent is good — this is the way forward,” said Vispi Jokhi, a senior orthopaedic surgeon and chief executive officer at Masina Hospital, Mumbai. “But the most important issue will be training to ensure (patients’) data is entered correctly. Remember: garbage in, garbage out.” Another doctor stressed that while lay people can identify errors in their voter cards and driving licences, they are likely to be oblivious to any errors in their medical records. Many healthcare institutions already face staff shortages and it is uncertain who will enter the data. Another important challenge will be to ensure that whoever enters the data, Jokhi said — whether a nurse, doctor or healthcare worker — views it as “an aid at work rather than a hindrance”. The mission will create databases of doctors and hospitals across India, senior officials with the National Health Authority, a government agency entrusted with rolling out the mission, said. “These core building blocks of the mission shall be owned, operated and maintained by the government,” said Indu Bhushan, the NHA’s chief executive officer, in a media release. “Private institutions will have an opportunity to integrate with these building blocks… but the core activities and verifications, such as the generation of the health ID or approval of a doctor or facility, will remain with the government.” A patient’s personal health records — including information about previous doctors’ consultations, diagnostic tests and prescriptions — will be maintained in a digital format but will be accessible only with the patient’s consent, the NHA officials said. “No doctor will be able to access the personal health records without the patient’s consent,” Praveen Gedam, the NHA’s additional CEO, told The Telegraph. The mission will begin this month in seven Union Territories — Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Puducherry, the Andaman and Nicobar islands, and Lakshadweep — Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said. The NHA has said the mission will be a voluntary healthcare programme, which means that people who lack the health ID will not be denied treatment. But enthusiasm for the idea among health experts appeared tempered by concerns at the slow adoption of the electronic medical records (EMR) by the country’s healthcare institutions, although the Union health ministry had notified standards for the EMR in 2013 and revised them in 2016. “Even (among) private hospitals, EMRs are rarely exchanged between hospitals,” a senior official in India’s ministry of electronics and information technology had written in a paper four years ago. “These (EMRs) remain in the same hospital… and there is no authentic report on the number of patients whose EMRs have been stored.” But many believe the health ID will facilitate the mission’s rollout. “A unique health ID will help link the dots,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “This vision could be operationalised when the health ID is cross-linked across existing health records that are lying... with different healthcare providers and different diagnostic laboratories.” But getting healthcare institutions to sign in and share data in a standardised EMR format would be a challenge, officials and health experts said. “The technical objectives of ensuring the standardisation of records and ensuring seamless access along with appropriate safeguards could make this even more challenging than was Aadhaar,” John said. The proposed databases of doctors and hospitals will allow patients to choose their providers online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Kashmir leaders skip Independence Day celebrations, greetings ||The Kashmir valley’s pro-India politicians on Saturday appeared to treat Independence Day with scorn, mostly staying away from the celebrations, skipping the customary greetings, and some even mocking the absence of celebrations here. The Valley wore a deserted look courtesy the customary general strike called on such occasions. Only a handful of people, mostly officials, participated in Independence Day events in Srinagar and the other districts. While public participation would be negligible in previous years too, the mainstream politicians would turn up with some of their supporters. But this year, most of the politicians did not just stay away but appeared unwilling to even greet people on the occasion — a sign of the anger at last year’s abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood and special status. Mohammad Akbar Lone, National Conference Lok Sabha member from Baramulla, summed up the mood, saying he had stayed away from the celebrations because he no longer accepted August 15 as his Independence Day. “We don’t accept it as our Independence Day,” Lone told The Telegraph. Reminded that he and his party colleagues used to participate in such events in the past, he said he was talking about the situation “as on date”. “We did not go because the event is not ours.... It is natural (that people should feel this way after the scrapping of Article 370). The relations between them and us are bad,” Lone said. “We have no relations with them. How can we accept them and take them as our own? It cannot happen.” He added: “(This is) because we think what they have done to us is foolish. They even converted it (the state) into a UT (Union Territory). It is childish. They think they will overwhelm us with such measures but they can’t.” Lone said the government did not want the politicians at the events, either, and that they had not been allotted fuel for their official vehicles for the past two days. This newspaper checked the Twitter handles of nearly two dozen senior Valley politicians, including Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti (whose daughter operates her account with her permission) and Congress leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad and Ghulam Ahmad Mir. None had a word of salutation. Most of these politicians had been arrested during last year’s clampdown. Omar re-tweeted a report by the fact-checking website Alt News about some BJP leaders including Kapil Mishra, Kiron Kher and Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering sharing a “morphed” picture showing the Tricolour unfurled atop Srinagar’s clock tower. Some media outlets too showed the picture. Mehbooba’s Twitter handle was silent on Saturday, after taking a dig on Friday night at the judiciary for its alleged silence on Kashmir. “A defunct justice system would rather punish @pbhushan1 for stating the truth but doesn’t exhibit any sense of urgency & deliberately delays petitions challenging illegal abrogation of Article 370 & unlawful detention of people jailed since a year,” the tweet said. The Twitter account of Mehbooba’s People’s Democratic Party defiantly posted a recent picture showing Kashmir politicians in detention. “Politics has not ended in Kashmir, it has now started!” the PDP tweeted. The only prominent politician to greet the people was the separatist turned pro-India politician Sajad Lone, released recently after yearlong detention and house arrest. He too was critical of the Centre. “Happy Independence Day to all. Hope we stop customising independence. There cannot be a ‘one size fits all’ concept of independence. Independence is defined by it(s) vastness. By differentness not sameness,” Lone tweeted. Some made fun of the abysmal popular participation in the Independence Day events. “Is it a meme? Who did it,” wrote Naeem Akhtar, former minister and PDP politician, uploading a video of the city centre where the government had installed LCD screens for live telecast of the Prime Minister’s speech. Hardly anyone was there to watch it. Akhtar’s daughter Sheryyar Khanum sarcastically posted that there were “Jam-packed crowds in Naya Kashmir listening to Independence Day speech in Srinagar”. “Naya Kashmir” (New Kashmir) has been a favourite slogan with some BJP politicians since the scrapping of Article 370. Some politicians referred to Modi’s promise in his Independence Day speech about holding elections in Jammu and Kashmir after the ongoing delimitation process was complete. “Special gift for JK on I Day; Democracy must wait till complete Muslim political n administrative disempowerment — isn’t that what @PMOIndia meant in his address to nation. So the only political process — as some were seeking — would b filing representations before D Commission,” PDP spokesperson Firdous Tak said. Many politicians believe that the delimitation would grant more seats to Hindu-majority areas in Jammu to tilt the balance in the Assembly in Hindus’ favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Karnataka revives plan to ban Social Democratic Party of India ||The BJP has revived its plans to ban the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), an offshoot of the outlawed Students Islamic Organisation of India (Simi), whose footprints have been found in several instances of communal violence, including the recent arson and vandalism in Bangalore. The political wing of the Popular Front of India, which claims to be a social organisation but is seen as harbouring Right-wing tendencies, the SDPI had allegedly played a key role in the violence late on Tuesday in which an MLA’s house, two police stations and hundreds of vehicles were set ablaze in the Karnataka capital’s east, triggering police firing in which three persons died. More than 60 policemen were injured. “We will take the decision to ban both the SDPI and the PFI during our cabinet meeting on August 20,” Karnataka panchayati raj and rural development minister K.S. Eshwarappa told reporters in Shimoga on Friday. Both the PFI and the SDPI trace their roots to Simi, which was banned soon after the 9/11 attacks in the US. The PFI and the SDPI are active in Karnataka, Kerala and also Tamil Nadu. In January, the BJP government in Karnataka had tried to ban the SDPI during the anti-CAA protests. “The government is under pressure from various organisations to ban these groups whose leaders were behind the violence,” Eshwarappa said. A derogatory Facebook post by P. Naveen, nephew of local Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, had sparked the Bangalore violence. Revenue minister R. Ashoka said preliminary investigations had revealed that the SDPI had played a key role in fuelling the mob frenzy. “Their activists are also among those arrested. So the government has to take a call on the demand to ban them,” Ashoka said. Among those held for the violence is Congress councillor Irshad Begum’s husband Kaleem Pasha, who allegedly has links with the SDPI. None from the SDPI has commented on the Bangalore violence. The Dakshina Kannada district secretary of the CPM, Vasant Achari, questioned the logic behind banning these groups overlooking the fact that their rivals were Hindutva fundamentalists. “First of all, I don’t believe in banning any group. What happened after Simi was banned? They renamed themselves as PFI, SDPI and KFD (Karnataka Forum for Dignity). So they basically reappear with other names,” he told The Telegraph on Saturday. “Are those who are trying to ban them any less communal? Why are they leaving out the Hindutva groups like the Sree Rama Sene and the Bajrang Dal that’s been creating so much of trouble?” Achari asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Congress: Are we free to speak, ask, disagree?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis in his Independence Day speech on making the country self-reliant has not impressed the principal Opposition party Congress, which has focused instead on what it sees as an assault on the defining principles of democracy. Arguing that self-reliance has been an eternal quest that every government has worked for since the nation-building process began after Independence, Congress leaders insisted that the greatest necessity today is to protect the foundational principles such as equality, justice and freedom that have come under severe attack. The Congress also contrasted its role in the freedom struggle with the RSS-BJP’s “fake nationalism”, striking at the heart of the saffron camp’s nationalism plank and its tendency to brand any opposition as anti-national. As India celebrated its Independence Day, the Congress exhorted the people to take a vow to collectively save citizens’ fundamental rights and constitutional values. Rahul Gandhi’s tweet wishing the people on Independence Day indicated what was gnawing at the Congress’s mind: ‘“The only alternative to coexistence is co-destruction.’ Jawaharlal Nehru.” While the former Congress president has been relentlessly attacking Prime Minister Modi for the past few months over the economic mess and the Chinese intrusions, Saturday’s tweet betrays his worries about the impact of toxic communalism on the social fabric. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in her Independence Day message: “It appears the government is standing against democracy, constitutional norms and established traditions. These are testing times for India’s democracy. Every Indian needs to introspect what freedom means. In today’s India, is there freedom to write, to speak, to ask questions, to disagree, to express opinion, to seek accountability?” After the flag-hoisting ceremony at the Congress headquarters, party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Is the government committed to protect our freedoms? Does this government have faith in democracy, does it respect the people’s mandate? We see encroachment on individual rights everywhere…. And a government that is planning to sell India’s 32 public sector units — from the railways to airports, from LIC to FCI, can they make us atmanirbhar (self-reliant)?” The Congress also launched a social media campaign to create awareness about the freedom movement and the foundational values of Indian democracy. A video series called Dharohar (Legacy) was unveiled by Rahul, stressing how freedom was achieved through great struggle and sacrifice; and the social, political and constitutional values that evolved during the course of the greatest movement to create a modern nation-state. Through the campaign, the Congress is seeking to remind the younger generation, which has been fed the propaganda that nothing happened before Modi’s arrival on the national scene in 2014, of its glorious legacy. The Congress’s failure to counter that narrative, which also helped the RSS-BJP to usurp the nationalist plank, has been one of the key reasons for its continued electoral decline. Modi returned with a bigger mandate in 2019 primarily riding on the tension with Pakistan, with the Balakot air strike bolstering the BJP’s nationalist pitch. The Congress is finally waking up to confront the BJP on this critical factor. It has asserted that only the “fake nationalism” of the RSS brand can describe as unpatriotic raising questions on fundamental issues such as the economy, jobs, people’s welfare and territorial integrity. Many Congress spokespersons posted videos saying the time had come to expose the RSS-BJP’s “fake nationalism” and wondered who gave them the authority to issue certificates of patriotism. While the Congress ran a social media campaign on the BJP’s “fake nationalism” on the eve of Independence Day, Rahul sought to drag the Prime Minister back to the Chinese incursions, arguing that India would have to pay a heavy price for Modi’s lack of courage. The Congress leader tweeted on Friday night: “The Government of India is scared to face up to Chinese intentions in Ladakh. Evidence on the ground indicates that China is preparing and positioning itself. The Prime Minister’s personal lack of courage and the media’s silence will result in India paying a huge price.” Modi, however, avoided naming China in his Independence Day speech, only saying: “From LoC to LAC, whoever has tried to challenge the country’s sovereignty, the country and its forces have given a befitting reply to them.” While the LAC (Line of Actual Control) was a reference to China, he also spoke against expansionism again. This was in sharp contrast to Modi’s usual bellicose public posturing on Pakistan — defined by his “ghar mein ghus ke mara” claim — but he appeared satisfied with the situation, saying the world had seen what India could do to protect its sovereignty. It is not clear what retaliatory action the Prime Minister was referring to. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari responded: “China has occupied our territory. The Prime Minister of India does not have the courage to name China. What kind of a leader is he??? On Independence Day people must rise to protect our independence.” Sonia also said in her message that the best tribute to the Indian soldiers who died in the Ladakh clash would be to throw out the Chinese from Indian territory. The BJP has condemned Rahul’s sustained grilling on China as anti-national. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said in a video message: “How come anybody asking questions about jobs, economy, China… become anti-national? Whatever you say, the BJP will either brand you a traitor or a fake nationalist. Who gave them the certificate to assess our patriotism? When the Congress was fighting the British, they were siding with them, writing mercy petitions, promising not to join the Congress struggle.” Shrinate added: “We want to ask how most attacks on our borders happen during the BJP’s rule — Kargil, Doklam, Ladakh? Modi goes to Pakistan to celebrate Nawaz Sharif’s birthday, calls the ISI to the Pathankot airbase and remains a nationalist. And all others who ask questions are anti-national.” Alleging that the RSS had been dancing to the tune of the British when the Congress was fighting them, another party spokesperson, Ragini Nayak, said: “They burnt copies of India’s Constitution, refused to hoist the Tricolour for 52 years and distributed sweets after Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination. What kind of nationalism is this?” Echoing the allegation that the RSS had no role in the freedom struggle, senior Congress leader Mohan Prakash asked: “Is selling public sector units like the LIC, BPCL, BSNL and the railways a patriotic act?” The Congress posted several messages, videos and graphics pointing out that “true nationalism was reflected when the Congress built India — world-class institutions, telecom, milk and green revolutions, the world’s largest army and robust economic growth. Toppling governments, muzzling the voice of the people, selling national assets is not patriotic”. The Congress also explained how the BJP had delivered the highest unemployment rate since Independence, the lowest GDP growth rate, publicity stunts and fake news during its six-year rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-726
16-08-2020||India||Pandian drives Naveen to I-Day venue||IAS officer V.K. Pandian, who is private secretary to Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, on Saturday drove his boss to the venue of the Independence Day celebrations in what is being viewed as Patnaik’s complete faith in the officer. Pandian, 46, was behind the wheel of the car which took the chief minister from Naveen Niwas to the Exhibition Ground around 3km away, a 10minute drive. Both Pandian and Patnaik wore masks. Normally a government driver takes Patnaik to programmes and functions but he seems to have done away with his services temporarily in view of the pandemic. “Since Patnaik has complete trust in Pandian, he decided to go to the function with him. Pandian offered to drive him to the venue,” said a source. Patnaik has restricted the visit of people to his residence with Pandian the only officer to have unrestricted access. Many believe Pandian has a say in all important political and administrative decisions. “An IAS officer from Tamil Nadu, Pandian is not supposed to have any political interest in the state. Hence, he is trusted even more by Patnaik,” said a political analyst. •An earlier version of the report erroneously gave the IAS officer's name as Naveen Pandian. We apologise for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
16-08-2020||India||Lockdown leaves Mountain Man’s family in penury||Dashrath Manjhi, popularly known as the “Mountain Man”, may not have felt helpless when he carved a road through hills for 22 years to ensure villagers could get road access to the nearest town. But his family have been left helpless by the lockdown and the lack of jobs, forcing them into living a hand-to-mouth existence. All the limelight that Manjhi’s family had received due to his feat, all the accolades, recognitions, awards and the grit that runs in their genes did not help when the coronavirus-induced lockdown struck. “My father Dashrath Manjhi chiselled through the hills single-handedly for 22 years to carve a road and became immortal. We carry his legacy and determination but we have lost to the lockdown and joblessness. We feel so helpless,” said his son Bhagirath, furrows of sorrow and frustration etched on his face. Bhagirath, 65, lives with 24 family members, including those of his sister and her sons, in adobe huts on a small piece of land at Gehlaur village in Bihar’s Gaya district. “Our entire family, barring the children, worked as labourers, masons and daily wagers. But the lockdown has taken away everybody’s jobs and forced them to sit at home. Whatever savings we had, has been spent,” Bhagirath told The Telegraph. The different stages of “unlock” did not come to their rescue and they could not get employment. With all savings finished in just a month, the family survived on the help provided by people from neighbouring villages and subsisted on foodgrains borrowed from locals who are well-off. Then, a grandniece (sister’s granddaughter) of Bhagirath, Pinky Kumari, aged 3, was hit by a speeding motorcycle outside their home on July 12, and suffered fractures in one hand and both legs. With no money to take her to hospital, the family had to borrow Rs 35,000 at 10 per cent monthly interest from local moneylenders. The girl is now recovering with plasters in her limbs. Former parliamentarian Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party provided Rs 10,000 but it went in Pinky’s treatment. “We don’t know how we will be able to return the borrowed money without getting work. The return of migrant workers to their homes has created a glut of labourers and the wages have gone down significantly. We are unable to get any work even as agricultural labourers,” said Bhagirath’s son-in-law Mithun Manjhi. The family is somehow managing to stay afloat as Bhagirath’s daughter is an anganwadi sevika (assistant) and gets a salary of Rs 4,400 per month. The family have also  been able to get some foodgrains with their ration cards. “You can imagine our condition by seeing the food on our plate. We used to have rice, dal, roti, vegetables, milk and tea before the lockdown. But now we eat only rice and dal or sometimes roti and dal,” Mithun said. “We feel that the entire situation is man-made and aggravated due to the mismanagement of the government. No government official has come to enquire about us nor we have received any government help so far,” Mithun alleged. Dashrath, who passed away in 2007, was a poor labourer residing at Gehlaur. His wife Falguni Devi slipped and fell in 1959 while crossing a hillock which bordered the south of Gehlaur. She was badly injured and succumbed to her injuries as the villagers could not take her to the hospital on time as the nearest town was 55km away. Working continuously between 1960 and 1982, Dashrath, with just a hammer and a chisel, shortened the distance between Atri and Wazirganj blocks from 55km to 15km, with just one thought in his mind that people should not die without medical attention like his wife did. He carved out a 110-metres long, 9.1-metres wide and 7.6-metres deep path through the hillock, thereby shortening the distance to Gaya town by 40km. Documentaries, television show and films have been made on Dashrath’s life, including the Ketan Mehta directed Manjhi — The Mountain Man, with Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Radhika Apte in the lead roles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-727
