17-08-2020||India||Shaheen Bagh protest scripted by BJP: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has claimed the entire Shaheen Bagh protest was "scripted by the BJP" and that its leadership dictated each and every move of the agitators for electoral benefits in Delhi polls.

AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj made the claim a day after several Muslims from the Shaheen Bagh area, which was the centre of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, joined the BJP.

Bhardwaj alleged the BJP's campaign for the Delhi election centred around the Shaheen Bagh protests and it was the only party that benefited from the controversy surrounding the agitation.

"Delhi assembly election could have been fought on the issue of education, health, environment or other developmental narratives. But the Delhi BJP chose to fight the election on the issue of Shaheen Bagh", he said at a press conference.

"The whole Shaheen Bagh protest was scripted by the BJP. The topmost leadership of the BJP scripted each and every step of these protests," he alleged.

"They decided who will speak what, who will attack whom and then who will be doing the counterattack," Bharadwaj further claimed.

Manoj Tiwari, Delhi BJP chief, remarked in a tweet, "Now the confusion is getting cleared and Muslim brothers and sisters want to walk with the BJP...Stop dividing Arvind Kejriwal ji. The world's largest party BJP represents all religions and does not discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or lineage."

Shaheen Bagh became the epicentre of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) as mostly women, some with young children, staged a sit-in protest there for over three months. The protest was called off in view of the coronavirus outbreak.

The elections in the national capital took place in the midst of the Shaheen Bagh protest in the city over the new citizenship law, an issue that was strongly raised by the top BJP leadership during the campaigning, which often turned bitter and vitriolic.

The BJP's political opponents accused it of carrying out a "divisive" campaign to polarise the voters by consistently highlighting the demonstration by women at Shaheen Bagh. While the BJP campaign focussed on issues related to national security in Delhi polls, the AAP focussed on its achievements in the fields of education, healthcare and infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
17-08-2020||India||An intellectual giant passes away||“I’m not born; it’s 1948 and the bus turns onto a road without a name; there on his bicycle my father, he’s younger than I; at Okhla where I get off, I pass my parents strolling by the river Jamuna.” Agha Shahid Ali Shahid’s father, Ashraf Ali, the grand old man of Srinagar, teacher and guide for generations of Kashmiri students, passed away in his sleep on Friday, August 7. He died as he lived, without a murmur and with a smile on his face. He was buried, as per his last wish, next to his beloved wife Sufia in Baba Mazar, the Shia graveyard in Zadibal. Incredibly, Agha Ashraf lived the last 23 years since his wife’s demise almost alone except for visits by his wonderful children, Hena, Shahid, Sameetha, Iqbal, all of whom followed in their father’s footsteps, securing doctorates and teaching in various universities in the United States. His son, Agha Shahid Ali, the renowned Kashmiri-American poet, was already a legend and inspiration for a whole generation of young Kashmiri writers. Sadly, he passed away in December 2001. Agha Ashraf’s family for the last many years were his ‘Mulazims’, the youngest of whom, Shaukat, was beside him at the end and made arrangements for Agha’s final journey.  Despite the lockdown in the city, nearly 100 people, including many of his students who worshipped the old man, assembled to recite the ‘Fatiha’ and pay homage to Agha Saheb. The youngest of three brothers, Agha Ashraf Ali, was born on October 18, 1922, into a highly educated and illustrious Kashmir family.  His older brothers were both civil servants, one in India, and the other in Pakistan. Ashraf himself was, unequivocally Kashmiri’s greatest educationist; teacher, professor, principal, and Commissioner of Education with Sheikh Abdullah until he resigned. Academia flowed in his veins. His mother, Begum Zafar Ali, herself an educationist and a legislator, was the first female matriculate of Kashmir and his maternal grandfather, Agha Syed Hussain, was likewise the first to pass class X. Agha was hugely influenced by Dr Zakir Hussain, who later became President of India. He often quoted Zakir Hussain’s words in S.P. College where he was a student: “youth was not an attainment but an opportunity which should not be wasted.”  Dr Zakir Hussain later became Agha’s teacher and moulded his personality. When asked about his philosophy, Agha Shahid famously said, “I don’t have a philosophy, I have a temperament.”  His father had both, quite often asking questions that he already knew the answers to. While extremely well read, Agha Saheb’s philosophy was solidly Gandhian.  The child in the old man emerged when he referred to his ‘Bapu,’ often emulating the Mahatma in his squeaky voice. Above all Agha was a humanist who spent most of his last years doing charitable work. His integrity was unimpeachable. He believed in the Quranic injunction, “Speak the truth even if against yourself.” Sufia Nishan, the Agha home, resembled an English countryside cottage in its exterior resplendent with roses. The inside was more austere. Ashraf’s pride was his library; a personal area to which only special friends were admitted even though he kept an open house without discrimination between Hindu and Muslim. More Pandits visited him than Kashmiris. Gandhi’s books and photographs were strewn all over the house. Agha was an icon in Srinagar. Those who’d never met him missed out not only on a storehouse of wisdom but the most unforgettable human being: the essence of Kashmiriyat and ‘Ganga Jamuni Tehzeeb’. My regret is that I also met him too late. In the Spring of 2011 whilst in pursuit of the ‘Vajpayee Years,’ my young friend from the city, Nadir Ali, who was virtually a member of the household insisted that I accompany him to meet the great man.  It was a revelation and an exhilarating experience of Kashmir and life though I sensed Agha was sizing up how crooked a spook could be. He wouldn’t talk to me even as I tried to coax something from him about Kashmir. He just laughed and skirted the issue. Our second meeting in the summer of 2012 was easier and when he invited me, I had the privilege of attending his 90th birthday celebration in October with the intimate ‘who’s who’ of Srinagar. I felt admitted as a friend. In the course of time, it helped me finally eke out his views on Kashmir. Agha Saheb had no doubt that Sheikh Abdullah, ‘Sher-e-Kashmir’, as he referred to him, was the tallest leader in Kashmir. Yet, he said, while Sheikh was gutsy, he had no brains: he could not fathom the reaction to Partition in North India and what Prime Minister Nehru was doing in Kashmir to save Muslims in the rest of the country. In 2014, I asked him who he would vote for in the elections.  “Farooq of course,” he said. He was the only one who could fight Modi.  Agha had been disappointed that Mufti Sayeed had tied up with the BJP. When the floods came in September 2014, Agha was marooned at home; he had to be rescued in a boat from his first-floor window. He arrived in Delhi the same evening and came to our place for dinner. His first words as he entered were, “Dulat Saheb, I escaped death by three minutes.” He was visibly shaken. His house in Srinagar was devastated and took two years to repair, his library totally lost in the flood. He was living in a hut in Chashme Shahi when I visited him in the summer of 2016. Because he enjoyed his tipple, I normally carried a bottle of whiskey for him. This time, I had no whiskey and felt sheepish when I entered empty handed. Agha’s response to my apology for the lapse was typical of the man: “Don’t worry, I’m only 94 you can bring me a bottle next year.” I phoned him on his birthday, both in 2016 and 2017, and he always said, “Thanks so much for remembering me.” But sadly, there was to be no next year. In the last two years he was not particularly keen to communicate.  Since then one got news of Agha Saheb mainly from his son Iqbal [Lala] who visited his father from the United States every three months and was kind enough to call while passing through Delhi. Haji Altaf, a Shia who owns a hardware shop in Maisuma, claims that Agha Saheb summoned him last year to convey to the Abdullah family that Omar was the future of Kashmir. Agha was impressed both by Omar’s speech in Parliament and a spark of humility that he saw in him. The link with Maisuma also possibly explains Agha’s weakness for Yasin Malik and his so-called ‘Gandhian path’ till he realised that Yasin was going astray and lacked leadership. Agha’s last bit of political advice to the Kashmiri leadership was “Unite or Perish!” Agha Saheb will be sorely missed by all those that came into contact with him. Those who need him most are the youth going astray in Kashmir, caught between war and peace, desperately needing to heed Agha Shahid’s most beautiful of lines, “We shall meet again in Srinagar by the gates of the villa of Peace.” A.S. Dulat is a former chief of the Research & Analysis Wing. He was also a Special Director of the Intelligence Bureau and Advisor on Kashmir Affairs in Prime Minister Vajpayee’s office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
17-08-2020||India||Pandit Jasraj dies in the US at 90||Indian classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, his daughter Durga Jasraj said. He was 90.

One of India's greatest music legends, Pandit Jasraj leaves behind a storied legacy spanning almost eight decades.

Bapuji is no more, his daughter Durga, also a musician, told PTI over phone from Mumbai. She was inconsolable and could not speak any more.

Jasraj, who belonged to the Mewati Gharana, was in the US when the coronavirus-led lockdown happened and decided to stay back in that country. “With profound grief we inform that Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj ji breathed his last this morning at 5.15 EST due to a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, USA,” a statement issued by his family said here.

“May Lord Krishna welcome him lovingly through the doors of heaven, where Pandit ji will now sing Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevaya exclusively just for his beloved Lord. We pray that his soul rests in eternal musical peace. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers, Pandit Jasraj ji's family, and the students of Mewati Gharana," it said. Condoling the death of Pandit Jasraj, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that his demise had left a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere.
"The unfortunate demise of Pandit Jasraj Ji leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere. Not only were his renditions outstanding, he also made a mark as an exceptional mentor to several other vocalists. Condolences to his family and admirers worldwide. Om Shanti," the Prime Minister tweeted.
Along with the tweet, Modi also posted old pictures of him felicitating the maestro. With a musical career spanning almost 80 years, the doyen of Indian classical vocal music was a recipient of various prestigious awards and honours including Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. He represented the last of a generation of classical vocalists, which includes 83-year-old Kishori Amonkar, the doyenne of the Jaipur Atrauli gharana, reported IndianExpress.com. In September last year, a minor planet which traverses the cosmos between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter was named after him by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). The 2006 VP32 (number -300128) , discovered on November 11, 2006, was named ‘Panditjasraj’, where the doyen of Indian classical music will be ever immortalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
17-08-2020||India||Covid: Record number of recoveries in a day||The number of people who have recuperated from Covid-19 in India went past 19 lakh on Monday with a record 57,584 patients recovering within a span of 24 hours, pushing the recovery rate to over 72 per cent, according to the Union Health ministry data. India's Covid-19 recoveries have reached closer to 2 million (19,19,842), while the actual caseload of the country stands at 6,76,900 on date and currently comprises only 25.57 per cent of the total positive cases. This difference between the recovered and the active cases continues to expand and now stands at 12,42,942. The recovery rate is 72.51 per cent at present. This is the result of successful and coordinated implementation of an effective containment strategy, aggressive and comprehensive testing coupled with standardized clinical management of the critical patients, the ministry said in a statement. India has followed a standard of care protocol for the differentiated categorisation of Covid-19 patients - mild, moderate and severe as clearly formulated in the Clinical Management Protocol of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), it said. The effective clinical management strategies have yielded positive results, the ministry said. India has been marching firmly on the road to enhanced recoveries every day, it asserted. The early identification of cases has helped to ensure timely and prompt isolation of the mild and moderate cases and hospitalisation of the severe and critical cases thereby leading to timely and effective management of cases, the ministry said. The Case Fatality Rate has further slumped to 1.92 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally rose to 26,47,663 on Monday with a single-day spike of 57,981 infections, while the death toll crossed the 50,000 mark with 941 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has also crossed the three crore-mark in India, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India|| SC rejects plea to postpone JEE, NEET||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations, which are scheduled to be conducted in September, amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases, saying precious year of students "cannot be wasted" and life has to go on. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said career of students "cannot be put under jeopardy for long". "Life has to go on. Life has to move ahead. Precious year of students cannot be wasted," the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said during the hearing conducted through video conferencing while paving the way for commencement of the exams as scheduled. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the apex court that due precautions and all safeguards would be taken while conducting these examinations. The counsel appearing for the petitioners told the bench that lakhs of students are looking towards the top court for relief and they were only seeking postponement of these exams. The plea, filed by 11 students belonging to 11 states, had sought quashing of the July 3 notices issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), by which it was decided to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) April 2020 and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-Undergraduate exams in September. As per the public notices issued by NTA, JEE (Main) April 2020 is scheduled from September 1-6, while NEET UG 2020 exam is scheduled for September 13. The plea, filed through advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, had referred to Covid-19 pandemic and said authorities be directed to conduct these exams only after normalcy is restored. The plea had also sought direction to the authorities to increase the number of examination centres. "Conducting the aforesaid examination across India at such perilous time, is nothing else but putting lives of lakhs of young students (including petitioners herein) at utmost risk and danger of disease and death. The best recourse at this stage can be to wait for some more time, let COVID-19 crisis subside and then only conduct these exams, in order to save lives of the students and their parents," the plea had said. It had claimed that NTA, which conducts entrance exams for admission in higher educational institutions in India, has decided to conduct JEE (Main) April-2020 through online mode and NEET UG-2020 exams through offline mode at 161 centres across the country. It had alleged that NTA has indefinitely postponed the National Council of Hotel Management Joint Entrance Examination-2020, which was scheduled to be conducted on June 22, in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea had also alleged that authorities concerned have ignored the plight of lakhs of students from Bihar, Assam and north eastern states, which are presently reeling under flood, and conducting either online or offline exams in such places may not be possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||3 killed in a militant attack in J&K's Baramulla||Two CRPF jawans and a policeman were killed in a militant attack in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, police said. A joint team of the CRPF and J&K Police were on duty at a check post at Kreeri, said the officials, when some terrorists fired at them. The terrorists managed to escape after the attack. "We have lost three jawans in the attack. Reinforcement has been rushed to the spot. We are confirming the details," said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police. "Terrorists fired upon joint naka party of Police and CRPF near Kreeri area of Baramulla. Two CRPF and one JKP personnel sustained critical gunshot injuries who later on succumbed at hospital and attained martyrdom. Area cordoned off, search ops on. @JmuKmrPolice," a tweet by the Kashmir Zone Police read. Security forces have cordoned off the area and a hunt has been launched to nab the militants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Book on Sikkim governor’s work||Sikkim Raj Bhavan on Saturday published a coffee table book on governor Ganga Prasad’s work in the state as well as in Meghalaya where he had held the post previously. Titled “Memoirs of the onset years of the Hon’ble Governor of Sikkim Ganga Prasad”, the book was released in the presence of Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) and some of his close aides at Raj Bhavan in Gangtok on Saturday. A release issued by the governor’s office said: “The coffee table book highlights the contribution of the Hon’ble Governor and features pictorial illustrations of his various engagements within and outside the State. The book also includes social and political ascension and short stint as Governor in Meghalaya.” The two biggest contributions of Prasad as governor were controversial. First was the formation of the National People’s Party (NPP)-led alliance government in Meghalaya in March 2018 despite the Congress emerging as the single largest party. The BJP is an ally of the NPP led by chief minister Conrad Sangma. Second was the appointment of Tamang as chief minister in May 2019 despite he not being eligible to contest any election at that time. The accusation against Prasad on both the occasions was that he was doing the bidding of the BJP. Golay contested and won from one of the three seats where bypolls were held in dramatic circumstances in 2019. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had paved the way for him to contest the election a day after the SKM had stitched an alliance with the BJP and a day before the last date of filing of nominations for the bypolls. Golay had been disqualified to contest elections after serving a year’s term in a corruption case. A provision in the Representation of Peoples (RP) Act, 1951, bars a person convicted of corruption from contesting any election for six years from the date of his release. The ECI had reduced the disqualification period for Golay by virtue of the power vested on it by Section 11 of Representation of People’s Act, 1951.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Facebook’s political can of worms||A Wall Street Journal report that suggested Facebook condoned hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem in India to protect the company’s business prospects in its largest market in the world has opened a political can of worms on a toxic phenomenon called the “WhatsApp University”. The Congress on Sunday demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) into Facebook’s links with the BJP and the role of the social media platforms, including the WhatsApp chat service the company owns, in spreading hate and fake news in India. Congress leaders disclosed that they had lodged formal complaints with Facebook and WhatsApp on multiple occasions, categorically asking them to stop influencing Indian elections, but no corrective measures had been taken. The Journal, the New York-based business-focused paper controlled by Rupert Murdoch, reported on Friday that Facebook allowed — on the advice of Ankhi Das, its public policy director for South and Central Asia — posts by a BJP legislator that incite violence. The report quoted unnamed current and former Facebook employees who said Das “told staff members that punishing violations by politicians from Mr Modi’s party would damage the company’s business prospects in the country, Facebook’s biggest global market by number of users”. The Journal report named T. Raja Singh, an MLA and the BJP’s House leader in the Telangana Assembly, and referred to some of his posts against Muslims, saying designated Facebook employees concluded that “Mr Singh not only had violated the company’s hate-speech rules but qualified as dangerous”. The employees contended that “his rhetoric could lead to real-world violence, and he should be permanently banned from the company’s platforms world-wide….” However, Singh “is still active on Facebook and Instagram, where he has hundreds of thousands of followers”. The report said Das, Facebook’s top public policy executive in the country, “opposed applying the hate-speech rules to Mr Singh and at least three other Hindu nationalist individuals….” The Journal report added that after queries from the newspaper, some posts of Singh, BJP MP Anant Kumar Hegde and Delhi leader Kapil Mishra were taken down on Thursday. Provocative speeches and posts by Mishra had immediately preceded the February Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed. MLA Singh, however, claimed he did not have an account on Facebook. “Show me one case of rioting that I called for. There are many Facebook accounts open in my name which I am not responsible for…. I can’t stop them all. I am not responsible if anyone likes or shares their posts. My official Facebook account was hacked in 2018 and blocked, which I complained about to the Cyberabad commissioner (of police). I have got no reply on why it was hacked. I have never given any incendiary speech on my official Facebook or Twitter accounts,” he said in a video message on Twitter. In response to questions from The Telegraph, a Facebook spokesperson said on Sunday evening: “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy.” Facebook has more users in India than in any other country, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP have more followers than any other head of government, or party, respectively, on the platform. Modi had addressed a public meeting at Facebook’s headquarters in California in 2015. Facebook bought almost 10 per cent stake in Reliance Jio this year. Last year, Facebook and other social media firms were summoned by the parliamentary standing committee on information technology in India on “safeguarding citizens’ rights” after Right-wingers complained that the site was biased against them. Earlier this year, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg had appeared to cite a speech made by Mishra, the Delhi BJP leader. The rampant spread of fake news and hate speech and the propensity of some social media users not only to believe such fictitious accounts but also regurgitate them as verified information have led to the coinage “WhatsApp University”. The fake factory, which is propelled by the wide reach provided by social media platforms, has become the principal source of information for propagandists of all hues, although the Right wing is more visible than the others. On Sunday, the Congress said other legal options were open if the government refused to accept the JPC demand. The party claimed that Facebook and WhatsApp were not only interfering with India’s electoral processes but also poisoning the society by aiding the spreading of hate. Rahul Gandhi led the party’s attack after the Journal’s report, tweeting: “BJP & RSS control Facebook & WhatsApp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it and use it to influence the electorate. Finally, the American media has come out with the truth about Facebook.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh, who played a key role in the Congress’s election management in 2019, tweeted: “I’ve seen first-hand how Facebook behaved during election campaigns. It is the greatest carrier of lies, and is a lethal threat to social harmony and reasoned debate. Parliament must institute an inquiry into Facebook’s practices.” Praveen Chakravarty, the head of the Congress’s data analytics department, said at a media conference on Sunday afternoon: “I met Facebook’s global head of government relations and elections on July 17, 2018, in America and discussed the issue of bias and partisanship of their India team. I was told this would be looked into, but nothing happened. “On October 12, 2018, I and a few of my party colleagues met Facebook India’s head of government relations. We highlighted how Facebook India was blocking the Congress and denying permission to put ads on Facebook regarding the Rafale issue. We also raised many instances and cases of clear bias and presented evidence. The executive (Das) feigned ignorance and promised to look into the matter. Nothing happened.” Chakravarty said he also met the global CEO of WhatsApp and raised concerns about fake and hate speech being spread unchecked through the platform. “I implored him to take serious notice and warned that such rampant spread of fake and hate propaganda during elections amounts to interference in India’s elections. He heard me politely but did nothing,” Chakravarty said, adding: “I was not surprised because WhatsApp was waiting for government permission and a licence to start their payments business in India.” Demanding a JPC probe, former minister Ajay Maken told the media conference: “The bias and alignment of Facebook India’s leadership team with the BJP and the RSS is not limited to just their head of public policy in India. There are many others in that leadership team with a close working relationship with people in the BJP. “There is clear and ample evidence to warrant a serious investigation by Facebook headquarters into the operations of their India team and their efforts in interfering in India’s electoral democracy….” Maken asked why a JPC probe could not be ordered over a serious issue linked to India’s democracy if the US Senate could summon Facebook CEO Zuckerberg and a Brazilian parliamentary committee could investigate the role of Facebook in election interference. Maken said internal communications of Facebook had revealed that business in India would be affected if action was taken against BJP members. “We want the commercial deal between Facebook and WhatsApp with the BJP investigated,” Maken added. Congress social media head Rohan Gupta said he had written to Facebook’s Das about incendiary posts and fake news spread through WhatsApp and Facebook this April and followed it up with a meeting with her, along with some Congress Working Committee members, to explain how the social media platforms used by over 40 crore Indians were being misused to help the BJP. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad responded but steered clear of specifics: “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP & RSS. You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica & Facebook to weaponise data before the elections & now have the gall to question us?” In 2018, whistleblower Christopher Wylie had told a British parliamentary committee that he believed that the Congress was a client of data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica that used Facebook data without authorisation of users for political advertising. The Congress denied this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Bhushan releases details of graft charges||Advocate Prashant Bhushan has contended that corruption in the judiciary does not mean monetary gratification alone but includes other offences such as fraud, abuse of discretion and favouritism, and that alleging graft cannot be contempt of court “per se”. Bhushan on Saturday released to the media the written submission he is to make before a Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on Monday in a case of criminal contempt against him for claiming in an interview in 2009 that “half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt”. The same bench convicted Bhushan last week of criminal contempt for a tweet each on the destruction of democracy and the current Chief Justice of India. The apex court is to pronounce the quantum of punishment in the tweets case on August 20. In his written response in connection with the contempt proceedings against him for alleging corruption, Bhushan has contended that several former judges and former CJIs too have in various media interviews spoken about corruption in the judiciary, and so he cannot be hauled up for raising the issue. Bhushan has stated in his submission: “Corruption in public life has a wide and expansive definition. Corruption is not restricted to pecuniary gratification alone but various instruments identify its particular forms such as bribery, embezzlement, theft, fraud, extortion, abuse of discretion, favouritism, nepotism, clientelism, conduct creating or exploiting conflicting interests.” Bhushan has added: “The factum of corruption in the judiciary has been stated in parliamentary committee reports on prevention of corruption, has been commented upon by former judges of this Hon’ble Court, has been taken note of in various judgements….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Life-and-death chess battle with Covid||Critical-care specialist Srinivas Samavedam is engaged in what he calls a life-or-death “chess battle” with Covid-19, monitoring every move the coronavirus makes to plan timely countermoves. Each time Samavedam or his colleagues at Hyderabad’s Virinchi Hospitals or their peers across India treating severe Covid-19 cases get their counter-strikes right, a patient goes home. “We’re winning more now than we were three months ago,” said Samavedam, general secretary of the Indian Society for Critical Care Medicine, a professional body. India has recorded a steady fall in its Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed patients — from 3.33 per cent in mid-June to 2.57 per cent in mid-July and 1.93 per cent on August 16. The 1.4 percentage point fall in the CFR would translate into more than 870 deaths averted daily or over 6,000 patients saved weekly based on India’s average of 62,382 new cases per day for the week ending August 15. India’s health ministry too has reported a fall in ventilator use among Covid-19 patients — from 0.45 per cent in mid-May to 0.27 per cent in mid-July. The falling CFR and reduced ventilator use, doctors say, are outcomes of the rising counts of lab-confirmed cases through increased testing, as well as improvements in how the patients are being treated. “Treatment strategies have changed. We’re still learning but we’re more confident about what we should do and what works now than three months ago,” said Anjan Trikha, professor of critical-care medicine and head of Covid-19 management at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “We now use non-invasive oxygen delivery strategies more often than earlier and the (invasive) ventilators only when non-invasive methods fail.” Health ministry officials have attributed the fall in CFR to early diagnosis and effective treatment under the standard guidelines made available to doctors nationwide. Doctors from AIIMS too offer online guidance twice weekly to their peers across the country. “We now see oxygen as a drug,” said Yogiraj Ray, a senior consultant in charge of the Covid-19 critical-care ward at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Calcutta. “We take into account the dose, the delivery mode, and target the oxygen levels we want in the patient.” Early reports from China and Italy had prompted doctors worldwide to offer invasive ventilation to most Covid-19 patients with severe oxygen deprivation. Although non-invasive oxygen delivery was an option, doctors often chose to put their patients on ventilator — which requires intubating them — out of fear that patients receiving non-invasive oxygen might generate aerosols and endanger hospital staff. “Over time, with experience, when some patients rejected the ventilation option, we realised this was an unfounded fear,” said a senior doctor at a private hospital. Doctors believe that the lowered ventilation rates will reduce deaths. Ventilation — an invasive process in which oxygen is pumped through a tube inserted into the throat — carries health risks. Doctors have underlined that the average mortality among patients put on ventilator for other causes of pneumonia is between 35 and 45 per cent. “I have 34 Covid-19 patients who need oxygen now; 14 are on non-invasive ventilation, six are on high-flow oxygen,” Samavedam said on Sunday. “Three months ago, all 34 would be on invasive ventilation.” Falls in death rates and in ventilator use have been observed in other countries too. In the UK, for instance, deaths among Covid-19 patients in hospital fell from 6 per cent in early April to 1.5 per cent in mid-June. During the early weeks of the pandemic, doctors viewed severe Covid-19 primarily as severe pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) — caused also by myriad other microbes, including the H1N1 influenza virus. “We now know that Covid-19 is not classical ARDS,” said Sumit Ray, head of critical-care medicine at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi. “The infection may also lead to small clots in blood vessels and other complications. We need to look out for signals of such complications as early as possible.” Ray added: “As we learn more about a new infection, survival rates improve.” He underlined that mortality among patients with severe H1N1 was 60 per cent when the infection first emerged. “But by the second season, mortality had dropped to 40-45 per cent, which is typical for all viral ARDS,” he said. Doctors say that a Covid-19 patient’s survival hinges on, among other factors, the physician’s ability to quickly recognise how the infection is affecting the patient’s physiology and respond with timely interventions. “It’s like a chess battle — we have to keep an eye on what the virus is doing,” Samavedam said. Daily blood tests allow the doctors to look out for specific biochemical markers or signatures of trouble. If levels of a marker called d-dimer — associated with the risk of blood clots — increases, the doctor gives the patient an anti-clotting drug. If a marker called interleukin-6 — associated with an inflammatory condition called a cytokine storm — increases, the doctor introduces cytokine filters or anti-cytokine-storm drugs. When a marker linked to viral proliferation increases, the doctor administers an anti-viral. “We calibrate treatment according to the behaviour of the virus,” Samavedam said. But doctors say that it would be a mistake to infer that the reduced need for ventilators means that Covid-19 patients do not require invasive ventilation at all. “The challenge is to identify early the patients who need ventilation and offer it in time,” said Shikha Panwar, a critical-care medicine specialist at the Sarvodaya Hospital, Faridabad. “Most of the critically ill patients recover after non-invasive ventilation or high-flow oxygen. But a small percentage of such patients can’t maintain their oxygen levels through non-invasive oxygen. Denying ventilators to such patients is not justified.” Panwar recalled a 55-year-old patient who she believed needed invasive ventilation. “But he refused and kept on demanding high-flow oxygen. He survived but his lungs are fibrosed and he still needs extra oxygen a month after discharge,” she said. Timely invasive ventilation can be crucial, doctors have emphasised amid concern that some patients or their families have been refusing invasive ventilation because of its risks. “A small subset of Covid-19 patients will need invasive ventilation,” said Ray at the Holy Family Hospital. “The ventilator settings in Covid-19 are slightly different. We’ve learnt that over time.” In one hospital, a 36-year-old patient in a critical condition refused ventilation for six days, insisting on non-invasive oxygen delivery. “Finally, we intubated him after the six-day delay but he died six days after intubation,” the patient’s treating doctor said. “We had lost time.” The health ministry on Sunday recorded 63,490 new Covid-19 cases, which raised the total number of lab-confirmed cases above 2.58 million, of whom 677,444 patients are under medical supervision, over 1.86 million have recovered and 49,980 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Pilot bugbear removed||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday conceded one of the key demands of Sachin Pilot by removing Avinash Pandey as party general secretary in charge of Rajasthan. The Pilot group believes Pandey is biased and never tries to solve any problem objectively, leading to the eruption of the rebellion that imperilled the government. Senior leader Ajay Maken has been appointed general secretary in his place. Maken will also be a member of a committee that also has Ahmed Patel and K.C. Venugopal that will look into the grievances of the Pilot group. Maken, who was part of the team that handled the rebellion in Rajasthan, is considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Maken had been general secretary in charge of communications before he took over as Delhi Congress chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||Dalit teen gangraped and killed||A 13-year-old Dalit girl was found gang-raped and strangled with her dupatta on Saturday, her eyes gouged out and her tongue carrying a gash suggesting the killers had tried to chop it off, police have said. Two young men were arrested on Saturday night in the Isanagar area of Lakhimpur Kheri district, 130km north of Lucknow. Family members said they had last seen the girl on Saturday morning playing outside her home. They began a search when she failed to return home for lunch. Late in the afternoon, the mutilated body was found in an agricultural field, about 150m from her home. Some villagers said they had seen her at 10am, walking towards an area of the field where people relieved themselves. “Her post-mortem report has confirmed she was raped and tortured. We have arrested two suspects from the village,” district superintendent of police Satyendra Kumar said. Santosh Yadav, whose father Jhannu Yadav owns the field, and his friend Sanjay Gautam have been charged with murder and gang rape and sent to jail custody. “I don’t know who did it but the police have jumped to a lazy conclusion just because I own the field where she was found,” Jhannu said. “An inquiry should be done with an open mind before punishing someone.” SP Kumar said: “The victim’s father had told the police on the basis of villagers’ accounts that the two accused were in the field when the girl went there.” The father said: “The two of them have a criminal bent of mind. They had been misbehaving with women and girls for a long time and had recently got very aggressive.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
17-08-2020||India||JNU, DU speak up for teacher||Teachers, students and alumni from JNU and Delhi University have condemned the “cruel persecution” of Rakesh Ranjan, an assistant professor of economics at Shri Ram College of Commerce, by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Ranjan and Prem Kumar Vijayan, assistant professor of English at Hindu College, were questioned by the agency on Friday in connection with the 2018 case, in which 12 rights activists are being held on terror charges. Among them is another Delhi University associate professor, Hany Babu M.T. The signatories are from JNU’s Centre of Economic Studies and Planning, from where Ranjan did his MA and MPhil and is now pursuing a PhD, and DU where he graduated from and currently teaches. Among them are Amit Bhaduri, Jayati Ghosh and Prabhat Patnaik. “It is by now clear that a number of individuals are being persecuted on patently false charges related to the Bhima-Koregaon incident. What shocks us is that someone like Rakesh Ranjan is also being trapped in the same witch-hunt,” they said in a statement. “Not only is he a serious academic and teacher, but also a most generous soul incapable of involvement in any violence. We strongly feel that this cruel persecution of innocent persons should immediately end. The Union government must stop the deliberate harassment of academics and activists, which is destroying our democracy, violating civil liberties and subverting the constitutional order. There should not be any further action by any investigating agency against Rakesh Ranjan in this matter.” The case relates to the Elgaar Parishad public meeting in Pune on December 31, 2017, to commemorate the bicentenary of a Dalit battle victory against the Peshwa’s army. The annual Ambedkarite pilgrimage to the victory monument was attacked by Right-wing groups the next day. Now the Elgaar Parishad is being probed for alleged incitement of the violence that followed and alleged links to a purported Maoist plot to attack the Prime Minister’s rallies. Ranjan, Vijayan and Hany Babu are part of the Committee for the Defence and Release of G.N. Saibaba, a disabled former associate professor of political science with DU who is serving a life sentence in Nagpur jail for links with the banned CPI Maoist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
