18-08-2020||India||No need to transfer funds from PM-CARES to NDRF, rules SC ||Holding that financial planning is in the domain of the Centre, the Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to direct transfer of contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The apex court also ruled that no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust like PM CARES, tailored to provide for necessary financial resources to handle the emergent situation. It also added that this fund and the NDRF are entirely different with separate objectives and purposes. The fund was launched by the Centre after the Covid-19 outbreak. The court verdict prompted several BJP leaders and union ministers to target the Congress with party president J P Nadda saying it was a "resounding blow to the nefarious designs" of its leader Rahul Gandhi and his "band of rent a cause" activists. Rubbishing the Congress' criticism on the issue, BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said "transparency is writ large in the PM CARES Fund". Speaking to reporters, Prasad said the PM CARES Fund is a registered public trust created to fight emergencies like the coronavirus, and added it has so far contributed Rs 3,100 crore in the battle against the pandemic. Out of this, Rs 2,000 crore was spent on procuring over 50,000 ventilators, Rs 1,000 crore was given to states to help migrant labourers and Rs 100 crore for vaccine research, he said. This is the highest number of ventilators made available for critical care in one go since independence, he added. But the Congress said the judgement is a "body blow to transparency and accountability" of the government to the people. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the apex court let go of an opportunity to bring in transparency in the fund which has "its own opaque and murky rules" and, thereby, deviated from the belief that "sunlight is the best disinfectant". The verdict was pronounced in response to a petition filed by an NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation seeking a direction that all the money collected under the PM CARES Fund for the Covid-19 pandemic should be transferred to the NDRF. The petitioner had submitted that this new fund should not have been constituted when the NDRF is already in place to take care of disasters. "The financial planning is in the domain of the Central government, and is made after due deliberation and consideration. We, thus, do not find any substance in the submission of the petitioner that there is any statutory restriction/prohibition in utilization of NDRF for Covid-19," said the bench comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. The court said there is also no statutory prohibition in making any contribution by any person or institution in the NDRF as per Section 46 (1) (b) of the Disaster Management Act, Act, 2005. The contribution by any person or by any institution in the PM CARES Fund is voluntary and it is open for any person or institution to make a contribution to it, the court said. It also said the National Disaster Management Plan prepared by the Centre deals with all aspects of the Biological and Public Health Emergencies in systematic and planned manner and thus there is no need for a separate plan to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The PIL also sought a direction to the government to prepare, notify and implement a national plan under the Disaster Management Act to deal with the Covid situation. BJP chief JP Nadda has alleged that the Gandhi family treated the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) as its "personal fiefdom for decades and brazenly transferred citizens' hard-earned money from PMNRF to its family trusts". Prasad also accused Gandhi of sparing no effort to weaken the country's resolve in its fight against Covid-19. The apex court has destroyed the "conspiracy" sponsored by them, Prasad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
18-08-2020||India||Congress writes to Facebook, seeks high-level inquiry||The Congress on Tuesday wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, accusing Facebook India of "interfering" with the country's electoral democracy, and demanded a time-bound high-level inquiry into the conduct of Facebook India’s leadership team and their operations. In a letter to Zuckerberg, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal also demanded that pending the internal investigation and submission of the report, the company should "consider a new team to lead Facebook India operations so as to not influence the probe". The Congress and other Opposition parties have attacked the social media giant after a Wall Street Journal report alleged that Facebook did not apply its hate speech rules to some BJP leaders. "Set up a high-level inquiry by Facebook headquarters into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and submit a report to the Board of Facebook within one or two months. The report should also be made public," Venugopal said in the letter. Sharing the letter on his Twitter handle, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said Facebook needs to be questioned by all Indians. "We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news and hate speech. As exposed by WSJ, Facebook's involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians," he tweeted. On Monday, Facebook said the company's social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence, adding these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. However, Facebook, which counts India among its largest markets globally, acknowledged that "there is more to do". Facebook "may be a willing participant in thwarting the rights and values that the founding leaders of the Congress sacrificed their lives for", Venugopal said, and asked the US firm to publish all instances of "hate speech posts since 2014 that were allowed on the platform." "The WSJ article mentions hate speech of at least three other politicians that were wilfully permitted by Facebook India," he said. Venugopal cited the WSJ article of August 14 about alleged FB India's "blatant basis in content regulation" and said "it was not a surprise revelation". He said Congress has repeatedly raised the issue of "bias" with many Facebook and WhatsApp executives. He said other political parties have raised the issue in India's Parliament adding that the Congress has separately demanded a probe by a Parliamentary Committee in India into "this very serious issue of Facebook's interference in world's largest electoral democracy". Venugopal said the Congress is joined by other leading political parties in "expressing fear over Facebook's purported role in manipulating India's electoral democracy"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||FIR against FB executive, 2 others over social media posts||An FIR has been filed in Raipur against senior Facebook executive Ankhi Das and two users of the social media platform for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, police said on Tuesday. The case was lodged at Kabir Nagar police station late Monday night based on the complaint of Awesh Tiwari, a Raipur-based journalist of a news channel, Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav said. Three persons, identified as Ankhi Das from New Delhi, Ram Sahu from Mungeli (Chhattisgarh) and Vivek Sinha from Indore (Madhya Pradesh), were booked. An investigation is underway and further action will be taken accordingly, the official said. The three have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 295(a) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 505(1)(c) (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit offence against any other class or community), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention), he said. Das is Facebook's Director, Public Policy, India, South and Central Asia. Tiwari lodged the case after he was named in a complaint by Das to Delhi Police, alleging that she had been receiving threats to her life through online posts. According to the FIR, Tiwari in his complaint said that on August 16, he put up a post on his Facebook account related to an article published in the Wall Street Journal. The WSJ reported that Facebook refused to apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians, while the social media giant has asserted that its policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. Tiwari in his police complaint said, "Two Facebook users, with names Sahu and Sinha, jumped in to defend Das and commented on his (Tiwari's) post that she (Das) is a Hindu and she is talking in the interest of the faith. Sahu allegedly posted derogatory and communally sensitive photographs and also threatened him." Tiwari also said he had been receiving threat messages and calls on WhatsApp after his post. He alleged that Das, Sahu and Sinha were trying to defame him by spreading religious hatred due to which his life is under threat and he is living in constant fear. Tiwari has submitted to police screenshots of the threat messages received on his mobile phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||SC refuses to direct transfer of contributions made to PM CARES to NDRF||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to direct the Centre to transfer the contributions made to the PM CARES Fund for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising justices R S Reddy and M R Shah said that voluntary contribution can always be made to the NDRF as there is no statutory bar under the Disaster Management Act. The verdict came on a PIL, filed by NGO 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation, seeking a direction that all the money collected under the PM CARES Fund for the Covid-19 pandemic should be transferred to the NDRF. The Centre had on March 28 set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the Covid-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected. The prime minister is the ex-officio chairman of the fund and the ministers of defence, home and finance are its ex-officio trustees. During the hearing in the top court on July 27, the Centre had defended the PM CARES Fund saying it is a public trust meant to receive "voluntary contributions" to fight Covid-19 pandemic and the budgetary allocations for NDRF and SDRF are not "being touched". Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had told the court that the PM CARES Fund is a "voluntary fund", while funds to the NDRF and SDRF (State Disaster Response Fund) are made available through budgetary allocations. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the petitioner NGO, had said that they are not doubting the bona fide of anyone but the creation of the PM CARES Fund is allegedly in contravention of provisions of the Disaster Management Act. He had claimed that an audit of the NDRF is being conducted by the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) but the government has said the audit of the PM CARES Fund will be done by private auditors. Dave had also questioned the validity of the PM CARES Fund. The solicitor general had said that a national plan was prepared in 2019 and that had included the ways to deal with a "biological disaster." On June 17, the apex court had asked the Centre to file its response on the plea, which has sought a direction that all the contributions made by individuals and institutions for the Covid-19 pandemic should be credited to the NDRF, rather than to the PM CARES Fund. The PIL had alleged that the Centre has been "refraining from divulging information about the specific utilization of crores of rupees that have been contributed to the PM CARES Fund till date".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for post Covid care||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has been admitted to AIIMS here for post COVID care after complaining of fatigue and body ache, hospital authorities said on Tuesday. According to a statement issued by AIIMS, he is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital. "Home Minister Amit Shah has been complaining of fatigue and body aches for the last 3-4 days. He has tested negative for Covid-19. "He has been admitted to AIIMS for post Covid care. He is comfortable and is continuing his work from hospital," the statement said. Shah, who was earlier undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection at Medanta Hospital, on Friday said that he has tested negative for the disease. Shah, 55, had also said that on the advice of doctors, he will be in home isolation for the next few days. On August 2, Shah had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Institute for Quick and Dirty Science fools journal||A team of European scientists has orchestrated a sting operation on an academic journal in India by claiming in a paper that the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine can prevent push-scooter accidents, evoking mirth and rekindling concerns over predatory publishing. The nine-member team, including one researcher purportedly affiliated to an “Institute for Quick and Dirty Science” in Switzerland, published the paper in the Asian Journal of Medicine and Health that is headquartered in Calcutta and charges $55 per paper. The sting was meant to expose predatory academic publishing and, the researchers have said, to serve as a counteroffensive against what they believe are unsubstantiated claims about the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and azithromycin (AZT) in treating Covid-19. Such claims have been made in India too, by government bodies as well as in a paper published by the Asian Journal of Medicine and Health. In their spoof paper, the team of scientists claimed they had investigated “an unexpected way to mitigate the death toll from the push-scooter craze”. “We combine two observational studies and one randomised clinical trial to justify our hypothesis that HCQ plus AZT is the key to all the world’s problems,” the researchers wrote in their paper, which is peppered with giveaway text hinting at the sting. For instance, it says: “We have not classified the (push-scooter) accidents by type, date or anything else, essentially by laziness.” At another point, the paper says: “Just like iodine is added to salt, to prevent iodine deficiency... hydroxychloroquine could be in the same way added to table salt to prevent both Covid-19 and push-scooter accidents.” The paper’s “conclusion” section says: “Can we publish anything right now? I think that the question is quickly answered and peer-review has never been a scientific method anyway.” Florian Cova, one of the authors and the one who made up the fictitious “Institute of Quick and Dirty Science” affiliation, told The Telegraph: “We had two goals in submitting our paper — to draw attention to predatory publishing and to show that this journal would accept anything against money.” The same journal had about a month ago published a paper in defence of the HCQ -AZT therapy against Covid-19 that had been authored by a member of the French parliament and a French political group campaigning for the use of HCQ and the right of doctors to prescribe it. Cova said the members of that French group, including the MP, had later brandished their paper in the journal as “proof of efficacy of HCQ and have claimed that the journal where it was published is ‘as serious as The Lancet’.” Scientists in India say the paper’s publication underscores longstanding concerns about so-called predatory journals that publish online papers for a fee without adequate peer review and facilitate the publication of poor-quality research. “This is a hilarious paper – a good surgical strike on a predatory journal,” said Shahid Jameel, senior virologist and chief of the Wellcome Trust DBT-India Fund, a collaboration between the UK and the Indian government. “The Indian government and its various science agencies must view this seriously as many such journals operate out of India and spoil the good name of serious scientists.” The journal’s publisher has denied responsibility for the content of the paper. “We depend 100 per cent on our editorial board members and peer reviewers,” Pinaki Mondol told this newspaper. He acknowledged that the paper’s publication was an embarrassment for the journal. The paper, he said, had been reviewed and approved by three editorial board members and three reviewers whose names were published on the paper. These six individuals are shown as affiliated with academic institutions in Cuba, Libya, Mexico and the US. The journal does not select papers on its own, Mondol said. “We will ask them how they approved such a paper and take corrective action,” he said. The paper’s lead author Mathieu Rebeaud, a bio-scientist in Switzerland who adopted the pseudonym Willard Oodendjik, told this newspaper that the paper was intended to flag how some people might use predatory journals to get others to believe their studies are serious. An independent 2016 study by Indian researchers had found that around 50 per cent of 3,300 papers in predatory journals had originated from government and private academic institutions across the country. A sting in 2013 by a US-based bio-scientist had revealed India as a large source of such journals. “It is a complex issue but scientists should be responsible enough not to accept editorial board positions or peer-review responsibility and not to publish in such journals,” said Shekhar Mande, director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Delhi Assembly committee to call Facebook official||A Delhi Assembly committee will summon Ankhi Das, Facebook’s director of public policy for South and Central Asia, and some of her colleagues to ascertain whether any of the social media giant’s employees had “any role or complicity” in the Delhi riots in February. The announcement referred to complaints that quoted a report in The Wall Street Journal last week suggesting Facebook had, on Das’s advice, condoned hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem in India to protect the company’s business prospects in its largest market in the world. The Delhi House panel’s decision comes at a time some Opposition parties have demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the Facebook controversy and the Centre has maintained a stony silence. On Monday, Delhi police filed an FIR on a complaint from Das about online threats issued to her after the Journal published the report on August 14. Raghav Chadha, who chairs the Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony, said he had received multiple complaints against Facebook officials for their “alleged deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content in India for vested reasons”. The committee probes complaints against fake news, online content and rumours that incite communal enmity. It was set up by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party, which has accused the police, who report to the lieutenant governor, of inaction during the riots in northeast Delhi. “Significantly, a BJP leader (Kapil Mishra) has been mentioned in the Wall Street (Journal) article as another hate-monger spared by Facebook. Interestingly, in a video featuring Mark Zuckerberg (the Facebook CEO is seen) quoting the contents of that BJP leader’s post as categorically offensive and hateful,” Chadha said in a statement. “Despite this, officials of Facebook have been alleged to turn a blind eye to hate speech and communal hatred mongers. In view thereof it compels the committee to take immediate notice and get to the root of this issue with a view to painstakingly discern if there is any role or complicity of Facebook official in the orchestration of Delhi riots.” Mishra, an AAP rebel who had joined the BJP before the February 8 Assembly polls, had just before the riots given the anti-CAA agitators an ultimatum to end their protest in a speech widely seen as inflammatory. The police, however, have told Delhi High Court they have found no evidence of Mishra's involvement in the riots. Zuckerberg had cited Mishra’s speech to employees as an example of content that would be removed by the platform. Mishra’s account, however, remains operational. Chadha added: “More so, the complaints refer to the article by Wall Street Journal… where a specific mention has been made describing an explicit resistance posed by one Ms Ankhi Das, Facebook’s top public policy director, for applying the hate speech rules to at least one Bharatiya Janata Party politician and other ‘Hindu nationalist individuals and groups’, despite the fact that the content posted by these individuals or groups had been ‘flagged internally for promoting violence’…. “The committee, after vetting the complaints and giving a careful deliberation upon the allegations set out therein is of the prima facie view that the allegations against the concerned Facebook officials are extremely serious in nature which if remain unchecked and unhindered may lead to serious adverse fallouts, having thereby the dubious distinction to intensify an already volatile and vulnerable situation.” Neither Das nor Facebook's communications director Bipasha Chakrabarti responded to queries from this newspaper. On Monday, Das accused two Facebook handles, three Twitter handles and other unknown entities of “issuing violent threats on my life and body through online posting/ publishing of content”. In the complaint, Das also accused Arshad Khan, social media coordinator of the Congress-backed National Students Union of India, and Mumbai-based transparency activist Saket Gokhale of circulating her picture along with defamatory content. Delhi police’s cyber prevention awareness and detection centre filed an FIR on her complaint, in which she wrote: “Since the evening of 14 August 2020, I have been receiving violent threats to my life and body, and I am extremely disturbed by the relentless harassment meted out to me by the accused persons. “The content, which even includes my photograph, is evidently threatening to my life and body and I fear for my safety as well as that of my family members…. The above facts reveal that the accused persons have intentionally vilified me due to their political affiliations and are now engaging in online and offline abuse, subjecting me to criminal intimidation and making sexually coloured remarks.” Gokhale had tweeted that Das’s sister Rashmi Das is the chairperson of the RSS-backed World Organisation of Students and Youth (WOSY), the Sangh’s outreach arm for foreign students in India, and that Ankhi had attended WOSY’s programmes. On Sunday night, WOSY accused Gokhale of using Rashmi’s image at a Pravasi Bharatiya Divas event in Varanasi last year and falsely claiming it was Ankhi’s. The sisters are identical twins. WOSY said that Rashmi was its chairperson from 2011 to 2019. On Monday, Gokhale tweeted: “Y’day, ABVP & RSS-linked WOSY tried to attack me. Now Ankhi Das is attempting to do the same. ‘Defamation’ isn’t a cognisable offence. I continue to face death threats (thanks to Facebook which never took down my doxxed number). Shall I add Ankhi Das in my complaint now?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Salve in Supreme Court for creditors on Friday, for Jio now||Reliance Jio on Monday intervened in the legal battle over the payment of spectrum dues of over Rs 1.47 lakh crore that 15 entities, including its biggest rivals Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, owe the government. The development arose after a Supreme Court bench turned its attention last week to the Rs 40,000-crore dues that have to be extracted from entities like Reliance Communications (R-Com) that have burrowed themselves into a bankruptcy resolution process and sought protection from the claims on that account. On Monday, Harish Salve, who had appeared on behalf of the creditor institutions of R-Com last Friday, chose to appear for Jio. “I am appearing for Jio today,” Salve told the court, which expressed no surprise. “Oh! You are appearing for Jio today. All right!” said Justice Arun Mishra, who has been hearing the case with Justices Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah. Salve has emerged as a legal man for all seasons, representing the Narendra Modi government in battles at the International Court of Justice at The Hague in the past. Last Friday, the bench had wondered aloud whether Reliance Jio, which had acquired R-Com’s assets under a spectrum-sharing arrangement in 2016, could be directed to pay the Rs 25,000 crore that the insolvent telecom player owes the department of telecom (DoT). Jio is owned by Mukesh Ambani while R-Com belongs to his brother Anil Ambani. Over the weekend, Jio sources had said no legal liability for the AGR dues of R-Com could be attached to the telecom behemoth -- a point Salve forcefully made in court on Monday. Salve contended that the DoT had raised no claims against Jio. He added that Jio was not a party to the case but had appeared only to assist the Supreme Court in deciding the question of the competing priorities of the claims before the national company law tribunal (NCLAT) in the R-Com case. In response to a query from the bench headed by Justice Mishra, Salve clarified that he was appearing for Jio but assured the court that he would hold consultations with the chairman of the State Bank of India -- which heads R-Com’s committee of creditors in the resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) -- and resolve the conflict of opinion between the bankers and the DoT on the contentious issue of extracting AGR dues from entities embroiled in the IBC process. Last October, the apex court had ordered the telecom companies to pay the dues immediately and bristled when the DoT and the telecom players continued to quibble over the exact sum that had to be paid. Last month, the court turned down any review of the Rs 1.47 lakh crore that had been computed by the DoT when making its claims. The apex court directed the DoT to place its views on the validity of the spectrum-sharing agreement between R-Com and Reliance Jio after the government asserted the radio waves were national property. Appearing for the DoT, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta said: “Sharing of spectrum is different from spectrum trading. The view of DoT differs from views of the ministry of corporate affairs on the sale of spectrum under the IBC process.” Endorsing the DoT’s view, Mehta added: “The people of the country are the owners of spectrum, which is held by the government in trust; it can’t be sold under the IBC.” The DoT has consistently maintained that spectrum is farmed out to telecom entities on a 20-year contractual lease and cannot be sold or transferred without the government’s consent. “We issued a notice in March 2019 to R-Com to show cause why spectrum should not be revoked due to the non-payment of dues,” Mehta told the court. “Spectrum can never be the subject matter of IBC; it is the consistent position of DoT…  Ministry of corporate affairs had sought to allow spectrum sale for maximisation of value.” The issue has become complicated after Salve argued last week on behalf of the committee of creditors that the IBC resolution process gives primacy to the claims of financial creditors -- which means the DoT needs to stand in line with other operational creditors including unsecured creditors and other vendors. If that position is accepted by the court, the DoT will stand to get virtually nothing. The court later adjourned the matter till Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Covid: Pune chance to verify herd protection theory||The new coronavirus has infected around 51 per cent of a sampled population in parts of Pune, a survey has found, providing what scientists say is fresh evidence for extensive and silent spread of the infection. The researchers have cautioned that their findings do not represent the entire city but are significant as they will allow scientists to probe the question whether wide enough spread of the infection can slow it down through the phenomenon of herd immunity. The survey has detected antibodies against the new coronavirus, indicating previous exposure to the infection, in 51 per cent of a sample of 1,664 persons from randomly selected sites in five Pune sub-wards with relatively high incidence of lab-confirmed coronavirus disease cases. “This indicates there has been extensive spread of the infection in these sub-wards,” the researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, and other collaborating institutions said in their technical report. Pune is among the country’s hardest-hit districts accounting for 130,606 lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases, the largest count among Maharashtra’s districts, even higher than Mumbai’s 128,726 cases. The survey found higher prevalence rates in areas with greater population density — 62 per cent among residents of hutments, 43 per cent among residents of bungalows. The prevalence rate was nearly 60 per cent among those living in the smallest homes (less than 150sqft) but 34 per cent in those in the largest houses (above 501sqft). None of those with antibodies had reported symptoms or ever been tested for Covid-19, implying they had unknowingly become infected and had recovered. Similar surveys have revealed prevalence rates of 23 per cent in Delhi, 17 per cent in Ahmedabad, 16 per cent in Mumbai’s non-slum areas and 57 per cent in Mumbai’s slum areas. Scientists have cautioned that the presence of these antibodies does not necessarily indicate that those individuals are protected from subsequent infections. Neither is the high prevalence necessarily an indicator to population level immune protection, the researchers have asserted. “But we’re hoping to address both these questions in the coming weeks,” Aurnab Ghose, a biologist at IISER and one of the survey’s principal investigator told The Telegraph. “This high prevalence level in some areas will help us do that.” Health authorities and researchers have conducted similar population-level antibody-surveys in multiple countries but, Ghose said, almost all have detected prevalence levels well below 30 per cent. The Pune survey was conducted between July 20 and August 5, while the surveys in the other Indian cities were performed earlier. Scientists say it is possible that the current prevalence levels in some parts of other cities are now comparable to those observed in the Pune survey. “The advantage we have in Pune is high granularity testing and infection data maintained by the Pune Municipal Corporation,” said L.S. Shashidhara, a senior biologist at IISER currently at Ashoka University and a co-investigator in the survey. The high granularity population and testing data, the researchers said, will allow them to compare patterns of the epidemic in different areas to determine if the epidemic is slowing down in sub-wards with the highest prevalence. Many epidemiologists have predicted that when infection prevalence levels approach 60 per cent or higher, the virus will find it difficult to spread from person to person and the epidemic will slow down through herd immunity that protects not just those who have been infected but even others. Ghose and his colleagues also plan laboratory studies on the antibodies detected in blood sera to determine whether they can “neutralise” the virus. “We don’t know yet whether these antibodies are protective and, if yes, how long they will remain protective in the body,” Ghose said. Studies in other countries have suggested that the antibodies might wane after some months. Public health experts have asserted that the herd immunity concept is meaningless amid seamless travel and contact between populations with different infection prevalence levels. Health officials and experts have emphasised the need for continued adoption of protective measures such as face masks, physical distancing and hand and respiratory hygiene even in areas with high infection prevalence. The survey’s other principal investigator was Aarti Nagarkar at the University of Pune, while researchers from the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad, served as advisers to the survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Judges not immune to scrutiny, say lawyers ||Several lawyers on Monday asserted the right of the Bar to draw attention to the shortcomings of the judiciary and urged the Supreme Court to put on hold its August 14 order convicting advocate Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt for two tweets. “An independent judiciary does not mean that judges are immune from scrutiny and comment. It is the duty of lawyers to freely bring any shortcomings to the notice of Bar, bench and the public at large,” the lawyers, most of them practising in the Supreme Court, said in the statement. A group of 41 lawyers, including Dushyant Dave, Vrinda Grover, Arvind Datar, Kamini Jaiswal, Karuna Nundy, Sanjay R. Hegde and Raju Ramachandran, had issued the statement. By Monday evening, the number of signatories had touched 1,700. The lawyers urged the apex court to refer the August 14 conviction order to a five-judge constitution bench that can hear the matter when the physical functioning of courts resumes. The following is the full statement: “We, the below named, practising members of the Bar in India, have noted with dismay the judgment of the Supreme Court in Mr Prashant Bhushan’s contempt case. An independent judiciary consisting of independent judges and lawyers is the basis of the rule of law in a constitutional democracy. Mutual respect and the absence of coercion are the hallmarks of a harmonious relationship between the Bar and bench. Any tilting of the balance, one way or the other, is deleterious both to the institution and the nation. “An independent judiciary does not mean that judges are immune from scrutiny and comment. It is the duty of lawyers to freely bring any shortcomings to the notice of Bar, bench and the public at large. While some of us may have divergent views on the advisability and content of Mr Prashant Bhushan’s two tweets, we are unanimously of the view that no contempt of court was intended or committed especially when contrasted with the normal standard that ‘Justice is not a cloistered virtue.... She must be allowed to suffer the scrutiny and respectful, even though outspoken comments of ordinary men’. “While Mr Prashant Bhushan as a lawyer of good standing of the Supreme Court may not be an ordinary man, his tweets do not say anything out of the ordinary, other than what is routinely expressed about the court’s working in recent years by many on public fora and on social media. Even some retired judges of the Supreme Court have expressed somewhat similar views. “This judgment does not restore the authority of the court in the eyes of the public. Rather, it will discourage lawyers from being outspoken. From the days of the supersession of judges and the events thereafter, it has been the Bar that has been the first to stand in defence of the independence of the judiciary. A Bar silenced under the threat of contempt will undermine the independence and ultimately the strength of the court. A silenced Bar cannot lead to a strong court. “We also express a deep sense of disappointment about the Supreme Court’s utter disregard of the presence of the learned attorney-general, a highly respected lawyer of great eminence, and its refusal to seek his valuable opinion in the matter, which is mandated even as per contempt law. “We are of the firm view that the judgment must not be given effect to, until a larger bench, sitting in open court after the pandemic, has the opportunity to review the standards of criminal contempt. We do believe that the Supreme Court will hear the voice of the people expressed all around in last 72 hours on the subject and take corrective steps to prevent miscarriage of justice and restore the confidence and respect that citizens have generally reposed in it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Harsh Shringla scheduled to visit Dhaka||Indian foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla is scheduled to travel to Dhaka on Tuesday in the first overseas diplomatic engagement since the pandemic brought travel to a halt and comes in the wake of Bangladesh officially registering its protest over some “false news” published online about Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and senior members of her government. There was no official confirmation about Shringla’s visit from either capital but the visit assumes significance because it will be his second to Dhaka since taking charge in January. Shringla, who has served as India’s High Commissioner to Bangladesh, visited Dhaka in March in his first overseas visit after taking charge. While a slew of connectivity projects have continued in line with the schedule and the two Prime Ministers have spoken during the pandemic, relations between the two countries have been frosty over the past year,  particularly with Dhaka having issues about the manner in which leading lights of the Modi dispensation have vilified Bangladeshis as part of their campaign for the religionspecific citizenship law. Apart from having questions about what will happen to those left out by the NRC process despite India maintaining that Bangladesh will not be affected, recent months have also seen Dhaka engaging more intensely with both Pakistan and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-723
18-08-2020||India||Ex-CBI officer Rakesh Asthana to head BSF||Rakesh Asthana, a former CBI officer cleared of corruption charges who is seen as close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has been appointed director-general of the Border Security Force. The controversial Gujarat-cadre IPS officer currently heads the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, with additional charge as director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau. On Monday night, the department of personnel and training said the appointments committee of the cabinet had “approved the proposal of the Union home ministry’s for the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as DG BSF”. Asthana had in 2018 been locked in an unprecedented public feud with then CBI director Alok Verma, each levelling corruption allegations against the other, prompting the Centre to bench both in a midnight operation. In February this year, the CBI gave Asthana a clean cheat. Most of the CBI officials probing the bribery charges against Asthana had earlier been transferred. The CBI had booked Asthana on a complaint from Sathish Sana, a Hyderabad-based businessman and co-accused in a corruption case against meat exporter Moin Qureshi. Sana had alleged that Asthana, then special CBI director, had promised to let him off against a bribe. Asthana had denied the allegation. V.S.K. Kaumudi, a 1986-batch IPS officer from the Andhra Pradesh cadre, has been appointed special secretary (internal security) in the home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Odisha crosses 50,000 Covid tests a day ||Odisha has achieved the distinction of holding more than 50,000 Covid-19 tests per day in its effort to contain the corona pandemic in the state. Last month, it had managed to conduct around 9,000-12,000 tests per day. Praising the efforts of doctors, the chief minister’s office on Sunday tweeted: “Odisha has today crossed a major milestone in its fight against Covid-19- the 50,000 tests/day mark. Commend the relentless efforts of health professionals and Covid warriors who dedicated themselves towards the goals of ‘test, trace, track’ to help save lives.” Odisha conducted a record of 52,795 tests during the past 24-hours. While 10,240 tests were done through RT-PCR, 42,414 antigen and 142 tests were done through TrueNat method. The capital city Bhubaneswar has so far reported 5,289 corona cases. So far, Odisha has registered 60,050 corona positive cases with reports of 2,924 new cases coming in the past 24 hours. “We have so far conducted 9,08,508 tests after Covid-19 hit the state. The number of recoveries in the state is rapidly rising and has crossed 40,000 with recovery of 1,521 more persons in the past 24 hours. The total number of recoveries stands at 40,726. The government is also actively promoting plasma therapy in the state,” said a senior official of the state health department. State’s premier hospital and medical college SCB Medical College, Cuttack on Saturday (August 15) achieved another milestone by collecting more than 200 units of plasma from 105 cured Covid patients. The plasma bank in SCB was inaugurated by the chief minister on July 15. “Special thanks to the plasma collecting team for ensuring that people of Odisha have access to best treatment against the pandemic,” Naveen tweeted. However, Covid warriors continue to fall victim to the disease while fighting it. A doctor from Ganjam district on Sunday passed away while undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital. He has been identified as Dr B. Krishna and was working as superintendent of a community health centre in Purushottampur block of Ganjam district. He had been diagnosed with COVID 19 on August 4 and admitted to the Covid hospital the next day. Earlier on August 14, a doctor working in Sambalpur district had succumbed to COVID 19. The number of deaths from corona virus in the state mounted to 343 with 10 more casualties reported from different parts of the state during the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on an inauguration spree ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is on an inauguration spree with the Assembly elections in sight. He has unveiled 1,600 infrastructure projects worth Rs 6,300 crore and laid down foundation stones for 334 projects worth Rs 4,100 crore pertaining to bridges, buildings, irrigation facilities and roads in just over two weeks. Schemes related to roads worth Rs 6,000 crore are waiting to be announced and stamped by his name on their foundation stones. Sources in the government said that projects worth around Rs 2,000 crore are being executed at break-neck speed so that they could also be inaugurated over the next few weeks. The Opposition is calling this phenomenon as side-effects of the upcoming polls, which is allegedly revealing the government’s mismanagement of the state, while the intelligentsia is questioning his moves. Delivering his Independence Day speech, Nitish announced the creation of 34,000 posts of schoolteachers and promised appointment of 5,000 nurses, 4,000 doctors, 1,750 lab technicians, pharmacists and sanitary inspectors, and 4,000 college teachers. “We will also implement a new set of service rules for teachers working under the panchayati raj institutions and municipal bodies. EPF (Employees’ Provident Fund) benefits will also be given to them,” the chief minister said about 3.5 lakh contractual teachers, who are a disgruntled lot due to poor pay and service conditions. Nitish’s moves have rattled the intelligentsia and the Opposition parties alike and they are questioning, criticising and attacking him for using the state’s resources to further his poll interests. “The chief minister is inaugurating projects and also laying down foundation stones indiscriminately to take credit before the polls. These are the side-effects of forthcoming elections. But his actions are unmaking him,” Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told The Telegraph. “These completed projects have been executed hastily and with poor quality control. Approach roads to bridges have been washed away. This is a waste of public money and the people are understanding it,” he added. Approach roads to two mega bridges on the Gandak river in Gopalganj district were washed away by floodwaters in the last one month leaving the government red-faced. In the first case, the road caved in within a month of its opening, while the second incident occurred prior to the inauguration of the bridge. Patna-based A.N. Sinha Institute of Social Studies professor and former director D.M. Diwakar said, “We can understand the inauguration of completed projects to show that work has been done, but laying down foundation stones at a time when Nitish’s tenure is ending is beyond understanding and an illusion. These could be an effort to woo voters.” Diwakar pointed out that under the financial stress emanating from the bad shape of the economy and the lockdown, the state couldn’t afford so many ambitious projects. “Roads and electricity infrastructure have improved, but Nitish is realising after 15 years of rule that all farms in this agricultural state need irrigation facilities or water. Workers who returned from other states during the lockdown were poorly treated. No jobs have been created for them. Bad quality masks were distributed among the rural people. Corruption reeks from drinking water projects and intra-regional disparity is huge in Bihar,” he added. The Opposition also took umbrage in Nitish’s Independence Day speech in which he attacked his critics. Without taking names, Nitish criticised those who do nothing else but tweet or write something on the social media without knowing anything. “The chief minister delivered a political speech on Independence Day and destroyed its pious tradition. Moreover, he should not have used the opportunity to attack the leader of the Opposition (Tejashwi Prasad Yadav),” said RJD legislator Alok Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects plea to put off NEET||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition seeking postponement of the NEET slated for September 13, saying “the plea of the pandemic cannot be a reason to jeopardize the career of lakhs of students this year”. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R.Gavai and Krishna Murari said that since the pandemic is expected to continue even for a year, there cannot be postponement of the exams for such a long period. “Education should be opened up. Covid may continue for a year more. Are you going to wait another year? Do you know what is the loss to the country and peril to the students?” Justice Mishra heading the bench asked counsel Alakh Srivastava appearing for the students. The students had moved the apex court seeking postponement of the exams on the ground that present situation is not conducive to conduct the test, amid the rise in the coronavirus cases. Students pleaded they would become more vulnerable if the exams are conducted at this stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Pandit Jasraj passes away in New Jersey||Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj died on Monday following a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, his daughter Durga Jasraj said. He was 90. The classical vocalist, who infused life into the most complex ragas and held audiences spellbound with his craft, leaves behind a storied legacy spanning more than eight decades. He is survived by his wife Madura, son Shaarang Dev Pandit and daughter Durga, both musicians. “Bapuji is no more,” his daughter Durga told over phone from Mumbai. Pandit Jasraj, who belonged to the Mewati gharana, was in the US when the coronavirus-led lockdown happened and decided to stay back in that country. Demonstrating his ability to adapt with the times, his last performance was in April when he sang on Hanuman Jayanti for the Sankat Mochan Hanuman temple in Varanasi through Facebook Live. “With profound grief we inform that Sangeet Martand Pandit Jasraj ji breathed his last this morning at 5.15 EST due to a cardiac arrest at his home in New Jersey, USA,” a statement issued by his family said here. “May Lord Krishna welcome him lovingly through the doors of heaven, where Pandit ji will now sing Om Namo Bhagwate Vasudevaya exclusively just for his beloved Lord. We pray that his soul rests in eternal musical peace. Thank you for your thoughts and prayers.” “Music legend and unparalleled classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj’s passing makes me sad…. Condolence to his family, friends & music connoisseurs,” President Ram Nath Kovind said on Twitter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his unfortunate demise “leaves a deep void in the Indian cultural sphere”. Music composer A.R. Rahman tweeted: “RIP Pandit Jasraj Indian classical music has lost one of  its shining stars.” Composer Shankar Mahadevan said he was devastated after hearing the news that Pandit Jasraj has moved on to the “next dimension”.Sanjiv Goenka, whose group runs the music company Saregama, said: “Pandit Jasraj was a legend and for our family like an elder. We and all of Saregama will miss him immensely.” Grandniece Shweta Pandit remembered her “precious dadu”. “So many insanely beautiful memories you have given me… but I have no words now.” In an interview with PTI on his birthday this January, Pandit Jasraj had spoken about being in sync with times and technology. “I teach through Skype. I suggest everyone do it. I am walking with time and that’s what one should do. I don’t like when people say ‘Woh zamaana achha tha (Those were the good times)’. I believe the current phase is good. One should not compare it with the past — good or bad. One has to walk with time and only then you will like the current time,” he had said. The stalwart had also spoken about his eclectic taste in music and fondness for melody queen Lata Mangeshkar. He also sang in the films. His first song was in 1966 with the bhajan Vandana Karo in raga Ahir Bhairav for his father-in-law V Shantaram’s Ladki Sahyadri Ki. The bhajan was composed by Vasant Desai. Pandit Jasraj’s second film song came almost after a decade in the 1975 movie Birbal My Brother, for which he collaborated with another legend, classical vocalist Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, on a jugalbandi in raga Malkauns. Pandit Jasraj's last Bollywood song was in 2008 for Vikram Bhatt’s horror movie 1920. The song, titled Vaada tumse hai vaada, was composed by Adnan Sami. His rendition of raga Ahir Bhairav was also used by filmmaker Ang Lee in his Hollywood movie Life of Pi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||One college entrance test from next year||A national-level entrance test for admission into undergraduate courses in universities will be rolled out from the next academic session and the varsities will have freedom to admit students on basis of the test results. Higher education secretary Amit Khare said this while taking part in a webinar on the National Education Policy (NEP) and Way Forward organised by industry body Ficci on Monday. The NEP has recommended a national common aptitude entrance test to be conducted by the National Testing Agency twice a year. “The common entrance test will be held on pilot basis in January 2021. It will be rolled out in 2021-22 academic session. We can start with (admission of) sample universities. If any university is interested, they will be welcome to join,” Khare said. Currently, there is no common admission test for undergraduate courses in general stream. Most universities admit students based on their Class XII marks. Certain universities hold entrance test for some of the courses. The NEP recommended that the common aptitude test would be meant for admission into courses in sciences, humanities, languages, arts, and vocational subjects. The test will assess conceptual understanding and the ability to apply knowledge. The test will lessen the burden of students from appearing in multiple tests and also help institutions to select students smoothly. Khare said the proposed academic credit bank, which will help students acquire academic credits from different institutions as per their convenience, will be rolled out before the next academic session. He said the credit bank would be started with IITs and Institutions of Eminence. The credit bank of the student will be linked to the Aadhaar number and maintained digitally. He said that NEP’s recommendation for merging all education regulators by setting up of a single regulator will be taken up soon. A draft bill will be unveiled next month for creation of a Higher Education Commission of India by next month and comments will be sought from institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||BJP silent on Facebook hate speech charge ||The BJP on Monday did not respond to The Wall Street Journal report suggesting that Facebook had not applied its rules against hate speech to posts from the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business prospects in India. The party did not issue a statement nor did it hold a media address to rebut the allegations in the news report. BJP president J.P. Nadda offered no comment. In the past, whenever the BJP has been caught on the wrong foot, it chooses silence officially while fielding some leaders to instead attack the Opposition. On Monday, too, a minister and a former minister, aided by some social media managers, employed the “offence is the best defence” line. While completely avoiding the allegation in the news report that Facebook had chosen not to act on hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its own business interests, the former junior minister Rajyavardhan Rathore branded Facebook a “Left-Congress-leaning platform” in an opinion piece in The Indian Express on Monday. Rathore, a former Olympic gold medallist-turned-politician, who stands sidelined now, described the WSG report as a “hit-job” that has caused outrage among the “Left-Congress cabal”. While the WSG report talked about Facebook allowing dangerous posts by some BJP leaders, Rathore accused the social media platform of “filtering out non-Left and non-Congress viewpoints through manufactured labels of ‘fake news’.” Rathore said:  “That is why you would hear Mark Zuckerberg quote Kapil Mishra but say nothing on Sonia Gandhi who exhorted people in Delhi to do ‘aar paar ki ladai’ (prepare for the final battle).” The BJP repeatedly used Sonia’s call for a decisive political battle against the BJP at a party rally in Delhi early this year to accuse the Congress chief of provoking the Delhi riots. Many BJP leaders tweeted Rathore’s article. Before Rathore, law and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had spoken up. But he too sidestepped the allegations in the WSJ report and instead called Rahul Gandhi a “loser”. The only other BJP member who commented was the party’s information technology cell chief Amit Malviya, who too brought up Sonia’s speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Facebook red flag raised a year ago||Over a year before The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook had ignored its own rules against hate speech to allow posts from the Hindutva ecosystem that incited violence, Trinamul Congress leader Derek O’Brien had flagged the issue in the Rajya Sabha. On June 25, 2019, O’Brien used his party’s intervention in the motion of thanks to the President’s address to allege a nexus between Facebook and the BJP and coined a new expansion for NDA — “Non-Disclosed Alliance”. “The NDA (National Democratic Alliance) also had a hidden partner, ‘Non-Disclosed Alliance’. I am not here to promote a book. It is ‘The Real Face of Facebook in India’. You won’t read about this in newspapers, you won’t see this in the television channels because it tells a sordid story,’’ O’Brien said. He flashed the book, written by Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, in the House. “Facebook’s senior management in India are de facto campaign managers for the BJP. Facebook’s Delhi office is virtually an extended BJP IT cell, and, I am saying this with all responsibility, Facebook censored anti-BJP news and put other parties in jeopardy. The Facebook algorithm censors anti-BJP content,’’ the MP continued. “Now, I come to WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook. I don’t want to dwell on WhatsApp. Everybody knows about WhatsApp. I have got one lovely quote of September 2018. ‘We are capable of delivering any message we want to the public whether it is sweet or sour, true or fake; we can do this only because we have 32 lakh people in our WhatsApp groups. This is how we can make everything viral. Wow.’ The person who said this in September 2018 is now the home minister of India. Where are we headed? And, of course, in return, the Facebook got a lot of other benefits.” The CPM on Monday joined the Congress in demanding a JPC probe into Facebook’s alleged interference in India’s electoral process. The CPM politburo said the WSJ expose confirms the overall apprehensions over Facebook’s activities across its three platforms; the other two being WhatsApp and Instagram. “A stinging exposure by New York Times in 2018 revealed its questionable practices. This exposure raises serious questions about the huge social media investment and operations of the BJP and its role in promoting hate between communities. “The recent investment of Facebook in Reliance strengthens the apprehension of monopoly control, especially in the absence of an effective social media internal regulatory oversight. “The huge financial resources at the disposal of BJP, aided further by the opaque electoral bonds scheme, completely ensures its control over social media,’’ the politburo noted, and said all this warrants a detailed probe. Meanwhile, the parliamentary standing committee for information technology has begun drawing representations for a probe after chairman Shashi Tharoor said his panel would like to hear from Facebook what it had to say about the expose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Facebook hate speech handling 'destabilises' Indian democracy: Congress||The Congress on Monday said Facebook’s inaction on hate content “destabilises” India’s democracy and voiced shock at the Narendra Modi government’s silence on the American company’s different ethical standards for different countries. “It is not a Congress versus BJP matter. It is about India’s democracy and society. Instead of refuting the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report or investigating the nexus, the government is attacking the Congress. We are raising concerns for democracy. Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg has been questioned in many countries,” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. The WSJ report had suggested Facebook condoned hate posts by the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business prospects in the country. “Facebook has different rules for different countries and that is not acceptable. The rules for India are dramatically different and are bent as per their convenience. In Singapore while deposing before policy makers, Facebook said they… can’t take down offensive content without it being brought to their notice. Ironically, in India, despite complaints and red flags being raised by their own trust and safety teams, hate content has been allowed to continue,” Shrinate said. “Across the world in many countries, Facebook has removed pages and has issued press releases for that, citing ‘coordinated inauthentic behaviour.’ But why has Facebook never done something similar with rumour-mongering and hate speeches in India?” the Congress spokesperson asked. “There is enough and more objectionable content that exists on its platform, including creating acrimony between communities, abusing women and maligning political leaders,” she said. While the Congress had on Sunday said the WSJ report was only a confirmation of what it knew all along and that it had lodged complaints with Facebook since 2018, Trinamul Congress MP Derek O’ Brien had raised the matter in the Rajya Sabha in June 2019. Decoding how the BJP won the election, he said: “There is also an undisclosed alliance. The alliance with the Facebook, it is a sordid story.” After the WSJ report triggered a political storm, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who heads the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, has written to Facebook seeking its response on the allegation that it did not act against hate speech, fearing damage to its business interests. Repeating the party’s demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the matter, Shrinate expressed shock that the Facebook applied a different ethical standard in India, allowing commercial interests to be the driving force. “India is one of the most thriving democracies in the world and anybody or any organisation or any platform which undermines that by indulging in hate-mongering should not be spared. With all responsibility, I will say that Facebook’s inaction destabilises our democracy.” Pointing out that Facebook is replete with hate posts that continue to fester animosity, the Congress spokesperson said: “Facebook-owned WhatsApp awaits a payment licence. The possible profits in India, a market where the messaging app has 40 crore users, is undeniably huge. In fact, many have raised eyebrows on the social media giant’s deal with Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Jio. Facebook bought a little under 10 per cent stake in Jio for Rs 43,574 crore, which is the largest minority stake investment by a tech company anywhere in the world.” PTI quoted a Facebook spokesperson as saying: “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we’re making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Churches taken over after Supreme Court order||The Ernakulam administration on Monday took over two churches from the Jacobite Syrian Church, prompting a senior clergyman to ask why the Church was not being compensated like Ayodhya’s Muslims who have received alternative land for the Babri Masjid. The two churches are to be handed over to the Malankara Orthodox Church under a Supreme Court order in an assets dispute between the two Churches following their split in the previous century. Rev. Sleeba Paul, trustee of the Jacobite priests, told The Telegraph: “Where will our devotees go this Sunday? In the Babri Masjid case, the court gave 5 acres to the Muslims. What was given to the 3,000-odd families in Mulanthuruthy?” The Supreme Court had in 2017 allowed a plea by the Malankara Orthodox Church that 1,064 Jacobite churches be given to it across Kerala. Of these, 45 have been handed over so far, the process beginning last year after a nudge from Kerala High Court. Paul said the Malankara Orthodox Church did not need so many churches in Ernakulam where its flock was smaller compared to the Jacobites. “We are the huge majority in Ernakulam and Thrissur districts while they are more in number in Kottayam and southwards,” Paul said. The Malankara Church had split in 1912 into Jacobite and Orthodox groups. Although the two groups reunited in 1959, the unity lasted only till 1972. The Ernakulam administration vacated the Mulanthuruthy church at 5am on Monday with the help of police, who jostled with a human barricade formed by the faithful who had locked the main gate. Jacobite leaders alleged the police had manhandled their religious leaders who were guarding the main door of the Mulanthuruthy Mar Thoman Cathedral Church, first built 1,100 years ago. There was hardly any resistance at the 100-year-old Sahion Church in Onakkoor in the same district. The district administration had to take over the churches and hand over their keys to Kerala High Court before 10am on Monday. Paul slammed the Orthodox Church members who had fought a long legal battle to take over the properties. “They need to understand that all the Jacobite churches were built with money from the poor and the Orthodox Church hasn’t spent a penny to build these churches,” he said. A representative of the Malankara Orthodox Church, Biju Oomen, questioned the attempt by Jacobite church leaders and members to stop the officials from carrying out their orders. “Trying to stop officials from carrying out the court order can only be seen as challenging the rule of law,” Oomen, a lawyer by profession, said. Jacobite leaders questioned the rationale of handing over their churches, including graveyards, to the Orthodox Church. “More than 3,000 of our families depend on the Mulunthuruthy church while they (Orthodox Church) have only 300 families there. That apart they have a huge church just 100 metres from the church we lost today,” Boban Varghese, general secretary of the Malankara Action Council for Christian Church Act, told this newspaper . “They want 1,064 of our 1,700 churches. So what do we do? Where do we bury our dead? I don’t see any justice in building churches with the hard-earned money of the poor only for them to be handed over to them (Orthodox Church).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-724
18-08-2020||India||Sacked JDU minister rejoins Lalu’s party||The possibility of a backlash over the controversial citizenship regime has begun to tell on the ruling Janata Dal United in Bihar with socialist leader Shyam Rajak resigning as MLA and joining the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Monday. On Sunday, Shyam was dropped from the Nitish Kumar cabinet and expelled from the JDU soon after he made clear his intention to leave the party. He has represented seven times the Phulwari Assembly constituency, reserved for Scheduled Castes. The Phulwari seat has a sizeable minority population and had witnessed strong protests against the citizenship regime last year and early this year. The constituency also has a large Yadav population, who are staunch supporters of the RJD. The formidable combination voted for the JDU in 2015 when the party had teamed up with the RJD and Congress to form the Grand Alliance. This time they are displeased with the JDU — which switched sides to align with the BJP — primarily because of the Citizenship Amendment Act and other related steps. “Shyam is veteran enough to read the writing on the wall. He understood that the chances of his retaining the Phulwari seat were slim, hence decided to go back to the RJD,” a senior minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
18-08-2020||India||Salute for not letting Covid kill dignity in Tamil Nadu||A district collector turned protocol on its head, getting off the podium and saluting a policewoman he had just awarded for her role as a Covid warrior, electrifying what till then had been a low-key Independence Day ceremony in a Tamil Nadu town. Inspector M. Allirani, beneficiary of the gesture by K.S. Kandasamy, had herself acted beyond the call of duty and protocol two months ago to physically remove the body of a man that even his family wouldn’t touch, fearing he had died of Covid-19. At Saturday’s event on the Armed Reserve Police grounds in Tiruvannamalai, the collector had taken the usual salute from the podium before presenting Allirani with a medal, shield and a certificate and saying “Inga vaanga”. It was an invitation to her to climb onto the podium. Kandasamy then stunned everyone by himself stepping down, turning to face Allirani and saluting her for a full 20 seconds. She saluted back. The small gathering went wild, cheering both of them. Shaking off his surprise, the official compering the event paused his run-through of the other Covid awardees to explain the significance of Kandasamy’s act. “We have a ‘people’s collector’ who has uniquely honoured the inspector’s bravery and dedication as part of the frontline staff in this battle,” he announced. Kandasamy told The Telegraph over the phone on Monday: “I had recommended Allirani for the State Bravery Award, named after Kalpana Chawla (the Indian American astronaut who died in the 2003 space shuttle disaster) but that did not come through.” He added: “It isn’t only her; so many other officials from various departments are also working round the clock to contain the spread of the virus. Yet, the circumstances in which she personally removed an unclaimed body, shunned by everyone in the village, are what prompted me to honour her at the I-Day event in that manner. It was the most fitting way to acknowledge her brave, humanitarian act.” Allirani could have gone by the rulebook and left the body to be removed by municipal staff, but did not, he said. An official in Tiruvannamalai recalled Allirani’s mid-June act at Vandavasi, close to Thellar police station to which she is attached. A 35-year-old man, Amavasai, had died apparently after accidentally touching an electric fence. As his body lay in a sugarcane field, none in the village would even come near the body, fearing he had died of Covid-19. Allirani arrived and tried to persuade the villagers to help her take the body to hospital. “But even the man’s wailing mother and sister would not come forward to help,” the official said. Allirani has been quoted as telling her superiors: “I appealed to all of them to lend me a hand, including the dead man’s family members, but none came.” She then began dragging the body, singlehandedly pulling it out of the field. Kamal, an auto-rickshaw driver who was passing by, stopped seeing her plight and they together lifted the body into the three-wheeler. When they arrived at the Adukkamparai government hospital in Vellore town, no one would help them. Allirani and Kamal again turned instant pallbearers until “we found a tricycle and wheeled him in”, the policewoman has told reporters. Besides the post-mortem, a Covid-19 test too was done and the dead man tested negative. Allirani took steps to hand the body over to his family. Allirani’s act of courage stands up to the area’s historical legacy too — for Vandavasi was the site of the January 1760 Battle of Wandiwash that decided the Third Carnatic War. It saw the British, having already consolidated their position in Bengal and Hyderabad, defeat the French in south India and confine them to the small coastal strip of Pondicherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
18-08-2020||India||Supreme Court to vet if fingers can be pointed at judges||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine whether a person can make allegations of corruption against sitting and former judges and under what circumstances they can be levelled. The decision was taken in the wake of two contempt proceedings launched against lawyer Prashant Bhushan. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Rajeev Dhavan urged the apex court to give a “quietus” to the 2009 statements of Bhushan. Justice Arun Mishra, heading the three-judge bench, hinted that the court was primarily concerned with the larger issue of citizens’ right to raise such issues. Dhavan informed the court that Bhushan would file a review petition against the August 14 judgment convicting him for criminal contempt over the two tweets on the destruction of democracy and on the present Chief Justice of India. The same bench is dealing with the 2009 case and the tweets. Although no official order was issued till Monday evening in the 2009 case, the bench that includes Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari decided to frame the following questions for consideration, which will be taken up for hearing next week: In the 2009 suo motu case, Bhushan had in an interview to Tehelka magazine, stated that half of the 16 former CJIs had corruption allegations against them. Bhushan had admitted that he had no evidence to substantiate the allegations and had subsequently tendered “regret” for hurting the feelings of the former CJIs and their families. On Monday, during the hearing, Justice Mishra said: “We wanted to finish this (2009 case). We wanted to end the case but the basic question is if you want to speak to the press in case you have any grievance against any judge, what should be the process? “In what circumstances can such allegations be made is also a question. Putting a quietus is not the issue but the questions are also before us. When some matter is sub judice, to what extent… can the matter be argued through media or another mode?” Justice Mishra asked. The judge made the observation after Sibal and Dhavan requested that the 2009 matter be given a quiet burial. About the tweets’ verdict, Dhavan submitted: “Your Lordships judgment in the tweets’ matter delivered a day before Independence Day suffers from great imbalances. One part of that judgment says it can amount to contempt while another part says it cannot… we will file a review against the judgment relating to two tweets.” Dhavan submitted that there cannot be per se contempt proceedings against Bhushan for the use of the word “corruption”. “We intend to file a review for the judgment of August 14 for this very reason,” the senior counsel said. The judge said the court wanted to frame certain questions on the rights of a citizen to make statements of corruption against sitting and retired judges. Senior advocate Shanti Bhushan suggested that the matter should be heard when the court starts physical functioning. Justice Mishra said: “We want to hear you, Dr Dhavan. If you want to argue now or later.” Dhavan said: “I think all three of us, Mr Sibal, Mr Shanti Bhushan and myself would like to assist you.” Justice Mishra said: “We want to hear because if the question is left, then it will not be better for later on.” Dhavan agreed, saying the questions raised by the court “are very meaningful”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-725
