19-08-2020||India||Intense rainfall likely over central and east India over next 5 days||Parts of central and east India are likely to receive heavy rainfall over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre and Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD, a well-marked low pressure area lies over north coastal Odisha. A low pressure area is the first stage of any cyclone. It is very likely to move westwards and concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours, the IMD said. It said under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely along with isolated extremely heavy falls over Odisha on Wednesday. Heavy rainfall is also expected over Chhattisgarh on August 19-20, east Madhya Pradesh on August 20, west Madhya Pradesh on August 21 and 22, east Rajasthan on August 22 and Gujarat on August 22 and 23. Detailing the likely impact of the heavy rains over Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, there are chances of localised flooding of roads, water logging in low lying areas and closure of underpasses mainly in urban areas. It may lead to riverine flooding in some river catchments, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Centre withdraws 10,000 CAPF troops from J&K||The Centre on Wednesday ordered "immediate" withdrawal of about 10,000 paramilitary personnel from the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. This is the biggest de-induction of these forces after additional troops were rushed to the UT post the abrogation of the Article 370 of the Constitution that gave the erstwhile state a unique status. They said the decision was taken after the Ministry of Home Affairs reviewed the deployment of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) in the union territory (UT).  The Home Ministry had last withdrawn 10 CAPF companies from the UT in May, while 72 such units were taken out in December last year. A senior official said that a total of 100 CAPF companies have been ordered to be withdrawn "immediately" on Wednesday and they have been asked to revert to their base locations in the country. As per the directions, a total of 40 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and 20 each of the Central Industrial Security Force, the Border Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal, will be taken out from Jammu and Kashmir by this week. The CRPF has been asked to make arrangements for air lifting of these units to Delhi and other locations, they said. A CAPF company has an operational strength of about 100 personnel. "The units that are being withdrawn are deployed both in Jammu and Srinagar. It was felt that the counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist grid is intact in the UT and these additional units that were sent in last year can be de-inducted giving them the much required rest, recuperation and training," a senior CAPF officer said. Also, he said, with the winters soon setting in, it would have been an onerous task to keep these units in make-shift and temporary dwelling units especially in the Kashmir valley region. With the latest de-induction, the lead counter-terrorist force CRPF will have a strength of about 60 battalions (about 1,000 personnel in each battalion) in the Kashmir valley apart from very few units of the other CAPFs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Cabinet's nod to lease out Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal for leasing out airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through public-private partnership (PPP). Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports - Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati - through the PPP model after a competitive bidding process in February 2019. In July 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the proposal for leasing out the other three airports - Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow - to Adani Enterprises. At a press conference on Wednesday, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet has approved the proposal for leasing out Jaipur, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram airports through the PPP model. Currently, the aforementioned six airports are owned and managed by the government-run Airports Authority of India (AAI). Eight months after the Cabinet approval, Adani Enterprises signed the concessionaire agreement with the AAI on February 14 this year for operation, management and development of airports at Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow. In June this year, the AAI gave three more months to the Ahmedabad-based company to take over the management of these three airports due to the COVID-19 situation. This means the deadline for take over has been pushed from August 12 to November 12. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on Tuesday said that the Ministry of Civil Aviation would place a proposal for "further" privatisation of airports before the Union Cabinet on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan moves SC seeking deferment of sentence||A day before the scheduled hearing on quantum of sentence, activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan who has been held guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets, moved the Supreme Court seeking deferment of the proceedings till a review petition is filed and considered. The top court on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. The apex court had said it would hear on August 20, the arguments on the quantum of sentence to be awarded to Bhushan in the matter. A contemnor can be punished with simple imprisonment of up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. Bhushan in his application stated that he intends to file a review petition against the order of August 14 after studying it in detail and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech. The Applicant would file the same within the limitation period of 30 days from date of the judgment, as he is entitled to under Order 47 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. Hence, it is prayed that, in view of the same, the hearing on the sentence as fixed on August 20, 2020, vide the order of August 14, 2020, be deferred till the consideration of the review by this Court, he said in the application filed in the contempt case which was taken suo motu cognizance by the top court. Bhushan submitted the deferment of the said hearing would be in the interests of justice in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding liberty of a citizen under Article 21 till such time as his first appeal (in this case the review petition) is considered. The application said if this Court proceeds with the hearing on the sentence and imposes any sentence, the same may be directed to be stayed till the remedy of review is exhausted by the Applicant . Bhushan, in his application filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, said in criminal contempt proceedings, the top court functions like a trial court and is also the last court. Section 19(1) of the Contempt of Court Act gives a statutory right of appeal to a person found guilty of contempt by the High Court. The fact that there is no appeal against an order of this Court makes it doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done, he said. Bhushan said it would be in consonance with the right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Otherwise there would be gross injustice since there would be no occasion to examine the correctness of the findings arrived at in a suo motu criminal contempt proceeding before putting the convicted contemnor's liberty at stake, he said. The top court on August 14 held that Bhushan attempted to scandalise the entire institution of the Supreme Court and said, If such an attack is not dealt with, with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition deteriorates||The health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee has declined as he has developed a lung infection, the Army's Research and Referral Hospital said on Wednesday. The 84-year-old former president, who was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10, continues to be on ventilatory support, doctors attending to him said. However, his son and former MP Abhijit Mukherjee said his father is showing "positive signs of improvement". Pranab Mukherjee was operated for removal of a clot in his brain and has been in a coma ever since. He also tested positive for Covid-19. "There has been a decline in the medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee as he has developed features of lung infection. He continues to be on ventilatory support and is currently being managed by a team of specialists," the hospital said in a statement. In a tweet, Abhijit Mukherjee said his father's vital parameters are under control. "With all your good wishes and sincere efforts of the doctors, my father is stable now! His vital parameters continue to remain under control and manageable! Positive signs of his improvement are noticed. I request you all to pray for his speedy recovery," he said. Pranab Mukherjee was the President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: SC orders CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged at Patna against actress Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, to the CBI. The apex court said that Bihar government is competent to transfer the case to the CBI for investigation. A bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy said that FIR registered by the Bihar Police on the complaint of Rajput's father Krishna Kishore Singh is correct and the reference to the CBI is lawful. The top court delivered its verdict on a plea by Chakraborty who had sought transfer of the FIR lodged against her at Patna to Mumbai. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then Mumbai Police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles. The Centre had earlier informed the top court that it has accepted the recommendation of the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the FIR lodged at Patna by Rajput's father, who has accused Chakraborty and six others of various offences including abetment of suicide. While pronouncing the verdict, the bench said that if any other case is registered regarding Rajput's death, the same shall be probed by the CBI only. It said that jurisdiction of Mumbai Police, which is conducting probe under section 174 of the CrPC which deals with procedure to be followed in cases of unnatural death and suicide, is limited. The apex court held that the ongoing investigation done by the CBI is lawful. The top court, which had reserved its judgement on the plea on August 11, was told by the Bihar government that political clout has not allowed Mumbai Police to even register an FIR in Rajput's case. The Maharashtra government had argued that Bihar completely lacks jurisdiction in the matter. Chakraborty's counsel had told the bench that probe by Mumbai Police has "proceeded quite substantially" as it has recorded statements of 56 persons in the case. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing Rajput's father, had countered the submissions advanced by Chakraborty's counsel and said that they have "no faith" in Maharashtra Police. Chakraborty's lawyer had argued that FIR lodged by Rajput's father has absolutely no connection with any offence in Patna and there was considerable delay of around 38 days in its lodging. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had said that only FIR lodged in the case was in Bihar and the Enforcement Directorate has also started its separate probe in the matter. The FIR in Patna was registered by Singh against Chakraborty and others for alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 306 (abetment of suicide), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||India's Covid tally almost 28 lakh, over 64,000 infected in a day||With 64,531 people testing positive in a day, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 27,67,273 on Wednesday, while the recoveries crossed the 20-lakh mark pushing the recovery rate to 73.64 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll climbed to 52,889 with 1,092 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Case fatality rate has declined to 1.91 per cent. There are 6,76,514 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which is 24.45 per cent of the total caseload, while the number of recoveries has surged to 20,37,870. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 3,17,42,782 samples have been tested till August 18 with 8,01,518 samples being tested on Tuesday. Of the 1,092 fresh deaths, Maharashtra reported the highest number of fatalities at 422 followed by 139 from Karnataka, 121 from Tamil Nadu, 88 from Andhra Pradesh, 70 from Uttar Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 35 from Punjab, 20 from Gujarat, 13 each from Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, 12 each from Delhi and Jharkhand and 11 from Rajasthan. Nine fatalities each have been reported from Odisha and Puducherry, eight each from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Telangana, seven from Haryana, six each from Assam, Kerala and Uttarakhand, five from Goa, three each from Ladakh and Tripura, while Andmana and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim and Manipur have registered one fatality each. Of the total 52,889 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 20,687, followed by 6,007 in Tamil Nadu, 4,226 in Delhi, 4,201 in Karnataka, 2,820 each in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, 2,585 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,528 in West Bengal and 1,141 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 898 people have died of Covid-19 each in Rajasthan and Punjab, 719 in Telangana, 557 in Haryana, 561 in Jammu and Kashmir, 476 in Bihar, 362 in Odisha, 262 in Jharkhand, 203 in Assam, 175 in Kerala and 164 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 158 deaths, Puducherry 123, Goa 116, Tripura 65, Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 30 each, Himachal Pradesh 19, Manipur 18, Ladakh 17, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and Sikkim two each. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
19-08-2020||India||Job patriotism chameleons||When Madhya Pradesh chief minister and BJP veteran Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared on Tuesday that government jobs would be given only to “the children of the state”, it touched a raw nerve and struck a note of irony in Kashmir. Until the middle of last year, Jammu and Kashmir had enjoyed a special status that gave exclusive rights to its residents over land and jobs. After August 2019, the Narendra Modi government scrapped the special status and threw open jobs in the Union Territory to certain categories of outsiders. BJP-ruled states “reserving jobs for local youths is patriotism. But Jammu and Kashmir asking for the same is anti-national”, said CPM state secretary M.Y. Tarigami. “This double standard exposes the duplicity and reflects the insensitivity in handling a border state like Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. Iltija Mufti, daughter of incarcerated former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, said it validated Mohammed AliJinnah’s two-nation theory. “While states like Nagaland & MP are moving towards semi autonomous status & exclusive rights for locals, J&K entitled to all of this constitutionally has been robbed because it is Muslim dominant. BJP’s Flag of India has no place for minorities, hence validating Jinnah’s two nation theory,” Iltija tweeted. PTI quoted Madhya Pradesh chief minister Chouhan as saying in a video statement: “The state government has taken an important decision today that government jobs will be given only to youths of Madhya Pradesh. We are making necessary legal provisions for this purpose. Resources of Madhya Pradesh are meant for the children of the state.” Later in a tweet, Chouhan added: “From today, the children of Madhya Pradesh will have the first right over the resources of Madhya Pradesh. All government jobs will be reserved only for the children of Madhya Pradesh.” Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said it was not surprising to see “jobs in J&K and Ladakh” were for everyone but those in Madhya Pradesh were “exclusively for people from MP”. A National Conference spokesperson asked why integration was not an issue for the Madhya Pradesh chief minister. The NC spokesperson said: “J&K has an undulating topography. There is no vibrant private sector. The government is the major employment provider. This window of opportunity has also been closed for the natives….” BJP spokesperson Arun Gupta defended Chouhan’s decision and said domicile certificates took care of local sentiments in Jammu and Kashmir. “Anybody who has stayed in Jammu and Kashmir for seven years or who has given exam for 10th or 12th will be considered a local resident…. Somebody just coming from outside and taking jobs is what has been reserved and preserved (for domiciles).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Two tweets can’t harm SC, says Bar Association||The Bar Association of India has sought a recall of the August 14 judgment convicting advocate Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt, saying the reputation of the Supreme Court “cannot be dislodged by a couple of tweets” but its stature will be “enhanced” if criticism is allowed. “Judgments that curb the exercise of freedom of speech and expression by a member of the Bar by resort to suo motu powers are conspicuously old fashioned. The reputation of the Supreme Court of India cannot be dislodged by a couple of ‘tweets’,” the Bar Association of India, which represents lawyers, said in a statement on Tuesday. “At a time that the citizenry is facing huge challenges, the stature of the Supreme Court would stand enhanced by allowing criticism rather than taking umbrage at such remarks,” the statement added. “The association is of the view that the exercise of contempt jurisdiction by the court in this manner has the potential for more self-harm than the avowed purpose of safeguarding the prestige of the institution,” it said. “The association believes that the Bench and Bar must work together in delivering justice…. Trenchant criticism, commentary, satire and humour help build institutions in a free society,” Lalit Bhasin, senior advocate and president of the association, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||A wish: link Facebook space to size of political base||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday made a statement that indirectly suggested the BJP and the wider Sangh parivar have a right to dominate the social media space by virtue of the party’s larger electoral clout. Prasad, the law and information technology and communications minister, was on Tuesday questioned at a media conference about The Wall Street Journal report that has suggested that Facebook condoned hate speech by the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business interests in India. “It’s a hard fact we need to know that people whose political base has shrunk like anything seek to dominate public discourse on these platforms. That’s not right,” Prasad replied. In saying so, the minister appeared to be linking electoral dominance to the right to control social media, and suggesting that ideological and political opponents of the BJP who have been defeated in polls have as a consequence also lost their right to dominate the discourse. Prasad stopped short of bluntly putting in the public domain what many Sangh parivar leaders have been saying in private: that the two consecutive electoral wins of Narendra Modi mark a decisive victory of the Hindutva ideology. Modi’s laying of the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 is being seen in Sangh circles as the “liberation” of India from “anti-Bharat” ideologies. At the media conference, Prasad expressed dissatisfaction with Facebook for removing 700 accounts of “BJP supporters”. On the WSJ report on how Facebook had condoned hate content uploaded by those associated with the BJP to prevent a fallout on the company’s business in India, Prasad remained evasive, saying it was for the social network behemoth to look into the allegations according to its “policy and system”. “Seven-hundred pages of BJP supporters were removed. This is also a fact,” he said, going on to hold forth on every individual’s right to be heard, which he then himself contradicted by linking it to electoral clout. “I want to say one thing without taking the name of any platform,” Prasad said. “If the platform in question is a public platform, then every Indian regardless of his ideology or commitment has got the right to convey his or her views.” “Isn’t it a fact that some people think they should have monopoly on these platforms?” Prasad asked, siding with a theory floated by sections of the BJP that Facebook was dominated by people with Left and Congress ideologies. The minister proceeded to launch a political attack on Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Prasad said if the issue was of “hate speech”, then Sonia’s “aar paar ki ladai hogi (there will be a decisive battle)” and Rahul’s “desh ke log pradhan mantri ko dande marenge (people of the country will beat the Prime Minister with sticks)” were “textbook cases for instigation of violence”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||PM CARES Fund validity upheld by apex court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the validity of the PM CARES Fund, saying the mere fact that the administration of the trust is vested in trustees like the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues will not take away its public character and no budgetary allocation has been made for the purpose as it is purely “voluntary”. The Prime Minister is the ex-officio chairman of the PM CARES Fund while the defence, home and finance ministers are the ex-officio trustees. The fund had been questioned in a PIL filed by an NGO (the Centre for Public Interest Litigation) on the ground that it is not subject to audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or open to queries under the Right to Information Act. The petition had also questioned the need for such a fund as a National Disaster Relief Fund had already been formed under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. However, dismissing the petition, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said: “…it is still open for any person or institution to make contribution to the NDRF (National Disaster Relief Fund).” The court held that there was no need to direct the Centre to come out with a national plan for tackling the Covid crisis, saying it was already in place and no fresh plan can be conceived after the disaster had already struck the country. On the fund, the court said: “The contribution by any person or by any institution in the PM CARES Fund is voluntary and it is open for any person or institution to make contribution to the PM CARES Fund. “…It is for the central government to take the decision as from which fund and what financial measures are to be taken, and it is neither for PIL petitioner to claim that any financial assistance be made from a particular fund nor this court to sit in judgment over the financial decisions of the central government.” The court added: “The PM CARES Fund is a public charitable trust and is not a government fund.” The bench said the guidelines the NDRF and the states’ SDRMF (State Disaster Resources Management Fund) provided for the use of funds for limited calamities did not include any biological and public health emergency. “The nature of the NDRF and the PM CARES Fund is entirely different. The guidelines issued with regard to the NDRF specifically provides for audit of the NDRF by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India whereas for public charitable trust, there is no occasion for audit by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India,” Justice Bhushan said. The Union government has already disbursed Rs 11,092 crore out of Rs 22,184 crore to different states as the central share in the SDRMF, the court pointed out. The BJP hailed the verdict, saying the apex court had struck down a “planned conspiracy” to weaken the “national resolve” against Covid-19. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said later: “Transparency is writ large in the PM CARES Fund, both in terms of legal requirements and transparent management of funds. I regret to say, in view of the conduct of Rahul Gandhi, that right from day one he never spared an opportunity to weaken the national resolve against Corona.” Prasad said an audit of the PM CARES Fund would be carried out. “Everything is on the website. An audit would also be done and presented to the people. This is Narendra Modi’s government.” A private audit firm has been appointed for the PM CARES Fund. The firm is headed by Sunil Kumar Gupta, who has been photographed with ministers and BJP leaders, including Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Cautious hope in Covid-19 count||India has recorded declines in daily new coronavirus disease cases and in deaths among Covid-19 patients for three consecutive days, senior health officials said on Tuesday, but warned that these trends do not warrant any slackening of precautions or strategies. Health authorities detected 55,079 Covid-19 infections on August 17 (Monday) compared to 63,490 on August 15 and the peak so far of 66,990 on August 12. Deaths among Covid-19 patients declined from 1,007 on August 13 to 876 on August 17. The declines in both sets of absolute numbers come against the backdrop of a steady fall in India’s case fatality rate — mortality among lab-confirmed Covid-19 patients — from 2.89 per cent in early July to 1.94 per cent in mid-August. “These are positive and reassuring trends, and significant because we’re seeing these declines have happened even amid increased testing,” Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s top think tank, told reporters. But he cautioned against attempts to use these trends observed over just three or four days to make any interpretations about the course of the pandemic in India. “Has the challenge gone away? No way. A large proportion of our population is still susceptible. The virus may yet hurt us with full force,” Paul said, underlining the need for continued use of precautions such as face masks, physical distancing, and hand and respiratory hygiene, among others. Data from the Union health ministry have also shown a decline in positivity — the proportion of positive cases among those tested — from 10 per cent in early July to 7.72 per cent in mid-August. “The important point is that in spite of a sustained level of nearly 700,000 to 800,000 tests a day, the positivity figure has come down,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary. The health ministry has attributed the fall in the CFR to aggressive testing that leads to early detection of positive cases and efficient clinical management of Covid-19 patients. “There is no reason to slacken our guard,” Bhushan said, after referring to the downward trends in the daily new cases and deaths and the CFR. “We need to stay vigilant and pursue containment, surveillance and testing at the same level of efficiency and aggressiveness as we have so far,” he said. The ICMR had on June 25 expanded its Covid-19 testing strategy to make available diagnostic tests to anyone with respiratory symptoms anywhere in India. “Testing is nearly on-demand now — we’re nearly there,” Paul said. The daily tests have increased from an average of 230,000 during early July to over 800,000 in mid-August. Paul, who is also the chair of a government panel on vaccines against Covid-19, also said the results of early safety and efficacy trials of the two homegrown vaccines were expected within the next four to six weeks. The results of the large-scale efficacy trial of the Oxford vaccine candidate conducted by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, at multiple sites across the country could take more time to emerge, he said. “We shouldn’t assume that a vaccine (candidate) under trial will be successful,” Paul cautioned. “We want these three vaccines and many others to succeed,” he said, cautioning that all the candidates now under development worldwide might not emerge as vaccines. The World Health Organisation’s August 13 update on vaccines says 29 candidates are under human clinical trials while 138 other candidates are either undergoing lab or animal studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Jobs lost by youths in pandemic: 41 lakh||As many as 41 lakh youths in India lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the majority of them in the construction and farm sectors, according to a joint report by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) that has warned against the creation of a doomed “lockdown generation”. “For India, the report estimates job loss for 4.1 million youths. Construction and agriculture have witnessed the major job losses among seven key sectors,” says the ILO-ADB report, titled “Tackling the Covid-19 Youth Employment Crisis in Asia and the Pacific” and released on Tuesday. The youth’s employment prospects in Asia and the Pacific are severely challenged because of the pandemic, it adds. Youths, who the report classifies as those between 15 and 24 years of age, will be hit harder than adults, those above 25, in the immediate crisis and risk bearing higher longer-term economic and social costs, says the report. The report is based on regional assessment of the “Global Survey on Youth and Covid-19” and arrived at estimates based on available unemployment data in different countries. According to the report, two-thirds of firm-level apprenticeships in India and three-quarters of internships were completely interrupted during the pandemic. The report calls on governments in Asia and the Pacific to adopt urgent, large-scale and targeted measures to generate jobs for youths, keep education and training on track, and to minimise future scarring of more than 660 million young people in the region. Even before the Covid crisis, youths in Asia and the Pacific had been facing challenges in the labour market, resulting in high unemployment rates and large shares of youths being excluded from both school and work, the report says. In 2019, the regional youth unemployment rate was 13.8 per cent, compared to 3 per cent for adults; and more than 160 million youths (24 per cent of the population) were not in employment, education or training. “The pre-crisis challenges for youth are now amplified since Covid-19 hit. Without sufficient attention, our fear is that this risks creating a ‘lockdown generation’ that could feel the weight of this crisis for many years to come,” said Sara Elder, ead author of the report and head of the ILO Regional Economic and Social Analysis unit. The report cites three ways in which young people have been affected by the pandemic. These are job disruptions in the form of reduced working hours and earnings, and job losses for both paid workers and the self-employed; interruptions in their education and training; and difficulties in transitioning from school to work, and moving between jobs in a recession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Congress to Mark: Replace Facebook India team||The Congress has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to investigate the “blatant biases and dubious practices” of the social media giant’s management team in India and make immediate amends, saying interference in the electoral processes of the country will not be tolerated. In a letter to Zuckerberg on behalf of the Congress, general secretary in charge of organisation K.C. Venugopal has written: “It is still not too late to correct course and make amends through an impartial investigation into Facebook India’s operations and practices.” The Congress has asked for a high-level inquiry by Facebook’s headquarters whose report should be submitted to the board of Facebook Inc and also made public. Seeking the replacement of the existing Facebook India management team led by Ankhi Das, the director for public policy for South and Central Asia, with a new team so that the investigation is not influenced, Venugopal informed Zuckerberg that the Congress has sought a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the matter. The letter comes days after The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook did not apply its own rules against hate speech to posts from the Hindutva ecosystem to protect its business in India. Pointing to the allegation that Ankhi Das provided support to the BJP, Venugopal said the WSJ report had not come as a surprise to the Congress because the Opposition party had raised such issues with Facebook in the past but no action had been taken. The letter said: “As India’s oldest political party that fought for the nation’s freedom and established India’s electoral democracy through universal adult franchise, it is deeply disturbing to note that your company may be a willing participant in thwarting the very rights and values that our founding leaders sacrificed their lives for.” Venugopal has attached to his letter a report by NewsClick, a video news network, detailing the close association of people involved in the BJP’s election management with the Facebook India team. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday tweeted the letter and wrote: “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news & hate speech. As exposed by Wall Street Journal, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians.” The Congress later at a media conference pointed to purported evidence of the “cosy connection” of Facebook’s Das with BJP leaders. Referring to what he said were leaked internal memos and chats between Facebook officials that had been reported by international media in 2018, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “We get an insight into the relationship of Facebook India officials blossoming with BJP leaders between 2012 and 2014 when the UPA was in power.” He referred to a “July 2012 memo” in which the global vice-president of public policy of Facebook, Marne Levine, had mentioned a closed-door meeting then information and technology minister Kabil Sibal was to hold with Opposition MPs to discuss the government’s intermediary rules on social media. Khera said: “I quote, ‘Ankhi has advised MPs that the matter is sub judice in various courts of India and they should make that point with the minister and reorient the discussion to the substantive issues in the rules…. We, along with Google and YI’s local policy leads, have worked with them on talking points’.” The Congress spokesperson quoted another portion of the memo that said: ‘“We also finished drafting a letter that Arun Jaitley, leader of the Opposition, can use on intermediary rules.’” He said: “It is clear the lobbyists were making talking points and drafting letters for BJP leaders and MPs.” Alleging that the memo had revealed how Facebook had lobbied to get the IT Act amended by planting stories in the media and supporting public interest litigation, Khera said: “I am proud that their internal communications confirmed UPA ministers did not listen to them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh cuffs on journalist ||Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday picked up journalist Prashant Kanojia from his Delhi home for allegedly tweeting a morphed image on the Ram temple in Ayodhya, a little over a year after he was freed by the Supreme Court that found his arrest illegal in another case linked to freedom of expression. The latest FIR accused Kanojia of sharing on Twitter a morphed image that sought to portray Sushil Tiwari, a Hindu Army leader, as calling for a prohibition on people from the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes from entering the Ram temple. The Facebook post of Tiwari that the Twitter upload had allegedly sought to morph was an image of the leader accompanied by the demand that Islamic studies be immediately replaced with Vedic studies in the UPSC. However, in the “morphed” post attributed to Kanojia, the text had been changed to read: “No Shudra, SC, ST or OBCs will be allowed inside Ram Mandir.” The tweet had added: “According to Tiwariji’s orders.” Late on Tuesday, the tweet could not be found on Prashant’s handle. Many social media users, however, shared screenshots of what they said was the journalist’s tweet on Sunday. In the FIR, Kanojia has been booked under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), and provisions of the Information Technology Act). Sources in Delhi police said the FIR was registered at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow by a policeman, Dinesh Kumar Shukla. Prashant’s wife, journalist Jagisha Arora, told The Telegraph that her husband had not uploaded the tweet attributed to him. “My husband did not tweet this at all. Someone edited the image to make it look so. I am very sure that he has not tweeted anything of the sort,” Jagisha said. “Around 1.20pm, some police personnel from UP came to our house in Munirka. They arrested Prashant but did not give me any paper that explained why. When asked, they replied that it was for a case regarding a recent tweet of his. An officer said they were taking him to Vasant Vihar police station to get transit remand before being taken to Lucknow,” she added. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad tweeted that the arrest of a Dalit journalist was testimony to “the dictatorial attitude of the Uttar Pradesh government”. Azad alleged that the government was disturbed by people writing, reading and speaking, and compared the situation to the Emergency. He demanded Prashant’s immediate release. On June 8 last year, Prashant had been arrested by Uttar Pradesh police from east Delhi over tweets related to a woman’s purported marriage proposal to chief minister Yogi Adityanath. A judicial magistrate had remanded the journalist in custody in a Lucknow jail for 14 days. After hearing the petition filed by his wife, Jagisha, the Supreme Court had on June 18 last year used its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to order Prashant’s immediate release. The apex court had pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government for the “glaring illegality” of the arrest and said that while the authorities “might not approve of the nature” of Prashant’s posts, it was not a crime like “murder” to warrant prolonged incarceration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||US diaspora groups seek Facebook hate probe||Over a dozen diaspora organisations in the US on Monday urged the House of Representatives to launch a congressional probe into the functioning of Facebook, particularly the social networking site’s “role in amplifying hate and bigotry around the world’’. While the demand from the Coalition to Stop Genocide platform was made in the wake of The Wall Street Journal report about a Facebook executive blocking punitive action against the accounts of some BJP leaders in violation of the site’s rules on hate speech on the pretext that shutting them down would affect the company’s business, the diaspora organisations pointed out that what happened in India was not an isolated case. Demanding that Facebook fire the company’s policy chief in India, Ankhi Das, the diaspora organisations said: “Facebook’s corrupt enabling of hate speech and Islamophobia has been studied and extensively documented and actually goes far beyond what was highlighted in the Wall Street Journal article.’’ They also said the United Nations and the European Union should closely monitor Facebook’s role in furthering hate speech and disinformation. “Regulators in countries around the world need to act on the information and hold Facebook accountable, through fines and criminal prosecution if necessary for colluding with genocidal entities working to further mass violence.’’ The coalition includes Hindus for Human Rights, Indian American Muslim Council, South Asia Solidarity Initiative, Ambedkar Association of North America, Guru Ravidas Sabha, Periyar International USA and Students Against Hindutva Ideology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||India’s burden of cancer cases likely to increase in five years||India’s burden of cancer cases is likely to increase from 1.39 million in 2020 to over 1.57 million by 2025, the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Tuesday in a report analysing cancer trends nationwide. The ICMR’s National Cancer Registry Programme’s 2020 report has also predicted an increase in proportions and incidence of tobacco-related cancers from 27.1 per cent and 377,000 cases in 2020 to 27.2 per cent and 427,000 cases in 2025. The report has identified cancers of the lung, mouth, stomach and oesophagus as the most common among men, while breast and cervical cancer are the most common among women. In line with trends observed earlier, the incidence of breast cancer is rising while cervical cancer is declining. The incidence of breast cancer is expected to increase from around 210,000 cases in 2020 to 238,000 in 2025, it has projected. In men and women, cancers of the gastrointestinal tract contribute to 270,000 or 19 per cent of the country’s cancer burden, the report said. The cancer incidence among men is highest in Mizoram’s Aizawl district (269 per 100,000 people) and among women highest in Arunachal Pradesh’s Papumpare (219 per 100,000). Osmanabad and Beed district in Maharashtra have the lowest incidence rates in men (39 per 100,000) and women (49 per 100,000). The analysis has suggested that thyroid cancer is on the rise, with Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts in Kerala having the highest incidence rates, while Delhi had the country’s highest incidence of childhood cancers such as leukaemias and lymphomas. The estimates based on a network of cancer registries at selected sites across the country have also revealed that the majority of breast cancer and cervical cancer were diagnosed at what oncologists describe as the “locoregional stage”. “This is an encouraging sign — the locoregional stage is one where the cancer has not metastasised (spread) to other parts of the body,” said Arnab Gupta, president of the Indian Association of Surgical Oncology and director at the Saroj Gupta Cancer Hospital, Thakurpukur, Calcutta. However, Gupta and other oncologists underlined that the majority of cancers in India continue to be detected either in stage 2 or stage 3 rather than stage 1. Cancer patients diagnosed in stage 1 have the highest chance of cure. Doctors say poor awareness among patients about the early warning signs of cancer and lack of access to diagnosis are among factors that contribute to the late diagnosis of cancer with diagnostic delays more likely in rural areas. Gupta said: “Some patients don’t seek care until they have severe symptoms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-721
19-08-2020||India||Kerala Opposition leader files plea to shield patient call data records||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has filed a public interest litigation plea in Kerala High Court seeking to quash a circular that allows the police to collect call data records of coronavirus patients. The Opposition has been accusing the Left Democratic Front government of “illegally” sourcing call data records to keep track of the patients’ movements. But the government had in its circular, issued on August 11, stated that collection of such records was being done according to Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, which states that “any message or class of messages shall be intercepted or detained” during “any public emergency” and Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, that grants the state or the Centre the “power to issue directions for interceptions or monitoring or decryption of any information through any computer source”. The PIL was filed on Monday in spite of the state government’s guidelines which said that “appropriate security control and protocol shall be adopted for processing of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) collected in regard of Covid-19, so as to ensure that it is stored, processed and analysed in a secure environment as per law”. The government had also made it clear that “such data must be destroyed as soon as the purpose for which it was collected by authorized agency, is over”. But Chennithala of the Congress, in his plea, did not agree with the government’s assurance and sought judicial intervention for “restraining them from collecting CDRs (call data records) from Covid-19 positive patients”. He stated that call data records could be collected only in cases of grave criminal nature, financial crimes or other crimes that threaten national security. Even in such cases the call data records could be collected “only after obtaining permission from home department subject to review by the Review Committee constituted under Rule 16 of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007”. The petitioner cited the collection of call data records as “arbitrary, illegal, unfair, and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which is liable to be quashed”. Chennithala, a former Kerala home minister, suggested in the petition an alterative to gathering call data records by triangulating signals from mobile towers since each tower covers a radius of about 500 metres. The petitioner noted that service providers usually mention latitude and longitude within the tower range from where calls were made. “In addition to that, by using GPS app, the police can easily pinpoint the location within 500 metre radius,” he said, pointing to a viable alternative to “illegal” means. The petition was apparently part of the Opposition’s efforts to corner the Left government that has been on the backfoot since the unearthing of a gold smuggling racket using diplomatic baggage tags of the United Arab Emirates consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram. Secretary at the chief minister’s office and principal secretary of the IT department, M. Sivasankar, was suspended after his name cropped up for having close ties with some of the key accused in the smuggling case, including Swapna Suresh. A former executive secretary at the consulate, Swapna last worked as an operations manager with a private consultancy operating from the state-run Space Park. The Opposition was planning to use the one-day emergency session of the Assembly convened on Monday by moving a no-confidence motion against the government. Chennithala told a press conference on Tuesday that he expected at least two days of discussion before putting the motion to vote. “We need at least two days to discuss the issues plaguing the state. It is unfortunate that the Speaker allowed only one day,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||HC refuses Saibaba parole for mom rites||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant emergency parole to former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba to attend his mother’s post-funeral rituals. A division bench of Justices Z.A. Haq and A.G. Gharote directed the Nagpur jail authorities to make arrangements for Saibaba to talk to his family via videoconferencing. Saibaba, who is serving life sentence in the Nagpur Central Prison in Maharashtra for alleged links with Maoists, had sought parole to go to Hyderabad to attend the post-funeral rituals of his 74-year-old mother who died on August 1. The court, while rejecting the plea for emergency parole, said it would be difficult to arrange for security personnel to escort Saibaba from Nagpur to Hyderabad amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Special public prosecutor P.K. Sathianathan, appearing for the government, opposed Saibaba’s plea and argued that most of the post-funeral rituals are complete. Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound with 90 per cent physical disabilities, had last month sought parole to visit his ailing mother. But his appeal was rejected and, soon after, his mother passed away. In March 2017, a sessions court had convicted Saibaba and four others for alleged Maoist links and waging war against the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Dalit professor's caste bias cry in VC choice||A Dalit professor with “sound” academic and administrative credentials at a central university dedicated to Sanskrit education has alleged that he was not considered for the post of its vice-chancellor because of his caste. Sukadev Bhoi, a well-known scholar of Sanskrit literature and a professor for over 13 years in Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, had applied for the post of the vice-chancellor of the institution. A search and selection committee comprising five academics has decided to not to call Bhoi to the interview scheduled on Thursday. Nearly 40 people had applied and around 10 have been called for the interview. Bhoi has complained to the office of the President, who is the visitor to the university, the Prime Minister’s Office and the education ministry. It is learnt that Bhoi has sought the cancellation of the ongoing appointment process to ensure transparency. Bhoi has accused the panel headed by professor Uma Vaidya to have excluded him purely on caste consideration. He has also claimed the selection process is designed to favour re-appointment of the incumbent vice-chancellor Ramesh Chandra Pandey. Bhoi has alleged that all those called for the interview were from privileged castes and most of the search panel members belonged to the same castes. Last week, the PMO forwarded the complaint to the education ministry for appropriate action. The requirement for the post is 10 years of experience as a professor and that the applicant shall be preferably below 65 years of age. Bhoi, a recipient of Maharshi Badrayan Vyas Samman, fulfils both the conditions. Bhoi has administrative experience and he served as the head of Sahitya department in the university for five years and dean of faculty of Sahitya and Sanskrit for over two years. He has 21 research publications to his credit and has guided over a dozen PhD students. Bhoi has been also nominated by the University Grants Commission (UGC) as an observer or expert in about 40 panels related to either the selection committee for faculty or the board of management of institutions. Devarshi Kala Nath Shastry, a President’s Award winner for contribution to Sanskrit, said: “His academic credentials are sound. But the search panel enjoys freedom to follow its criteria to invite persons for interview. The search panel is expected to follow transparent criteria.” A ministry source said the government would not like to comment on an issue related to a committee of experts. An email to the education ministry to understand its perspective did not elicit a response. Shastry, who has been chairperson of several search panels for VC posts, said that the government influence has increased in recent years in the selection process for academic leaders. A former UGC member admitted that the selection committee gets influenced by recommendations from the RSS. “These days the selection committees for vice-chancellor posts call about 10 to 20 persons for interview. Many people despite fulfilling eligibility get rejected for the interview. The committees also accommodate recommended candidates from the Sangh. But they do so by following some criteria, not arbitrarily. This committee will be able to tell the criteria,” he said. Asked about the allegation of bias, Vaidya said: “Till the process is complete, I cannot say anything. Let him say whatever he wants to say. I am going by rules and regulations.” Another member of the search panel said that the panel did not look at the caste of any candidate. “Normally the search panel looks at criteria like academic and administrative experiences of a candidate, reputation as a scholar and exposure, and conduct. I do not remember exactly why professor Bhoi was not called (for the interview). But we did not look at the caste of the candidates,” he said. The matter has brought to light the alleged hegemony of privileged caste members in academic institutions in general and Sanskrit institutions in particular. Last year, Muslim scholar Feroze Khan had to quit his job as an assistant professor within a month of joining the faculty of Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vijnan in Banaras Hindu University due to protests by students over his religion. The complaint of bias in selection is usual practice but the government has to rely on the collective wisdom of experts, the source said. The source also defended the decision to assign the secretarial support work to the university for the sake of autonomy. Usually the ministry handles the process of appointment like collection of applications, arrangement of meeting of the search panel and stay of the members as a matter of practice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Navy opposes HAL-built helicopters||The navy has renewed its opposition to the inclusion of the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) in a planned Rs 22,000-crore deal to manufacture naval utility helicopters under the Make in India model, dealing a blow to the Narendra Modi government’s push to make the defence sector a part of its Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. Under the deal that has been in the works since last year, 95 helicopters are to be manufactured in India under a strategic partnership between foreign companies and Indian private sector firms and HAL, while 16 more choppers will be bought from abroad. Initially, only private firms from India had been involved in the proposed project but HAL was included on a request from the public sector utility, sources said. The Indian Navy, however, has contended that the Bangalore-based HAL’s products do not meet the force’s requirements. “The navy has been maintaining that HAL’s naval version of the advanced light helicopter does not meet its basic requirements as the choppers do not have foldable rotor blades that allow them to be parked within the cramped confines of warship hangars,” a defence ministry official said. “Recently, the navy has again conveyed its reservations to the ministry about HAL’s products and said it wanted a foreign version of the advanced light helicopter that meets its requirements to be built under the strategic partnership model,” the official added. The navy’s renewed opposition comes against the backdrop of the announcement last week by defence minister Rajnath Singh that India would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner from December to strengthen the country’s fledgling defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs 4 lakh crore will be placed with the domestic industry that include HAL, the Adanis, Anil Ambani, the Tatas, the Hindujas, L&T, Kalyani Group and Mahindra Aerospace. The helicopter project, however, is not part of this plan. Several veterans have questioned the move saying India does not have enough indigenous capability and that the embargoed items such as artillery guns, sonar systems, light combat helicopters and radars are still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). They have also questioned the purpose of the embargo if critical components are imported and only assembled in India. The 111 naval utility helicopters are critical to enhancing the navy’s operational capabilities. These helicopters will be able to operate onboard warships by consuming much lesser space and replace the ageing Chetak helicopters used for search and rescue operations, casualty evacuation, low-intensity marine operations and torpedo drops. The defence ministry had last year issued an expression of interest for shortlisting of potential Indian strategic partners and foreign equipment manufacturers for the procurement of the 111 helicopters. The strategic partnership model aims at collaborations between Indian manufacturers and foreign firms who are willing to share technology and set up Indian production lines. The foreign firms will have to set up dedicated manufacturing lines, including design, integration and building processes, for making the helicopters in India. The sources said that in November last year, the Defence Acquisition Council headed by the defence minister had met and identified the Indian firms and foreign manufacturers that would come together for the production of the helicopters. “But the DAC did not give the final nod for the request for proposal. The matter was referred back to the Indian Navy for it to consider the proposal of involving defence PSUs,” a defence ministry official said. The sources said HAL had now acquired the technology to manufacture foldable blades. “HAL has all the technologies that the foreign firms are supposed to transfer, including rotor systems, transmission systems and hydraulics,” a HAL official said. A military veteran said the money that would be paid to the foreign equipment manufacturers for the transfer of technology and the cost of setting up a new production line would make the naval utility helicopters more expensive than the Dhruv choppers HAL manufactures. Adani Defence, Mahindra Defence, Reliance Defence, Tata Advanced Systems and the Kalyani Group are among the private players who have responded to the defence ministry’s tender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||AAP Shaheen claim fuels ‘Nitish Jr’ barb||The Aam Aadmi Party has found itself in a tight corner after its chief spokesperson linked the anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh to the BJP. Although the protest abruptly ended on March 24 because of the pandemic-induced lockdown, the matter reappeared on the political firmament when a man named Shahzad Ali, who proclaimed that he was a “Shaheen Bagh activist”, joined the BJP on Sunday. The Shaheen Bagh protest, which was driven by women, began on December 15 and continued for over three months, becoming the longest and largest stir against the Centre’s new citizenship matrix. On Sunday, the BJP inducted 50 Muslims into the party, including Ali of the little-known Rashtriya Ulama Council party. After introducing himself as a “Shaheen Bagh activist”, Ali told news agency ANI: “I have joined the BJP to prove wrong those in our community who think that the BJP is our enemy. We’ll sit together with them over the CAA concerns.” The AAP, which had attributed its defeat in six seats in east Delhi in the February Assembly polls to the communal polarisation due to the anti-CAA protests, was quick to jump at the opportunity. The AAP’s chief spokesperson and strident pro-Hindu face Saurabh Bharadwaj told a media conference on Monday: “The whole Shaheen Bagh protest was scripted by the BJP. The topmost leadership of the BJP scripted each and every step of the Shaheen Bagh protest. They decided who would say what, who would attack whom and then who would be launching the counter-attack. “All these things were pre-planned and well-scripted…. I do agree that there were many pro-democratic people who joined this protest. Many people joined this protest with the hope that it was pro-democracy. But they also did not understand that this Shaheen Bagh protest was just a brainchild and a script of the BJP.” Bharadwaj’s statements created a future online with renewed allegations of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal being a “Nitish Jr” —  a reference to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar who resurrected an alliance with the BJP after becoming a fulcrum of the Opposition. AAP’s social media managers unsuccessfully tried to contain the fallout of Bharadwaj’s statements, stressing that only “the section of protesters adamant on continuing to block the street” had joined the BJP. Shaheen Kausar, one of the organisers of the protest, called Bharadwaj’s statements “heart-breaking”. She said: “This was a leaderless protest and although Shahzad Ali was one of those who regularly attended, he never had any role in organising the protest. If AAP knew that all that we women were doing was a BJP plot, why did they keep silent for so long? They swept the polls, so what benefit are they claiming the BJP got from our protest? “One can understand that the BJP wants to induct people associated with the protest in order to create an impression that people have accepted their unjust law. But the people of Shaheen Bagh will ask AAP leaders why they are speaking the language of the BJP.” In another news conference on Tuesday, Bharadwaj blamed BJP leaders Amit Shah, Yogi Adityanath, Anurag Thakur and Giriraj Singh, among others, for the communal riots in Delhi in February. The AAP spokesperson, however, continued his tirade against Shaheen Bagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||HC bins plea to reopen Sterlite plant in Tamil Nadu||Madras High Court on Tuesday rejected a plea from mining giant Vedanta for permission to reopen its Sterlite copper unit at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu, which has been closed since May 2018 over pollution concerns. The company described the verdict as a “temporary setback” and said it would look into all legal options available to it, while political leaders and others welcomed the judgment. A division bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and V. Bhavani Subbaroyan upheld the orders of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) directing the closure of the unit in May 2018. It had on January 9 this year reserved orders on the matter. The court, in its over 800-page judgment, dismissed a batch of writ petitions from Vedanta and others challenging the closure of the unit, which was at the centre of violent protests over pollution concerns. Vedanta had approached the high court in February 2019, seeking to reopen the Sterlite plant which was closed following a May 23, 2018 order issued by the TNPCB in the backdrop of violent protests which left 13 people dead in police firing on May 21 and 22. It had filed the petition in the high court as suggested by the Supreme Court which had on February 18, 2019 set aside the National Green Tribunal order that allowed opening of the Sterlite plant. Several people hailed the high court judgment in Tuticorin in southern Tamil Nadu by distributing sweets and bursting firecrackers. Deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam welcomed the judgment, saying it reflected the thoughts of crores of people. DMK president M.K. Stalin said he bowed before the court for its judgment. He urged the government to pass a cabinet resolution welcoming the judgment and file a caveat petition in the Supreme Court in case Vedanta files an appeal. MDMK chief Vaiko said the judgment has done justice and hailed it as “a huge win” for the agitation by the people. ”Without compromising even a little, I myself have argued against the plant before the tribunal, the high Court and the Supreme Court,” he said and recalled his party’s 26-year-long struggle against the plant. State secretaries of the CPM and the CPI, K. Balakrishnan and R. Mutharasan and PMK founder leader S. Ramadoss also urged the government to fight the matter in the apex court if the firm went on an appeal and ensure the plant’s permanent closure. Sterlite CEO Pankaj Kumar told reporters in Tuticorin: “We will look at all legal options available to us.” To a question, Kumar said: “There may be a possibility of lay-off,” adding the plant has been shut for over two years. Associate vice-president D. Dhanavel said the judgment was “disappointing” and a “temporary setback”. Dhanavel said “our company has continuously taken efforts to protect jobs of all to the possible extent despite closure. But now with this setback that (safeguarding jobs) will be a challenge... we will discuss this and take further steps considering the welfare of employees”. In its arguments during the hearing, Vedanta had claimed the closure order was nothing but “naked discrimination” against the company and a knee-jerk reaction of the state to “appease” a section of the public with vested interest after 13 protesters were killed in the police firing. Rejecting the charges, the state government had submitted that it has full authority and powers to shut down a factory when it causes serious threat to the environment and ecology. The Sterlite unit had flouted many rules which amounted to violation of statutory provisions warranting closure of the factory, it had told the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Fake news hits Odisha VIPs ||Social media can be a dangerous source of information because a lot of unverified news is shared on the medium. But such is our dependence on social media that sometimes not only ordinary people but also resourceful VIPs land in an embarrassing situation after sharing news floating on the medium. Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi, both hailing from the state, are among the latest VIPs to fall victims of this trend. Taken in by a piece of information on the social media, all of them congratulated an Odia pilot of the Indian Air Force on August 8 for a feat he never accomplished. Lal, Pradhan and Sarangi took to Twitter to congratulate Wing Commander Nikhil Rath after learning from social media that he had been selected for the country’s first manned space mission, Gaganyaan. None of them had checked the authenticity of the information. It later came to light that Rath was not among the four candidates shortlisted for the mission who are already in Russia undergoing training. The governor tweeted that he was delighted to know about Rath’s selection for the mission and wished him success. After this reporter sought to know the source of Lal’s information about Rath being shortlisted among the four astronauts for the ambitious space project, the governor’s office deleted the tweet. Union minister for petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan had tweeted, “Elated to learn that Wg. Cdr. Nikhil Rath of IAF has been shortlisted to be a part of the 4 member crew of India’s first manned space mission, Gaganyaan 2022. It is a matter of immense pride that this son of Odisha will be a part of this significant & prestigious mission.” Union minister of state for animal husbandry and MSME Sarangi tweeted: “ Happy to know that IAF Wing Commander Nikhil Rath of Balangir, Odisha has been shortlisted to be part of the human mission to space in the prestigious #Gaganayan project of Isro . Heartiest congratulations to the ace pilot from the State for getting this opportunity.” He had added, “Pretty sure that he would hone his skills during the one year rigorous training in Russia. Wishing him all the best for the final selection!” According to the news shared on social media, Rath and three other astronauts from India have finished their training at Yuri A. Gagarin Research & Test Cosmonaut Training Center in Russia on crew action in the event of an abnormal descent module landing. Based on the tweets, many media houses, including leading news agencies ran the story. “What could we do? We ran the story after seeing the congratulatory messages. Even leading new agencies and people from Bangalore filed stories on different websites,” said a journalist who fell victim to the fake news. The fact is that Rath had been included among the 25 pilots shortlisted in 2019 for space missions under the Gaganyaan. But he was not among the four candidates finally selected for the mission. Sources said Rath was initially among the 25 shortlisted candidates who cleared the rigorous mental, physical and psychological tests. But he missed out on selection in the subsequent stages. Only four pilots were sent to Russia for the 16-month training and Rath was not among them, official sources said. But many were misled after one of his relatives put an old photo on Twitter congratulating him. Later a flood of congratulatory messages followed. Sources said even a senior IPS officer had congratulated him without verifying the information. “I congratulated him based on the news shared on social media,” the IPS officer told The Telegraph. Rath, who is currently at an air base in Gujarat, told this newspaper, “This news is not correct. I have not been selected (for the space mission). I refute the news. Some news channels are competing for TRPs and filing stories without verifying the truth. What can I do?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||Bihar shopkeepers protest ||A large number of shopkeepers took to the streets in Lakhisarai in Bihar on Tuesday to protest against not being able to conduct business and being on the verge of penury because of the lockdown. The shopkeepers complained that the alleged faulty administrative policy has forced them to sit idle since March when the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus started. They chanted slogans demanding permission to open their stores and put up bamboo barricades at several places to halt traffic movement in the town, located around 155km southeast of the state capital. “Owners of shops of clothes, bangles, toys, stationery, sweets, books, jewellery, furniture and many other items are human beings. They also have mouths to feed. Many employees also work at these shops. However, they are unable to conduct business due to the lockdown since March and have reached the verge of starvation,” said Munna Goswami, a shopkeeper in Lakhisarai. As time passed by, the protesters squatted on the roads to demand relief. The Lakhisarai district administration finally intervened and assured them of looking into their grievances. Several shopkeepers pointed out that the problem has been caused by the timings for stores to open. Unlike several other districts, the Lakhisarai administration has ordered that all shops should open between 6am and 2pm. “Such timings are fine for milk, vegetable, grocery shops and fish market. But other stores open only around 11am. Customers won’t be there even if they open early. By the time the shopkeepers settle for the day’s business, it’s time to close. By 1.30am, the police start asking the shops to close,” said Sandeep Sah, another shopkeeper. Lakhisarai district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Singh, who was transferred there a month ago, told The Telegraph that the timings had been prevalent since the lockdown started in March and have continued since then. “There is no restriction on shops, except malls, from doing business. However, the timings could be a problem for those who open their shops late. Some people came to meet me today and said that they were owners of big stores, but were unable to function. We are enquiring into prevalent timings in the neighbouring districts. We will look into their grievances and redress them,” Singh said. The district magistrate also asserted that lockdown was being enforced to protect people from contracting coronavirus and action will be taken if people violate norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
19-08-2020||India||KIIT bags top spot in innovation ranking||Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), a deemed to be university in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, on Tuesday bagged the top spot among self-financing institutions in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020,  the institute said in a statement. The ranking report for 2020 was announced by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu in the presence of Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, minister of state for education Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre, AICTE chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe, higher education secretary Amit Khare and others at a ceremony in New Delhi, a statement said. ARIIA is an initiative of the human resource development ministry to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “innovation and entrepreneurship development” amongst students and faculties. KIIT, recognised as an Institution of Eminence by the government, has achieved the top place in the rankings due to its innovation and entrepreneurship centres, advanced laboratories, centres of excellence and collaborations with industries and international institutions, the statement said. Known for its student-friendly culture, KIIT lays high emphasis on involving students in research, development and innovation activities, it said. KIIT, which came second in the 2019 rankings. “I congratulate KIIT on this achievement. We have moved to the first position this year from second place last year. It is the story of our growth in the realm of research and innovation. I thank Hon’ble Minister of HRD (education) Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank ji for recognising our efforts,” said Achyuta Samanta, founder of KIIT and Kandhamal MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-722
