20-08-2020||India||Bhupesh Baghel govt disburses benefits||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel disbursed a host of benefits to farmers, livestock owners and tendupatta collectors on Thursday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. Among the benefits that were handed out were the second instalment to farmers from a corpus of Rs 1,500 crore. The money was directly transferred to 20 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. This apart, the Baghel government also sanctioned Rs 5 crore that was to be paid under Godhan Nyay Yojana. Also, over 11 lakh tendupatta collectors would receive an incentive remuneration of Rs 232.81 crore in all. The Chhattisgarh government of Bhupesh Baghel has all along claimed that its motto is based on three principles: service, care and empathy. And it was under these three pillars that Thursday’s relief measures were announced and acted upon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat tests positive for Covid||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. The minister said in a tweet that he underwent a coronavirus test after experiencing symptoms of the infection, adding that he is getting admitted to a hospital on the advice of doctors. "I underwent a coronavirus test after developing symptoms and the report has come positive. I am getting hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request all who have come in my contact in the past days to isolate themselves and get tested," Shekhwat tweeted in Hindi. The minister held two important meetings on Tuesday. One was on the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL). Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh attended the meeting virtually while his Haryana counterpart M L Khattar was physically present at the meeting with Shekhwat, his deputy in the ministry Rattan Lal Kataria, and senior officials. Kataria was also present for another meeting alongside Shekhwat in a virtual conference with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E K Palaniswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Dhoni illustration of new India where family name doesn't count: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described Mahendra Singh Dhoni as the embodiment of a new India where family name does not make one's destiny in a letter to the two-time World Cup-winning former India captain, who retired from international cricket last week. A thankful Dhoni shared the letter on his Twitter page on Thursday, his first social media post since the "consider me retired" note on Instagram that stunned one and all on Saturday. "You have been one of the important illustrations of the spirit of new India, where family name does not make young people's destiny but they make their own names and their own destinies," wrote the PM in his letter. "Where we come from does not matter as long as we know where we are headed -- this is the spirit that you have exuded and inspired many youngsters with," he said. Dhoni, who is also an Honorary Lieutenant Colonel in the Territorial Army, thanked the PM for the appreciation. "An Artist,Soldier and Sportsperson what they crave for is appreciation, that their hard work and sacrifice is getting noticed and appreciated by everyone.thanks PM @narendramodi for your appreciation and good wishes," he wrote. In the lengthy note to the celebrated cricketer, the PM also lauded the calm demeanour with which Dhoni led the Indian team. "No matter what hairstyle you sported, your calm head remained the same in victory or defeat, which is very important for every youth," he said referring to different hair cuts that Dhoni made famous after sporting an eye-catching long mane at the beginning of his career. Calling him one of the greatest captains and one of the best wicketkeepers the game has seen, Modi said, "Your dependability in tough situations and your style of finishing matches, particularly the 2011 World Cup final will forever be etched in the public memory for generations." "The correct way to assess your impact is as phenomenon." The 39-year-old keeper-batsman was widely considered a game-changer in international cricket and earned widespread respect for his foresight on the cricket field, which made punts look like well thought out strategy. "Rising from humble beginnings in a small town, you burst onto the national scene, made a name for yourself and most importantly, made India proud," Modi wrote. The PM said Dhoni's rise and conduct "gives strength and inspiration to crores of youngsters who like you haven't been to cushy schools or colleges, neither do they belong to illustrious families but they have the talent to distinguish themselves at the highest level." Modi concluded by wishing him the best for all his future endeavours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||It will be insincere to apologise for tweets, says Bhushan||The Supreme Court Thursday granted two days to activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who has been held guilty of contempt, to reconsider his 'defiant statement' refusing to apologise for his contemptuous tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan told a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that he would consult his lawyers and think over the apex court's suggestion. Attorney General K K Venugopal urged the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, not to award any punishment to Bhushan in the contempt case saying he has already been convicted. The bench said it cannot consider the request of Venugopal unless Bhushan reconsiders his earlier stand of not apologising for his tweets. The tone, tenor and content of Bhushan's statement makes it worse; is it defence or aggravation, the court told Venugopal. The top court said it can be very lenient if there is realisation of mistake, and posted the matter for further hearing on August 24. At the outset, it rejected the submission of Bhushan's counsel that another bench hear the arguments on the quantum of sentence to be awarded in the case. A contemnor can be punished with simple imprisonment of up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both. The bench gave assurance to Bhushan that no punishment will be acted upon till his review against the order convicting him is decided. The bench told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing Bhushan, that he is asking them to commit an act of impropriety by saying that the argument on sentencing be heard by another bench. Justice Mishra said that he will be retiring soon and adjournment should not be sought and the review will be decided after this matter is decided finally. The bench said it is not inclined to hear the application filed by Bhushan on Wednesday seeking deferment of hearing on the sentence till his review petition is decided. At the outset, Dave sought deferment of hearing on the quantum of sentence in the case saying that he would be filing a review petition against the conviction order. The top court on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. During the hearing, on Thursday, Dave told the bench that heavens are not going to fall if the apex court will suspend the hearing on quantum of sentence. You are asking us to commit an act of impropriety that arguments on sentencing should be heard by another bench, the bench said. It added: Has it been ever done that hearing on sentencing has been undertaken by the other bench when the main bench is existing? The bench told the Attorney General that it will first hear Bhushan on the issue of sentencing. When Dave said that Venugopal should be allowed to argue first, the bench said, Don't remind us of the professional norms. Bhushan, who himself addressed the court, said that he has been grossly misunderstood. I am dismayed and disappointed that the court did not find it necessary to provide me the copy of the contempt petition , he said. My tweets simply showed my bonafide belief. Bhushan said that open criticism is necessary in democracy to safeguard the constitutional order. My tweets were a small attempt to discharge what I consider my highest duty...", he said. "I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal for magnanimity. I cheerfully submit to any punishment that the court may impose..," said Bhushan. The hearing in the matter is still undergoing. On August 14, in its 108-page verdict, the top court had said: The tweets which are based on the distorted facts, in our considered view, amount to committing criminal contempt. In the result, we hold alleged contemnor No.1 - Mr. Prashant Bhushan guilty of having committed criminal contempt of this Court. The top court had, however, discharged the notice issued to Twitter Inc, California, USA in the contempt case after accepting its explanation that it is only an intermediary and does not have any control on what the users post on the platform. It had said the company has also shown its bona fides immediately after the cognizance was taken by this Court as it has suspended both the tweets. The top court had analysed the two tweets of Bhushan posted on the micro-blogging site on June 27 on the functioning of judiciary in past six years, and on July 22 with regard to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde. "In our considered view, it cannot be said that the tweets can be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary, made bona fide in the public interest," it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Slight improvement in Pranab Mukherjee's health condition||Respiratory parameters of former president Pranab Mukherjee have shown a slight improvement, though he continues to be on ventilator support, the hospital said on Thursday. Mukherjee, who was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital on August 10, developed a lung infection on Wednesday. Doctors attending on him said his vital parameters remain stable. "The respiratory parameters of Hon'ble Shri Pranab Mukherjee have shown slight improvement though he continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital and clinical parameters remain stable and are being closely monitored by a team of specialists," a hospital statement said. Mukherjee was operated on for removal of a clot in the brain on August 10 at the Army Hospital in Delhi Cantonment. He was also tested positive for Covid-19. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Contempt case: SC rejects Bhushan plea on a separate bench||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected advocate Prashant Bhushan’s submission that hearing on quantum of punishment in a contempt case against him be heard by a different bench, news agency PTI reported. Bhushan, who intends to file a review plea against his conviction for contempt of court, had urged the court to defer the hearing till his petition is decided. Holding Prashant Bhushan guilty on August 14, the court had said the tweets were based on “distorted facts”, were a “malicious…attack” on the “entire Supreme Court” and had the effect of “destabilising the very foundation” of judiciary. The court hearing, on the quantum of punishment, is going on. Details are awaited. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari told Bhushan that no punishment will be acted upon till his review is decided. On his submission for a different bench, the court said, “You are asking us to commit an act of impropriety that arguments on sentencing should be heard by another bench.” Mr Bhushan told the top court that he is "pained" that he has been "grossly misunderstood". "I am pained to hear that I am held guilty of contempt of court. I am pained not because of the would-be sentencing, but because I am being grossly misunderstood. I believe that an open criticism is necessary to safeguard the democracy and its values," Mr Bhushan said. "My tweets need to be seen as an attempt for working for the betterment of the institution. The tweets, I consider, were discharge of my highest duty. Apologising would also be dereliction of my duty," he added. "I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal for magnanimity. I cheerfully submit to any punishment that court may impose," Mr Bhusan told the court. In his application, Bhushan said he “intends” to file a review petition “after studying the order, in detail, and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech”. He said he “would file the same within the limitation period of 30 days from date of the judgment, as he is entitled to under…the Supreme Court Rules, 2013”. Bhushan said the deferment “would be in the interests of justice in view of the underlying public policy with respect to safeguarding liberty of a citizen under Article 21 till such time as his first appeal (in this case the review application) is considered”. Bhushan also tweeted a statement by Opposition leaders including Digvijaya Singh, Shashi Tharoor and Farooq Abdullah, in which they said that the court’s decision had caused “a chilling effect on free speech and expression of dissent.” “It is sad that the honourable court has not found it necessary to distinguish between constructive criticism and malicious statement,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Incessant rains submerge parts of Delhi||Many parts of the national capital and key road stretches remained flooded as rains continued to drench the city on Thursday, triggering traffic snarls during morning rush hours. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heavy rains in the city on Thursday as well. The downpour may lead to "major traffic disruption" due to heavy water logging and there is an "increased chance" of road accidents, it warned. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 46 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Wednesday and 8:30 am on Thursday. On an average, the city gauges 11.3 mm rainfall from 8:30 am on August 19 to 8:30 am on August 20 every year. The Palam weather station gauged 70.9 mm precipitation during the period, more than six times the normal rainfall. The Delhi Traffic Police remained busy clearing traffic on Narela-Bawana road, Raja Garden flyover, Kasturba Underpass, MB Rad, Jhandewalan Mandir, Jhilmil underpass,, Azadpur vegetable market, Sarai Pipal Thala, Jahangirpuri, Madanpur Khadar among other places. Similar scenes played out on Wednesday, as incessant rains pummelled the national capital region, submerging roads, underpasses and parks in waist-deep water and bringing traffic on key stretches to a virtual halt. The flooding was particularly severe in Gurugram, where roads turned into small rivers and parks resembled swimming pools. Just a few hours of rains flooded swathes of Delhi, spelling trouble for commuters who remained stuck for hours on water-logged roads. Pictures and videos of vehicles and people wading through waist-deep water were widely shared on social media. The rains also crippled electricity supply in many areas. Civic bodies reported incidents of uprooting of trees in a few areas due to the rains. A boundary wall of a school in Saket collapsed, damaging several vehicles parked alongside it. Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said climate change had led to a change rain pattern. Earlier, we used to witness continuous light rains over two-three days. Nowadays, the same quantum of rainfall occurs in just 2-3 hours. These extreme events have been taking place across the tropical region since last 10 years," he said. Experts said the flooding was a result of bad urban planning. "Flooding in Indian cities is largely a product of bad urban planning. In Delhi, the Yamuna floodplains have been encroached upon obstructing the natural water flow. Other issues include deforestation, poor drainage system and lack of integrated urban planning," Anjal Prakash, research director, Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, said. Kuldeep Srivastava,the head of regional forecasting center of the IMD, said the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Therefore, more rains are likely. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. The downpour also reduced the rain deficiency in the capital -- from 13 percent on Monday to 11 percent on Wednesday. The Safdarjung Observatory has recorded 147.4 mm rainfall against the normal of 165.2 mm in August so far. Overall, it has recorded 466 mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 441.3 mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Retired Supreme Court judge seeks constitution bench for contempt case||Justice Kurian Joseph, who retired as Supreme Court judge, has said a constitution bench should hear the two contempt cases the top court has taken up suo motu because “substantial questions of law on the interpretation of the Constitution of India and having serious repercussions on the fundamental rights” are involved. “Fiat justitia ruat caelum (let justice be done though the heavens fall) is the fundamental basis of administration of justice by courts. But, if justice is not done or if there is miscarriage of justice, heavens will certainly fall. The Supreme Court of India should not let it happen,” Justice Joseph said in a statement on Wednesday. “Under Article 145(3) of the Constitution of India, there shall be a quorum of minimum five judges for deciding any case involving substantial questions of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.” The statement does not mention lawyer Prashant Bhushan by name but raises the larger question of the right to appeal when the Supreme Court takes up a case on its own. Right now, a person such as Bhushan, convicted in a contempt case taken up by the Supreme Court suo motu, can only file a review petition, an option whose success rate is not much higher than 1 per cent. But high courts have a provision for intra-court appeal. Justice Joseph has flagged this point, suggesting the safeguard is aimed at avoiding “even the remotest possibility of miscarriage of justice” and asking whether the Supreme Court should also not have such a provision. The statement came a day before a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce the sentence in the contempt case in which Bhushan was convicted last week for two tweets. The same bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari is hearing another suo motu contempt case against Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal on a claim the advocate had made in 2009 in Tehelka magazine. The apex court has said it will consider certain larger questions in the 2009 case, such as whether allegations of corruption can be levelled against judges. On Wednesday, Justice Joseph said in his statement: “The present contempt cases are not cases involving just one or two individuals, but larger issues pertaining to the concept and jurisprudence of the country regarding justice itself.” Important cases like these need to be heard elaborately in person as that is the only way to ensure a broader discussion and wider participation, he added. “Men may come and men may go, but the Supreme Court of India should remain forever the court of supreme justice,” Justice Joseph said. The former judge began his statement by noting that a “three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India has decided to hear a few serious questions on the scope and extent of contempt of court”. “Certainly, there are graver issues involving substantial questions of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution of India,” he said. The question, for example, whether a person convicted by the top court in a suo motu case should get the opportunity to move an intra-court appeal. Justice Joseph underlined that in all other criminal convictions, the convict is entitled to a second opportunity in the form of an appeal. An intra-court appeal is provided for if the order has been passed by a single judge of a high court, he said. If a high court division bench issues such an order, the convict can appeal against it in the Supreme Court. “This safeguard is provided probably to avoid even the remotest possibility of miscarriage of justice. Should there not be such a safeguard in the other constitutional court, the Supreme Court of India, also, when there is a conviction in a suo motu criminal contempt case?” Justice Joseph asked. He stressed that when Justice C.S. Karnan was sentenced to prison in 2017, it was the collective wisdom of the full court of the Supreme Court that the matter be heard at least by a bench of the seven senior-most judges. Justice Joseph was part of that bench.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||Supreme Court clears CBI Sushant probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the CBI to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, saying the allegations of “political interference” by the Maharashtra and Bihar governments against each other had brought the investigation “under a cloud”. The CBI had already taken up the probe on a request from the Bihar government but Maharashtra had opposed the move. Sushant lived and worked in Mumbai but was brought up in Bihar, where his family is based. On Wednesday, the apex court cleared the CBI probe, saying an agency independent of both state governments needed to investigate the matter to ensure public confidence and accord justice to “innocents who might be the target of vilification campaign”. The single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy stressed how the actor’s death by hanging on June 14 at his Bandra home had led to “conjectures” and the raising of “accusing fingers” in public. Sushant’s fans have accused some of Bollywood’s big names of humiliating and ostracising the actor while his family has alleged financial and psychological victimisation by his live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty. “Because both states are making acrimonious allegations of political interference against each other, the legitimacy of the investigation has come under a cloud. Accusing fingers are being pointed and people have taken the liberty to put out their own conjectures and theories,” the court said. “The dissemination of the real facts through unbiased investigation would certainly result in justice for the innocents, who might be the target of vilification campaign. Equally importantly, when integrity and credibility of the investigation is discernible, the trust, faith and confidence of the common man in the judicial process will resonate.” The court was dealing with a plea from Rhea challenging the Bihar police’s right to probe the case, and cross-appeals moved by Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh and the Bihar government. Maharashtra had objected to probes by either the CBI or the Bihar police. While the CBI would normally have needed Maharashtra’s consent to conduct the probe, the apex court said it was passing the order under Article 142 to remove the necessity. Article 142 empowers the Supreme Court to pass any directives to render complete justice. The court noted that Maharashtra had not registered an FIR but merely proceeded under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the limited purpose of a preliminary inquiry into the “apparent cause of unnatural death”. “Therefore, as it appears, no investigation pursuant to commission of a cognisable offence is being carried out by the Mumbai police,” it said. Bihar’s police had registered an FIR on a complaint from Sushant’s father and begun an investigation, the court noted. “Moreover, the allegation relating to criminal breach of trust and misappropriation of money which were to be eventually accounted for in Patna (where the complainant resides) could prima facie indicate the lawful jurisdiction of the Patna police,” the court said. “Patna police committed no illegality in registering the complaint.... For the same reason, the Bihar government was competent to give consent for entrustment of investigation to the CBI and as such the ongoing investigation by the CBI is held to be lawful.” If a new case is registered in Mumbai relating to Sushant’s death, the CBI can investigate that too, the court said. It added that “prima facie”, there didn’t seem to have been any “wrongdoing” by the Mumbai police. “However, their obstruction to the Bihar police team at Mumbai could have been avoided since it gave rise to suspicion on the bona fide of their inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-718
20-08-2020||India||One test for many central govt jobs||The Union cabinet has approved the creation of the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) to conduct an online common eligibility test for selecting candidates for a majority of central government jobs, an official statement said on Wednesday. The NRA will conduct a separate common eligibility test each for the three levels of graduate, higher secondary (Class XII pass) and matriculate (Class X pass) candidates for non-technical posts to which recruitment is currently carried out by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), the Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) and by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS). Based on the screening done at the common eligibility test (CET), the final selection will be made through separate specialised tiers of examination that will be conducted by the respective recruitment agencies, a government statement said. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said the “historic decision” would allow job-seekers to take one common test, and save costs and time spent on writing multiple exams. “The curriculum for this test would be common as would be the standard. This would greatly ease the burden of candidates who are at present required to prepare for each of the examinations separately as per different curriculum,” the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. The NRA will set up examination centres in every district to help youths, especially women, from rural and far-flung areas as they will not be required to travel to another place to take recruitment tests, the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. At present, “candidates have to appear in multiple examinations conducted by multiple agencies. Apart from the examination fees, candidates have to incur additional expenses for travel, boarding, lodging. A single examination will reduce the financial burden on candidates to a large extent,” it said. On average, up to 3 crore candidates appear in each of these examinations. “The NRA will conduct the first-level/Tier I examination, which is the stepping stone for many other selections. The CET score of the candidate shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of declaration of the result,” the statement said. There shall be no restriction on the number of attempts to be taken by a candidate to appear in the CET subject to the upper age limit, the statement said. “Relaxation in the upper age limit shall be given to candidates of SC/ST/OBC and other categories as per the extant policy of the government,” it said. Candidates will have the facility of registering on a common portal and give a choice of centres. Based on availability, they will be allotted centres. “The CET would be available in a number of languages. This would greatly facilitate people from different parts of the country to take the exam and have an equal opportunity of being selected,” it said. A single eligibility test would significantly reduce the recruitment cycle, the statement said. “Some departments have indicated their intention to do away with any second level test and go ahead with recruitment on the basis of CET scores, physical tests and medical examination. This would greatly reduce the cycle and benefit a large section of youths,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Demand within Facebook to denounce ‘anti-Muslim bigotry’||Facebook and its top lobbying executive in India, Ankhi Das, are facing questions internally from employees over how political content is regulated in its biggest market, according to sources with direct knowledge and internal posts seen by Reuters. The world’s largest social network has been battling a public-relations and political crisis in India since The Wall Street Journal reported that Das had opposed applying the company’s hate-speech rules to a BJP legislator who had in posts called Muslims traitors. In the US and around the world, Facebook employees are raising questions about whether adequate procedures and content regulation practices were being followed by the India team, sources familiar with the discussions told Reuters. An open letter written to Facebook’s leadership by 11 employees on one internal platform, and seen by Reuters, demands that company leaders acknowledge and denounce “anti-Muslim bigotry” and ensure more policy consistency. The letter demands that Facebook’s “policy team in India (and elsewhere) includes diverse representation”. “It is hard not to feel frustrated and saddened by the incidents reported.… We know we’re not alone in this. Employees across the company are expressing similar sentiment,” the letter says. “The Muslim community at Facebook would like to hear from Facebook leadership on our asks.” Facebook and Das did not immediately respond to a request for comment. One of the sources said Facebook’s India leadership would have to answer tough questions on what really happened. “There will be scrutiny on what really went down.” A second source familiar with the reactions said Facebook employees were discussing whether there should be strict separation between government relations and content policy teams, and that “an internal debate (was) happening about the (content moderation) processes”. After the article, Facebook India head Ajit Mohan defended Das -- whose title is director, public policy, India, South and Central Asia -- and the company’s policies in an internal community post, also seen by Reuters. The WSJ “article does not reflect the person I know or the extraordinarily complex issues we face every day that benefits from Ankhi and the public policy team’s expertise”, Mohan wrote. Mohan also wrote the company was “confident that the article’s claim that political affiliations influence decision-making in India is inaccurate and without merit”. A spokesman for the WSJ did not respond to a request for comment. Das, 49, is considered among India’s most influential corporate-lobbying executives and has been central to Facebook’s rise in India since joining the company in 2011. “She has created a niche for herself (in India),” said a person who has worked closely with Das on policy issues. A former Facebook executive in Asia and a former Indian government official described Das as very sharp and politically connected. A second former employee said Das had always been outspoken about issues in the company. Das hasn’t commented on the controversy but her sister Rashmi, who has publicly acknowledged her own ties to a student wing close to the BJP, told the India Today TV on Tuesday: “We sisters are made of very stern stuff. I’m sure Ankhi will handle it very competently."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Freedom test for Jammu and Kashmir administration||The National Conference has put to the test the claim of the Jammu and Kashmir administration in court that the party’s leaders are not under house arrest and are “free to move”. The National Conference has called four of its leaders, who are still said to be under house arrest but whose freedom the government has vouched for in court, to a meeting at party chief Farooq Abdullah’s residence on Thursday, “relying fully” on the administration’s stand. The party said more leaders claimed to be free by the government would be called to similar meetings in small batches in keeping with pandemic precautions. Till Wednesday evening, none from the government was willing to comment on the meeting call. Thousands of politicians and activists were arrested or put under house arrest following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year. Many of them have been released but several, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, continue to be in detention or under undeclared house arrest. The NC had in July filed a habeas corpus petition in Jammu and Kashmir High Court claiming that 16 of its leaders, mostly former ministers and MPs, were being illegally kept under house arrest. In response, the government had last week told the court that the 16 leaders were “free to move” and that they were not under any kind of detention, preventive or substantive. The government had said they needed only to adhere to certain precautions “as deemed fit” for their security. A government counsel had termed the NC’s claims “shocking” and “surprising”. The court is scheduled to hear the matter again on August 24. Last month, the Centre had claimed in the Supreme Court that Congress veteran and former Union minister Saifuddin Soz “is free” and “was never detained or put under house arrest”. However, Soz and his family had accused the government of lying, and a day after the court recorded the Centre’s claim and refused to entertain any further pleas on the matter, security personnel were caught on camera stopping the 82-year-old leader from speaking to the media from even the confines of his house compound. On Wednesday, NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said in a statement that the party had taken cognisance of the government’s stand in the high court and called its senior leaders to the meeting with Farooq. “Now relying fully on the stand of the Govt. before the HC that the members are free to move and expecting no hogwash on part of the government, the Party President Dr. Farooq Abdullah has invited senior party members including Mr Ali Mohammad Sagar, Mr Abdul Rahim Rather, Mr Mohammad Shafi Uri and Mr Nasir Aslam Wani for a meeting at his residence on 20.8.2020 at 5 pm,” the statement said. All four leaders are former ministers and had been named in the NC’s habeas corpus petition. Among them, Sagar had been formally arrested and allegedly put under house arrest after being released recently. The other three, though not formally arrested, are said to be under unauthorised house arrest. The NC statement said the party was “mindful of the present pandemic” and “accordingly the meetings with various leaders who have been under detention will be done in batches of four members per meeting”. “Needless to add that all SoPs shall be strictly followed by all concerned. The party is hopeful that the liberty of the members under detention is now absolute and the meeting is held successfully on the appointed day,” the NC said. Omar Abdullah, Farooq’s son and former chief minister, tweeted the NC letter and wrote: “The @JKNC_President has taken cognisance of the reply submitted by the J&K administration in the High Court. Since no leader is under detention as claimed by the government, Dr Abdullah has invited his colleagues for a meeting in batches of 4 keeping in mind COVID precautions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Maneka applauds Malappuram||Maneka Gandhi has praised Malappuram’s people for the way they helped save passengers after the August 7 Air India Express crash at Calicut International Airport, going full circle from maligning the north Kerala district earlier this year. “Yes, a wonderful job was done by the people of Malappuram to help the plane crash survivors. I hope this kind of humanity towards all beings takes place,” the MP and former Union minister has written in reply to an email from an Indian Union Muslim League youth wing leader. Maneka has confirmed to this newspaper that she sent the mail. Maneka had in early June portrayed Malappuram as a den of crime and prejudice in a rant against Kerala’s only Muslim-majority district. A perennial target of the BJP-Sangh ecosystem, Malappuram was then targeted by Maneka over an instance of animal cruelty that had actually occurred in the neighbouring Palakkad district. On August 14, Abbas Vadakkan, general secretary of the Morayur panchayat branch of the Muslim Youth League, wrote to Maneka citing how Malappuram’s people had helped the crashed flight’s passengers and crew. “While going through my mail today, I found that she had replied on August 15 itself,” Vadakkan told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Residents of the airport’s neighbourhood had been the first to join the rescue effort, ignoring the risk to themselves from a possible fire. Hundreds more later arrived, bringing vehicles to carry the victims to hospital. By the early hours, people were queuing outside hospitals to donate blood for the survivors. If the survival of 171 among the 190 people on board has been described as “a miracle”, much of the credit goes to the ordinary people of Malappuram. “I had first written to Madam (Maneka) when she spoke out against Malappuram after an elephant was killed in Palakkad,” Vadakkan told this newspaper. A trap set with an explosives-filled fruit had blown off the pregnant elephant’s mouth, causing a painful death. Police later booked two men and said the snare had been set for wild boar. “I think they should arrest everybody in Malappuram who they suspect, because these are repeat offenders,” Maneka, an ardent animal rights activist, had then said, picking Muslim-majority Malappuram as a soft target despite the atrocity not happening there. “Whether it’s children being sold in orphanages, which we have found, it is Malappuram. Whether it is people being killed.... Look at the crime rate in Malappuram. What is being done in Malappuram? Nothing. Now the communal conflict there is highest in Malappuram,” the former women and child welfare minister had told ANI. Malappuram, however, is known for communal peace and low crime rates. The late Panakkad Syed Muhammedali Shihab Thangal, the Muslim League leader and the patriarch of one of the most revered families in Malappuram, was credited with preserving communal harmony in Kerala when the Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992. He had told community leaders then: “Not a single stone should fall on a Hindu house. Muslims should stand guard for Hindu temples, if required.” Maneka had also attacked Congress MP Rahul Gandhi who represents Wayanad, again a different district neighbouring Malappuram. Rahul’s constituency has a substantial Muslim population, much like Malappuram. “Rahul Gandhi is from that area; why has he not taken action?” Maneka had asked. Earlier, she had tweeted: “Mallapuram (sic) is known for its intense criminal activity specially with regards to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer so they keep doing it.” On Tuesday, Vadakkan said: “Such baseless allegations were painful to us. So I sent an email to her official ID. I invited her to visit Malappuram without any security or bodyguards.” Vadakkan had also provided Maneka with a list of freedom fighters from Malappuram and highlighted that it had been the lone Muslim-majority district in the country where not a single incident of retaliatory violence was witnessed after the demolition of the Babri Masjid. “I must admit that Madam (Maneka) replied to that mail as well,” he said. Maneka had then replied: “Malappuram is indeed a good place with a wonderful history. But I was talking about animal cruelty. Maybe we can introspect and stop being defensive and see what we can do to make it kinder. That would be to everyone’s benefit. Instead of making this a communal issue which have never been my intention because I too come from a minority, it would be good to understand the issues that I brought up.” On Wednesday, responding to an email from this newspaper, Maneka wrote: “Yes, I sent the messages.” In another email, she condemned a recent incident in Malappuram — of a pregnant wild buffalo being butchered for its 200kg of meat. “Please put my remarks in this context as well,” Maneka told this newspaper. “If we cannot spare pregnant mothers about to give birth and eat the foetuses, can we call ourselves civilised?” The buffalo was searching for a secure place to give birth when she was shot and killed. The skulls of the mother and the foetus were found from a forest. Six men from Puncha in Nilambur (a key town in Malappuram) — Suresh Babu, Abu, Parothodika Mohammed Bustan, Thalakottupuram Mohammed Ansif, Cheemala Aashiq and Pilakkal Suhail — have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Patient dies, neglect slur on hospital||A man died allegedly unattended at the Central Referral Hospital at Tadong in Gangtok on Tuesday night, the third instance in about a week when the families of the dead have accused the hospital authorities of negligence. Jagat Bahadur Chhetri, 48, had suffered head injury after he had fallen down from his bed at his home in Turuk, South Sikkim, on Tuesday morning. He was first taken to the Namchi District Hospital, which referred him to the CRH. “After travelling for three hours from Namchi, we reached the CRH around 7pm. However, no hospital staff was available to attend to my |father despite making numerous requests to the nurses and other employees. He remained in the car in which we had brought him for about two hours and died there,” alleged Ashika Chhetri, the daughter of the deceased. Ashika said her father was responsive all along the 80km drive from Namchi to Gangtok and would have survived had the hospital authorities attended to him immediately. “I have registered a complaint with police against the hospital authorities,” she said. The CRH management, however, said one of doctors had attended to the man in the car itself and “the patient was declared dead in the Emergency”. In a written statement, the management said it had taken serious note of the incident and had constituted a probe panel. “The management at CRH has constituted a committee consisting of specialist in forensic medicine and doctors …for postmortem examination,” it said. Earlier in the month, families of two other patients had levelled similar allegations of neglect against CHR. The hospital had set up an inquiry committee to probe the two deaths, and its findings are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Congress raises PM CARES questions||The Congress leadership is deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court order on PM CARES Fund. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Supreme Court has delivered a judgement on the legality and legal accountability of PMCares Fund. The judgement is final but will be contested for a long time in academic circles. There are other aspects of PMCares Fund on which the Supreme Court had no occasion to pronounce judgement. These are transparency, disclosure and management practices concerning the Fund.” He continued: “Who are the donors who gave Rs 3076 crore in the first five days in March 2020? Do they include Chinese firms? What is the amount received since April 1, 2020 and who are the donors? ….What is the procedure to allocate money from the Fund to various Covid-19 mitigating activities? Who are the recipients of money from the Fund since its inception? Are utilisation certificates demanded and received from the recipients? If the Fund is beyond the ambit of RTI, who will answer these vital questions?” Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said, “The SC Judgement is a body blow to transparency & accountability of the Government to people. It marks a sad letter day for responsibility & answerability of rulers to the electorate and remind them that they are not ‘Monarchs’ but ‘servants of the people’ The Supreme Court scrupulously believed that ‘sunlight is the best disinfectant’. Today, the court, in a departure from that tradition, passed up an opportunity to demand answers on the PMCares Fund that seeks public money but plays by its own opaque and murky rules”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan seeks time for review ||Advocate Prashant Bhushan has urged the Supreme Court to defer the hearing of the sentence it is to pronounce against him on Thursday for criminal contempt of court so that he can file a review petition challenging his August 14 conviction. Bhushan on Wednesday reminded the Supreme Court that “human judgment is not infallible” and as no appeal can be filed against an order issued by the apex court, it should be “doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done”. Bhushan has been convicted of criminal contempt of court by a three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari for two tweets, one on the Chief Justice of India posing on a Harley-Davidson and another on the destruction of democracy. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt of court is six months in jail. In a fresh application filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan said the suo motu criminal proceedings initiated against him provided no scope for an appeal against the judgment, and so the only remedy before him was a review petition. Bhushan pleaded that in his case the review would act as an appeal against the Supreme Court’s own verdict. He said he would file the review petition within the stipulated 30 days from the day of judgment. “It is respectfully submitted that human judgment is not infallible. Despite all the provisions ensuring a fair trial and a just decision, mistakes are possible and errors cannot be ruled out,” Bhushan said. He referred to the apex court’s judgment in the M.H. Hoskot vs State of Maharashtra case in 1978 in which the court had held: “One component of fair procedure is natural justice. Generally speaking and subject to just exceptions, at least a single right of first appeal on facts, where criminal conviction is fraught with loss of liberty, is basic to civilised jurisprudence. It is integral to fair procedure, natural justice and normative universality.” Bhushan also drew attention to Section 19(1) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, which, recognising the possibility of miscarriage of justice, provides that pending an appeal, the appellate court may suspend a sentence for criminal contempt. The section provides for intra-court appeal if the conviction order is passed by a single judge of a high court. If a high court division bench issues such an order, the convicted person can appeal against it in the Supreme Court. Bhushan pointed out that CrPC Section 389 safeguards the liberty of a citizen pending an appeal. Section 389(1) lays down that pending an appeal by a convicted person, the appellate court can suspend the execution of a sentence and, if a person is in jail, order his release on bail or on a personal bond. “In criminal contempt proceedings, this Hon’ble Court functions like a trial court and is also the last court. Section 19(1) gives a statutory right of appeal to a person found guilty of contempt by the High Court,” Bhushan said in his application. “The fact that there is no appeal against an order of this Hon’ble Court makes it doubly necessary that it takes the utmost precaution to ensure that justice is not only done but seen to be done. “It is respectfully submitted that, since this Hon’ble Court acts as a court of first instance in a suo motu criminal contempt proceeding and there is no provision for appeal also, if there is conviction in such proceeding, the aforesaid principles of law, held in the context of a criminal trial, must apply pari materia (not comparable) to a case of a review filed against such conviction,” Bhushan contended. He added: “It would be in consonance with the right guaranteed under Article 21 (life and liberty) of the Constitution of India. Otherwise there would be gross injustice since there would be no occasion to examine the correctness of the findings arrived in a suo motu criminal contempt proceeding before putting the convicted contemnor’s liberty at stake. “In the present case also, the applicant intends to file a review against the order of 14.08.2020 after studying the order, in detail, and seeking appropriate legal counsel as the ramification of the said order is of grave constitutional significance, in particular on the right to free speech.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Cong drops hints of Rahul’s imminent return as party president||The Congress on Wednesday dropped hints of Rahul Gandhi’s imminent return as party president by aggressively contradicting reports that had suggested that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wanted somebody from outside the family to lead the party. What created confusion was an interview Priyanka gave a year ago that appeared in a book published now. A section of the media presented it as Priyanka’s view on the leadership question without explaining the context and timing of the interview. Priyanka had said this in July 2019, against the backdrop of Rahul’s resignation. Party’s communication chief Randeep Surjewala responded to the controversy in a series of tweets: “Nehru-Gandhi family has held together & served the Congress unmindful of the trappings of power. In 2004, Sonia ji set an example by sacrificing power to serve the party. In 2019, Rahul ji showed the courage of conviction & stepped down as Congress president. We at Congress appreciate the sudden media interest (egged on by BJP) in a year-old remark (Dated 1st July, 2019) of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.” Surjewala added: “The context today is to take on the vicious attack on India’s polity by Modi-Shah dispensation & fight it fearlessly on front foot. Millions of Congress workers and leaders have seen that Rahul Gandhi has led the fight tirelessly, undaunted by the setbacks & vile attacks by Modi Government on a daily basis. It is this fearlessness and uncompromising courage that the Congress requires, (party) workers respect & the nation needs.” Priyanka was in the interview only reflecting Rahul’s sentiments in the aftermath of his resignation. The Congress party collectively rejected Rahul’s stand that someone from outside the family take the party’s reins and chose to go with Sonia Gandhi as the interim president. Even while opting for this stop-gap arrangement, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) had unanimously requested Rahul to reconsider his decision. Though the unease within the party has doubtless intensified over the past few months and everybody wants a full-fledged president, Rahul has not vanished after his exit and instead continued to work as the leader. The party has also treated him as the ultimate authority even as there are serious reservations over what many describe as back-seat driving. The appointments made in the past bear Rahul’s distinct imprint and it is only a legitimate expectation from party leaders and workers that the leadership question be settled sooner than later. What Surjewala said on record on Wednesday is privately talked about by a majority of leaders in the party. Two kinds of voices can be heard among the leaders: One small section says Rahul should finally step aside and let somebody else take over if he is determined not to come back. An overwhelming majority believes it is only a matter of time that he will return as nobody else is acceptable. In both viewpoints, there is no fundamental objection to his leadership. If he decides to respect the majority opinion, there shouldn’t be any hurdle in his way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||Facebook tilts to Right, not just in India||The BJP’s counter to The Wall Street Journal’s expose of the party having received preferential treatment from Facebook has been that the social media platform is Left-leaning but experience  the world over suggests otherwise. The rightward tilt of Facebook has been reported extensively across the world and includes accusations of promoting Holocaust deniers, providing an enabling environment for US President Donald Trump’s 2016 election and the Brexit-related Vote Leave campaign in the UK, besides admitting to being used for the genocide against Rohingyas in Myanmar. The WSJ expose relating to Facebook India is just one of three reports from across the world this month on the platform leaning to the Right. In the first week of this month, Buzzfeed reported about the company sacking a senior engineer who had “collected internal evidence that showed Facebook was giving preferential treatment to prominent conservative accounts to help them remove fact-checks from their content’’. According to Buzzfeed, Facebook employees have been asking founder Mark Zuckerberg “about the company’s competence in handling misinformation, and the precautions it is taking to ensure its platform isn’t used to disrupt or mislead ahead of the US presidential election,’’ particularly since the “Right-wing publication Breitbart News’’ is a Facebook News partner. The Guardian this week reported that the UK-based think tank, Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), found “Facebook actively promotes further Holocaust denial content’’ to users who go to public pages containing such material. “Our analysis highlights how Holocaust denial content is actively recommended through Facebook’s algorithm,’’ the ISD report said. While Facebook told The Guardian that it took down any post that celebrates, defends or attempts to justify the Holocaust, it added that material is not removed simply because it is untruthful. In November 2018, Facebook even admitted to the abuse of its platform in Myanmar “to foment division and incite offline violence’’ against Rohingyas by not just ordinary Internet users but Myanmar military personnel. According to a report in The New York Times in October 2018, “members of the Myanmar military were the prime operatives behind a systematic campaign on Facebook that stretched back half a decade and that targeted the country’s mostly Muslim Rohingya minority group’’. Besides the US Congress, at least three more legislatures across the world have summoned Facebook, Zuckerberg included. In October 2018, after the Cambridge Analytica scam revealed personal data was harvested from the platform and used for the Trump campaign in 2016 and the Leave campaign for the Brexit vote the same year, parliamentary committees of the UK and Canada issued an unprecedented international joint summons to Zuckerberg to appear before them after he ignored their individual summons. A parliamentary committee in Australia has also summoned several social media companies, including Facebook, to appear before it next month for the probe on online misinformation and foreign interference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||1.89 crore salaried jobs lost in 3 months||An estimated 1.89 crore salaried jobs were lost between April and July in India, with July ominously witnessing huge job losses after a partial recovery in June, a private research group has said after a sample household survey. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has estimated a loss of around 1.77 crore salaried jobs in April immediately after the lockdown. Another 1 lakh jobs were lost in May while 39 lakh jobs were gained in June, perhaps because of the partial unlock getting under way. But the trend was reversed in July with the loss of 50 lakh jobs, CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas said. He didn’t seek to explain the development. Vyas said the group conducted the Consumer Pyramid Survey every month, asking 1.74 lakh households “if they are employed and what kinds of jobs they are doing”. “We come out with estimates about households and their employment status month after month,” he said. The sample size of 1.74 lakh is higher than that used by the government’s survey wing, the National Sample Survey Office, for any of its household surveys. The CMIE’s samples include 1 lakh households from 320 urban centres and 74,000 households from 4,000 villages across the country. Vyas said it would take a long time to restore all the lost formal-sector jobs. “In the case of informal jobs like (those of) roadside vendors, hawkers and small traders, the job loss was temporary. They started their work immediately after the lockdown was lifted,” he said. “But the salaried employees losing jobs will explore jobs of matching profile. It will take a much longer time, depending on the revival of the economy.” Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra, former chairperson of the Centre for Labour Studies at JNU, said it’s only by 2023-24 that one can expect all the jobs lost during the pandemic to be restored. “But by then, fresh job seekers will have come up too. So, the high unemployment situation will persist for many years,” he said. More than 1 crore youths complete various higher-education courses every year and begin seeking jobs. Mehrotra cited the Reserve Bank prediction about the economy beginning to revive from the second half of 2021-22. “Each sector has been affected. The sluggish economy of the pre-Covid era was aggravated by the pandemic,” he said. “The three earlier economic contractions since 1947 had happened on account of supply issues, mainly because of drought and balance-of-payment constraints. The current contraction is because of low demand. People do not have money. One solution is to provide direct cash to about 60 per cent of the people for the next six months.” Such cash transfers have been advocated by many economists and Opposition parties like the Congress, but the government has so far shown no inclination to accept the advice. Mehrotra said the recovery of the lost formal-sector jobs would start once the economy began reviving in 2021-22. “In 2022-23, we can expect the income level to be the same as the pre-Covid 2019-20. We can expect the lost jobs to be recovered by 2023-24,” he said. A report by the International Labour Organisation and the Asian Development Bank on Tuesday suggested that 41 lakh youths (aged between 20 and 29) in India may have lost their jobs between April and June. Labour economist Ravi Srivastava differed with Vyas, saying “people in the informal sector continue to suffer” because the revival in the sector has been slow. “Most of the domestic workers and newspaper hawkers are yet to get work. So the job loss does not affect only the salaried segment,” Srivastava said. He said that 70 per cent of the salaried class work in the informal sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-719
20-08-2020||India||‘Loan’ sharks hijack bus with 34 on board||Four men who identified themselves as loan recovery agents of a private finance company hijacked a bus with 34 passengers from a highway in Agra early on Wednesday after the owner of the vehicle who had allegedly defaulted on EMIs died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh. Around four-and-a-half hours after the 6am hijack, it emerged that the passengers had reached Jhansi in another bus the hijackers had packed them into after driving them for around 20km. The bus, owned by the family of the now-deceased Ashok Arora of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, was found parked around 1pm near a dhaba in Uttar Pradesh’s Etawah, over 100km from New South Bypass in Agra from where it was hijacked. Nobody was in the bus and the hijackers are still at large. Arora’s family said they had no EMI dues. Police said they were also probing an extortion angle as the Aroras, the owners of Kalpana Travels, had allegedly been receiving threat calls demanding money. The bus had been travelling from Gurgaon in Haryana to Panna in Madhya Pradesh when it was chased down by the four men in an SUV, the police said. The driver, Ramesh Kumar, had initially ignored calls from the men to stop the bus but soon the hijackers caught up. The police said three of the hijackers entered the bus, forced the driver, conductor and helper to get off and sped away with the vehicle. The other hijacker followed the bus in the SUV. “They forced me, conductor Ram Vishal and cleaner Bhura Singh to get off the bus. Then one of them took the driver’s seat and drove away while the two others sat along with the passengers. Their remaining team member followed the bus in the SUV,” the police quoted Ramesh as saying. Ramesh filed a written complaint at the local Malpura police station around 7am. Around 10.30am, the 34 passengers were found safe at a bus terminus in Jhansi, where they told the staff that the hijackers had driven them for around 20km and then herded them into another bus. “The hijackers asked us to make our own travel arrangements to Panna from Jhansi,” the police quoted one of the passengers as saying. Bablu Kumar, the senior superintendent of police of Agra, said: “We have registered a case against four persons for the crime and are trying to arrest them.” As the four men had been wearing masks because of the pandemic, it could be difficult to identify them, police sources said. Ramesh, the driver, told reporters in Agra that the hijackers were saying that the bus owner had not been paying EMIs and so they had come to seize it. Pawan Arora, the son of bus owner Ashok, said they had no EMIs left to pay. “My father died of Covid-19 five days ago. The whole family is in isolation. The bus is in the name of my mother, Deepa Arora. We owe no money to any finance agency. We don’t know who did all this and why,” Pawan said. A police source said: “We have come to know that somebody had been trying to extort money from the Aroras. We are probing all possible aspects.” Agra police arrested the main accused Pradeep Gupta in the early hours of Thursday from the Fatehabad area of Agra district. Pradeep suffered a bullet injury to his leg in the encounter that followed after the police intercepted him. “The main accused of the bus ‘hijacking’ case Pradeep Gupta has been arrested after an encounter with the police. He was on his motorcycle and was traced in Fatehabad area of Agra district in the early hours of Thursday,” said Babloo Kumar, SSP Agra. Gupta was taken for medical assistance for injury in his leg. The CCTV footage helped identify him at the toll plaza on Wednesday as he led the ‘hijacking’ of the bus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
20-08-2020||India||Congress to launch ‘rape’ protest against BJP MLA||The Opposition Congress in Uttarakhand has threatened to launch a movement if no action is taken against a BJP lawmaker who has been accused by a woman of sexual exploitation and refusal to accept that he had fathered her child. Although the woman had sought to register a complaint against Mahesh Singh Negi, the MLA of Dwarahat in Almora, 15 days ago, police have allegedly not accepted it formally, but have acted with promptness to register an FIR against her when the leader’s wife accused her of blackmail two days ago. “The woman has said she has been receiving threat calls. The wife of the BJP’s Dwarahat MLA is offering her money to remain silent, and at the same time she has registered a case of blackmail against the victim. While the police are yet to register a case against the BJP MLA, it was quick to book the victim in a false case of blackmailing and demanding money from Negi,” said Preetam Singh, the president of the Uttarakhand Congress, on Wednesday. “The woman is saying that the BJP MLA is the father of her daughter and has been demanding a DNA test. The government should have heard the victim instead of harassing her. We will soon start a movement against the (Trivendra Singh) Rawat government if she does not get justice,” he added. Rita Negi, the MLA’s wife, registered the blackmail complaint at Nehru Colony police station in Dehradun on Monday. The woman who has alleged sexual exploitation said she had submitted her complaint against the MLA at the same police station two weeks ago but the police were yet to turn it into an FIR. “Negi and I have been in a relationship since 2018. We have a one-year-old daughter,” the woman, who is married and is a resident of Almora, told reporters in Dehradun on Wednesday. “The wife of the MLA called me on August 5 and offered me Rs 25 lakh to remain silent. When I refused and demanded a DNA test on her husband, she registered a case of blackmail against me,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
20-08-2020||India||Odisha MLA tills land, earns Naidu’s praise||Odisha legislator Manohar Randhari has earned the praise of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu for tilling his own agriculture land and sowing paddy, setting an example for youths. A BJD lawmaker from Dabugam in the backward Nabarangpur district, Randhari has been working tirelessly in his fields and transplanting paddy saplings amid the monsoon showers. His efforts have drawn the attention and praise of the Vice-President who called his work inspiring. “It’s inspiring. According to him, the youth should not feel ashamed or feel any kind of hesitation while working in the agricultural field,” Naidu tweeted, appreciating Randhari’s toil. Randhari, 45, told The Telegraph, “I am quite elated after receiving praise from the Vice-President. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has also appreciated my role as a farmer. It’s the farmer who feeds people. I think we all should take up agricultural activities apart from our professional work. One can work as a farmer and be something else at the same time. One needs to be present his fields during the monsoon rains to plough the land and to undertake activities like paddy cutting at the time of harvesting. Other professional work can be taken care of through one’s representatives.” Patnaik tweeted, “Appreciate Party MLA Manohar Randhari for leading by example with his commitment to agriculture and taking pride for his work in the agriculture field.” In view of the lockdown and shortage of labour, Randhari decided to devote 6 to 8 hours daily in his fields. “Earlier my father Damburu Randhari used to take care of agricultural activities. I used to assist him. “After my father passed away last year, I decided to involve myself more in agricultural work. The restrictions imposed due to the corona pandemic have given me time to dedicate myself to agriculture in a much better manner,” the MLA said. Hailing from the tribal community, Randhari, a three-time MLA, tills 25 acres of agricultural land spread in four villages — Pujaripada, Sindriguda, Keshariguda and Bhatigam — in Nabarangpur block. While 20 acres are owned by him, another five acres has been taken by him for cultivation on sharecropping basis. “People say agriculture is not profitable. I want to change that notion. With the use of right kind of technology and the right kind of manure, agriculture can be made profitable. We cultivate paddy and corn and earn around Rs 10 lakh in a year. We also grow vegetables. We don’t have to buy rice. Thanks to what I grow in the fields, I am able to feed rice and dalma (dal mixed with vegetables) to around 100 people in my house daily,” he said. Randhari, whose sister Padmini Dian, is a minister in the state government, said, “Even my sister and her husband, a constable in Odisha police, engage in farming in their area . Earlier there was Maoist disturbance in the district but successful implementation of socio-economic projects have changed the situation. The Maoists are no longer active in the area and people can work in their fields fearlessly. As a result farming has started paying good dividends.” Randhari, who plunged into politics on the call of Patnaik, earlier worked as a senior clerk in a state government office. He quit the job in 2009 and contested the Assembly election on a BJD ticket. He has never been defeated. He also undertakes social work, helping the poor and distributing books among needy students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-720
