21-08-2020||India||Retired bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar appointed election commissioner ||Retired bureaucrat Rajiv Kumar was on Friday appointed election commissioner in place of Ashok Lavasa who resigned. President Ram Nath Kovind cleared his appointment with effect from the date he assumes office. His appointment is in place of Lavasa who resigned with effect from August 31. “In pursuance of clause (2) of article 324 of the Constitution, the president is pleased to appoint Shri Rajiv Kumar (IAS retired) as the election commissioner with effect from the date he assumes the office vice Shri Ashok Lavasa, election commissioner who has resigned with effect August 31,” an official notification of the ministry of law and justice said. Rajiv Kumar is a retired IAS officer of the 1984 batch of Jharkhand cadre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Facebook says it’s a non-partisan platform||Facing allegations of bias in handling hate speeches, Facebook on Friday said it is an open, transparent and non-partisan platform, and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India that are in violation of its community standards. The statement from Facebook India head Ajit Mohan comes against the backdrop of a political row following a Wall Street Journal report that alleged that the social media platform’s content policies favoured the ruling party in India. “Facebook is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely. Over the last few days, we have been accused of bias in the way we enforce our policies. “We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form,” Facebook India vice-president and managing director Mohan said in a blog post. He also emphasised that the company has an impartial approach to dealing with content and is strongly governed by its community standards. These standards outline what is and is not allowed on Facebook. Facebook’s Oversight Board has said it will be within its scope to examine how the social media giant treats posts from public figures that may violate community standards and are the type of “highly challenging cases” that the board expects to consider once it starts functioning. Asserting that Facebook’s commitment to India is unwavering, Mohan in the blog post said the company’s aim is to be an “ally” for India where its platforms preserve the “pluralistic character of a democracy by offering the freedom for people to express themselves and for entrepreneurs to build new things while also protecting society from broader harm”. “Our Community Standards define what stays on our platform and are enforced globally... We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief. We have removed and will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India when it violates our Community Standards,” he said. In the wake of the WSJ report, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology has summoned Facebook on September 2 to discuss the issue of alleged misuse of the social media platform. On Friday, Mohan also said that many questions have been raised specifically about enforcement of Facebook policies around hate speech and pointed out that it has made “significant progress” in removing hate speech and other harmful content over the past few years. Mohan said the company had removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content in the second quarter of 2020, up from 1.6 million pieces of hate speech removed in the last quarter of 2017. He also admitted that while the platform has made progress in tackling hate speech, it needed to do more and welcomed the opportunity to engage with all parties -- political or otherwise -- who want to understand its content policies and enforcement more. Mohan noted that the policies are “ever evolving” to take into account the local sensitivities, especially in a multicultural society such as India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Rahul attacks govt on state of economy, unemployment ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday again attacked the Narendra Modi government over the state of the economy and unemployment, accusing it of spending public money on “image correction”. Citing a news report which claimed the government is seeking to plan a media blitz for its “image correction” to help improve India’s rankings on various indices, Rahul tweeted: “Economic slump, unemployment, Chinese aggression ail our country. GOI: Let’s spend taxpayers’ money on ‘image correction’.” The Congress has also demanded answers from the government on its plan to “improve the economy and employment generation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Nine dead in Srisailam power plant blaze||Nine people have died in the fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant, on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border on Friday, a senior government official said.
Six bodies have been recovered by rescue teams so far and efforts were on to pull out the others from the underground plant, Nagarkurnool District Collector L Sharman said.
The fire broke out late on Thursday night when at least 17 people were inside the plant and eight of them managed to escape, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi termed the accident 'unfortunate' and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.  "Fire at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant is deeply unfortunate. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover at the earliest," the PM said in a tweet. President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said he was pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at the Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. "Pained by the loss of lives in the tragic fire accident at Srisailam hydroelectric plant in Telangana. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I wish speedy recovery for the injured," Kovind tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Voting in Covid times: gloves for all, patients only in last hour of polling||Voters will be provided with gloves to press the EVM button and COVID-19 patients in quarantine will be allowed to vote at the last hour of the polling day, according to broad guidelines issued by the Election Commission on Friday for polls to be held during the coronavirus pandemic. A separate set of guidelines would be issued for voters who are residing in areas notified as "containment zone”, the EC said. Bihar will be the first state where assembly elections will be held amid the pandemic. The polls are likely to be held sometime in October-November. The commission has recommended mandatory sanitisation of polling stations, preferably a day before the polls. Thermal scanners would be placed at the entry point of every polling station. Polling or paramedical staff will conduct thermal screening of voters at the entry point of a polling station, it said. The gloves for voters will most likely be disposable. "There shall be a maximum of 1,000 electors, instead of 1,500 electors, in a polling station," the guidelines said. A group of five people, including candidates but excluding security personnel, is allowed to take part in door-to-door campaigning. For roadshows, the commission said, convoys of vehicles should be broken after every five vehicles instead of 10 (excluding security vehicles). Public gatherings and rallies can be held subject to adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The district election officer should identify in advance dedicated grounds for public gatherings with clearly marked entry and exit points. In all such identified grounds, the district election officer should put markers in advance to ensure social distancing norms are followed by those who attend. The district election officer and district superintendent of police should ensure that the number of attendees does not exceed the limit prescribed by the State Disaster Management Authority for public gatherings, the commission said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Rain: tales of agony all around||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: Special court rejects bail plea of key accused||A special court in Kochi on Friday dismissed the bail plea of Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling scandal, in a case registered by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the money trail of the illegal trade. The special PMLA court dismissed her bail plea on the ground that the accused, in a statement given to the ED under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), has admitted that she had roles in hatching the conspiracy and smuggling the gold from the foreign country. Opposing the bail application moved by Suresh, the ED had said that the accused had disclosed to it her association with the other accused and some of their aides who are involved in the crime. Noting that the revelations made by her indicates that she had 'considerable influence' in the office of Kerala Chief Minister, the ED said if she is released on bail, there is a chance of tampering with evidence and also influencing the witnesses. The Investigating Agency said it apprehends hurdles in the progress of investigation, if the petitioner is enlarged on bail now. The investigation is progressing and persons connected with the crime and having influence have also to be questioned, the ED said. Earlier, an NIA court and an Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, had also dismissed her bail pleas in separate cases registered by NIA and Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate. Multiple agencies including NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate are probing the case of smuggling of gold worth over Rs 100 crore through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Sushant case: CBI starts investigation||After the Supreme Court's nod, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday started its probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case in the city as it collected relevant documents and reports from the Mumbai police, officials said. A special investigation team of the CBI, consisting of officers, other personnel and also forensic experts, landed in Mumbai on Thursday evening to take over probe into the high- profile case which has received much media attention. Getting down to business, CBI officials on Friday morning brought Rajputs cook for enquiry at DRDO and IAF guest house in suburban Santa Cruz, where the visiting probe team members are staying. A vehicle, in which the cook was seen sitting next to a CBI official, was spotted entering the guest house complex. The probe team will record statements of people connected with the case, sources said. It will also scan financial transactions of the 34- year-old actor, who was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14, they said. Another team of the CBI, led by a superintendent-rank officer, reached the Bandra Police Station, where an ADR (accidental death report) was registered after the alleged suicide by the actor, an official said. The team collected case diary of the ADR and other important documents related to the investigation of the case, which included autopsy and forensic reports, he said. The CBI team also met DCP Abhishek Trimukhe, who was heading the Mumbai police probe team, the official said. The CBI squad will also visit Rajput's flat in 'Mont Blanc' building where he was found hanging, he said. The team will recreate the crime scene at the spot during the investigation, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee remains 'haemodynamically' stable||There was no change in the condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee and he remains haemodynamically stable and on ventilatory support, the hospital said Friday. Doctors attending to him said his vital parameters are being maintained. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He was also tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, he developed a lung infection and is being treated for the same. His health parameters are being closely monitored by a team of specialists at the hospital. "The medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee remains the same. He is being treated for lung infection and continues to be on ventilatory support. His vital parameters are being maintained and he is haemodynamically stable," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
21-08-2020||India||Fire breaks out at Srisailam hydel power plant in Telengana||Nine persons are feared trapped in Srisailam hydroelectric plant located underground on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border after a fire broke out on Thursday night and "huge smoke" was preventing rescue personnel from entering in, officials said on Friday. Nagarkurnool district Collector L Sharman said three fire engines were engaged in extinguishing the huge smoke emanating from the plant's premises. While Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was monitoring the rescue work through his cabinet colleague, Union Minister of State for Home, Kishan Reddy, said he has asked NDRF to join the rescue efforts. "There is huge smoke and because of it we are not able to enter into the plant premises. By 11 am we expect to enter the plant," Sharman told P T I, adding, nine persons including seven staff members are stuck. Those stuck include a Deputy Engineer and an Assistant Engineer. "Our main target is to rescue them...we are not able to contact them because they are not carrying mobile phones and there is no mobile network," he said. Quoting preliminary information, he said a short- circuit is suspected to have caused the fire. According to B Suresh, Chief Engineer of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (GENCO), there were nearly 25 people at the powerhouse when the mishap took place. However, about 15 or 16 managed to come out. A police official said six persons have been admitted to local hospitals for treatment for suffocation. Built on river Krishna, the Srisailam Left Bank power station, about 200 km from Hyderabad, is operated by the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (GENCO). The plant has six units with combined capacity of 900 MW (6X150). The power generation was in full swing following the incessant rains during the past few days. Power generation has been suspended following the fire mishap. The fire has been brought under control but thick smoke engulfed the underground area of the powerhouse making rescue operations difficult, officials said. Two of the nine who are trapped belong to a private firm that maintains batteries, officials said. "There are three emergency exits in the pant. There is a possibility that they (trapped) can come out through them. But we cannot say until the smoke is cleared and the rescue teams can go inside," Suresh said. The plant is located in a one km long tunnel and the fire is suspected to have broke out at the service bay area in the Main Control Room, a Fire Department official said. "We were not able to reach the site as dense smoke engulfed the area. As of now we are trying to put off small patches of fire here and there at the transformer area," the official said. Telangana Energy minister Jagadish Reddy said personnel from Police, Fire and Emergency services department are involved in the rescue operations. Officials of the Singareni collieries have also been contacted for their help since they have expertise in underground rescue operations, he added. Chief Minister Rao expressed shock over the accident. "The CM is eliciting information on the accident on a regular basis. The CM wants all those who are trapped in the plant to come out safely," a press release from his office said. Rao spoke to Minister Jagdish Reddy and Transco, Genco CMD D Prabhakar Rao who are at the site and reviewed the relief measures taking place there, it said. Kishan Reddy said he spoke to the NDRF personnel and directed them to immediately get involved in rescue operations. "Saddened by the fire accident in the Hydel Power Generation Unit on the left banks of Srisailam, Telangana, late night. Spoke to the NDRF personnel and directed them for immediate rescue operations. Prayers for early recovery of the injured" he said in a statement. Telangana BJP in a statement demanded the government to put to use all resources to provide medical support to the injured immediately, and ensure the rescue and relief are undertaken on war footing to find those who are still stuck inside the plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Diplomatic talks between India and China flounder||Diplomatic talks between India and China on Thursday failed to achieve any breakthrough, amid indications that Beijing was still resisting New Delhi’s demand for a restoration of status quo ante on the border and setting conditions for disengagement. A brief statement the Indian foreign ministry issued after the talks seemed to suggest, for the umpteenth time, that achieving complete disengagement from all the friction points along the Line of Actual Control continued to be a challenge. The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement spoke of “progress” in disengaging troops but twice mentioned “remaining issues”, deepening apprehensions about Beijing’s game plan among the Indian security establishment and military veterans. While India too spoke of the need to resolve “outstanding issues” speedily “in accordance with the existing agreements”, this was seen as an acknowledgement of the difficulties of restoring full status quo on the border. China’s mention of “remaining issues” evoked memories of how, two days before the July 14 military talks, Beijing had laid fresh claims to the Pangong Lake areas where its army has reportedly occupied an 8km stretch within India-claimed lines. Beijing’s statement said: “The two sides reviewed the recent situation in the border areas between China and India, positively evaluated the progress made in the disengagement of the frontline forces of the two countries, exchanged candid and in-depth views on the remaining issues on the ground, and enhanced mutual understanding.” The two sides, it said, “continue to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, (to) further cool down the border situation”. The Chinese statement also said that the two sides would “properly handle the remaining issues on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas”. India’s statement said: “The two sides will continue to sincerely work towards complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in the western sector. In this context they agreed to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner and in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols.” The statement said the two sides were in agreement that the restoration of peace and tranquillity at the border was key to the overall development of bilateral ties. “The two sides further acknowledged the need to maintain close communication through both the diplomatic and military channels so as to ensure complete disengagement,” it said. Two months ago, on June 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed that no one had crossed into Indian territory or held Indian posts. Sources in the security establishment and army veterans have long been saying the Chinese are working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow them to hold on to their newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. During the last military talks, the Chinese are said to have asked the Indians to retreat further from their present positions at the Pangong Lake as a precondition for disengagement. Despite a series of military and diplomatic talks since May, the Chinese have not disengaged from the areas they recently occupied along the Pangong Lake or in Hot Springs or the Depsang Plains. A security official attached to the Union home ministry said the Chinese had “rushed in additional high-speed boats to the Pangong Lake to strengthen their positions and patrol more aggressively”. He said India too had brought in a few boats to counter them. “Tension is simmering and another round of conflict at the lake looks inevitable.” The current standoff had first escalated with a battle of stones and fists near the Pangong Lake on May 5 that had left several Indian and Chinese soldiers injured. A military veteran accused both sides of trying to suggest normality in relations through choreographed statements but underlined that this was more surprising on India’s part since it had lost territory. “It’s shocking that even after a series of unfruitful meetings, including the latest one, India continues to project an ‘all is well’ picture,” he said. “Denial seems to have become our policy. Our top political leadership has long decided not to acknowledge the Chinese incursion. But it has boomeranged and may lead to (permanent) territory loss.” On Thursday, the Indian delegation was led by the joint secretary (East Asia) from the foreign ministry while the director-general of the boundary and oceanic department of the Chinese foreign ministry headed the Chinese team.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Attorney-general speaks, not on government behalf||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave Prashant Bhushan “two to three days” to consider apologising for his tweets and avoid being sentenced for contempt, which the lawyer-activist agreed to contemplate with much reluctance. The day witnessed attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, one of the senior-most members of the Bar, pleading before the court: “I request your lordships not to punish him (Bhushan).” Venugopal, who had come in answer to a court notice, clarified he was appearing not on the Centre’s behalf but as attorney-general of India (whose presence is customary at contempt hearings). The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari did not readily accept Venugopal’s plea to forgive Bhushan. “We cannot consider your proposal unless he rethinks his statement,” Justice Mishra told Venugopal. “We will have to consider whether his statement was defence or aggravation.” The bench, which had convicted Bhushan criminal contempt for two tweets, was on Thursday scheduled to pronounce the punishment. Bhushan initially felt that no purpose would be served by deferring the matter, saying he was not inclined to change his statement. But he later agreed to think it over. The court is expected to hear the case again on Monday. Bhushan had said: “It would be insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bona fide belief.” Earlier, senior advocate and Bhushan’s counsel Dushyant Dave had pleaded the case be heard by another bench, which the court nixed. It also rejected a plea for deferring the matter until Bhushan had filed his review petition challenging his conviction. One of Bhushan’s tweets had asserted that democracy had been destroyed during the tenures of the last four Chief Justices of India (CJIs) and the other had referred to present Chief Justice S.A. Bobde mounting a Harley-Davidson in public without a facemask on while he had closed physical hearings because of the pandemic. On Thursday, Justice Mishra asked Venugopal: “Should we not give an opportunity to Mr Prashant Bhushan to think over and come back to us after 2-3 days?” When Venugopal concurred, Justice Gavai asked Bhushan whether he would “like to reconsider” his statement. “I don’t want to reconsider the statement. As regards giving time, I don’t think it will serve any useful purpose,” Bhushan responded. “But we would like to give you time,” Justice Mishra said. “Later on, there should not be a complaint that time was not given.” Bhushan submitted his statement was “well-considered and well thought out”. “If your lordships want to give me time, I welcome it. But I don’t think it will serve any useful purpose and it will be a waste of time of the court. It is not very likely that I will change my statement,” he said. Justice Mishra persisted: “We will give you two-three days’ time. Think (it) over.... We should not give the verdict right now.” Bhushan then said he would think it over and consult his lawyers again. During the arguments, the bench had restrained Bhushan’s counsel Rajeev Dhavan from naming the four former CJIs his client had apparently referred to. Dhavan asked the court to “examine the person” and lauded Bhushan’s “character and contributions” by citing how he had without charging fees argued cases of public interest, from the coal-block allocation controversy to the 2G spectrum case. “So, please consider: is this person simply attacking the court or is (he) criticising (it) for improving the administration of justice?” Dhavan said. Justice Mishra said: “We are quite impressed by the list (of cases fought by Bhushan pro bono). This will weigh in your favour (with respect to sentencing).” Dhavan said: “When your lordships’ August 14 judgment reaches various academies, it will be severely criticised.” To this Justice Mishra replied: “Don’t worry about that. We don’t mind fair criticism.” He went on: “You are part of the system. In your zeal of overdoing, you cross the Lakshman rekha. Nobody should cross (it). Doing good things is welcome. We appreciate efforts of filing good cases.” Justice Mishra added: “I have not taken contempt against a single person in my judicial career....” Dhavan then referred to how Justice Mishra had, as chief justice of Calcutta High Court, refrained from initiating contempt proceedings against chief minister Mamata Banerjee for her remarks against judges. The bench of Justices Mishra and Joymalya Bagchi had in December 2012 declined to act against Mamata but advised her to “lace her speech with moderation”. Dhavan contended it was not enough for the court to say a remark was scurrilous, it had to state the comment had “substantially interfered with the administration justice”. “As some commentator had said, how can a comment about the CJI seated on a bike affect the administration of justice?” he said. Dhavan referred to Section 13(2) of the Contempt of Courts Act to say that “truth is defence” in contempt proceedings. But Justice Mishra said: “When it comes to sentencing, we can be lenient only when the person tenders apology and realises the mistake in the real sense…. The fact that you are doing many good things does not mean that your wrongs can be neutralised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav's relative quits RJD, joins JDU||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) received twin jolts on Thursday with Chandrika Rai, party chief Lalu Prasad’s daughter-in-law’s father, joining Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United along with two other MLAs, and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s party quitting the Opposition grand alliance. Ministers and senior JDU leaders Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Sharwan Kumar welcomed Chandrika and MLAs Faraz Fatmi and Jai Vardhan Yadav to the fold at a function at the party’s state headquarters here. All three legislators hail from well-known political families. Son of Yadav politician and late chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai, Chandrika is a seven-term MLA from the family’s pocket borough Parsa constituency in Saran district. His daughter Aishwarya Rai got married to Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav, a legislator from Mahua, in May 2018. The match was considered coming together of two of the most well-known Yadav families of the state. However, just five months later, Tej Pratap filed a divorce petition in the Patna civil court. The case is pending and the couple is living separately after Aishwarya was allegedly thrown out of her in-laws house by former chief minister and Tej Pratap’s mother Rabri Devi. Aishwarya registered an FIR against Rabri, husband Tej Pratap and sister-in-law Misa Bharti in December 2019 accusing them of physical assault, mental torture, domestic violence and demanding dowry. Chandrika had tried his best to resolve the situation for the sake of his daughter but had failed. Speaking to mediapersons later, Chandrika asserted that he had become disillusioned with the RJD. “The old and loyal party workers are disregarded and sidelined. The RJD is no longer a party of the poor. It has become a commercial party. Some rich person comes from Mumbai and is given a ticket to contest election. That party is not fit for people like us,” he said. Chandrika also praised Nitish for his vision and work. “He (Nitish) has changed Bihar a lot from what it used to be 15 years ago.” He also said he has heard that Lalu’s sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav were searching for safe seats to contest the upcoming Assembly election. Jai Vardhan is the grandson of late Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, popularly called “Sher-e-Bihar”, and considered one of the tallest Yadav leaders. Faraz is the son of former Union minister Ali Ashraf Fatmi. Last week, three other RJD legislators — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav, Prema Chaudhary and Ashok Kushwaha — had also joined the JDU. Top JDU leaders said inducting these leaders into the party will help make inroads into the RJD’s Yadav vote bank that accounts for around 14 per cent of the total 7.2 crore voters in the state. On the other hand, Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular, after a meeting of its core committee held here on Thursday decided to leave the grand alliance headed by the RJD. The Congress and a few smaller parties are its constituents. “A single party (the RJD) is trying to assert its supremacy on all other members of the grand alliance, thinking that they will follow it. This is unacceptable. We demanded that a coordination committee be formed to steer the alliance but it was ignored. There is also no talk of a common minimum programme. The circumstances have forced us to quit the alliance,” party national general secretary Santosh Manjhi said. Though indications are there that HAMS may join the NDA ahead of the polls, its leaders did not confirm it. “Where will we go or what will happen in future will be decided by our leader Jitan Ram Manjhi. The core committee has authorised him to take a suitable decision,” party spokesperson Danish Rizwan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Bhushan invokes Mahatma, says he is not seeking mercy but will pay penalty||Advocate Prashant Bhushan on Thursday invoked Mahatma Gandhi to tell the Supreme Court that he was not seeking “mercy” or “magnanimity” in the criminal contempt proceedings against him as he was neither a “courtier” nor a “cheerleader” but would “cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted”. Bhushan, convicted of criminal contempt of court, said it would be “insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bona fide belief”. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari gave Bhushan two to three days to reconsider his “defiant statement”. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt of court is six months’ imprisonment or a fine or both. The bench had on August 14 convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt of court for two tweets. During the “Great Trial” of 1922, Gandhi had used words similar to what Bhushan has paraphrased in his statement in court. Gandhi had been arrested from the Sabarmati Ashram in March 1922 for certain articles published in the Young India newspaper and charged with “bringing or attempting to bring into hatred or contempt or exciting or attempting to excite disaffection towards His Majesty’s Government, established by law in British India”. While pleading guilty to the charges, Gandhi had said: “I do not ask for mercy. I do not plead any extenuating act. I am here, therefore, to invite and cheerfully submit to the highest penalty that can be inflicted upon me for what in law is a deliberate crime and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.” Judge C.N. Broomfield sentenced Gandhi to a cumulative six years in jail but added that “if the course of events in India should make it possible for the government to reduce the period and release you, no one will be better pleased than I”. On Thursday, Bhushan, who has been held guilty of charges that the top court feels need dealing with “an iron hand”, said that expressing his “bona fide beliefs... must be permissible in any democracy”. As senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave were arguing on his behalf during the hearing, held via videoconferencing, Bhushan made the statement. The written statement was issued on Bhushan’s behalf by advocate Cherryl Dsouza. Bhushan’s statement is reproduced below verbatim: “I have gone through the judgment of this Hon’ble Court. I am pained that I have been held guilty of committing contempt of the court whose majesty I have tried to uphold — not as a courtier or cheerleader but as a humble guard — for over three decades, at some personal and professional cost. “I am pained, not because I may be punished, but because I have been grossly misunderstood. I am shocked that the court holds me guilty of ‘malicious, scurrilous, calculated attack’ on the institution of administration of justice. I am dismayed that the court has arrived at this conclusion without providing any evidence of my motives to launch such an attack. “I must confess that I am disappointed that the court did not find it necessary to serve me with a copy of the complaint on the basis of which the suo motu notice was issued, nor found it necessary to respond to the specific averments made by me in my reply affidavit or the many submissions of my counsel. “I find it hard to believe that the court finds my tweet ‘has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of Indian democracy’. I can only reiterate that these two tweets represented my bona fide beliefs, the expression of which must be permissible in any democracy. “Indeed, public scrutiny is desirable for healthy functioning of the judiciary itself. I believe that open criticism of any institution is necessary in a democracy, to safeguard the constitutional order. “We are living through that moment in our history when higher principles must trump routine obligations, when saving the constitutional order must come before personal and professional niceties, when considerations of the present must not come in the way of discharging our responsibility towards the future. “Failing to speak up would have been a dereliction of duty, especially for an officer of the court like myself. My tweets were nothing but a small attempt to discharge what I considered to be my highest duty at this juncture in the history of our republic. I did not tweet in a fit of absence mindedness. “It would be insincere and contemptuous on my part to offer an apology for the tweets that expressed what was and continues to be my bona fide belief. “Therefore, I can only humbly paraphrase what the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi had said in his trial: I do not ask for mercy. I do not appeal to magnanimity. I am here, therefore, to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Rahul sounds alarm on jobs, blames Modi||The Congress on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi why he had stopped talking about employment generation, and Rahul Gandhi predicted a grim scenario as the “destruction” of the informal sector would make job creation impossible in the near future. Participating in a party programme organised by the Chhattisgarh unit through videoconference, Rahul said: “Around 90 per cent jobs are created by the informal sector. Who are these people? They are small and medium businessmen, farmers, etc. Narendra Modi has destroyed them. You will see in months that the small and medium enterprises will be ruined. It has already started…. This country won’t be able to give employment to its youths.” The former Congress president added: “For the first time in the history of India, our country will not be able to create jobs. Companies will collapse one after another. Don’t trust me. Reject my assessment; like the media made fun of me when I said the coronavirus would play havoc with the economy. Wait for six-seven months. It will be visible. The MSMEs and the agriculture sector will not be able to generate jobs because they are themselves in trouble.” The Congress maintains that Modi’s demonetisation exercise in November 2016 had delivered a debilitating blow to the informal sector, and then the unplanned and sudden lockdown earlier this year because of the pandemic had devastated the small and medium enterprises. The party has made impassioned appeals to the Prime Minister to offer financial aid and salary support to the MSMEs to ensure they remain afloat. Rahul himself has cautioned that small and medium businessmen will not be able to sustain themselves in the aftermath of the months-long lockdown. The Congress MP had tweeted on Wednesday: “In the last four months, around two crore people have lost their jobs. The future of two crore families is in dark. The truth of destruction of economy and unemployment can’t be hidden from the country by spreading fake news and hate on Facebook.” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi raised the job issue at a media conference on Thursday. “July figures show 1.75 crore salaried jobs were lost. This has become 1.9 crore till the last week of August. These are not migrant labourers who may find livelihood avenues again, but these salaried jobs won’t come back. We want to know from the government what is the blueprint for job creation and why does the Prime Minister not talk about creating jobs these days?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||BJP spies a chance to settle Sena scores ||The Supreme Court’s permission to the CBI to investigate the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput could trigger a fresh and intense round of political clashes between the BJP and its former ally Shiv Sena, sources said. The top court’s verdict has come as an opportunity for the BJP to politically target the Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra, BJP insiders said. Late last year, the Sena, which had been the BJP’s oldest and most ideologically amenable ally, broke ranks after fighting the elections together and joined hands with Sharad Pawar’s NCP and the Congress to form the government in Maharashtra, handing the BJP its rudest shock so far. The BJP had desperately tried to wrest power without the Sena by attempting to split the NCP but failed miserably. Since then, the BJP has been seething and looking for an opportunity to settle scores with the former ally. Privately, many in the BJP feel the handover of the Sushant probe to the CBI has come as an opportunity. “The Sushant Singh Rajput case was politicised to malign Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government,” the editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said on Thursday, apprehending a political backlash from the BJP. “There is no harm in the CBI taking over any case from any state. But this would be an encroachment on the state’s rights,” the editorial added, highlighting how the recommendation for a CBI probe had been made by the Bihar government and not Maharashtra. Sushant, who lived and worked in Mumbai, had been brought up in Bihar, where his family is based. Apart from chief minister Uddhav, the BJP also appears to be targeting his son Aditya Thackeray, who is being groomed to take charge of the Sena. The name of Aditya, a minister in the state government, has cropped up in connection with the Sushant episode. BJP leader Narayan Rane, a former Maharashtra chief minister who had begun his political career with the Sena, and his politician son Nilesh Rane have pointed fingers at Aditya, raising questions over his silence. A whisper campaign has also been launched by the BJP claiming that the Uddhav government was opposed to a CBI probe to save Aditya. The political campaign against Uddhav and Aditya has been so strong that it has forced the son to respond. In a signed statement in Marathi early this month, Aditya rubbished the accusations and termed them “dirty politics” to target the state government. “There has been unnecessary mud slinging on me and the Thackeray family. This is nothing but dirty politics out of frustration,” Aditya had said. Privately, BJP leaders suspect a money-laundering angle to the case involving people who had backed the Sena’s efforts to come to power in Maharashtra. The Enforcement Directorate has been deployed in the Sushant probe and many in the BJP feel that soon the noose will tighten around many “invisible players”. “The Shiv Sena couldn’t have mustered the courage to take on the BJP without backing from some powerful quarters. Those invisible players will soon feel the heat,” a BJP MP from Maharashtra claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Kids can carry higher Covid loads than adults||Children may serve as silent carriers of the new coronavirus infection, showing no symptoms but possessing viral loads even higher than adults hospitalised with severe coronavirus disease, new research released on Thursday has suggested. The study by doctors at the Massachusetts General Hospital in the US has revealed that children may be a potential source of the infection, capable of spreading the virus that causes Covid-19 even though they may have mild or no symptoms. The study, published in the Journal of Paediatrics on Thursday, has shown for the first time that the viral loads in children without symptoms can exceed those in hospitalised patients and challenged current ideas about Covid-19 in children. “We find that in children, the presence of the virus does not correlate with symptoms,” Alessio Fasano, professor of paediatrics at the Harvard Medical School and MGH who led the study, told The Telegraph via email. Fasano and his colleagues also found that only around half of the infected children they examined had fever — the vast majority of the children had no symptoms or only mild symptoms such as a runny nose, cough or low fever. The researchers said their findings imply that in school settings, scans for body temperatures and the search for symptoms such as fever would not be reliable methods to identify children who might be infected. “Fever and symptoms will not identify children infected with Covid-19,” Lael Yonker, a paediatric pulmonologist at MGH and first author of the study, told this newspaper via email. “Therefore, all children should follow strict precautions — wear masks, follow physical distancing, practise good hand hygiene and consider remote learning.” The researchers caution that hurried reopening of schools without adequate planning could result in a rise in infections. “If schools were to reopen fully without necessary precautions, it is likely that children will play a larger role in this pandemic,” Fasano said. Their study, described as the most comprehensive on Covid-related paediatric patients yet, looked at 192 children from infancy up to the age of 22. Of them, 49 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and 18 other children with Covid-19-related illness. They found the viral loads measured through concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 in nasal and throat swabs in asymptomatic children or in the early phases of infection were significantly higher than in hospitalised adults with over seven days of symptoms. Some paediatric patients showed no difference in viral loads compared with even some adults who required ventilator support because of serious disease. The findings have surprised researchers. “We also found that age does not affect viral load in respiratory secretions,” Yonker said. “Young children or infants can carry as high a viral load as older children,” she said. Their study has also challenged the current hypothesis that children are less likely to become infected or seriously ill because they have fewer numbers of ACE receptors or the molecular gateways that SARS-CoV-2 uses to enter human cells. The researchers found that although younger children have lower numbers of the virus receptor than older children or adults, this fewer number does not mean lower viral loads. This finding suggests that children even with fewer virus receptors can carry high viral loads and thus be contagious, the researchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Career and education disruptions take toll on youths||Every second youth in 112 countries, including India, has been possibly subjected to anxiety and stress while one in six youths has probably been affected by depression because of an uncertain career and disruptions in education, a new global survey has found. The Global Survey on Youth and Covid-19 conducted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and partners covered 12,000 youths in the age group of 20-29 years between April and May this year when the pandemic had perpetrated an economic crisis. The online survey asked the respondents about employment, education, mental well-being, rights and social activism. It found that one in six young people who were employed before the outbreak had lost their job. The working hours among employed youths had fallen by nearly a quarter, which is about two hours a day. Two out of five young people, 42 per cent, reported a reduction in their income. The findings of the survey released last week suggested over 70 per cent of the respondents who were either studying or combining study and work had been adversely affected by the closing of educational institutions. About 65 per cent of the respondents reported to have learnt less since the onset of the pandemic because of the deep digital divide. Severe disruptions to learning and working, compounded by the health crisis, have led to a deterioration in young people’s mental well-being, the survey found. One in two young people are possibly suffering from anxiety or stress, of which 17 per cent have probably been affected by depression. “Thirty-eight per cent of young people, globally, are uncertain about their future career prospects and 16 per cent fearful,” the survey said. The report underlined the importance of safeguarding the mental well-being of youths through mental health services and psychosocial support. Dr Sanjay Gupta, professor of psychiatry at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), explained the aspects of mental stress and precautions to be taken in the context of the global survey’s findings. Gupta said every individual lives in a milieu defined by various domains like personality, job life and past history. Problem in any of these domains may lead to stress and later anxiety disorder or depression. “The 17 per cent youths having anxiety disorder is normal but 50 per cent youths facing stress is very high. There is a high degree of risk of mental disorder in this 50 per cent population. The need is stress management,” Gupta said. He said a majority of people in the age group of 20-29 that this study had captured were engaged in higher studies or qualified. Their next step is entry into the job market and it is clear the Covid crisis has led to increased stress, the professor said. “The formula is DEPSAFE, which means determination to defeat depression, engagement in fruitful activities of choice, exercise, both physical and mental, positivity, self-talk by chanting five times a day the mantra ‘Aaj jo hoga, achha hoga, aaj jo hona hai, bahut achha hona hai (whatever happens today will be for the good, what actually happens will be very good), sanitation and social distancing, accept and adapt to the situation, flexibility to listen to other persons’ views, explore new avenues for growth, and creating the environment to be sensitive, supportive and caring,” Gupta said. Labour economist Prof. Ravi Srivastava said the findings of the global survey were very much evident in India. He said education of youths and jobs had been the major casualty of the pandemic. “Digital learning needs handholding in addition to gadgets and good quality Internet connection. In developing economies like India, access to online education has been a major issue ever since the pandemic started,” he said. About the decline in formal jobs, Srivastava said the ongoing process of retrenchment and salary cuts were unlikely to stop for the next several months till economic activities were restored. The survey also found that one in three young people felt a significant impact on their ability to participate in public affairs, including peaceful protests. “More than one-quarter of young people (27 per cent) stated that the pandemic had significantly impacted their ability to exercise the right to freedom of religion or belief,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||Flyers to pay higher aviation security fee from September 1||The civil aviation ministry has decided to charge higher aviation security fee (ASF) from domestic as well as international passengers from September 1, government officials said on Thursday. Making air travel slightly costlier, the officials said the ASF for domestic flyers will be increased to Rs 160 from Rs 150 starting next month while international passengers will pay $5.2 instead of $4.85. Airlines collect ASF from passengers when they book their tickets and then give it to the government. The fee is used to fund the security arrangement at airports across the country. The ministry had increased the fee last year, too. On June 7, 2019, the ministry said domestic passengers would be charged Rs 150 instead of Rs 130 as ASF and international passengers $4.85 instead of $3.25 from July 1, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-716
21-08-2020||India||First meeting by a major Kashmir-based group’s leadership since August 5, 2019||The Valley on Thursday witnessed the first meeting by any major Kashmir-based political group’s leadership since the scrapping of Article 370 last August, the gap reflecting the long freeze on political and civil rights in Jammu and Kashmir. Senior National Conference leaders including all the three Lok Sabha members from the Valley — Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah, Baramulla MP Mohammad Akbar Lone and Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi — met in Srinagar late in the afternoon and later addressed a news conference. An unannounced ban has stifled political parties’ activities across the separatist-mainstream divide in the Valley since the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year. The only exceptions have been meetings by the BJP or small formations sponsored by the Centre that have chosen not to oppose the August 5 changes. On Thursday, the National Conference had invited four of its leaders — said to be under house arrest but whose freedom the government has vouched for in court — to a meeting at party chief Farooq Abdullah’s home. All four — party general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar and former ministers Mohammad Shafi, Abdul Rahim Rather and Nasir Sogami — made it to the meeting. Farooq later told reporters the meeting had been called “merely to see whether our friends can come out”. The party had in July filed a habeas corpus petition in Jammu and Kashmir High Court claiming 16 of its leaders, mostly former ministers and MPs, were being illegally kept under house arrest. In response, the government had last week told the court the 16 were “free to move” and were not under any kind of detention. “The government would say they are free but they were not free. They could get out of their homes (only) today,” Farooq said, thanking the courts and the lawyers for the meeting having taken place. “I hope it is not going to be just one time…. I want they should be permanently free.” Farooq, the National Conference president, had himself been booked under the Public Safety Act and kept in detention for seven months. Lone and Masoodi had not faced arrest or any unofficial detention. Farooq chose not to speak on political matters, saying the party would show its cards at the appropriate time. He, however, swore commitment to the Gupkar declaration, signed last year by all the major pro-India parties ahead of the August 5 upheaval to oppose any move to scrap the state’s special status. Asked whether the events of August 5 had proved the National Conference’s brand of pro-India politics wrong, Farooq said: “We have never been proved wrong. We will never be proved wrong and we will say to our death day what we believe should be done.” Asked about IAS topper turned politician Shah Faesal’s decision to quit politics and acquiesce in the scrapping of the special status, Farooq hit out at those who had “switched sides”. “If somebody’s faith is weak, Farooq Abdullah is not responsible for that. That is his conscience; he has to answer to his conscience and his God,” he said. National Conference general secretary Sagar later visited the mausoleum of Sufi saint Hazrat Yaqoob in Srinagar. In response to pictures of the visit uploaded by Sagar’s son, former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted: “How sad that we have normalised this illegal detention! That we have to be ‘allowed’ to meet freely in spite of the government claiming in court that none of these leaders are detained is a blot on Indian democracy & rule of law.” Thousands of politicians and activists were arrested or put under house arrest on and after August 5 last year. Many of them have been released but several, including former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, continue to be in detention or under undeclared house arrest. The government has constantly denied some of these house arrests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Indore India’s cleanest city for 4th year||Indore was adjudged India’s cleanest city for a fourth straight year while Surat and Navi Mumbai grabbed the second and third positions, respectively, as the Centre announced the results of its latest annual cleanliness survey on Thursday. Varanasi, represented by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha, was adjudged the “Best Ganga Town” in the country, followed by Kanpur, Munger, Prayagraj and Haridwar. Chhattisgarh was given the “Cleanest State” award in the category of states having more than 100 urban local bodies, followed by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 — the fifth annual cleanliness survey of the country — were announced by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony where 129 awards were given in different categories. The survey brochure describes the New Delhi Municipal Council as “India’s Cleanest National Capital (National or State Capitals/UT)”. The NDMC comprises large part of Rajpath and the VIP zone of Lutyens’ Delhi. A total of 4,242 cities, 62 cantonment boards and 97 Ganga towns were surveyed, and 1.87 crore citizens participated in the exercise, according to the government. Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh has been ranked the cleanest city in the category of 1-10 lakh population, followed by Mysore in Karnataka and New Delhi Municipal area. The Jalandhar cantonment board had been ranked first while Delhi cantonment board and Meerut cantonment board have grabbed second and third positions, respectively. According to the survey results, Jharkhand was adjudged the “Cleanest State” in the category of having less than 100 ULBs, followed by Haryana, Uttarakhand, Sikkim, Assam and Himachal Pradesh. Indore has topped the ranking in the cleanest city category (having more than one lakh population), and is followed by Surat, Navi Mumbai. Vijaywada and Ahmedabad in that order. Nasik has been ranked 25th, while Bihar’s Patna 47th, North Delhi and East Delhi 43rd and 46th positions in the cleanest city category. In the category of population of less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra’s Karad bagged the first position, followed by Saswad and Lonavala. After announcing the results, Puri said, “Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness survey) will continue to help us in sustaining the gains made under Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban, while providing a comprehensive road map to institutionalise the concept of total swachhata among all our cities.” Greater Hyderabad has been given the “Best Mega City” award in the category of “Citizen Feedback”. Chandigarh has been awarded as “Best Union Territory in Citizen Feedback”, while Gandhi Nagar has been ranked as “Best State Capital in Innovation and Best Practices”. Union housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said that “Swachh Survekshan 2020 had an overwhelming scale with the survey team visiting over 58,000 residential and over 20,000 commercial areas covering over 64,000 wards in a mere 28 days”. Jharkhand’s Madhpur Nagar Parishad has been awarded as “Best City in Citizen Feedback — East Zone”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Mastermind of Agra bus hijack held after ‘encounter’||One of the four men who had hijacked a passenger bus in Agra on Wednesday was arrested on Thursday morning after a brief gunfight, police have said. “Pradeep Gupta, the mastermind, was arrested during a police encounter near Chitrahat police station (in Agra),” Agra senior superintendent of police Bablu Kumar said. “He has suffered a bullet injury in his right leg. His associate Yatendra Yadav escaped. A police constable too was injured.” Kumar said Gupta was an agent at the regional transport office in Etawah. He had allegedly fired at the police after the motorbike on which he and Yadav were travelling was stopped at a checkpoint. “We have identified 12 accused and begun the process to book them under the National Security Act,” Kumar said. Police sources said a hunt was on for the remaining 11 accused, who they said included a few transport department officials. The bus was travelling from Gurgaon in Haryana to Panna in Madhya Pradesh with 34 passengers when it was hijacked on the national highway near Agra city on Wednesday morning. The four hijackers told the passengers they were recovery agents of a private finance company and were seizing the bus because its owner Deepa Arora had not repaid the loan taken against the vehicle. But Pawan, son of Deepa, told reporters no loan had been taken to buy the bus, belonging to a transport company that his father Ashok ran before dying of Covid-19 recently. “The bus is registered in Etawah and we live in Gwalior, where we have been in isolation since my father’s death,” Pawan said. “Some criminals associated with the Uttar Pradesh transport department had been trying to extort money from us for allowing the bus to pass through Etawah. Now they have hijacked the bus with passengers on board.” The hijackers allowed the passengers to get off some 20 minutes after the hijack and drove away with the bus. The passengers later persuaded a Jhansi-bound empty private bus to ferry them against a payment. From Jhansi, they took other buses home. The hijacked bus was found abandoned near a dhaba in Etawah on Wednesday afternoon — apparently a result of the hijackers panicking after the police got active. Officers said Gupta and Yadav had no past criminal record.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||UP medical officer ‘kills’ doctor after relationship turned bitter||A medical officer with the Uttar Pradesh health department has been arrested on the charge of throttling, stabbing and shooting dead a gynaecologist after their relationship allegedly turned bitter over marriage. Police in Agra said the medical officer, Vivek Tiwari, had confessed to the murder, committed in his car late on Tuesday night. According to Tiwari, he and Yogita Gautam, 26, had been in a relationship for the past seven years. Tiwari, posted at Orai in Jalaun district, had been a year senior to Yogita, a resident doctor at SN Medical College in Agra, during MBBS at a private medical college in Moradabad. Tiwari was booked on a complaint from Yogita’s elder brother. According to the investigators, hair and skin samples collected from the victim matched those of Tiwari. Tiwari told reporters at the police station on Thursday morning that he had been carrying a knife with the intention of killing Yogita, who was from Delhi. “We had been in a relationship for the past seven years. She had been mounting pressure on me for immediate marriage. I had asked her to wait till my younger sister got married. After a fight in the car, I throttled her before stabbing her in the neck with the knife and throwing her out,” Tiwari, who hails from Kanpur, said. The police said there was also a gunshot wound in the neck. However, Yogita’s family denied that she had ever forced Tiwari for marriage, saying that it was Tiwari who had been putting pressure on her for marriage and that their relationship had gone bad because of this. The crime came to light when villagers of Bamroli Katara informed the police on Wednesday morning about the body of a woman lying in a bush. Yogita’s elder brother Mohindar Kumar Gautam had come to Agra from Delhi on Tuesday night along with their mother, Asha Gautam, to meet her but found her house locked, following which they spent the night in a hotel. Mohindar told reporters that personnel at MM Gate police station had refused to accept a complaint when he went there at 9am on Wednesday to lodge a missing person’s diary, alleging that it was only nine hours later, around 6pm, that they told him to go to the post-mortem department of a nearby hospital to see if a body found at Bamroli Katara was that of his sister. “It was after I identified my sister that the police registered a case on the basis of my complaint, in which I mentioned my suspicion that Tiwari had kidnapped her,” said Mohindar, also a doctor in Delhi. “Tiwari had called up my mother around 5am on Wednesday and claimed that he had been trying to call Yogita for the past several hours but the calls had not gone through. He claimed he wanted to find out if everything was fine. I think he had killed Yogita before calling my mother,” Mohinder said, adding that Yogita had blocked Tiwari’s number a few days ago and told her mother that she didn’t want to talk to him. “Tiwari was a year senior to Yogita in medical college. Of late, he had been putting pressure on her to marry him. Tiwari had tried to convince us also. But my sister had started disliking him,” Mohindar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
21-08-2020||India||Airport showdown in Kerala over Adanis||The Adani group’s proposed takeover of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, cleared by the Union cabinet on Wednesday, has hit political headwinds with the Left government in Kerala and the Opposition Congress coming together to resist the privatisation of the public sector facility. The showdown comes at a time the CPM-led government is caught in a scandal over a gold smuggling racket in which a key accused has been linked to a top IAS officer who enjoyed immense clout in the chief minister’s office. The battle has a few unusual dimensions. The Kerala government itself had taken part in the airport bid and lost to the Adanis. If a private party that lost a tender had sought to block the winner, it would have had other implications. Another stand-out factor has been the decision of Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor to swim against the political tide with which his own party is moving. “The people of Thiruvananthapuram want a first-class airport worthy of the city’s history, status and potential. In this context, a decision, however controversial, is preferable to the long delay we have suffered,” Tharoor said. Chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, stating that it would be difficult for Kerala to cooperate when a decision goes against the people’s wishes. Vijayan also requested the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision to lease the airport to Adani Enterprises under a public-private partnership model for 50 years. “In view of the unilateral decision taken by the government of India without giving credence to the cogent arguments put forward by the state government, it will be difficult for us to offer cooperation to the implementation of the decision, which is against the wishes of the people of the state,” Vijayan wrote. The Kerala government on Thursday held an all-party meeting, chaired by Vijayan, to discuss and protest against the Centre’s decision. So far, the sole party that has backed the planned takeover by the Adanis is the BJP. The Ahmedabad-based Adani group had last year won the rights to operate the airports at Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Jaipur, Guwahati and Mangalore, which are now run by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal to lease out the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram through the PPP model. Although the Kerala government had participated in the tender, the Adani group won the bid. The Centre has ignored the Kerala government’s pleas to form a state public sector consortium to run the airport. The Centre remained firm on its stand on Thursday. Minister of state for external affairs V. Muraleedharan told a media conference in New Delhi: “Neither the Supreme Court nor Kerala High Court has objected to proceeding with the agreement (with Adani). Any further decision to stop the deal will be taken on the basis of the high court’s order.” The Kerala government and the Airport Employees’ Union had challenged in the Supreme Court the authority of the AAI to lease the facility to a corporate company. The apex court had sent the case back to Kerala High Court, which has not been able to take up the matter because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. Asked how prudent it would be to hand over a profit-making airport to the Adani group that has yet to take over the Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangalore airports even after signing the binding concession agreement on February 15, Muraleedharan said: “Each of the airports is an independent bid.” The Adani group was supposed to execute the final agreement with the AAI in 180 days and take over the airports in another 45 days. The airport at Thiruvananthapuram, the state’s first, was established in 1932 by Col. Goda Varma Raja, the consort prince of Travancore queen Karthika Thirunal. While the first flight took off from the airstrip on November 1, 1935, carrying mail to the then Bombay, it became a domestic airport after Independence. It was accorded international airport status in 1991, although international operations had been initiated by Air India to West Asia in the late 1970s. The CPM state secretariat on Thursday urged the Centre not to hand over the airport to the Adani group and echoed the state government’s proposal to modernise it on the lines of the international airports at Kochi and Kannur. “Strong protests have to rise against the Modi government’s decision to hand over the airport worth Rs 30,000 crore to Adani. The Kerala people will never allow this airport to be Adani’s,” the party said in a statement. “The airport has an annual profit of Rs 170 crore,” the CPM said, adding that the state government had over a period of time acquired land for its expansion. “Thiruvananthapuram airport privatised to Adani rejecting the claim of Kerala govt, even after offer to match Adani’s rate. PMO’s promise to accept Kerala proposal broken. People of Kerala will not accept this act of brazen cronyism. #Airportprivatisation,” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac tweeted on Thursday. Tharoor’s stand has courted controversy. “My position on the airport has been consistent since before the elections. I am not a politician who says one thing to the voters and something else afterwards for political convenience,” he tweeted on Thursday. He also had a word for his party colleagues who have opposed the handover to Adani. “Had my colleagues consulted me before taking a negative stand, I would have explained my views to them. I am speaking in the best interests of my constituency. As its MP, that is my job,” Tharoor tweeted, tagging the Kerala unit of the Congress. But the Congress made it clear that it would not support the takeover. AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal accused the Centre of indulging in “massive corruption” in privatising public sector airports. “The Centre has ignored the Kerala government’s objections and offers to run the airport while handing it over to Adani,” he said. “This takeover will be stopped at any cost. We will stage strong protests in and outside Parliament,” Venugopal added. The leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress, said “the dictatorial act” could not be allowed and “must be resisted”. “The Union Government’s decision to award operations of Trivandrum Airport to Adani Group on a 50-year lease amidst the Covid crisis is a deplorable move. The airport is the state’s property, and must not be privatised,” he tweeted. “The decision to go for PPP mode despite state govt’s readiness to operate and manage the airport shows how the Central Govt is trying to use the Covid pandemic to hand over all PSUs to the private sector,” Chennithala added. The Thiruvananthapuram district secretary of the CPM’s Centre of Indian Trade Unions, V. Sivankutty, told The Telegraph that they would stand by the state government’s efforts to stop the takeover. “The Kerala government cannot even think of handing over the airport to Adani, and Citu will back that position,” he said. “We won’t cooperate with the necessary land acquisition for the expansion of the runway,” Sivankutty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-717
