22-08-2020||India||Ganesh chaturthi: Celebration amid precaution||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Forced to travel 50 km for online classes, students reach out to to NCPCR for Internet||Around 200 children were forced to travel 50 kilometers everyday to reach an area with Internet connection to attend online classes from their remote coastal villages in Maharashtra after they were hit first Covid-19 lockdown and then cyclone Nisarga. Hit by a pandemic and then a natural disaster, the children from remote villages in Maharashtra had to deal with Internet disruptions since early June when connectivity along the coastal area of Ratnagiri district became scratchy. But when even after a month the situation did not improve, one of the students finally reached out to the apex child rights body NCPCR for help. The National Commission for Protection Child Rights, in turn, ensured that the connectivity is restored in the fastest possible manner by reaching out to cellular companies and the district magistrate of the area, NCPCR Chairman Priyank Kanoongo said. In his letter to the district magistrate of the area, Kanoongo stressed that the authorities must ensure that the issue gets resolved at the earliest. "The commission has taken cognizance of a complaint received regarding poor and disrupted network connectivity along coastal area of Ratnagiri District, Maharashtra, particularly in the area of PIN Code 415714, which was deadly hit by cyclone Nisarg on June 3, 2020 and since then, the residents of area do not have mobile and data connectivity," Kanoongo said in the letter to the district magistrate on July 25 and sought the immediate intervention from the Ratnagiri district magistrate on the matter. Speaking to news agency PTI, Kanoongo said the NCPCR continuously followed up with the authorities and finally the Internet connection in the area was restored by one of the cellular networks while the rest of them assured that they will resolve the issue at the earliest. "We intervened and wrote to the district magistrate and cellular companies and we dealt with it as a policy intervention in which NCPCR has to play a role in helping children. As a result, action was taken on a priority basis and internet connectivity of the village was restored," he said. He further stressed that it is very important to ensure barrier-free Internet facility for the children in these times. "It is very important that if children are dependent upon the Internet for their education then it needs to be ensured that they get barrier-free Internet facility," he said. The nationwide lockdown induced by Covid-19 in March prompted schools and colleges to move to the virtual world for teaching and learning activities. But a weak internet penetration has turned e-education into a distant dream for many children in the rural areas. According to official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Suspected ISIS operative nabbed in Delhi||A suspected ISIS operative, armed with explosives and a weapon, was arrested in Delhi last night after a brief shootout, the police said, adding that he was plotting a "lone wolf attack". Abu Yusuf, the accused, was arrested at around 11.30 PM in the national capital's Dhaula Kuan area. Two pressure cookers, turned into IEDs (improved explosive devices) with about 15 kg of explosives in them, and a pistol were recovered from his possession, the police said. "One ISIS operative was arrested with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) by our Special Cell after an exchange of fire at Dhaula Kuan," Pramod Singh Kushwaha, Delhi DCP (Deputy Commissioner of Police) Delhi Police Special Cell, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The police believe the suspect visited several places in the city and was plotting a lone wolf attack. The matter is being investigated further, the police said, to determine if the suspected terrorist had accomplices in other parts of the city or country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Covid: Highest single-day spike in cases||With a record spike of 69,874 infections in a day, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the recoveries surged to 22,22,577 pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.87 per cent, it said. There are 6,97,330 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 23.43 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. A cumulative total of 3,44,91,073 samples have been tested up to August 21 with 10,23,836 samples being tested on Friday, the highest done in a day so far, Lokesh Sharma, scientist and media coordinator at ICMR said. Of the 945 fresh deaths, 339 are from Maharashtra, 101 from Tamil Nadu, 93 from Karnataka, 91 from Andhra Pradesh, 64 from Uttar Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 34 from Punjab, 15 from Jammu and Kashmir, 14 each from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Delhi, 12 each from Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan and 11 from Jharkhand. Ten fatalities were reported from Odisha, nine from Goa, seven each from Haryana and Telangana, six each from Assam, Bihar and Puducherry, five from Uttarakhand, two each from Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh and Tripura have registered one fatality each. Of the total 55,794 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 21,698 followed by 6,340 in Tamil Nadu, 4,522 in Karnataka, 4,270 in Delhi, 3,092 in Andhra Pradesh, 2,867 in Gujarat, 2,797 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,689 in West Bengal and 1,185 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 991 people have died of Covid-19 in Punjab, 933 in Rajasthan, 744 in Telangana, 593 in Jammu and Kashmir, 585 in Haryana, 498 in Bihar, 390 in Odisha, 297 in Jharkhand, 227 in Assam, 203 in Kerala and 192 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 180 deaths, Puducherry 143, Goa 135, Tripura 70, Chandigarh 33, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 32, Himachal Pradesh 25, Manipur 20, Ladakh 19, Nagaland eight, Meghalaya six, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Opposition slams Nitish for ‘dirty’ cities||A day after the Centre announced the results of its annual cleanliness survey (Swachh Survekshan), the Opposition raised a stink over the dismal performance of the cities in Bihar in a bid to corner chief minister and Janata Dal United chief Nitish Kumar, leaving the ruling NDA trying to save its face. State capital Patna has achieved the dubious distinction of being the dirtiest among the 47 cities having a population of more than 10 lakh. Similarly, Gaya was ranked at the bottom among 382 surveyed cities with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh. In fact, five other cities — Buxar, Bhagalpur, Parsa, Biharsharif and Saharsa — joined Gaya to figure among the bottom 10 out of these 382 cities. Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad was among the first people to attack Nitish and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi over Bihar’s performance on the cleanliness index. “What’s up Nitish, Sushil? Won’t you blame me for this? The people of this alleged good governing and self-advertising government will not be feeling ashamed over this,” Lalu tweeted on Friday along with a map showing six Bihar cities ranked among the dirtiest 10 in the survey. Lalu’s son and leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also took potshots at Nitish over Patna being ranked as the dirtiest among bigger cities. “Crores of congratulations to 15-year chief minister Nitish Kumar over Patna achieving the number one position in dirtiness in the country,” Tejashwi tweeted. Not to be left behind, the Congress also denounced the Bihar government and questioned Nitish over the state’s dismal performance and where the huge sums of money spent on the cleanliness drive went. “The Nitish (Kumar) government has claimed that thousands of crores of rupees have been spent on the cleanliness drive and smart city initiatives but Bihar is at the lowest rung in the cleanliness survey done by the central government and smart city Patna is the dirtiest. The survey has not been done by the Congress but by the BJP-led government at the Centre. Has the expenditure been carried out only on paper? Nitish should answer this question,” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said. The Congress leader demanded that urban development minister Suresh Sharma be sacked and Nitish own responsibility for the dismal performance by the state.
Sharma, a senior BJP leader, appeared to be on the backfoot, when asked about the poor performance of Bihar cities on cleanliness parameters. “Patna ranked low because the entire city witnessed massive drainage works in the wake of last year’s deluge. The entire focus of the municipal corporation was on the drainage work. It was but natural that other areas would become neglected. We have been victorious in controlling water-logging to a large extent. We have purchased various cleaning machines for the city and its cleanliness rankings will improve,” the minister told The Telegraph. Asked about the poor performance by several other cities, he admitted that there was a “need to work harder” on this front. He pointed out that the cities should have a garbage management plan to improve cleanliness. “Unless there is a proper garbage management plan and bioremediation plants to turn garbage into fertiliser is not installed in the cities, their cleanliness rankings will not improve. We have called for tenders for such plants. We are sure that their rankings will shoot up in next year’s survey,” he added.
Calls to JDU spokespersons were not answered. Sources said that Nitish was peeved at the low ranking of Bihar cities in the cleanliness survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Manoj Jha writes to the president on academic witchhunt||Rajya Sabha MP and Delhi University professor Manoj Jha has written to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding “the government stop the farcical media trial” of Apoorvanand Jha, his colleague who teaches Hindi at the same varsity. Jha had previously spoken out against alleged police atrocities on those protesting against the new citizenship matrix and the force’s purported complicity in the February communal riots that killed 53 people. He wrote to the President on Thursday after two news channels aired purported excerpts of confessions by two youths in police custody, accused of instigating the riots. News channels, including one that described Apoorvanand as “Dilli dangon ka professor” (the professor of Delhi riots), cited unnamed police sources to say that 28-year-old Gulfisha Fatima had confessed that Apoorvanand was the main instigator of the riots. Fatima has been booked in four FIRs on the charges of murder and Arms Act violations, and under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Earlier this month, another channel had reported that Jamia Millia Islamia student Meeran Haider — a local leader of the youth wing of Jha’s party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, who too has been booked under the UAPA— had confessed that the riots had been planned on the campus with funding from the Popular Front of India, a volunteer group that focuses on Muslims and Dalits and holds RSS-like drills in uniform. Manoj Jha wrote: “I write this to you to express my concern at the openly vengeful investigation being carried out by Delhi police in the matter of an alleged conspiracy to instigate and execute violence in Delhi.” Jha added: “The latest in the list is Professor Apoorvanand, public intellectual and renowned academician from the University of Delhi…. The invocation of anti-terror laws against the student activists, floating in the media the alleged ‘disclosures’ and ‘confessions’ by Gulfisha, Meeran Haider and several others who are in judicial custody, only strengthens our belief that these investigations are vindictive and biased.” Jha continued: “You may recall the Delhi High Court’s recent directives against publication of the police versions against accused under-trials. These would apply with greater force to those who are not even accused. We hope that looking at things as they appear, you will direct the government to stop the farcical media trial and drop these false charges against human rights activists, students and academicians.” In July, Delhi High Court had reprimanded police for trying to sway public opinion against Jawaharlal Nehru University student Devangana Kalita — in jail after three FIRs were registered against her, including charges under the UAPA — by issuing media releases with selective information of the probe. On Friday, the high court reserved its order on Kalita’s bail plea after the police said they were a kilometre away from her and unable to record videos of her alleged inflammatory speeches. Kalita’s defence counsel and Congress leader Kapil Sibal, however, showed the court videos of police personnel video-recording the protest. The MP, in his letter, added: “We cannot help but remind you of the horrendous video from 24th February, which showed policemen forcing injured and bleeding Muslim youth to sing the national anthem. All patriots will be revolted at the debasing of the great song by the actions of these policemen. One of those injured young men later succumbed to his injuries. We do not know if any departmental action and criminal proceedings have been initiated against the guilty police officers. Following the violence, the Special Cell (of the police) has been spinning a theory that the violence was a result of a conspiracy planned and executed by those who have been part of the protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.” He said: “By arresting and linking students and activists involved in the protests with the outbreak of violence, Delhi police (are) firstly criminalising the democratic right of the citizens to protest with the intention of silencing the voices against CAA. Secondly, this deflects attention from the role of the police and the administration who stood by and watched as houses burnt and people were killed.” Manoj Jha has taught at the department of social work in DU since 2002 and did his MA and PhD from the university. Before that, he taught for eight years at Jamia Millia Islamia. Apoorvanand has taught at DU since 2004, before which he taught at Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Vishvavidyalaya, Wardha, and Magadh University, Bodh Gaya. Earlier this month, he was interrogated by the police for five hours and his mobile phone was seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Teachers’ online misery revealed||Many teachers, including from quality schools, are struggling to impart online teaching, a survey has found, which implies ominous consequences for their pupils. One in seven teachers at central government schools and one in five at other schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education have said they find online classes “difficult” or “burdensome” to conduct. Overall, 17.6 per cent — more than one in six — teachers are uncomfortable with online education, according to the survey, designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and executed by the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) and the CBSE. Education experts said these teachers’ struggles may stem from poor training and preparedness, and would result in deficient learning among a sizeable segment of their students. Schools (and higher education institutions) have been closed since March because of the pandemic, and all classes are being held online. Based on the survey’s findings, the NCERT has recommended training the teachers to hold online classes, providing students with the devices to attend these classes, if necessary, and pairing students without gadgets with neighbourhood children who have them. A total of 3,543 teachers participated in the survey along with 18,188 schoolchildren, 253 principals and 1,26,124 parents. Kendriya and Navodaya schools are funded by the central government, recruit well-qualified teachers after rigorous screening, and are generally thought to be better than the average CBSE or state government school. If an average 15 per cent of these central schools’ teachers are finding online classes difficult, the figure would be much higher among teachers in state government schools in the rural and tribal areas, said N.K. Ambastha, former chairperson of the National Institute of Open Schooling. “If a teacher is struggling, all the students in their class would be deprived of learning,” Ambastha said. “As a result, a big chunk of the students will be left with learning deficiencies in these (central) schools, which are better than state government schools.” P.V. Chhikara, a teacher at the Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bathinda Cantonment, said the KVS had not trained its teachers in managing online classes. “Teachers aged above 45 or 50 have had little exposure to such online transactions before. They are taking the help of friends and relatives,” Chhikara said. Negative feedback on online education came also from 32.4 per cent of the students at the Kendriya schools, 28 per cent at the Navodaya schools and 39 per cent at the other CBSE-affiliated schools. Among the principals, about 11 per cent from the Kendriya schools, 13 per cent from Navodaya schools and 25 per cent from the other CBSE schools expressed discomfort with online education. Among parents, the figures were 31.6, 28 and 35.3 per cent, respectively. “My classes have seen only 30 per cent attendance. The families haven’t enough mobile phones with Internet connectivity to help their children. Sometimes the network is down; sometimes the electricity is fluctuating,” Chhikara said. Apart from these issues, Ambastha said, online classes face another problem: the teacher’s inability to pay enough attention to each student according to their requirement. The NCERT has recommended online programmes to train teachers in alternative (non-classroom, non-online) ways of imparting education to children who may lack smart phones, laptops or quality Internet connectivity. These children can, for example, be supplied periodically with work sheets (exercises) and reading material by the school through volunteers, and the teachers may pay periodic visits to teach and assess their progress. These teacher training programmes may be conducted by the State Councils of Education Research and Training or the District Institutes of Education and Training, the NCERT has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Russia seeks to mass produce candidate vaccine in India||Russia views India as among potential “international hubs” for the mass production of its candidate vaccine against the new coronavirus disease and is talking with four possible “partners” in India, Russian officials have said. The officials said Russia hoped to use production facilities in India, Brazil, South Korea and Cuba to meet the global demand for the vaccine, but senior Indian officials said the Russians had not yet approached India’s health ministry for discussions on the vaccine. Russia had earlier this month surprised the medical community by announcing that its regulators had approved the candidate vaccine made by its Gamaleya Institute after early safety and efficacy trials, and without the mandatory final round of large-scale efficacy studies. “Production of the vaccine is a very important issue. Currently we are working with four partners in India,” said Kirill Dmitriev, chief executive officer at the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), a sovereign wealth fund created by the Russian government for joint partnerships. “We believe they are capable of production of the Gamaleya Institute vaccine,” Dmitriev said in a media briefing for reporters from around the world. He said Russia had received requests from various countries for more than a billion doses of the vaccine. The RDIF declined to provide details of the discussions with Indian entities but a senior RDIF executive told The Telegraph that the agency’s “Indian track is one of the strongest”. The executive added that the RDIF was hoping to be in a position to provide more details about its India engagement next week. Russian officials said large-scale efficacy trials of the vaccine were expected to begin next week at 45 medical centres across Russia, and would seek to deliver the vaccine to 40,000 healthy volunteers. However, senior Indian officials told this newspaper that neither the Union health ministry nor the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation, India’s regulatory agency for drugs and vaccines, had been contacted by the Russians about the vaccine yet. A senior pharmacological medicine specialist and expert on regulatory affairs said the Russian entities and their Indian partners would require approval from the drug regulatory authorities to either conduct a clinical trial or mass produce the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||‘Limited options’ before SC on Prashant Bhushan||The crackdown on two tweets has reached such a pass that the Supreme Court is left with limited options to uphold the “majesty of the court” if lawyer Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologise before Monday, sources in the top court told The Telegraph on Friday. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari will assemble on August 25 (Tuesday) to consider an order only if Bhushan does not apologise for his tweets on the judiciary. A revised order uploaded on Friday said: “…Arguments have been heard in the main matter, on sentencing. Order reserved. We have given time to the contemnor to submit unconditional apology, if he so desires. Let it be filed by 24.08.2020. In case apology is submitted, the case to be posted for consideration on the same, on 25.08.2020….” The final order in the matter is expected to be delivered by September 2, the day Justice Arun Mishra, who heads the bench, is scheduled to retire. The original order, issued late on Thursday night, had mistakenly omitted the name of attorney-general K.K. Venugopal from the list of advocates present during the day’s hearing. The revised order corrected the mistake. Venugopal had said he was not representing the Union government on this matter. So far, neither Bhushan nor those who know him well have dropped any hint that he is considering an apology. On Thursday, after much persuasion by the bench to take a few days to consider the proposal for an apology, Bhushan had agreed to think it over. Sources within the Supreme Court believe that if Bhushan does not apologise, the bench will have no option but to pronounce a sentence of imprisonment. The maximum punishment is six months in jail. The sources feel that if the Supreme Court fails to act despite Bhushan sticking to his tweets, the highest court of the land could be viewed as powerless. Further, any leniency might embolden others to criticise the judiciary in the future, the sources said. The view within the top judiciary is that the matter could be given a burial after a censure or a fine if Bhushan tenders an unconditional apology in the spirit of “give and take”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||Diaspora organisations in US call for one-day fast for Bhushan||Six diaspora organisations in the US have called for a one-day fast on Saturday in solidarity with advocate Prashant Bhushan who has been held guilty of contempt of court by the Supreme Court and is awaiting sentencing. All six organisations representing India’s diversity in the US jointly held a press conference this week and issued detailed statements urging the Supreme Court to reconsider and withdraw the contempt charges against Bhushan, pointing out that this could otherwise become a classic case study on free speech. “Should these contempt charges be upheld, we remain concerned of this judgment becoming a classic case study on ‘free speech’ and the intersection of current political environments in many courses of jurisprudence — asking the question where is the fine line of upholding constitutional guarantees?’’ said Manish Madan of Global Indian Progressive Alliance. Raju Rajagopal of Hindus for Human Rights said Bhushan had only articulated the sense of despair among the people. Recalling how the Supreme Court’s verdicts in the privacy and Sabrimala cases had raised expectations from the judiciary, he said its rulings on NRC and Ayodhya disabused any notion that the court was moving away from legitimising the fungible notion of “community sentiment’’. Seeing a pattern in Bhushan’s case and the arrest of students and activists, Aminah Ahmed of Indian American Muslim Council said: “Truly free speech in India is increasingly becoming less and less free... With the worrying rise of students as well as activists charged with sedition we see an effort to stigmatise them and create a narrative where any form of dissent is marked as ‘anti-national’. This notion that one cannot call out and question a higher authority surely has deep implications for where India is headed in terms of guaranteeing the rights that it claims to secure.’’ While Students Against Hindutva Ideology said the Supreme Court’s decision “undermines the legitimacy of democracy and the independence of the judiciary’’, Rohit Tripathi of Young India said contempt of court has no place in a mature democracy like India. Echoing Rajagopal, he urged the court to distinguish itself by reconsidering its earlier conviction of Bhushan. Over the past few weeks, many of these organisations have been repeatedly organising joint actions; first to protest the spectacle organised by some Right-wing groups in New York’s Times Square to celebrate the foundation stone laying of the Ram temple and then again to celebrate Independence Day. Besides raising their voices to stand up for the Indian Constitution, their effort is also to drive home the point that the diaspora is as diverse as India itself and not just made up of those who support the Right-wing agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-713
22-08-2020||India||SC rejects plea seeking inquiry into conduct of ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea seeking setting up of a three-judge panel to inquire into the conduct of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as a judge of the apex court. Gogoi is now a Rajya Sabha MP. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra termed as infructuous the public interest litigation (PIL), and said the petitioner did not press for a hearing in last two years and moreover, now Justice (retd) Gogoi has already demitted office. Why did not you (petitioner) press it for hearing in the last two years? This plea has become infructuous as he has demitted office, the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said. Sorry we can't entertain, the bench told petitioner Arun Ramchandra Hublikar, who had sought inquiry into the alleged omission and commission by Justice (retd) Gogoi as a judge of the apex court. The petitioner claimed before the bench that he had met the secretary general of the top court for listing of his plea but it was not listed. Justice Gogoi, the first person from the northeast to reach the top of judiciary and credited for bringing the curtains down on the decades old politically and religiously sensitive Ayodhya land dispute, had retired as the CJI on November 17 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Srinagar does well in cleanliness survey, reasons puzzling||Some are bristling at the Srinagar administration’s preening over the city’s dramatic rise up the cleanliness rankings. Some are wondering if the yearlong lockdown held the key, sarcastically thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for “making it happen”. The city has jumped 321 spots from 357 last year to 36 in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the fifth edition of the Centre’s countrywide annual cleanliness survey.
Srinagar ranked 241 in 2017 and 281 in 2018 — the year the WHO declared it the 10th most polluted city in the world. When the latest Swachh survey was conducted in January, the Valley had spent months under a government clampdown and then a shutdown over political disturbances, which had given city authorities little time to focus on cleanliness. Since then, Srinagar has mostly been under a pandemic-induced lockdown. So, when the district administration posted a self-congratulatory tweet -- announcing Srinagar’s rank and adding “Isn’t that commendable!” – many feathers were ruffled.
“Of course, a city shut down by almost a continuous yearlong lockdown will be very clean,” tweeted journalist Muzamil Jaleel. Former minister Nayeem Akhtar posted: “No denying credit but yearlong lockdown, all pollutants off scene, educational institutions closed, economic activity frozen, hotels, tourism and even normal travel stopped, must all have contributed to this spectacular performance.” Saleem Beg, convener of the Jammu and Kashmir chapter of heritage promotion body Intach, however, said the ranking was “absolutely untrue”. He told The Telegraph the water quality in the city’s lakes and tanks was poor and its solid waste management pathetic.“They haven’t provided credible data. They should say in tangible terms where any improvement has happened,” Beg said. Members of the central government and the BJP have been claiming all-round improvement in J&K since the scrapping of Article 370 last August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Vinod Dua in Supreme Court: Criticism of Modi not sedition||Journalist Vinod Dua on Friday told the Supreme Court that criticism of the Prime Minister does not necessarily mean criticism of a lawfully elected government, also reasoning that he cannot be prosecuted for sedition in a democracy for expressing his opinion. Dua has challenged in the Supreme Court the move of Himachal Pradesh police to book him for sedition over a March 30 video in which he had been accused of saying that “Narendra Modi has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes” and creating panic by “spreading false information that the government does not have enough testing facilities” for Covid-19. The case was started on the complaint lodged by a man who claims to be a BJP leader. In the video, however, Dua did not explicitly say Modi “has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes”. He had said the Pathankot and Pulwama terror attacks and the Balakot air strike had been “politicised” to seek votes. Appearing for Dua before a bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit, senior advocate Vikas Singh pleaded that if freedom of press was not guaranteed to journalists, then democracy in the country would be “under threat”. “Any criticism of the government cannot be sedition unless it instigates violence. Moreover, if I criticise the Prime Minister, it does not come under criticism of the government,” Singh said on behalf of Dua. “In a democracy a citizen has a right to say or write whatever opinion he holds about the government or its measures by way of criticism or comment, so long as he does not incite people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder,” Singh told the bench, also having Justices M. Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran. The court adjourned the matter to September 2. On June 14, the apex court had restrained Himachal police from arresting Dua but had refused to stay investigations into the sedition case against him. It had allowed the police to interrogate him through videoconferencing since the senior journalist was a Delhi resident and had expressed inability to go to Himachal due to the pandemic. On July 8, the court had told Dua not to answer a second questionnaire sent to him by Himachal police and made it clear that it would quash the FIR if there was merit in his contention that he was being harassed. During Friday’s arguments, Singh said that freedom of press should also be extended to social media, where Dua’s video had been uploaded. “If freedom of speech is not specifically guaranteed to the press, things will take a degenerative turn in the country. If press is not allowed to be free, our democracy will be under threat…” Singh said. The senior counsel submitted that “…disloyalty to a government established by law is not the same thing as commenting in strong terms on the measures or acts of the government or its agencies so as to ameliorate the condition of the people”. Singh pointed out that while Dua’s video had been aired in March-end, the FIR was lodged on May 6, and that there had been no violence till now. The spread of violence is a key clause for a person to be prosecuted for sedition. Pleading that no case under IPC Sections 124A (sedition) or 505(2) (statement creating enmity, ill will or hatred among different classes of people) could be made out, Singh urged the court to quash the FIR immediately. He also wondered how Himachal police could invoke provisions of the Disaster Management Act, under which the pandemic-induced lockdown is in force, against Dua. “The FIR says that Mr Dua’s statements were of the nature intended to spread fear and panic and defeat the purpose of the lockdown…,” Singh told the court, pointing out that a case under the Act could be lodged only with the permission of a court. Singh referred to the 1995 Balwant Singh and Another vs State of Punjab case in which the Supreme Court had held that mere raising of a slogan, which did not result in violence, would not constitute sedition. “We find it difficult to hold that upon the raising of such casual slogans a couple of times without any other act whatsoever, the charge of sedition can be founded,” advocate Singh quoted from that judgment. Justice Lalit asked: “Would it be a case for evidence (to assess if sloganeering led to violence or could lead to violence), or for quashing of FIR at initial stages?” Singh replied that as per the law, inciting violence is an offence. “In this case also, the complaint was filed belatedly.… His (Dua’s) show has a shelf life. The complainant said that he found the show while surfing the Net and found that it could be inciteful,” the advocate said. “Our democracy in true sense is in threat if our press is not allowed to function freely,” Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||EC guidelines to conduct polls during the pandemic||The Election Commission of India on Friday issued guidelines for the conduct of polls during the pandemic, incorporating a host of precautionary measures but not banning convicted leaders from being part of online campaigns as proposed by the BJP. The guidelines will apply to the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections and the bypolls to 57 state and Lok Sabha seats that are expected to take place after September 7. The guidelines do not touch upon online campaign at all, which would mean the existing laws on political advertising that put no bar on convicted leaders from being aired on the virtual medium would continue to be in place. Many had linked the BJP’s proposal to a purported plan to prevent jailed Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Lalu Prasad from being part of the campaign in Bihar. Lalu, a former chief minister and the leader of a party that has the most number of seats in the Bihar Assembly, is serving a sentence in a fodder scam case in Ranchi, where he is currently admitted under incarceration at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences for several ailments. Lalu had been out on bail during the last Assembly elections in 2015 and had campaigned for the then Mahagatbandhan, an alliance of the RJD, JDU and the Congress, that had emerged victorious. Besides existing guidelines such as social distancing and wearing of masks, Friday’s order lays down that election authorities will have to carry out thermal scanning of every voter at the entrance of each polling premise. Guideline 10.4 says: “If temperature is above the set norms of MoHFW (health ministry) at first reading, then it will be checked twice and if it remains, then the elector shall be provided with token/certificate and will be asked to come for voting at the last hour of poll. At the last hour of poll, such electors shall be facilitated voting, strictly following Covid-19-related preventive measures.” Gloves will be given to every voter, and sanitisers will be available at every booth. No polling station will cater to more than 1,000 voters. Previously, the upper limit was 1,500 voters. Nomination forms will be made available online. However, they will still have to be submitted in person, but only two persons will be allowed to accompany the nominee.
Only groups of up to five persons will be allowed to campaign door to door. For road shows too, only convoys of five vehicles will be allowed, and there will have to be a minimum gap of half an hour between two convoys. Rallies will take place at designated grounds, with markings made for social distancing. The venues will be monitored by officials, including health regulators. Parties and candidates have to ensure thermal screening, masks, and sanitisers at rallies. Election officials will be using larger halls for polling, counting and other activities to ensure social distancing. Counting is expected to take longer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||India can lose 1,200 female foetuses daily over next decade||India could lose on average more than 1,200 female foetuses daily over the next decade, researchers have forecast in a study that underscores the failure of the country’s ban on prenatal sex disclosure to stop selective abortion of female foetuses. Their study has estimated that the average annual number of missing female births up to 2025 through sex-selective abortions would be 469,000 from 2017 to 2025 and 519,000 from 2026 to 2030, resulting in around 6.8 million prevented births of girls. The sex ratio at birth (SRB) by 2030 — the proportion of boys to girls — would, as it does now, vary across states, from 1.035 in Chhattisgarh, the state projected to have the lowest, to 1.037 in Kerala to 1.149 in Uttarakhand and 1.184 in Haryana, the highest SRB. The study has predicted that after Chhattisgarh and Kerala, Bengal, Karnataka and Odisha would by 2030 have the next lowest SRBs ranging from 1.05 to 1.07. The northwestern states of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Gujarat would have the highest SRBs, all above 1.13. “Our projections could help direct policy planning to focus on states where female foetuses are most vulnerable to sex-selective abortions,” Fengqing Chao, a biostatistician at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia who led the study, told The Telegraph. While multiple scholars have earlier attempted to predict trends in female foeticide, Chao and her colleagues in Austria and France say their projections are the first based on reproducible statistical models rather than on ad-hoc assumptions. Their findings, published this week in the journal PLOS One, have predicted that Uttar Pradesh will account for the largest number of missing female births between 2017 and 2030 — nearly two million, or close to 30 per cent of the estimated 6.8 million nationwide. Doctors and health researchers tracking SRBs in the country said the projections were not surprising and highlight the country’s failure to stop female foeticide despite the ban on prenatal sex disclosure enacted in 1994. A report from the Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, had two years ago also found that sex ratios at birth had worsened in 17 of 21 states between the period 2012-14 and 2013-15. “There is no fear of the law, there is no deterrence,” said Puneet Bedi, a foetal medicine specialist in New Delhi who has been among doctors concerned about female foeticide for over three decades. Although health authorities have over the years initiated legal proceedings against dozens of doctors across India for violating the prenatal sex disclosure law, Bedi said, there have been few convictions. Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, had in 2017 documented the existence of secret mobile medical teams that visit the homes of pregnant women during the nights to provide ultrasound scans and even on-the-spot abortions. The PGIMER doctors had in a medical journal in November 2017 described the plight of one such woman brought to their hospital after she suffered bleeding after a botched-up abortion attempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Puri government-owned pilgrim lodge sale protest ||A part of the sprawling premises of Puri’s lone government-owned lodge for pilgrims, the century-old Bagala Dharamsala, has been sold to six private hoteliers by the district administration, triggering protests by social activists and political parties. The critics’ point is that the building and the land had been donated to the government 115 years ago to provide cheap accommodation to pilgrims, and so no portion of it can be sold to people who will use it to earn a profit. What has deepened their anger is that the authorities demolished a part of the dharamsala in 2018 citing the need for renovation — and have now sold the part of the plot on which the demolished wing stood. On Friday, Puri MLA Jayant Sarangi of the BJP and his supporters launched an agitation demanding cancellation of the sale deeds. The Bagala Dharamsala charges just Rs 20 to Rs 100 a day for accommodation. Spread over 2.574 acres in Grand Road, about 300 metres from the Jagannath temple, the dharamsala could accommodate over 300 lodgers at a time before the 2018 demolition reduced its capacity. A devotee, Seth Kanheyalal Bagala, had built it in 1904 to provide lodgings for poor pilgrims after buying the land from the then government in 1899. He donated the building and the land in 1905 to the Lodging House Fund Committee, a government body headed by the Puri collector. Jagannath Bastia, a social activist and journalist, said he had late last year moved a public interest plea in Orissa High Court challenging the district administration’s decision to sell the land. “The high court has issued a notice to the state government and the matter is sub judice. At this time, the land’s handover between August 5 and 12 to the six lodge owners is illegal,” he said. The land sale comes at a time the administration has begun evicting about 100-odd lodges, shops and other establishments from near the temple to create a 75-metre-wide “security corridor” around the shrine. Lodges owned by the six land buyers are among those being evicted. “The state cabinet decided on August 12 to allot alternative land in Mangalaghat mouza, about 3km from the temple, to the displaced people (traders and businessmen),” Bastia said. “But just ahead of the cabinet’s meeting, the Puri collector illegally handed over 340 decimal land from the Bagala Dharamsala’s premises to the owners of six of the displaced lodges.” However, sources said the government had earmarked another 26 plots within the dharamsala premises for the displaced traders. An advocate, Priyadarshan Patnaik, said the land sale went against the spirit of a Supreme Court directive to the state government last November, asking it to arrange affordable accommodation for 60,000 tourists in Puri. The directive came on a petition from a concerned citizen, Mrinalini Padhi. “Now, instead of taking steps to build more dharamsalas in Puri, land has been sold from the lone existing dharamsala to private parties,” Patnaik said. “This is against the principles of law: the land was given as a gift to the collector for a particular purpose and cannot be transferred or used for any other purpose.” Puri collector Balwant Singh told The Telegraph: “Our additional district magistrate, who is in charge of rehabilitation and resettlement, has already explained that the sale deed had the state government’s approval.” He added: “Those who have made sacrifices for the beautification of the pilgrim town have been given land. I have no personal agenda in it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Srisailam hydel plant fire kills 9||A fire that broke out in the Srisailam hydroelectric plant on Thursday night has left nine persons dead, most of them engineers, with thick smoke hampering rescue operations for over 12 hours. Three people were badly injured in the blaze at the plant on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border. Telangana energy minister G. Jagadish Reddy said the fire broke out late on Thursday night when 17 people were inside the plant, run by the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation. Eight employees managed to come out, he said. Thick smoke engulfing the area hampered immediate rescue operations, the minister said. “A total of 17 employees were at the plant at the time of the accident. Eight of them were able to come out. But the remaining nine (seven Genco employees and two private firm employees) who were trapped were tragically killed. They tried to save the plant till their last breath,” Reddy told reporters at the plant. A fire department official based on preliminary assessment said the blaze started in the battery area apparently due to “over voltage”, which needs to be established after a thorough investigation. Telangana chief minister K. Chandrashekar Rao ordered a CID inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Supreme Court opens 3 Jain temples in Mumbai||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed devotees to offer Paryushan prayers for two days in three Jain temples in Mumbai amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, was hearing an appeal against the high court order that it did not wish to interfere with the state’s decision of not permitting temples in Mumbai to open for devotees during the eight-day Paryushan from August 15 to 23. “We direct the petitioners shall follow the SOP (standard operating procedures),” the bench said, permitting devotees to visit Jain temples at Dadar, Byculla and Chembur. It, however, said that permission for the Ganpati festival will have to be taken on a case-to-case basis from the Maharashtra Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Karnataka doctor kills self, colleagues threaten indefinite strike ||A government doctor in Mysore district was found hanging at his lodgings on Thursday amid allegations that a senior administrative official had insulted him for not performing enough Covid-19 tests. Dr S.R. Nagendra, taluk health officer for Nanjangud, was in his 40s, sources said. His colleagues staged a massive protest on Friday during a visit by medical education minister K. Sudhakar. They threatened an indefinite strike from Monday unless the accused official and a local body chief were suspended and booked for abetment to suicide. The protest brought Covid-related work to a standstill in the taluk. Television channels have aired an audio clip in which a male voice, purportedly of the accused district official, is heard shouting — apparently at Nagendra. “How many swab tests are you doing? Is this a joke? You are playing with the patients,” the voice says. “For a week you have been doing 25 or 26 tests a day. I will teach you a lesson — you are supposed to do 150 tests a day.” A senior police officer requested the media not to reveal the official’s identity. The police have seized Nagendra’s mobile phone, which apparently has the recording. The protesting doctors told the minister that Nagendra had not taken a single day off since the outbreak of Covid-19. He had rented a small house in Nanjangud and was staying there, away from his family who lived elsewhere in the district. Before the pandemic, Nagendra used to commute to Nanjangud every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Official suspended in UP for mask assault||A sub-divisional magistrate has been suspended and a police case registered against him for assaulting people in the name of implementing Covid-19 protection guidelines in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district. While Ashok Chaudhary, the SDM of Belthara Road, had been suspended on Thursday evening, he was booked on Friday under IPC Sections 323 and 504 for voluntarily causing hurt and intentional insult and provocation to break public peace after videos of him assaulting people on the road, inside offices and at shops sparked outrage and threats from local traders to down shutters. Many of these people had been wearing masks and there was at least one woman at the receiving end of the blows. Video clips of Chaudhary and four home guards, who too have been benched and booked for the same offences, brutally assaulting shopkeeper Rajat Chaurasia and his younger brother Ashu have been widely shared on social media and have attracted condemnation. Chaurasia, who has been left nursing a broken arm, had posted the videos on Twitter and tagged chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s office. A Hindi tweet from the chief minister’s office on Thursday announced: “Taking cognisance of the misbehaviour with the people, Ashok Chaudhary, SDM of Belthara Road, Ballia, has been suspended and attached with the Revenue Board.” Chaurasia, 28, alleged that Chaudhary and the home guards had entered his grocery store and abused him for wearing a handkerchief instead of a conventional mask. “When I told him that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said people could also wrap handkerchiefs or towels or cloth around their face, the officer got infuriated and dragged me and my brother out of the shop and beat us with batons,” Chaurasia said. “They continued to assault us for about 20 minutes. My brother was also beaten although he was wearing a conventional mask,” he added. A police officer at Belthara Road told reporters on the condition of anonymity that Chaudhary had claimed he brought the suspension upon himself by assaulting people. “He said he wanted to be suspended so that he could take some rest during the pandemic,” the police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-714
22-08-2020||India||Study to test health staff HCQ shield||Private health researchers have announced plans for a study on 7,000 healthcare workers across India to determine whether the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine can lower the risk of the coronavirus infection as claimed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, will collaborate with doctors at the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai and New Delhi and others to conduct the study for which the institute had unsuccessfully sought funding from two government agencies more than three months ago. “We’re using our internal resources to try and find an answer to this important question,” Vivekanand Jha, executive director of The George Institute, told The Telegraph on Thursday. The ICMR had earlier this year recommended that all healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duties should take hydroxychloroquine as a prophylactic — a preventive medication — to reduce their risk of contracting the infection. The ICMR, the country’s apex health research agency, has justified this recommendation citing lab studies and limited evidence. But some doctors have questioned the decision saying there is inadequate evidence to prescribe hydroxychloroquine to healthy persons as a preventive medication. But everyone agrees that healthcare workers need to take special precautions to protect themselves from Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, has estimated that around 200 doctors in India have died so far after becoming infected by the coronavirus. In the planned trial, The George Institute and the Apollo doctors hope to classify 7,000 healthcare workers — doctors, nurses and paramedics — into two equal groups, one half will receive the prescribed hydroxychloroquine dose, the other half will not. All the healthcare workers will be expected to also follow standard protective precautions, including the use of personal protective equipment. The researchers plan to follow up the 7,000 healthcare workers for six months and count Covid-19 infections among both groups. If hydroxychloroquine protects healthy persons from the infection, Jha said, the number of Covid-19 cases should be significantly lower in the group that received hydroxychloroquine compared to the group that did not. “The study will also monitor hospitalisation, admission to intensive care units, and the length of stay in hospitals (among any Covid-19 patients that emerge in either group),” said Bharath Kumar, a critical care consultant at Apollo, Ch-ennai, and study collaborator. The George Institute had earlier this year approached the ICMR and the Department of Biotechnology, a unit of the Union science and technology ministry, seeking funding for such a study without success. But, as reported in this newspaper earlier this year, the ICMR had cancelled an expert panel meeting called to evaluate the proposal and a DBT panel rejected the proposal saying that while the trial was “well-designed”, the ICMR would itself probe the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine. Senior ICMR officials had said earlier this year that its recommendation for hydroxychloroquine as a protective medication against Covid-19 was based on limited evidence and needed to be validated through larger randomised control trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-715
