23-08-2020||India||BJP package blitz for Bihar elections||The BJP is gearing up to turn the Bihar Assembly elections into a mammoth public relations exercise for various central schemes and the battle against Covid-19. “Our party workers have to knock at every door and approach all sections of the society to take to them the work done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the central government and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar. We have given a package of Rs 20 lakh crore to make the country self-reliant,” BJP national president J.P. Nadda said. He was speaking through video on the last day of the two-day BJP state executive committee meeting in view of the forthcoming Assembly polls. The tenure of the Vidhan Sabha ends on November 29. Nadda reeled off names of dozens of schemes and the amounts sanctioned for each of them by the Centre, including several meant for the poor, the migrant workers, youths, women, farmers, small entrepreneurs and the economy. He asked BJP leaders to focus on the Rs 50,000-crore Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana — a scheme meant to provide employment to the poor that was launched by Modi from Bihar. Senior party leaders, including Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, Nityanand Rai and Ashwini Choubey, national general secretary and BJP Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal and several others joined the meeting from Patna and Delhi. “Every party worker has to tell the people how we fought against Covid to save 130 crore people and the economy, both under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, by taking the timely and bold decision to impose the lockdown,” Nadda said. He pointed out how over 1,500 dedicated Covid hospitals, 12.5 lakh beds and 2,000 testing centres with an overall testing capacity of 10 lakh per day had been set up across the country and highlighted that the recovery rate among Covid patients had improved to 74 per cent. “There was a time when not a single PPE kit was produced in the country. All PPEs were imported from outside. But our Prime Minister Modi encouraged entrepreneurs here and now 4.5 lakh PPE kits are produced daily. The country has manufactured 50,000 ventilators, too, so far,” Nadda said. The BJP national president drew attention to the fact that over 1 lakh Covid tests were being conducted daily in Bihar, in addition to a door-to-door screening that has covered 10 crore people so far. He said the state had fought aggressively against Covid under the guidance of senior BJP leader and health minister Mangal Pandey. Bihar has recorded over 1.2 lakh cases so far, including over 600 deaths. Though around 1 lakh tests are being conducted daily now after a sluggish start, the number of positive cases has shown a decline, triggering questions on the quality of the tests. The Opposition parties have publicly doubted the figures and alleged that the state government was tampering with data in a bid to hold elections on time to avoid President’s rule. Asking BJP workers to conduct small meetings and door-to-door visits to increase the effectiveness of the poll campaign, Nadda said victory has been achieved whenever the BJP, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) have contested the elections together. “This time also we will contest together and emerge victorious. The BJP will fight in every single booth and win. But this will not be enough. Our workers will have to ensure that our allies also win,” Nadda said. The BJP president claimed that the Opposition in Bihar was “a spent force, which has no strength, thoughts, vision, or the determination to serve the people. It just indulges in hollow politics.” BJP national general secretary and Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav attacked the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and its chief Lalu Prasad. Yadav said the party’s slogan for the impending polls would be “BJP hai taiyar, atmanirbhar Bihar (BJP is ready, self-dependent Bihar)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
23-08-2020||India||Over 4,000 observe day-long hunger strike to postpone entrance exams||Over 4,000 students observed a day-long hunger strike on Sunday demanding deferral of various examinations, including NEET and JEE in view of rising Covid-19 cases. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the government must listen to the 'mann ki baat' of students and arrive at "an acceptable solution" and his party demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred. According to the All India Students Association (AISA), around 4,200 students observed the day-long hunger strike at their respective home demanding that CBSE compartment exams of Classes 10 and 12 be cancelled and entrance exams such as the UGC-NET, CLAT, NEET and JEE be postponed. Using the hashtag #SATYAGRAHagainstExamInCovid, many students also took to Twitter to appeal to the government to heed to their demands. Manoj S, a JEE aspirant from Karnataka, said, "We have to report to the JEE exam centre at 7 am. My centre is almost 150 kilometres away and there are no train or bus services available currently. "Many of my friends have said that their centres are 200 to 250 kilometres away. How are we supposed to travel? How will we write exams wearing masks for seven to eight hours?" He urged the government to postpone the exams till normalcy is restored. Anisha, hailing from Odisha, said with all the hotels and guest houses closed, where would they stay in case they have to travel for exams. "I am from Balasore and my NEET exam centre is in Bhubaneswar. I will have to travel for five hours to take my exam. There are no hotels or guesthouses that are open. Where will we stay?" she said. Siddh Dutt, who will be appearing for CBSE compartment exam, said, "I am an asthma patient. I am scared of what may happen to me if I catch Covid-19." Madhurima, who said she has to take four different entrance exams, wants authorities to listen to her appeal -- "Please produce a vaccine so that we can take exams. I am a JEE, IISER, DUET aspirant and also have to take another entrance exam," she said. Md Danish Khan from Bhagalpur in Bihar said he has been "allotted an exam centre in Patna, which is a Covid-19 hotspot". "I do not want to risk the lives of my relatives by staying at their place when I go to take the exam. I also stay in a joint family and if I contract the virus, it will create a chain of infection," he said. A Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) aspirant from Kolkata, who requested anonymity, said she fears for her parents' safety during this time. "My father is a diabetic and my mother just had an operation for a tumour. Even if they go to drop me to the exam centre using public transport, I will be putting them at risk. The government is not ready to listen to us. "We will have to sit and write the exams wearing masks, gloves and headgear under hot weather conditions," she said. Other students also shared similar woes and urged the government to postpone entrance exams and declare the academic year as a "zero year". A day ago, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had appealed to the central government to cancel medical and engineering entrance exams JEE and NEET in view of the Covid-19 situation. He also said an alternative admission methodology should be used this year and the exams should not be conducted. On Friday, Education Ministry officials had said the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) and the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET-UG) will be conducted in September as scheduled. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day and threw economic activities out of gear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
23-08-2020||India||Congress leaders seek party overhaul in letter to Sonia Gandhi||Ahead of the Congress Working Committee meeting on Monday, different voices have emerged within the party with one section comprising sitting MPs and former ministers demanding collective leadership, while another group seeking the return of Rahul Gandhi to the helm. Two dozen Congress leaders, including some ex ministers, have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for overhaul of the organizational structure and changes to the leadership. Some leaders close to Rahul have also written to the CWC pressing for his return as chief. The letter by former ministers and some MPs is believed to have been written a few weeks ago and sets the stage for a stormy CWC meeting where issues flagged by dissenters are expected to be discussed and debated. The leaders have called for bringing changes in the organization by effecting reforms through decentralisation of power and empowerment of state units, besides setting up of the central Parliamentary Board, a body that existed in the party in the 1970s but was later wound up. The letter in question has also stressed collective decision-making with Gandhi family as its integral part. They have also called for the appointment of a full-time leadership which is active and which can be easily contacted by workers and leaders. The pro reform leaders are further learnt to have called for free and fair organizational polls from the block up to the working committee level. According to NDTV, Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi has told her aides that she would step down from the party's top post, after the letter became public.  NDTV also cited sources, saying Mrs Gandhi can stay on till the party finds a suitable candidate. A counter to the pro reform lobby arguing for collective leadership in the Congress has also begun with sitting MP Manickam Tagore calling for Rahul Gandhi's return as party president. “Gandhis are the symbol of sacrifice. Decision by Congress CWC was a majority decision reflecting the will of 1100 AICC, 8800 PCC members, five crore workers and 12 crore supporters who want Rahul Gandhi as their leader," Tagore said, referring to the 2019 decision of the CWC to name Sonia Gandhi as party president after Rahul declined to accept a unanimous CWC appeal to stay in the post. Apart from Tagore, Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy, ex Telangana lawmaker and AICC secretary in charge of Maharashtra has also asked for the promotion of Rahul Gandhi as Congress President without any further delay. In a letter to the CWC on Sunday, Challa Reddy said any delay in Rahul's reinstatement would be at the cost of the Congress. “In view of existing conditions any further delay in promoting Rahul Gandhi as AICC president can cause incalculable harm to the progress of Congress Party and can be dispiriting to the Congress family,” Reddy said in the letter. While the younger leaders in the Congress are expected to chalk out a strategy to push for Rahul's return to the helm, the leaders who earlier petitioned to Sonia Gandhi have called for contacting and winning back all those Congressmen who have quit the party and joined the BJP and expressed concerns over rank and file getting demoralised due to the drift in the party. They are also learnt to have pointed out that the CWC is not "guiding" the party effectively in mobilizing public opinion against the BJP. Among leaders learnt to have signed the letter are Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, deputy leader of Congress in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, besides ex ministers Mukul Wasnik, Kapil Sibal, M Veerappa Moily, Shashi Tharoor, MP Manish Tewari, and former MPs Milind Deora, Jitin Prasada and Sandeep Dixit. The signatories are also said to include former party unit chiefs including Raj Babbar, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Kaul Singh Thakur besides leaders Akhilesh Prasad Singh and Kuldeep Sharma. These leaders argued that in the absence of a direct dialogue with the Congress chief over strengthening of the party, revival of the party has become imperative in the interest of democracy in the country. While most of the leaders who have written the letter did not answer calls on Sunday, some who answered remained tight-lipped on the issue having set the stage for a CWC debate on the need for a Gandhi vis-a-vis a non-Gandhi Congress president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Nitish will be CM face for Bihar polls, says Nadda||All the three NDA constituents in Bihar - the BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP - will together fight the coming Assembly polls in the state with chief minister Nitish Kumar as the face of the alliance, BJP president J.P. Nadda said on Sunday and expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious.

Nadda's remarks at a virtual address to the Bihar BJP executive meeting come amid a bitter war of words between Kumar's Janata Dal (United) and Chirag Paswan-headed Lok Janshakti Party amid speculation that BJP was reluctant to go to the hustings with Nitish as its leading partner.

Whenever the three parties have fought together, their National Democratic Alliance has notched up a big victory, Nadda said.

The coming polls will be the first time when the three parties fight together in an Assembly election after their superlative show by winning all but one seat in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha election as allies.

"We are going to the polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Our victory is certain," Nadda said.

While Chirag Paswan has often questioned the Nitish Kumar-led state government over a host of issues, the BJP has done the balancing act and maintained that the ruling NDA is intact in the state. It has also been endorsing Kumar as the alliance's chief ministerial face.

In his address from the national capital, where he was joined by several Union ministers elected from Bihar, Nadda also claimed that the Opposition in the state as well as elsewhere had become a "spent force" and asserted that the BJP was the only party which was being looked at by people with hope.

The Opposition had neither ideology nor vision nor any spirit to serve people, and it can't rise above petty politics, he added.

He praised the Bihar government's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in the state, while noting that the Assembly elections are expected at a time when the state faces the twin challenges.

The Election Commission is yet to announce the election schedule, but there have been indications that it will be held on time. The Assembly elections in the state are due in October-November.

Nadda asked party leaders to organise small meetings and door-to-door campaigns in line with the COVID guidelines while preparing for the polls.

He said the special package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the state has been implemented in "letter and spirit" and asked party members to go to the people with its details.

Nadda also shared highlights of the Modi government's work to boost health care measures to battle the pandemic and to provide relief to people, especially the poor, with several packages.

The Modi government announced a 'Garib Kalyan package' of Rs 1.70 lakh crore and Rs 20 lakh crore package for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat, the BJP president noted. As many as 32 districts of Bihar are part of the government's Rs 50,000-crore package for the poor's employment.

The Bihar government, he said, had done a good job in battling the coronavirus and the state's recovery rate was over 73 per cent. Its infection positivity rate was only 2.89 per cent and the number of corona tests had risen to one lakh per day, he added.

Nadda also mentioned financial packages announced by the Nitish Kumar government in his address and asked BJP members to work for the victory of the saffron party as well as its allies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Congress: Unease ahead of CWC meet||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) is scheduled to meet on Monday morning amidst rising unease over the leadership question as Rahul Gandhi has so far not given any indication of his willingness to return as party president. There is a distinct possibility that the process for the resolution of the lingering crisis will be set in motion at the CWC meeting. It is unlikely that Rahul’s return would be announced straightaway but the roadmap for the appointment of a new full-fledged president is expected to be laid out. This meeting may be more about addressing the sense of uncertainty in the party than to decide the leader. But one section aligned with Rahul is working for his immediate return, fearing that conspiracies and factionalism would deepen if the uncertainty over leadership persists. Asked if Rahul would return within months, in 2020 itself, an aide told The Telegraph: “Why months and weeks? Why not days? Why not on Monday when the CWC meets? Although he hasn’t revealed his mind as yet, we all want him to return on Monday itself. All he has to do is withdraw his resignation.” This group of loyalists believes waiting for his return is the only option because they don’t want a cure that is worse than the disease. They insist that Rahul had not abandoned the ship and had continued to lead despite relinquishing the top post. But that is what has created so much unease because most other leaders feel back-seat driving is harmful both for the party and Rahul’s own leadership. These leaders, mostly seniors who have served the party for decades, are anguished by the stalemate, contending that the “drift” is weakening the political resistance to the Narendra Modi government. Ironically, while nobody is opposed to Rahul’s leadership, there is turmoil linked to his tactics and approach. One leader said: “We are not discussing Rahul’s credentials as a leader; we all accepted him as president and never wanted him to resign. He has damaged his own leadership by exiting mid-way, when the need for guidance and motivation was more than ever before. We are saying ‘you come back, this vacuum is terrible’. Is that a wrong demand? Is that an issue to create such serious rifts in the party?” Some younger leaders, however, have failed to read the nuanced positioning and presumed this group to be anti-Rahul. One leader said: “The party is not in turmoil; some leaders are in turmoil. These are the same people who enjoyed posts and political clout because of the blessings of the Nehru-Gandhi family. They are now restless because the new generation is trying to occupy their space. If they create nuisance at the CWC meeting, they will get a firm response. We won’t mind trouble-makers being expelled from the party.” The widespread unease in the party over the leadership question has created a crisis of sorts and the majority of leaders disapprove of forcing Sonia Gandhi to run a “stop-gap” arrangement. This vacuum has reduced the goodwill Rahul enjoyed within the party and triggered avoidable fissures. A party that required restructuring and rejuvenation after successive debilitating electoral defeats to take on the formidable rival is stewing in its own juice. Some seniors have proposed a collective leadership in case Rahul is still reluctant to return. That includes the formation of a top decision-making body called the Parliamentary Board and the appointment of zonal vice-presidents who can rev up the functioning of the organisation in the absence of an active president. Sources say that is not acceptable to Rahul, which is being seen as his refusal to accommodate some senior leaders in the system. This is another point of discord that has to be resolved. It is in this tense atmosphere that an extended CWC meeting has been called. While the regular members of the CWC are mostly senior leaders, younger leaders enter in large numbers in the extended meeting as office-bearers in charge of states, special and permanent invitees and heads of frontal organisations. That will ensure an overwhelming presence of Rahul loyalists, making it difficult for the seniors who would like to underscore the gravity of the situation. Another concern, though not very serious, is that the Election Commission of India may intervene to put the party in trouble over the leadership structure. Under the Representation of the People Act, every party has to submit to the commission the full list of its office-bearers and the details of internal elections. Although Rahul had been elected president till 2022, his resignation has created a situation that can enable the commission to step in. The Congress had formally informed the commission on December 11, 2019, that Sonia had been appointed interim president because Rahul had refused to withdraw his resignation despite a unanimous request by all office-bearers for his continuance. Sonia’s term was extended till August 10 and hence the commission can seek an explanation now. Party leaders are, however, ready to contest that legally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Publisher pulls Delhi riots book after backlash||A storm of tweets by authors breaking off ties with Bloomsbury, and readers threatening a boycott, has led to the British publisher withdrawing a book that blames the Delhi riots on the protesters against the new citizenship matrix. On Friday, the authors of the book   lawyer Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar had shared posters on social media of the virtual launch of Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story, published by Bloomsbury. BJP national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Bhupendra Yadav was announced as the chief guest who would release the book at Saturday afternoon’s event. The guests of honour were Nupur Sharma, editor of Rightwing website OpIndia, filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri who has been credited with coining the term “urban Naxal”, and BJP politician Kapil Mishra, accused by the Delhi minority commission of provoking the riots. Arora was a BJP candidate in the 2003 Delhi Assembly polls. Outrage poured in online. Sociologist Nandini Sundar, historian Suchetana Chattopadhyay, economist Jayati Ghosh, journalist Stanly Johny, and blogger Sumaiyya Naseem were among the many authors who spoke out against Bloomsbury, with whom they have been associated. Sundar, a Delhi University teacher, tweeted that she had refused to review a book for the publisher after it emerged that it “publishes a book that is full of lies about Delhi’s academics”. Chattopadhyay, who teaches at Jadavpur university, wrote on Facebook that she would not be writing a book on Islamists during the First World War in Calcutta for Bloomsbury since the publisher has “published a book justifying the recent pogroms in Delhi”. The book on the Delhi riots, the authors had explained during the virtual launch, grew out of a field study they had conducted under the aegis of an NGO, the Group of Intellectuals and Academicians. Their report, given to the Union home ministry in March, had blamed the riots on a “Leftjihadi model of revolution” and the “systematic radicalisation of the minorities by a far Lefturban Naxal network operating in universities in Delhi”. They had claimed that “jihadi mobs indulged in targeted killings, looting and vandalising shops” and that Mishra  who had issued an ultimatum to the antiCAA protesters just before the riots began – “was asked to help clear the place of locals since the police finds it difficult to protect locals from stone pelting from 2 sides”. The police have told the court they have found no evidence against Mishra, a video of whose speech was played by a Delhi High Court judge in the courtroom for the force's benefit. Several activists tagged other authors published by Bloomsbury and asked them to clear their stand on the book. On Friday night, Bloomsbury sent a statement to a few journalists dissociating itself from the book launch. A Twitter tag on Saturday afternoon called for a boycott of all Bloomsbury publications. Ziya Us Salam, author of two bestsellers on Shaheen Bagh and the Muslim practice of halala, published by Bloomsbury, clarified to several hurt readers on Twitter: "I have nothing to do with the Delhi pogrom book." Just before the launch on Saturday afternoon, Bloomsbury India said in a statement: "Bloomsbury India had planned to release Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors. "However, in view of very recent events including a virtual prepublication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society." The book had been listed as a bestseller in the preorder section of Amazon, but was labelled "currently unavailable" after the publisher withdrew it. Bloomsbury's move led to calls for a counter boycott. OpIndia CEO Rahul Roushan tweeted: "Bloomsbury should be banned from all libraries that 'RW' may control. I don't know how that works. I don't know if that's feasible. But costs have to be imposed." Bloomsbury has lately emerged as the publisher of choice for authors of books that glorify the ruling establishment or promote its worldview. These include Amit Shah and the March of the BJP by Anirban Ganguly and Shiwanand Dwivedi, Modi 2.0: Beyond the Ordinary by Sunil Sharan, and Gandhi's Hinduism: The Struggle against Jinnah's Islam by BJP parliamentarian M.J. Akbar. A source associated with the publisher claimed that at least one editor at Bloomsbury had washed his hands of the manuscript of the book on the Delhi riots when it was initially submitted. It was finally cleared by a team that included an editor whose expertise so far had been on books on sports and entertainment, the source said. "Besides giving its imprint, the company was not really doing anything to promote the book. The authors were managing this on their own. The legal team of the company spent three weeks on the manuscript and recommended several edits. In the light of the controversy, there is talk of redesignating an editor who vetted the book," the source said. During the virtual launch, Arora said: "This is the same cabal that tweeted with the hastag #HumDekhenge during Prashant Bhushan's contempt verdict…. You threaten people and call yourself liberal. This is no longer 1967 when the Congress held the political space and Leftists held the mind space." She added: "If one publisher withdraws, 10 will come forward. Thoughts are not dependent on any platform. The truth shall tear even 1,000 curtains and come out." Kapil Mishra said: "We have seen the dance of the international lobby that supports urban Naxals and Islamic jihadis since last evening. The moment they came to know of a book that exposes their propaganda, the custodians of the freedom of expression got scared and are running around to stop the publication of this book, to prevent it from being sold and read or seen." He added: "This book is feared by those who say it is the freedom of expression to abuse Mother India, deities, raise slogans of 'Afzal Guru zindabad' and consider Burhan Wani a son of their homes." Guru was convicted in the 2001 Parliament attack case and hanged in 2013. Wani, a young Hizbul Mujahideen commander, was killed by the security forces in 2016. On Saturday evening, the principal economic adviser to the Union government, Sanjeev Sanyal, tweeted: "A few weeks ago, I had raised the issue of how a tiny cabal controls Indian publishing and constantly imposes ideological censorship. We have just witnessed one example of how this insidious control is wielded. "I have not read the book in question & have no idea if it is good or bad. However, this is obviously not a quality control problem but about censorship. I commit to never publish a book with @BloomsburyIndia." Historian Audrey Truschke of Rutgers University said in a series of tweets: "For those not uptodate on Indian politics, a rough Western equivalent is this: Nazis commit a pogrom against Jews, then blame the Jews for it, and an international publishing house platforms and profits from this antiSemitism @BloomsburyIndia: Do you really want to do this? "A few followups, largely for the benefit of @BloomsburyIndia. They should see what they are doing with an unvarnished gaze. Many observers and scholars consider the Delhi riots a pogrom, i.e., an organised massacre of an ethnic or religious group. In this case, Muslims. During the 2020 Delhi riots/ pogrom, Hindu Rightwingers targeted Muslims with violence. This wasn't a debate; it wasn't a clash about which reasonable people can disagree. One group tried to massacre members of another, and succeeded in taking dozens of lives." She added: "Hindu nationalism (also known as Hindutva) is a political ideology with root."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Bombay High Court: Tablighi participants were made scapegoats||Bombay High Court has said the government made scapegoats of the foreign nationals who attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi in March by accusing them of spreading Covid-19, and that there was a “smell of malice” in the action taken against them. “A political government tries to find a scapegoat when there is a pandemic or a calamity and the circumstances show that there is probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them a scapegoat,” the court’s Aurangabad bench said on Friday, quashing FIRs against 29 foreigners. The latest figures on the spread of the infection in India show such action against the petitioners should not have been taken, the court said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the country is now nearing 3 million. A division bench of Justices T.V. Nalawade and M.G. Sewlikar noted that while Maharashtra police had acted mechanically in the case, the state government had taken steps under “political compulsion”. The gathering of 2,300 people in mid-March was projected as a virus “super-spreader” in the initial days of the pandemic and its participants, and Muslims in general, vilified by the Right-wing ecosystem and sections of the media. The Union health ministry had at one point said a third of Covid-19 cases in India could be linked to the gathering. The Union home ministry had directed all states to act against the Tablighi Jamaat participants and blacklisted the foreigners. “The action of the central government was taken mainly against Muslim persons who had come to Markaz Delhi for Tabligh Jamaat. Similar action was not taken against other foreigners belonging to other religions,” the bench said. The bench referred to the protests against the new citizenship regime.  “Most of the persons who participated in the protests were Muslims. It is their contention that (the) Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, is discriminatory against the Muslims…. It can be said that due to the present action taken, fear was created in the minds of those Muslims,” it said. “This action indirectly gave warning to Indian Muslims that action in any form and for anything can be taken against Muslims…. Thus, there is smell of malice to the action taken against these foreigners and Muslim(s) for their alleged activities.” The high court said: “It is now high time for the (authorities) concerned to repent about this action taken against the foreigners and to take some positive steps to repair the damage done by such action.” The 29 foreigners who had appealed to the high court had been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and the Foreigners Act for allegedly violating their tourist visa conditions by attending the event at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. The court asked if the people of India had acted in keeping with the country’s great tradition and culture of welcoming guests. “During the situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to show more tolerance and need to be more sensitive towards our guests, particularly like the present petitioners,” it said. “Instead of helping them, we lodged them in jails by making allegations that they were responsible for violation of travel documents and that they are responsible for spreading the coronavirus.” The court further said: “The government cannot give different treatment to citizens of different religions of different countries.” Apart from the foreigners, the police had booked six Indians for giving shelter to the petitioners. The bench recalled Swami Vivekananda’s address at the Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893, where he had praised and congratulated America for hosting such a gathering. He championed universal brotherhood and believed that all religions are true, the court said. “We look towards America as an ideal democracy due to things like the aforesaid approach of America allowing the Parliament of Religions in that country. We have borrowed many principles and parts of the American Constitution, which include the Preamble, Fundamental Rights, independence of judiciary. All these things need to be kept in mind not only by the courts but also the executive before taking such action,” the court said. The bench noted in its order that there had been propaganda against the foreigners who had joined the gathering Delhi. “The propaganda against the so-called religious activity (Tablighi Jamaat) was unwarranted. The activity has been going on for more than 50 years and it is there throughout the year,” the court said, noting that Muslims from across the world come to India and visit the Markaz in Delhi as they are attracted to the reforms movement of the Tablighi Jamaat. At the end of the judgment, Justice Sewlikar said that while he agreed with the quashing of the FIRs, he had differing views on a few observations made by Justice Nalawade. However, Justice Sewlikar did not specify which observations he was referring to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Piracy hunt for BJP leader kin||The police are looking for the nephew of a BJP politician whom they accuse of illegally printing NCERT school textbooks in Meerut and selling them to wholesalers and retailers in several states. Sachin Gupta, the accused, is a nephew of Sanjeev Gupta, BJP Meerut city vice-president, who owns a printing press in the city. “Sachin somehow learnt in advance about the raid and tried to burn the books before the team arrived at one of his warehouses on Friday night,” Meerut senior superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Sahani told reporters. “We have detained 12 people and are trying to arrest the kingpin.” Police sources claimed Sachin had recently printed textbooks worth Rs 35 crore and sold consignments of them to suppliers and bookstores in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana. Sanjeev said: “My press has been closed since the lockdown began. We are not printing anything there. Sachin is my nephew but we have no common business interest.” However, Brajesh Kumar Singh, a deputy superintendent of police attached to the police’s special task force that carried out the raids, alleged the books were printed illegally in Sanjeev’s press in the Mohkampur area of Meerut city. He said the books were kept in the two warehouses Sachin owns in Achraura in Meerut and Gajraula in Amroha. Both warehouses and the press were raided. “They had tried to burn the books before the team arrived at the Achaura warehouse,” Singh said. A police source, requesting anonymity, said: “Someone had tried to contact the SSP while the raid was on but he couldn’t take the call because he was busy in a meeting.” Another officer said: “Booksellers are supposed to pay in advance for NCERT books, and are given a margin of 15 per cent. But Sachin supplied the illegally printed books without taking any advance.” He said the police had received a complaint from the Army School in Meerut that the NCERT books it had bought from a local supplier displayed a different typeface and pagination from copies supplied by a government-approved distributor. “The Army School conducted an inquiry and handed the case over to the district police,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Patna college assignment: the Prashant Bhushan case||A Patna college has set its students an assignment to read, research and comment on the Supreme Court’s contempt conviction of advocate Prashant Bhushan, reflecting how the issue has found resonance on campuses. St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology gave the assignment to its fifth-semester undergraduate mass communication students on Thursday afternoon. The same day the apex court met to discuss the quantum of punishment for Bhusan but ended up giving him a couple of days to consider expressing an apology. All the students’ opinions were digitally collected and edited under the guidance of a professor, Frank Krishner, before being compiled into a seven-minute video that ended with an appeal to save the Constitution. In the video, the majority of the students criticised the judgment as a violation of the freedom of expression but a few were unhappy with one of Bhushan’s two tweets while the odd one supported the Supreme Court judgment unreservedly. The college principal, Father T. Nishaanth, praised the students’ work but clarified that they would not be graded or marked on the basis of their performance in the assignment. He said the mass communication students were regularly given assignments related to current affairs but could not say whether a similarly contentious issue had ever been chosen before. Attempts to reach Krishner, who gave the assignment, failed. Father Nishaanth, however, appeared to align himself with the spirit of the assignment, saying the one thing that had made India’s democracy a “vibrant one has been the freedom of speech and expression — people have the right to express their views”. “Dissent is not destruction. It is just disagreement and should be viewed as such,” he said. “We have practised this in our country since ages and it got more amplified and focused since the time of Mahatma Gandhi.” He added that he was happy at the aptitude for critical thinking the students had shown. “(Bhushan’s tweets) are okay. They are justified. If we say about a politician that he should be answerable for his actions... the same goes for the Chief Justice of India,” Ishika, a student, said in the video. “This is an overreaction (on the part of the apex court) and a self-defeating exercise…. Just because a party or an organisation is in power they cannot think that people cannot criticise them.” Abhilasha Kumari echoed her: “Fair criticism of court should not be an offence; otherwise it will lead to abuse of power.” Bhushan was convicted of criminal contempt of court on August 14 over two tweets he had posted on June 27 and 29. One of them said that democracy had been destroyed during the tenure of the past four Chief Justices of India, while the other commented on current Chief Justice S.A. Bobde mounting a Harley-Davidson in public without a mask at a time he had suspended physical court hearings because of the pandemic. A few students argued that the provision of contempt of court was itself an attack on the freedom of expression. “Contempt of court should be removed and constructive criticism should be welcomed by the Indian judiciary,” said Aastha Kumari. A few students, however, supported the conviction or at least found one of Bhushan’s tweets objectionable. “The first tweet is not objectionable at all…. However, the second tweet is objectionable because the freedom of speech comes with certain responsibilities,” said Princemita.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||BSF guns down five Pakistan intruders ||The BSF shot dead five Pakistan intruders along the India-Pakistan international border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district early Saturday, the force said. This is the highest number of intruders killed in a single incident along the over 3,300km-long border with Pakistan in more than a decade, officials said. Punjab shares a 553-km frontier with Pakistan, apart from Jammu, Rajasthan and Gujarat, which together constitute the remaining part of the international border. A BSF spokesperson said troops recovered nine packets containing over 9kg of heroin along with an AK-47 rifle, two magazines and 27 rounds, four 9mm Berretta pistols with seven magazines and 109 live rounds, two mobile phones and Rs 610 in Pakistani currency. The spokesperson said the force personnel “cordoned the area and challenged the intruders to stop and surrender” after suspicious activity was noticed near the border fence. “The Pakistani armed intruders did not pay any heed to the challenge and opened fire on the BSF troops,” the official said.  “Hence, to stop their further misadventure and in self-defence, the BSF troops retaliated with fire due to which the five Pakistani armed intruders succumbed to bullet injuries,” he said. A senior BSF official said the exchange of fire began around 4.45am near the Dal border post, which is close to Bhikhiwind town of the district and is guarded by the 103rd battalion of the BSF under the Ferozepur sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||Anti-CAA protests: No clean chit yet for cops in Jamia action||Delhi High Court on Friday said a report of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had suggested that police did not handle themselves “professionally” while dealing with anti-CAA protests at Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia University last December, and that none had been given a “clean chit”. “It (NHRC) says law-and-order problem, but it also says inculcate professionalism (in the police). It (report) indicates that it (incident) was not handled professionally,” a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said. The police had been caught on camera brutally assaulting youngsters at Jamia to quell the protests against the Centre’s new citizenship regime, with some videos showing cops hitting unarmed boys with batons inside a library. The court’s observations were in response to the contention of additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi that the rights panel had found that there had been a law-and-order situation at Jamia and so police entry into the campus was legitimate. The law officer pointed out that the report had only mentioned that there were individual instances of police excesses and that it did not say that the action as a whole was unwarranted. Lekhi added that the commission had also left it to the police, not any outside agency, to inquire into the individual instances of transgression by its officers. To this, the bench remarked: “That is fine. But it (report) cannot be read as a clean chit being given to anyone either.” The high court was hearing a batch of petitions that have alleged that the police and paramilitary forces had used ruthless and excessive force on students at the university. The pleas have sought the formation of a special investigation team or a commission of inquiry to look into the violence at Jamia last December during the students’ protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). Opposing the petitioners’ allegations, Lekhi argued that while they claim that the police action was unwarranted, the NHRC report does not say so. He said that the police action as a whole was “not disproportionate” to the violence on the campus and only in some isolated instances had disproportionate force been used. However, inquiry into these isolated instances have been left to the police by the NHRC and this indicates that the agency can be trusted, contrary to what the petitioners are claiming, Lekhi argued. He said that while the petitioners had claimed that the protests were peaceful, the NHRC report refers to it as “violent”. PTI The law officer iterated his argument during the previous hearing on August 14 that the police had entered the university to restore order, which had been disrupted by incidents of arson and destruction of public property during the students’ protests. Lekhi will continue his arguments on August 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
23-08-2020||India||International Labour Organisation flags holes in wage code rules||The UN’s labour arm has in a discussion paper expressed concern about gaps in the draft rules for India’s new wage law, set to be notified soon with the deadline for suggestions from the public passing on Saturday. “Discussion Paper: Wage Code and Rules”, published by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), has highlighted the lack of clarity on aspects such as how the floor-level wage should be fixed, how often it should be revised and how it would be made to apply to domestic workers. The paper has been authored by Xavier Estupinan, wage specialist with the ILO; Anoop Satpathy, Fellow at the V.V. Giri National Labour Institute; and Bikash K. Malick, an officer from the Indian Economic Service cadre. The Code of Wages looks to prescribe a floor-level wage that the minimum wage in every state must equal or exceed. The Union labour ministry will now examine the feedback received on the draft rules from the public and experts before notifying the final rules. All workers including domestic help are to be paid wages according to the notified rates. But the draft rules are silent on how a domestic worker can establish the employee-employer relationship since private households do not sign any written contracts with such workers. “The wage rules should ensure that no employee or wage earner falls outside the realm of the widely promulgated universal coverage. Vulnerable low-paid and informal workers, such as domestic workers, gig economy workers and home workers, should also be targeted under this coverage if there is an employment relationship in place,” the paper says. Satpathy told The Telegraph the rules should require households to sign some sort of document while hiring domestic workers. The paper has also flagged the absence of a specific formula to determine the floor-level wage. The rules merely suggest certain broad criteria on the basis of which the wage should be calculated — such as expenses on food, clothing, housing and any other factors considered appropriate by a tripartite body. “India, with more than 70 years of experience in implementation of minimum wage regulation and 24 years of implementing the NFLMW, cannot afford to leave the floor wage fixation criteria ambiguous in the wage rules,” the paper says. Satpathy had headed an expert committee that had in 2018 worked out a formula to calculate food expenses per adult per day on the basis of a balanced diet, expressed in specific quantities of carbohydrate, protein and fat. The committee had also included the expenditures on clothing, education and housing. It had then multiplied the final figure by 3.6 to include the worker’s spouse, two young children (together taken as an adult) and elderly parents (together taken as 0.6 adults). It had eventually suggested Rs 375 as the minimum wage per day, based on the July 2018 price index. The government did not accept the report. The ILO paper has highlighted that the rules vaguely say that the floor-level wage “may” ordinarily be revised every five years. “The use of uncertain terms opens the door to the delaying of revision. This may lead to stagnation of the floor wage in future, after its initial setting,” it says. Also, the paper has underlined, the rules do not specifically say that both the basic wage and the dearness allowance must be revised every five years. Satpathy said the states tend to increase the dearness allowance to offset inflation while refusing to touch the basic wage. “Both should change,” he said. However, the paper has lauded several aspects of the new wage code and the draft rules for trying to streamline the minimum wage policy and reduce the wage disparity between states. Some 1,915 minimum wage rates now prevail across the states along with 48 types of minimum wages notified by the Centre for various kinds of work, from railway projects to coal mining. Besides, the Centre notifies a non-binding National Floor-Level Minimum Wage (NFLMW) every two years, which states are expected to equal or exceed. The floor-level wage notified in 2017 — and not yet revised — was Rs 176 a day. Some of the states have lower wage rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
