24-08-2020||India||Delhi Assembly committee to initiate proceedings over Facebook hate speech on Tuesday||A Delhi Assembly committee on peace and harmony will initiate on Tuesday proceedings in connection with complaints about the Facebook's alleged "deliberate and intentional inaction to contain hateful content" in India, according to an official statement issued on Monday. The development comes in the backdrop of a report published in the Wall Street Journal recently, citing interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders to claim that one of its senior India policy executives intervened in internal communication to stop a permanent ban on a BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly made communally charged posts. According to the statement, after careful deliberation on allegations levelled in the complaints received, the panel, chaired by AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, has decided to take immediate cognisance of this issue. "Summons have been sent necessitating the appearance of certain expert witnesses, specifically Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and Nikhil Pahwa along with other witnesses for participating in the relevant proceedings," it stated. It added that the committee aims to redress the issue at the earliest and therefore, the proceedings shall be expedited in order to put this issue to its logical conclusion. Earlier, Facebook had said its social media platform prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence and these policies are enforced globally without regard to political affiliation. "We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position or party affiliation. "While we know there is more to do, we're making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy," a Facebook spokesperson had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
24-08-2020||India||Metro train services may resume from Sept 1, reopening of schools unlikely: Officials||The government is likely to allow resumption of Metro train services in the 'Unlock 4' phase beginning September 1, but schools and colleges may not reopen anytime soon, officials said on Monday. Bars, which are so far not allowed to reopen, may be permitted to sell liquor over the counter for takeaway. Metro rail services may be allowed from September 1 when the 'Unlock 4' phase in the graded reopening from the coronavirus-induced lockdown will begin, an official said. States will, however, take the final call on reopening the rapid transport networks depending on the coronavirus situation there. Metro services were suspended in late March to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 31 lakh people in the country so far. The official said there will be no reopening of schools and colleges immediately, but deliberations are underway on whether to allow reopening of higher educational institutions such as universities, IITs and IIMs. No decision has been taken on the matter yet, the official added. There is almost no possibility of allowing cinema halls to reopen from September 1 as it will not be commercially viable for film-makers or cinema hall owners to operate following social distancing norm, another official said. In the 'Unlock 4' guidelines, the central government will only mention about prohibited activities and the rest can resume. The state governments will take a final call on additional activities that should continue to remain prohibited during the 'Unlock 4', the official said. The Unlock 4 guidelines is expected to be issued later this week. The strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones will continue across India. As of now, among the prohibited activities are Metro rail services, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations are also likely to remain prohibited next month. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday issued Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under the Vande Bharat Mission and bilateral 'Air Transport Bubble' arrangements. Accordingly, persons desirous to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights, will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded or residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by Ministry of External Affairs. On Saturday, the Centre has asked all states to ensure that there should be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods during the ongoing Unlock-3 phase. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said there were reports that local level restrictions on movement are being imposed by various districts and states. Drawing attention to the Unlock 3 guidelines, Bhalla said such restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting supply chains resulting in disruption in economic activity and employment. The unlock guidelines clearly states that there shall be no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, he said in the letter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced lockdown with effect from March 25 to combat the coronavirus pandemic which was subsequently extended till May 31. Since June 1, the unlock process began with resumption of industrial activities and offices across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
24-08-2020||India||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar tests Covid positive||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar says that he has tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet, he informed that he has tested positive for the virus. "I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive. I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Sonu Sood offers accommodation to 20,000 migrant workers||Actor Sonu Sood on Monday announced that he is offering accommodation to 20,000 migrant workers in Noida. The actor, who was in the national spotlight for his work in helping migrants reach their homes amid the coronavirus pandemic, shared the news on Instagram. Sood, 47, also said these workers have also been provided jobs in garment factories of the region through their initiative Pravasi Rojgar. "I am delighted to now offer accommodation for 20,000 migrated workers who have also been provided jobs in garment units in #Noida through #PravasiRojgar. "With the support of #NAEC President Shri Lalit Thukral, we will collectively work round the clock for this noble cause @pravasirojgar," he wrote alongside the poster promising that the workers will be put up at a "hygienic staying facility". The actor along with his team had rolled out a toll-free number and a WhatsApp helpline to connect with stranded workers and arrange their transportation during the lockdown. Sood recently launched an app to offer support to workers in finding job opportunities in various sectors across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Congress working committee rallies around Sonia Gandhi||The Congress working committee on Monday appeared set to close ranks behind Sonia Gandhi, urging her to stay on as party chief after she offered to step down as interim president following a letter by more than 20 leaders demanding an "active, full-time and visible" president. Though a large section of the leaders backed Sonia Gandhi at the nearly seven-hour virtual meeting of the Congress's highest decision making body to discuss the pivotal leadership issue, the faultlines were clear and appeared to deepen at some points as the day progressed. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh led the demand for Sonia Gandhi continuing as Congress president and leader after leader echoed him while attacking the letter writers, particularly Ghulam Nabi Azad, the senior-most signatory and a CWC member, sources said. P. Chidambaram suggested the holding of a virtual AICC session to start the process of holding elections for a new party chief. However, the stage seems set for the CWC endorsing Sonia Gandhi continuation as party chief, with the letter writers isolated and under attack from several leaders. The meeting was attended by 48 leaders. Former president Rahul Gandhi, it is learnt, launched a sharp attack against the signatories, questioning their timing and their decision to go public with their grievances. He also rued the fact that the letter seeking sweeping changes to the party organisation and elections to the CWC was written when Sonia Gandhi was in hospital and the party was battling a political crisis in Rajasthan. He said Sonia Gandhi had accepted charge as party president only after the CWC last year urged her to take the responsibility. "It is the CWC and not the media, where we voice our grievances and discuss issues," sources quoted Rahul Gandhi as telling the CWC members. Rahul, the sources indicated, also insinuated that the letter would help the BJP.Sibal withdraws tweet Earlier in the day, Kapil Sibal, senior leader and one of the signatories to the letter, created a flutter when he hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Twitter for a purported remark on the BJP. Sibal, who is not a part of the CWC, withdrew his tweet a little later. "Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him. I therefore withdraw my tweet," he said on Twitter. The Congress also denied that Rahul Gandhi had accused any party leader of "colluding with the BJP". "Rahul Gandhi hasn't said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don't be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. "But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather then fighting & hurting each other and the Congress," the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter, tagging Sibal's earlier tweet.Ghulam Nabi clears the air Azad, too, attempted to set the record straight. “A section of media is wrongly attributing that, in CWC I told Shri Rahul Gandhi to prove that the letter written by us is in collusion with BJP. Let me make it very clear that Shri Rahul Gandhi has neither in CWC nor outside said that this letter was written at the behest of BJP,” the leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha said. Azad was at the proverbial centre of the storm in the CWC. Former defence minister A.K. Antony termed the letter "cruel", while his colleague Ambika Soni described the missive as unfortunate and said the party had given Azad a lot. Sources said Azad offered to resign at the meeting amid questions being raised on the letter, its timing and its leakage to the media. Sonia Gandhi also referred to Azad twice in her opening remarks, saying he had even sent a reminder to his letter, the sources said. To this she said she had given her reply to K. C. Venugopal expressing her desire to be relieved of the post and the party should initiate the process to find her replacement. While most leaders backed Sonia's continuation as party chief, there were some who proposed Rahul Gandhi's return as president, the sources said. Gehlot, Baghel want Rahul Giving details of the proceedings, they said Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel urged Rahul to take charge in case Sonia Gandhi wishes to withdraw. Venugopal read out the letter written by Sonia Gandhi and criticised the party leaders who were behind the letter. Besides Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada attended the meeting that was divided between those demanding collective leadership and those reposing faith in the Gandhi family. Almost all Lok Sabha MPs of the party have written to Sonia Gandhi expressing solidarity and urging her to continue in her post or install Rahul Gandhi. Besides, several state units, including Delhi and Rajasthan, have passed resolutions favouring the leadership of the Gandhis. The letter is the second challenge to Sonia Gandhi's leadership after 1999 when then leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Sharad Pawar raised the issue of her foreign origins in order to keep her from being named the party's prime ministerial face in the general elections that year. Sonia Gandhi then resigned in the CWC, which rejected her move unanimously bringing her back as party president. While Sonia Gandhi went on to become the longest serving Congress president, Pawar and rebels quit to form the NCP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologise||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court on Monday for his two tweets against the judiciary saying what he expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continues to hold. An insincere apology would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution, Bhushan said in his supplementary statement filed in the suo motu contempt case against him by the top court, taking note of advocate Anuj Saxena's complaint. An apology for expression of beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere, he said. On August 20, the top court had granted time till August 24 to Bhushan to reconsider his defiant statement refusing to apologise and tender unconditional apology for contemptuous tweets against the judiciary and rejected his submission that quantum of punishment be decided by another bench. Bhushan said as an officer of court he believes as a duty to speak up when he believes there is a deviation from its sterling record. "Therefore I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its long-standing role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples' rights. "My tweets represented this bona fide belief that I continue to hold. Public expression of these beliefs was I believe, in line with my higher obligations as a citizen and a loyal officer of this court. Therefore, an apology for expression of these beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere." Bhushan further said that an apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to, as the court has itself put it, be sincerely made, adding that he believes the Supreme Court is the last bastion of hope for the protection of fundamental rights, the watchdog institutions and indeed for constitutional democracy itself. "It has rightly been called the most powerful court in the democratic world, and often an exemplar for courts across the globe. Today in these troubling times, the hopes of the people of India vest in this Court to ensure the rule of law and the Constitution and not an untrammelled rule of the executive", he said. The activist-lawyer said that he has never stood on ceremony when it comes to offering an apology for any mistake or wrongdoing on his part and it has been a privilege for him to have served this institution and bring several important public interest causes before it. I live with the realization that I have received from this institution much more than I have had the opportunity to give it. I cannot but have the highest regard for the institution of the Supreme Court, he said. Bhushan in his two-page supplementary statement said that it is with deep regret that he read the August 20 order of this court as at the hearing the court had asked him to take 2-3 days to reconsider the statement he made in the court. However, the order subsequently states: We have given time to the contemnor to submit an unconditional apology, if he so desires, he said. The apex court on August 14 had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. He faces simple imprisonment of up to six months or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 or with both as punishment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||BJP endorses Nitish, for now||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday told leaders in Bihar that chief minister Nitish Kumar would be the face of the NDA for the impending Assembly elections, seeking to reassure ally JDU. “Each time the BJP, JDU and the LJP have come together, we have registered a grand victory. We are going to the polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar and our victory is certain,” Nadda said while addressing a meeting of the Bihar BJP through videoconference from Delhi. The meeting had been called to prepare for the Bihar polls scheduled later this year. The BJP’s public iteration of its faith in Nitish came against the backdrop of the LJP launching a consistent attack on the chief minister and his JDU. The LJP’s criticism has been led by none other than the party’s president, Chirag Paswan, which has triggered speculation of a possible BJP ploy to indirectly subjugate Nitish. Chirag’s broadsides have led to a bitter war of words between the JDU and the LJP with the BJP remaining silent. The LJP, although a partner of the NDA in Bihar that also has the BJP and the JDU, is not part of the state government. Internally, a section of influential Bihar BJP leaders has been pressing for the need for the party to assert itself and take the lead role in the state. These leaders have been arguing that Nitish has become unpopular and it would be politically harmful for the BJP to face the electorate under his leadership. Nadda’s assertion on Sunday showed that the central leadership of the BJP was in no mood to subdue Nitish, at least ahead of the polls. This is the second time a BJP chief has publicly endorsed Nitish as the face of the Bihar NDA. Earlier, Amit Shah as BJP chief had upheld the leadership of Nitish at a public rally. While stressing on unity among the NDA partners, Nadda asked Bihar BJP leaders and workers to work harder and ensure the victory of ally candidates too. He predicted a cakewalk for the NDA, saying there was hardly any Opposition left. “There is no need to take digs at the Opposition. Not only in Bihar, but also in the rest of the country the Opposition is over,” Nadda said. His comments indicate that despite ground reports suggesting simmering anti-incumbency against Nitish, the BJP believes the NDA will win emphatically since the Opposition is in disarray. BJP managers indicated that while they had decided to go to the polls under Nitish, the post-election numbers would be crucial to who would call the shots. “If the BJP wins more seats than the JDU, then we will get the right to assert ourselves,” a BJP leader said, hinting at tough bargaining during seat distribution among the NDA partners. However, despite the BJP's public assertions, there is a coldness in its relationship with the JDU. Nitish, who had turned down the BJP’s offer to participate in the Narendra Modi government at the Centre after being offered a symbolic representation of a solitary ministerial berth, maintained a telling silence on the recent hype over the Ram temple bhoomi pujan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||High-level talks with China? No, high-decibel talks ||Indian soldiers deployed at the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh are using loudspeakers and unfurling banners asking Chinese troops to vacate their positions and return to what had been their side of the Line of Actual Control, sources in the security establishment said. In response, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army troops are also using loudspeakers and banners to tell the Indian soldiers to pull back further from what used to be India-claimed line as a pre-condition for disengagement, the sources said. “The Indian troops on the ground have started using loudspeakers and banners asking the Chinese to vacate areas inside the India-claimed line and return to their original positions. The PLA soldiers too have been using portable loudspeakers, telling our troops to retreat further as a pre-condition for disengagement,” said an official attached to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s intelligence wing. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km India-China border, behind which the army stands. The official said the Indian banners had the following message written in English and Mandarin on them: “To restore peace go back, you are in Indian territory.” The Chinese banners bear this message in English and Hindi: “We are in our territory. For peace and tranquillity, India and China must retreat (an) equal distance.” The official said both sides were also using loudspeakers to deliver the same message. The ITBP official said: “None of this has worked but it sometimes brings down the simmering tension between the two sides.” The border standoff had started at the Pangong Lake with a fists-and-stones clash between the two armies on May 5, before it snowballed into a violent face-off on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. The Chinese army has so far shown “no intent” of retreating from encroached positions up to 8km inside the India-claimed line at the Pangong Lake, which is nearly 140km long and 7-8km wide. China used to control two-thirds of the lake but has now laid claim to almost the entire Pangong. Both sides are said to have taken defensive positions on the slopes at 15,000ft above the sea level after bringing in reinforcements. Another ITBP official said the Indian and Chinese troops had taken up similar banner-and-loudspeaker drills during earlier face-offs as well, but on those occasions the soldiers had marched back to their respective positions thereafter. “The ongoing standoff is likely to be a long-drawn process even though diplomatic and military talks are on. The Indian soldiers on the ground are also keeping open the channel of communication through loudspeakers and banners,” the official said. A military veteran recalled that both sides had used loudspeakers during the 1962 India-China war. “The Chinese troops had used loudspeakers to play songs by Mohammad Rafi and Lata Mangeshkar to keep Indian soldiers in good humour and get them to leave Chinese posts,” he said. Sources said that this time the PLA had also rushed in additional high-speed boats to the Pangong Lake to strengthen its position, and was patrolling more aggressively. India too has deployed a few boats on the picturesque blue lake to counter them. “They (the Chinese) are holding on to the Finger 4 ridgeline and controlling the heights where they have deployed both men and machines. They have also fortified bunkers on the lake’s shores and built several posts and observation towers,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||When prison was more precious than Rs 100 ||Pay a fine of Rs 100 or spend a month in prison for contempt of court. The convict refused to pay and was packed off to prison. The scene unfolded not in 2020 but 61 years ago, in 1959, in a courtroom of Kerala High Court. In the dock was not lawyer Prashant Bhushan —  the fate of whose contempt conviction is expected to be known this week in the highest court of the land — but Mathai Manjooran, an editor and freedom fighter. Six decades ago, Manjooran chose prison over apology in the contempt of court case, standing up for freedom of the press. Manjooran’s Malayalam daily Kerala Prakasham had published a report dated July 29, 1958, about the death of six Congress workers from stab wounds after a clash with the then ruling communists in Varandarapally, Thrissur. It appears that the report touched on issues that were sub judice, and this led to a contempt case against Manjooran and his printer and publisher Sudhakaran. Both denied the charge in their counter-affidavits. They also refused to apologise, following which the case went ahead. A year later, a 20-page judgement convicted Manjooran and Sudhakaran. Probably reluctant to send the editor to jail, the court offered him a way out. Manjooran was asked to pay a fine of Rs 100 or spend a month in prison. The punishment for his publisher was Rs 50 or 15 days. Both refused to pay the fine and were sent to Viyyur jail in Thrissur to serve their terms. Did the punishment serve its purpose? It doesn’t appear so from the reception Manjooran received when he was freed. His friends and supporters organised a well-attended felicitation at Swaraj Round, a 2km roundabout in the heart of Thrissur and around 4km from the jail. “They later took him for similar events in Manjooran’s (home district) Ernakulam and Kottayam, where he gave fiery speeches against the administration,” said A. Jayasankar, a lawyer who appears on television channels in Kerala as a commentator. Jayasankar had done a video commentary on Manjooran when the Bhushan case was taken up by the Supreme Court. “Manjooran was the then Prashant Bhushan,” Jayashankar told The Telegraph. “Manjooran told the court he was not ready to apologise for the report since he believed in freedom of the press.” On Thursday, Bhushan had reluctantly accepted the apex court’s offer of a few days to consider tendering an apology for his tweets that had invited his contempt conviction. Bhushan, who has time till Monday, had on Thursday indicated he might not apologise. Manjooran’s 50th death anniversary fell early this year, on January 14. It went largely unnoticed, possibly because he was a bachelor and there is no one to promote his legacy. Jayasankar’s book Communist Bharanavum Vimochana Samaravum (Communist Rule and the Liberation Struggle) refers to the 1912-born Manjooran’s life as a freedom fighter, firebrand orator and socialist revolutionary. Manjooran was just 15 when he took part in the protests against the Simon Commission in 1928. The book adds: “Mathai Manjooran was a firebrand who took part in the 1942 Quit India movement. He was the mastermind behind (the revolutionaries) ferrying explosives from Mysore and making bombs in Kozhikode.” He later floated a party, the Kerala Socialist Party, a founding member of which became a judge in Kerala High Court. Although Manjooran was a critic of the communists, the second Left government of E.M.S. Namboodiripad made him labour minister from 1967 to 1969. Some reports credit Manjooran with something that should strike a chord in Bengal. As labour minister, he was an ardent advocate of the gherao as a right of workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||AG declines consent against Swara||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal has declined permission for the initiation of contempt proceedings against Bollywood actress Swara Bhasker over her purported remarks relating to the Supreme Court’s November 2019 Ayodhya verdict. One of the statements the petition attributed to Bhasker was: “It seems we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution.” Venugopal felt this was a vague statement not related to any particular court. About another remark cited by the petitioner, the attorney-general said it “appears to a factual one and is a perception of the speaker”. The petitioner, Usha Shetty, had on August 18 sought Venugopal’s permission for Bhasker’s prosecution on contempt charges. On August 21, the attorney-general, the highest law officer in the country, declined, saying Bhasker’s statement had not in any manner scandalised the Supreme Court or lowered its image. Shetty was represented by three advocates — Anuj Saxena, Prakash Sharma and Mahek Maheshwari. It was Maheshwari who had moved the contempt petition against lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his tweets on Chief Justices of India, past and present, but the apex court had converted the matter into a suo motu case. On Sunday night, Bhushan tweeted: “Kudos to the AG Mr Venugopal for boldly asserting his independent position as a Constitutional authority & refusing permission to the malafide attempt to charge @ReallySwara for Contempt of Court.” Once the Supreme Court takes suo motu cognisance, no permission is needed from the attorney-general or the solicitor-general. In the Bhushan case, the top court had sought the assistance of the attorney-general, who enjoys a constitutional status on a par with Supreme Court judges. On Thursday, Venugopal had requested the apex court “not to punish” Bhushan, while clarifying he was appearing as attorney-general and not as the representative of the Union government. Under Section 15 the Contempt of Courts Act and the Supreme Court rules, contempt can be initiated in the top court under three circumstances: #The Supreme Court can on its own initiate contempt proceedings, as it did against Bhushan. # The attorney-general or the solicitor-general can file an application seeking contempt proceedings against a person. # A citizen can seek criminal contempt proceedings against another person with the consent of the attorney-general or the solicitor-general. Shetty had cited a statement Bhasker had made at a February 1 event hosted by Mumbai Collective, a citizens’ group, and flagged two comments from it. The petitioner quoted Bhasker as saying: “We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states that the demolition of the Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque.” She was also quoted as saying: “We are ruled by a government that doesn't believe in our Constitution; we are ruled by police forces that do not believe in the Constitution; it seems we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not....” Venugopal’s response to Shetty’s petition said: “The statement in the first part appears to be a factual one and is a perception of the speaker. The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. “This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalise or tend to scandalise, or lower or tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, the statement does not constitute criminal contempt. “The second statement that ‘we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not…’ is a vague statement not related to any particular court, and something which is so general that no one would take any serious note of this statement. “I do not think that is a case where the offence of scandalising the court or lowering the authority of the court would arise. I therefore decline consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Ms Swara Bhasker.” Shetty’s lawyers later wrote to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta seeking his consent for contempt proceedings against Bhasker. However, once the attorney-general had given his opinion, the solicitor-general, who is second in command, cannot overrule him. Bhasker has acted in several popular Hindi films, including Raanjhanaa, Nil Battey Sannata and Veere Di Wedding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Leadership crisis: Congress behaves like… Congress||The eruption of discontent over the leadership crisis in the Congress has evoked an impassioned appeal for Rahul Gandhi’s immediate return at the helm even as cracks within the party have widened. No signs of reconciliation were visible on the eve of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting after a letter written by some leaders to Sonia Gandhi, pointing to the drift and the urgent need for reconstruction, got leaked and created much bitterness within the party. Majority of leaders took the letter as a conspiracy against Rahul but the authors of the letter insisted they had only dwelt on the systemic crisis without making any adverse comments on individuals. While the political grapevine was abuzz with the existence of such a letter sent to Sonia for the past two weeks, The Sunday Express, the weekend edition of The Indian Express newspaper, named the 23 leaders who signed it and referred to the contents. Sources said the leak infuriated Sonia and close associates of Rahul who felt leaking the letter to the media was a blatant violation of party discipline. The names of many senior leaders — those who have been an integral part of the Congress high command for decades and the younger ones who got much from the party in a short span of time — have cropped up. One section was so upset that an outcry erupted for crushing what is being seen as “dissent”. The interpretation that the letter was a revolt against Rahul completely vitiated the atmosphere. An orchestrated response, so typical of the Congress, came up during the day from most state unit chiefs, chief ministers and members of Parliament, describing the tendency to question the Nehru-Gandhi family as unfortunate and entreating Rahul to return as president without further delay. One of the signatories to the letter told The Telegraph: “We are also demanding the same; that the vacuum is harmful and a regular party president should be brought. Nowhere does the letter say Rahul is not acceptable.” But the emotional outburst by family loyalists left little scope for a reasoned debate and they acted as if the party was at war with itself. Ironically, most of the people who signed the letter have been proven loyalists of the Nehru-Gandhi family for decades. The names include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kapil Sibal, Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Veerappa Moily, Renuka Chowdhury, Milind Deora, Raj Babbar, Jitin Prasada, P.J. Kurian and Sandeep Dikshit But there was no dispassionate analysis of the contributions made by these leaders over the decades in the frenzied response. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas recalled the sacrifices made by the Nehru-Gandhi family and requested these leaders to look within and ask what their contribution is. Manickam Tagore, the  young MP from Tamil Nadu, warned that their silence should not be considered as their weakness. He tweeted that the saddest thing about betrayal is that it never comes from your enemies. While most state unit chiefs asked for Rahul’s return, the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee held an emergency meeting to condemn the “23 gaddars” (traitors). Many leaders attributed personal motives to these leaders, explaining why each of them was agitated because of vested interests and initiated this war in the garb of principles. The participants asked if any of these leaders commanded mass support and whether there was any leader in the Congress who could match Rahul’s pan-India appeal. Even the party’s chief ministers intervened, betraying nervousness caused by the issues raised by the diverse group of leaders from across the country and cutting across age barriers. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted: “News of 23 senior most Congress leaders writing a letter to Congress president is unbelievable and if it is true — it’s very unfortunate. There was no need to go in media. I strongly believe that Sonia Gandhi should continue to lead the party at this crucial juncture where the fight is to save the ethos of our democracy. She has always taken challenges head on. But if she has made up her mind — I believe Rahul Gandhi should come ahead and be the Congress president as the country faces the biggest challenge to save our Constitution & democracy.” Rumours circulated that Sonia had already told the party about her reluctance to continue. Some reports said she resigned. But her term ended on August 10 and technically she is not the interim president anymore, unless the CWC extends her tenure. Sonia will most likely tell the CWC on Monday to elect a new president to express her sense of hurt.  That is supposed to set the tone for a stormy meeting where a confrontation seems inevitable. If saner elements do not douse the fire, things could turn ugly on Monday. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who conceded that the BJP continued to win because of a weak Opposition, insisted that Sonia should continue to lead till Rahul returned. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote a letter to Rahul asking him to return immediately. While he described Rahul as the only ray of hope in today’s atmosphere, he also stressed the need for unity in the party. Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah tweeted: “It is unfortunate that the leadership of the Gandhi family is being questioned by a few. In these difficult times of undeclared emergency and attack on democracy by the BJP, we should collectively strive to strengthen the Congress and not weaken it.” The widespread support for Rahul established that there are no two poles in the party. But there is no denying  that Rahul will have to bear the responsibility for this crisis as he had  relinquished the top post against the wishes of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||‘Voltaire’ vs vacuity: Why academics are held||Dissent is being silenced and dissenters are being sent to prison. Writers and academics are being treated as criminals for refusing to toe the line of those in power. Samik Bandyopadhyay, academic, litterateur, translator, publisher and theatre expert, speaks on the trend to Subhoranjan Dasgupta, professor of human science. Q: Let us begin with aged poet Varavara Rao, now in hospital with the coronavirus infection. Why was he arrested and why has he been languishing for the past two years at Taloja central prison? What crime did he commit? A: Varavara Rao, a singular voice of protest, has been jailed earlier as well. But never could the powers that be table any credible or concrete evidence of any actual crime he had committed. The accusation operates at the level of speculation and imagination. We can perhaps also claim that to punish Varavara Rao for his supposed crimes, the practitioners of power have resorted to a surreal technique and are indulging in dark fantasy. It is a matter of great shame that an uncompromising and rebellious poet of his stature has been imprisoned for the last two years. It is a shame to say that he and some others had conspired to kill the Prime Minister. He is being subjected to judicial harassment and even persecution in a way that would put to shame even Right-wing governments exercising power in some other countries. Q: What crimes have been committed by G.N. Saibaba, Vernon Gonsalves and Shoma Sen? They are all popular and respected academics.... A: As I have said, not a shred of evidence has been placed on the table that could pin down or corner G.N. Saibaba, Vernon Gonsalves and Shoma Sen. They have also been languishing in jail for the last two years, and repeated attempts to secure bail for them have been squashed. It is a matter of great shame that the legal system of our country accepts whatever the government says. Yes, we must admit that along with Varavara Rao, Saibaba, Gonsalves, Sen and Rona Wilson have committed a grievous crime — they have fought spiritedly for the poor and the deprived, for the underprivileged, for the tribals and for the landless. When Jean-Paul Sartre was out on the streets of Paris to voice his support for Algeria’s independence, the French government had detained him. At that precise point of time, President (Charles) de Gaulle said, ‘We cannot detain a Voltaire’. We do not, of course, expect this remarkable level of sensibility and sensitivity from our rulers. Indeed, what they have done at more than one level is simply terrible. At one level, they allowed the penniless migrants to die on the road. At another level, even during the pandemic and border flare-up in Ladakh, they cornered and put to jail some of the finest minds in our country. Students and dissenters were chased and arrested. Some of those who were charged with (having an) anti-national frame of mind were coolly picked up from JNU and Jamia Millia. To give a few names: Safoora Zargar — she is pregnant — Meeran Haider, Ishrat Jahan were all sent to prison for (allegedly) inciting communal violence. Luckily, some of those detained were granted bail. Q: ‘Urban Naxals’ is an expression coined and loved by those in power.... A: Of course, they would not blink a moment to use this expression. Naxalism has its own tragic history. In the late ’60s and early ’70s of the last century, the Naxalbari movement gathered pace, made progress, though it was summarily crushed. Today, the ruling powers have usurped the term ‘Naxal’ and are using it against intellectuals who are liberal-minded, Left-oriented and critical. This attitude and tyrannical practice underlines the total intellectual vacuity of our rulers. We need to condemn this false borrowing of an expression from past history. Nothing short of condemnation is called for in this context. Q: It seems from the rulers’ attitude and practice that they are particularly perturbed by two academic institutions, Jawaharlal National University and the Jamia Millia Islamia. Why? A: From 2007 to 2017, I taught at JNU and enjoyed every moment of my engagement there. It was a wonderful experience. The students came from all parts of the country, were clearly Left-oriented, and lively interactions took place in the classroom. When I was getting ready to say goodbye to the enthusiastic students, the new VC, a Sangh parivar figure, came in and thereafter the problems began. The police entered the campus, beat up students and even arrested some of them. Like the JNU, the Jamia Millia also has an admirable national representation. Bright students, mainly Muslim, came from all regions of the country and tried to propagate and focus on the enlightened Muslim point of view. I have participated in several seminars held at Jamia Millia and enjoyed my interaction with the students and members of the faculty. It is a matter of abiding shame that baton-wielding policemen entered the Jamia Millia complex, ransacked the library and injured innocent students who were studying there. I repeat, not even an extreme Right-wing government of any other country would have allowed its police to swoop down on an academic institution in the way it was done in the capital. These two institutes, in fact, appear as eyesores to the rulers who are clamping down on dissidence. Once again, such attitudes and actions point straight towards the absolute intellectual vacuity of the present dispensation. The rulers, who are swearing every moment by nationalism, are not prepared to face questioning, critiquing minds. They want and demand complicity and subservience. To cut it short, this harangue on nationalism underlines the sinister attitude of the rulers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-711
24-08-2020||India||Girl scripts migrant success story||Topping the university was never on her mind. Paying the college fee every year was a big enough ask already. But it has not stopped Payal Kumari, daughter of a migrant worker from Bihar, from scripting what has been hailed as a story of “inclusive India” in a year saturated with images of abandoned migrants’ miseries. She has stood first in her BA Archaeology course from the Mahatma Gandhi University in Kerala, surprising herself and thrilling the southern state’s political who’s who. The student of Marthoma Women’s College in Perumbavoor, near Kochi, scored 85 per cent. Congratulatory messages have been pouring in, with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan calling her on Saturday to laud her achievement. Senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor said Payal’s success was “another story of #InclusiveIndia from Kerala!” Payal now wants to postgraduate from JNU and join the civil services. Payal, who speaks fluent English and Malayalam, told reporters that paying the yearly college fee of Rs 3,000 had been a huge challenge for her family, which had migrated to Kerala 19 years ago when she was four. “But there were good Samaritans who lent a helping hand,” she said. Her history lecturer, Priya Kurian, paid her first-year fees after learning about the plight of the family, which lives in a rented home at Edappally in Kochi. The following two years, too, teachers helped her. They were confident she would do well in her final exams, Payal said. “I knew I had done well but did not expect a rank,” she told PTI. Payal thanked her father Pramod Kumar and mother Bindu Devi for always encouraging her to study and never pressuring her to marry. “My parents are very happy with my result. They told me to continue studying,” she said. Pramod, who is from Gosaiymati village in Bihar’s Sheikhupura district, had arrived in Kerala at the turn of the millennium seeking a better life for his family. Payal’s elder brother Akash Kumar is employed and sister Pallavi Kumari is doing her BSc in physics. “I’m confident speaking Hindi, English and Malayalam,” Payal said. But at home, the family speaks only Hindi as the parents do not know much Malayalam, she said. “Her achievement is a matter of pride and great joy for us,” Vijayan said. “This shows that the steps taken by the state for the welfare of the guest workers never went in vain. I wish her all success in her future endeavours.” Mizoram governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai, who is from Kerala, and state agriculture minister V.S. Sunil Kumar too sent messages of congratulation, Payal said. Finance minister T.M. Thomas Isaac tweeted: “Payal Kumari, daughter of Pramod, a migrant worker from Bihar, graduates from MG University Kerala with first rank BA Archaeology and History (85% marks). She hails from Gosaimaty village in Shaikpura district. She wants to join JNU. Feel so proud of you Payal. Congratulations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||India||Trump campaign video stars Modi||Clips from the Howdy Modi gathering at Houston last September and this February’s Namaste Trump rally in Ahmedabad are being used by US President Donald Trump for his campaign, raising the spectre of India losing the bipartisan support it has enjoyed in Washington for several years now if it is seen batting for the Republican candidate. Many diplomats had warned of this last year when Modi had hosted Trump at the Houston diaspora event where he even tweaked his own 2014 campaign slogan for the President and said “Ab ki baar Trump sarkar”. Foreign minister S. Jaishankar had later sought to argue that it was not an endorsement. But there was no doubt in the Republican camp that the Howdy Modi event was an endorsement for the President’s re-run for the White House. They said so in as many words after the event, but this did not stop Modi from hosting a bigger event for Trump in his home state of Gujarat in February. After the Howdy Modi event, Kayleigh McEnany, the national press secretary for Trump’s 2020 campaign who is now the White House press secretary, had tweeted on September 23: “President Donald Trump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi as they shared a stage in Houston, walking hand in hand… to address more than 50,000 Indian Americans.” A similar comment was posted by Team Trump, “the official Twitter for the Trump campaign”: “President Donald Trump received the endorsement of Indian Prime Minister Modi!” On Saturday, some of that footage was used in a 107-minute video posted by Kimberley Guilfoyle, senior adviser to Team Trump, with the comment: “America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!” The tweet made no mention of Modi but the video had clips from his Houston speech, besides Trump’s address to the lakh-plus gathering in Ahmedabad. While the Houston event was a diaspora meeting for the Prime Minister during his US visit, Namaste Trump was Modi’s welcome to the US President during his maiden visit to India. Both, however, essentially turned into campaign outings for the US President with a community that has traditionally voted Democrats. The video has been conceptualised by Al Mason of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee who recently wrote on the conservative website American Greatness that a large number of the Indian-Americans in the battleground states of Florida, Virginia, Michigan and Pennsylvania are likely to defect from the Democratic Party and vote for Trump. The Telegraph tried to get a response from the external affairs ministry on how India viewed the Trump campaign using footage from the Prime Minister’s meetings but did not get any response. The ministry had earlier said it wanted to refrain from commenting on the electoral process of another country when asked if the government had congratulated Indian-American Kamala Harris on being picked to be the Democratic candidate for Vice-President.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||India||Riot book authors hit out at publisher Bloomsbury||British publisher Bloomsbury, which withdrew a book that blames anti-citizenship-act protesters for the Delhi riots, has received an email from the three authors that calls its decision a breach of contract and says the company is liable to pay damages. BJP parliamentarian Bhupendra Yadav had on Saturday given the book a “virtual launch”, shortly after Bloomsbury announced it was withdrawing it. The guests of honour at the event included BJP politician Kapil Mishra, accused by the Delhi Minorities Commission of inciting the February riots that killed 53 people, 40 of them Muslim. On Sunday the authors --- Monika Arora, Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar — emailed Paul Kumar, publisher, special projects, with Bloomsbury India. They underlined that the editing process had gone on for three months and said they were anguished at being junked without a formal intimation. “This is breach of contract, unethical and unprofessional conduct. This will invite civil and criminal liability and you will be liable to pay damages to the authors for damaging their reputation, disowning them publicly, causing mental agony to not only the authors but to millions of people who believed in you, who wanted to order the book…. Bloomsbury may we tell you that Brown Lives matter and Brown women matter too,” the email said. “Can we take this liberty to request you to at least inform us officially through email that you have withdrawn/ gone back on the contract, terminated the contract with us, are no longer our publisher?” Bloomsbury, known for publishing the Harry Potter series, has lately come out with several books that glorify BJP leaders and promote the party’s worldview. This newspaper is yet to receive a reply to a request for a response to the email from Kumar and his company. In a statement on Saturday, Bloomsbury India had said: “In view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book.” In their email, the authors said: “You called us on phone and informed us that you are withdrawing as a publisher from the aforesaid book due to pressure from Bloomsbury UK which in turn was pressurised by the social media campaign etc…. You Bloomsbury finalised the draft of the aforesaid book. Authors and you the publisher mutually suggested many changes and all were incorporated in the final draft which the authors finalised and as a publisher you approved.” They added: “You Bloomsbury went ahead with the publications, published the books, and gave us 100 hard copies…. The e-card of the book launch was put in public domain. You had full knowledge of this book launch and the guest list. You never objected orally or in writing regarding the guest list or the launch event.” The authors gave Kumar until 4pm on Sunday to reply. Later in the evening, Arora — a Supreme Court lawyer — tweeted: “No response from @BloomsburyIndia No written communication to authors despite request. Our book can’t be killed People want to buy We have no option but to go with another publisher. Nation must know truth of #DelhiRiotsTheUntoldStory Pls suggest names of publishers.” Soon after, Garuda Publishers, which published filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri’s Urban Naxals: The Making of Buddha in a Traffic Jam in 2018, tweeted that it would be publishing the book on the Delhi riots in English and Hindi. Agnihotri’s Who Killed Shastri?: The Tashkent Files, published by Bloomsbury, hits the stands next week. Agnihotri has called for a boycott of historian William Dalrymple, who too has been published by Bloomsbury, for allegedly asking the company to drop the book on the riots. Amid the debate on the freedom of expression that Bloomsbury’s withdrawal of the book has triggered, a post by theatre director and publisher Sudhanva Deshpande is being shared by many as a justification for the call to deny the book the legitimacy offered by a well-known publisher. Deshpande, managing editor of the CPM-backed Leftword Books, wrote on Facebook on Saturday, before Bloomsbury withdrew the book: “Am I calling for the book to be banned? No. I’m asking Bloomsbury, as a leading publisher, to ask itself what editorial protocols permit such a book to be published in such a short time? “Are you as publisher not responsible for at least elementary fact checking? Are you as publisher not culpable in playing a part in the architecture of terror being created and deployed by the State and non-State actors to punish the victims of violence, and those who stand up for them?” Deshpande added: “Make no mistake about it. This book has nothing to do with the pursuit of knowledge, in which differences of opinion and interpretation are not just desirable, but essential. This book is part of a multi-pronged attack on India’s secular fabric, on the idea of natural justice, on ethics, on rationality, on humanity, and, because we are talking in a publishing context, on knowledge itself. This book has blood on its hands.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
24-08-2020||India||Sprinter Dutee Chand on love and glory||Nominated for the prestigious Arjuna award, ace sprinter Dutee Chand, who had entered into a same-sex relationship, on Saturday asserted that she would continue to remain faithful to her live-in partner. Talking to The Telegraph, Dutee, 24, said: “I don’t believe in betrayal. She has supported me over the years and I am indebted to her for that. We are in love and there is nothing wrong with that. She will be with me forever.” Dutee has been in a relationship with the girl for the past three years. Dutee added: “We have not talked about marriage so far. She is currently pursuing her studies and is now in her village. Let her finish that. I don’t want to hide my relationship which is based on mutual love and faith.” Earlier, Dutee had welcomed the Supreme Court’s judgment on same-sex relationships. “The Supreme court verdict in 2018 decriminalised same-sex relationship between consenting adults. The judgment has given me the right kind of motivation to go ahead with my relationship. There is no harm in both of us living together,” she said. Talking about her career, she said: “Tokyo Olympics, which were scheduled to be held this year, have been shifted to next year. I have already started my preparations at the Kalinga stadium. I am practising for six hours a day. I am confident of making my nation proud by getting a gold at the Tokyo Olympics next year. For that, I will overcome any hurdle.” On the controversy regarding the sale of her BMW car to arrange money for her training, Dutee said: “I have a number of cars. Because of the lockdown, I had decided to sell this car. Many people had shown interest in buying my car. But soon after the controversy erupted I gave up the idea of selling. However, Odisha  government’s claim of having given me Rs 4 crore had upset me. But now that issue has been settled and I am thankful to the state government for recommending my name for the award. I am thankful to chief minister Naveen Patnaik for reposing faith in me. He has been helping me over the years.” Dutee, who is pursuing her integrated law course at KIIT, said: “The Centre has picked me for the award because of my consistent performance at the international level. But I have the right to make my choices in personal life without hurting anyone else.” On her dispute with her elder sister Saraswati Chand, who is also a state-level athlete, after she targeted Dutee for her same-sex affair, she said: “I don’t want to talk about that now. I have been informed that I would be given the award on August 29. I don’t want any controversy at this juncture. Once I receive the award, I will go to my village and meet my family members.” Dutee had successfully fought her case in the court of Arbitration of Sports (CAS) against the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) rules on hyperandrogenism (a medical condition characterised by excessive levels of androgen), which put a limit on testosterone levels of women competing in track and field events. The rules were withdrawn in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-712
