25-08-2020||India||Fire at Kerala Secretariat, opposition allege sabotage||A fire at the Kerala secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram caused a huge commotion on Tuesday evening. The fire, described as minor, spurred opposition protests and allegations of a link to the gold smuggling case. Visuals showed officers trying to salvage files and equipment from the building, which has offices of the state government. Smoke was seen rising from windows of the second floor of a block at the secretariat. "The minor fire was at the political section of the General Administration Department. No one has been injured," officials said. The opposition Congress-led UDF in the state has alleged attempts to sabotage the investigations into the gold smuggling case, in which Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office has come under scrutiny. "This has been done in an attempt to destroy files and sabotage the gold smuggling probe," said Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala. He and other Congress leaders protested outside the secretariat for some time until they were allowed to enter. Members of the BJP also protested. BJP leaders, including state chief K Surendran, were arrested and removed from the secretariat premises. Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta told reporters that no crucial file had been destroyed and there would be a detailed investigation. Another senior official said the files that were damaged in the fire were on guest house bookings. An IAS officer, M Sivasankar, was removed as Principal Secretary in the Chief Minister's Office and suspended over alleged links with an accused in the case involving 30 kg of gold being smuggled into Thiruvananthapuram airport from Dubai through the diplomatic channel in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Bhushan asks Supreme Court for ‘statesman like’ message||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan urged the Supreme Court on Tuesday to give a statesman-like message by recalling the verdict convicting him of contempt of the court for two tweets against the judiciary. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal also asked the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra to forgive Bhushan, who has been refusing to tender an unconditional apology for the tweets. He also said that Bhushan should withdraw all statements and express regret. The bench, which had on August 20 granted Bhushan time till Monday to reconsider his statement and tender an unconditional apology for the tweets, concluded hearing on the quantum of punishment to be awarded to him on Tuesday. “Although the attorney general suggested reprimand but that will be extreme. Don't make Prashant Bhushan a martyr. Don't do it. He has not committed murder or theft,” senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, submitted before the bench, also comprising Justice B.R. Gavai and Justice Krishna Murari. Referring to the supplementary statement tendered by Bhushan, his lawyer said that not only should this case be closed, there should be a statesman-like message from the top court. “I make two suggestions. The convicting judgement should be recalled and no sentence should be imposed,” Dhavan said, explaining he was making a statement on his client’s behalf. Referring to Bhushan's statements and his refusal to apologise, the bench told Venugopal that mistakes were committed by all but they needed to be accepted, but that Bhushan was not willing to accept it. “We have to be respectful to each other and tolerant. We are not separate from you (lawyers). We have also come from the Bar. We are open to criticism but we cannot go in public,” the bench said. Justice Mishra, who is demitting office on September 2, said that judges cannot go to the Press to speak their mind. “We are not carrying prejudice against anyone. Don't think we are not tolerating criticism. There are several contempt petitions pending but tell us, has anyone been punished ever? It is painful to see such things happening at a time when I am demitting office,” Justice Mishra said. The court, which granted 30 minutes to Bhushan to “think over” his stand of not expressing regret over his tweets, later sought the views of Dhavan on the punishment to be awarded to Bhushan in the contempt case. Dhavan said he did not support Venugopal's view that Bhushan be reprimanded as it would be an extreme punishment and moreover, he had not committed  murder or theft and any punishment would make him a martyr . Taking note of Bhushan's refusal to apologise, the bench asked, “Tell us what is wrong in using the word ‘apology’? What is wrong in seeking apology? Will that be (a) reflection of the guilty? Apology is a magical word, which can heal many things,” Justice Mishra said, according to livelaw.in. Venugopal said judges were the third party in this case against whom the alleged statements have been made and the court had not heard them. “Why are such allegations being made in the first place,” the bench asked. “Judges cannot defend themselves,” the bench observed and said that it was the Attorney General who “will have to protect the system”. The apex court had on August 14 held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. He faces simple imprisonment of up to six months, or with a fine of up to Rs 2,000, or with both, as punishment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Apex court requests CJI for new bench in 2009 contempt case against Bhushan||The Supreme Court Tuesday decided to refer to another bench the 2009 contempt case against activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and journalist Tarun Tejpal to deal with certain larger questions related to freedom of speech and levelling of corruption charges against the judiciary. The apex court in November 2009, had issued contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to a news magazine. Tejpal was the editor of the magazine. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra was told by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Prashant Bhushan, that there were as many as 10 questions of constitutional importance have been raised by him and they needed to be dealt by a Constitution bench. "These are broader issues which need to be deliberated at length. We can have some amicus and it can be adjudicated by an appropriate bench," said the bench, which also comprised Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari. The matter is pending for a long time and it be listed before the appropriate bench on September 10, the bench said in a hearing conducted through video conferencing. Justice Mishra, who is retiring on September 2, said the matter will need time and observed "let us leave this to an appropriate bench". The court did not agree to the submissions of Dhavan that it should issue notice to the Attorney General K K Venugopal seeking his assistance and opinion to deal with the issues raised and said that 'it is best left to the appropriate Bench" which will be set up by the CJI. Dhavan said the questions raised by Bhushan included the issue whether bona fide opinions of corruption also constitute contempt of court and "whether it is enough to show bona fide of opinion or it is necessary for the person to prove the allegation of corruption. They also included whether a complainant is barred from discussing in public domain the contents of his complaint if an in-house inquiry is started, among others, he said. On August 17, the top court had framed certain questions and asked senior advocates Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, Shanti Bhushan and Kapil Sibal, to address it on three issues-- whether such statements about corruption against judges or judiciary can be made, in what circumstances they can be made and what is the procedure to be adopted with respect to sitting and retired judges. Then Bhushan, through her lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, filed 10 questions on his own and sought adjudication by a Constitution bench. "Whether the expression of a bona fide opinion about the extent of corruption in any section of the judiciary would amount to contempt of court," Bhushan's plea said. "If the answer to the question is in the affirmative, whether the person who expresses such an opinion about the extent of corruption in a section of judiciary is obliged to prove that his opinion is correct or whether it is enough to show that he bona fide held that opinion," the second question read. He also gave eight other questions related to freedom of speech and expression and the width and scope of contempt powers. The top court had earlier said that it would consider larger questions in 2009 contempt case against Bhushan and Tejpal on August 25, that is today. In response to the 2009 contempt case, Bhushan had told the apex court that making corruption charges against the judges would not amount to contempt of court and mere utterance of corruption charge could not be contempt of court. The top court is also scheduled on Tuesday the another contempt case against Bhushan in which he has been convicted for his two tweets and has refused to apologize.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Covid: India tests over 10 lakh in a day||India has crossed a milestone of testing over 10 lakh samples for Covid-19 in a day, with more than 3.44 crore such tests conducted so far, while the caseload in the country is nearing the 30 lakh-mark. As has been reported from the states and Union territories (UTs), which have pushed ahead with aggressive testing, there is a commensurate decline in the positivity rate, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Saturday. "Although a higher number of tests will initially lead to a rise in the positivity rate, it will eventually come down when combined with other measures such as prompt isolation, efficient tracking and timely, effective and clinical management," the ministry said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, "Keeping with its promise of exponentially increasing the number of daily Covid-19 tests, India has crossed a significant milestone of testing more than 10 lakh samples in a day." With 10,23,836 Covid-19 tests performed on Friday, the country has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily, he added. The average number of Covid-19 tests conducted daily over the last three weeks also depicts the progress made in increasing the number of such tests across the country, Vardhan said. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on an average, 8,89,935 Covid-19 tests were conducted daily in the country during the last five days. A total of 3,44,91,073 samples were tested for the disease in the country till August 21. India is also testing around 74.7 people per one-lakh population, much higher than the World Health Organization's (WHO) guidelines of testing 14 people per one-lakh population, the apex health research body said. Of the total 10,23,836 samples tested on Friday, around 3.8 lakh were subjected to rapid-antigen tests, sources said. Of the total samples tested for Covid-19 so far in the country, around 28 per cent were subjected to rapid-antigen tests, they added. "In a testament to the determined, focussed, consistent and coordinated efforts of the Centre and the state and UT governments, India has conducted 1 million tests in a span of 24 hours. With 10,23,836 tests done on Friday, India has achieved its resolve to test 10 lakh samples daily," the ministry said. Combined with enhanced testing, the policies of the Centre, states and UTs have facilitated easy testing across the country. This has boosted the daily testing capacity, the ministry said. A record number of daily tests has been achieved by evaluating and validating laboratories for Covid-19 testing across the country, the ICMR said. Starting with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, the total number of Covid-specific testing laboratories was 1,511 as on Friday -- 983 dedicated government facilities and 528 private ones. "In a diverse country like India, for an equitable access to testing, optimisation of resources based on the evolving epidemic was an essential part of the sustainable scaling up," Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR, said. Through ardent efforts, it was ensured that a specific testing platform was made available, addressing general testing (RT-PCR), high-throughput testing (COBAS), testing at remotest places and PHCs (TrueNAT, CBNAAT), in containment areas (rapid-antigen testing) and for migrant population testing (pooled sample testing), he added. With a record single-day spike of 69,874 cases, India's Covid-19 tally increased to 29,75,701, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 55,794 with 945 fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours, health ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The number of recoveries has surged to 22,22,577, pushing the recovery rate to 74.69 per cent, according to the data. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.87 per cent, the data said. India is on the third spot currently in the world in terms of Covid-19 caseload after the US and Brazil. The ICMR said it has set up Covid-19 testing laboratories even in the remotest parts of the country, including one at an altitude of 18,000 feet in Ladakh's Leh and another at Port Blair in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. "The ultimate goal is that testing should be available to everyone in need and no one should be left behind," the ICMR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Bureaucrats write to Mark Zuckerberg for audit on FB hate speech policy||Over 50 retired senior bureaucrats have written an open letter to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg demanding an audit of the company’s hate speech policy in India, asserting that to blame the algorithms of artificial intelligence for some hate messages remaining on the platform is to evade corporate responsibility. Writing in the wake of The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report on Facebook India policy head opposing the application of the company’s hate speech rules to posts by members of the BJP as it could impact business prospects, the retired bureaucrats said: “We are writing to you in the expectation that you will make serious efforts to audit the implementation of Facebook’s hate speech policy in India and, while such an audit is under way, ensure that the present Public Policy Head of Facebook, India, is not in a position to influence the investigations.” Further, they said: “We also fervently hope that in future, you will not let your company’s business prospects stand in the way of implementing your own policy against hate speech and posts which can lead to hate crimes. This is a sure way of demonising minorities and inflicting violence upon them while undermining the democratic and secular basis of the Indian Constitution.” Noting that Facebook removed those hate messages on August 17 after the WSJ expose, they said this was a clear indication that the platform itself considered these posts offensive. Addressing Zuckerberg in person, they said it cannot be that he is not familiar with the fact that religious unrest has become a serious problem in India, citing the fear created by the new citizenship laws, cow vigilantism, and Delhi riots. Stating that many of the hate crimes and cases of vigilantism were instigated through hate messages spread over Facebook and WhatsApp — both of which are part of the same company — they expressed disappointment that still the company failed to implement its own policy of discouraging hate speech in India or has implemented it in a clearly “partisan” manner. “That this seems to have been done to protect Facebook’s commercial interests is even more reprehensible. We note that such behaviour on Facebook’s part has become a subject of debate in other countries as well. Commercial interests at the cost of human lives? If these are the crass calculations Facebook indulges in, it is no surprise that the calculus of hate is spreading like a virus in many parts of the world. To blame the algorithms of artificial intelligence is both to evade corporate responsibility and to deny the human agency involved in the framing of those very algorithms.” The signatories to the letter are all bureaucrats who retired from some of the senior-most offices in the government; mostly at secretary level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Bipin Rawat suggests India is 'prepared for military actions'||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has appeared to suggest that India is “prepared for military actions” if the talks with China yield no results, triggering a debate whether this is a serious option and whether India is ready to face the cost. Several military veterans questioned Gen. Rawat’s decision to issue the hard-line statement at a time both sides have agreed to continue with their diplomatic and military talks to try and resolve the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Rawat’s comments — especially his reference to efforts to “restore status quo ante” — also belie the un-retracted June 19 claim by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that no one had intruded into India or occupied its territory. In an interview to the Hindustan Times that was published on Monday, Rawat said that defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval and all others responsible for national security were “reviewing all options with the objective that PLA (China’s People’s Liberation Army) restores status quo ante in Ladakh”. “Transgressions along the LAC occur due to differing perceptions about its alignment. Defence services are tasked to monitor and carry out surveillance and prevent such transgressions turning into intrusions,” Rawat was quoted as saying. “Whole of government approach is adopted to peacefully resolve any such activity and prevent intrusions. Defence services always remain prepared for military actions should all efforts to restore status quo along the LAC not succeed.” A retired lieutenant general questioned the wisdom of the statement. “In the middle of the diplomatic talks, such a statement from the top military brass is likely to present a considerable obstacle to further negotiations,” he told The Telegraph. Others quoted a foreign police advice often attributed to Theodore Roosevelt, the late US President: “Talk softly but carry a big stick. You will go far.” “It seems Gen. Rawat does not believe so. He should remember that he is not targeting a domestic audience but a formidable adversary,” a veteran said. Another veteran said: “Going to war with China will be a political call. The question is whether we are prepared for the economic cost of war and also the political consequences of a setback. Rawat must remember that China is not Pakistan.” He underlined that the belligerence with which the government had responded to the February 2019 Pulwama bombing — carrying out airstrikes on Balakot in Pakistan — was missing in its dealing with China. “The chest-thumping is absent in the case of the Chinese intrusion. The political leadership has not even named China so far while talking about China’s aggression,” he said. Serial talks have so far failed to break the stalemate along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, where the Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a standoff since May. Indications are that Beijing has been resisting New Delhi's demand for a restoration of status quo ante, laying fresh claims to India-claimed territory, and setting conditions for disengagement. A former Intelligence Bureau director underscored that the latest friction points -- the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains - were also the theatres of the 1962 war in which India had received a drubbing. “Some people have suggested, without realising its costs, that India should go in for a limited war with China. The Chinese have already surprised us by transgressing into our territory and are now holding on to it. They are building roads and camps at the multiple friction points,” he said. Another veteran said: “It’s true that diplomacy is not working at the moment but India needs to continue pressing for the restoration of status quo ante during the forthcoming talks. War is never going to be an option.” He said India’s best option would be to hold its ground, wait for the winter, and ensure there is no further transgression by the Chinese. “The harsh winter is going to make a big difference as it would be difficult for them to stay put. Making a retreat from those areas would be the only option for them. In the meantime, diplomatic intervention from the top leadership is the need of the hour,” he said. He added: “What happened to Modi’s bonhomie with Chinese President Xi Jinping? We need it more than anything else now to resolve the dispute." Sources in the security establishment said that India and China should try to reach an agreement about the entire border during the ongoing diplomatic talks, as each side has its own perception of the LAC. “There are over a dozen disputed sites along the LAC. Even if the Chinese agree to pull out from the India-claimed zones after diplomatic negotiations, the bigger issue of an unsettled border may remain unresolved,” a security official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||CWC meet: After fight, hunt for Congress leader||The Congress Working Committee on Monday warned leaders against any attempt “to weaken the party and its leadership” even as Sonia Gandhi tried to close the chapter by saying differences were natural in a large family and that she would bear no ill-will towards colleagues who had written a letter pointing to a drift. The letter, written to Sonia by 23 leaders, had got leaked to the media and caused much bitterness in the party. While the leaks of internal communications and discussions to the media dominated the CWC meeting, the letter seemed to have had the desired effect as the process for electing a full-fledged president and strengthening the decision-making mechanisms was set in motion. An AICC session will be called to elect the new president within six months and a small committee will be constituted soon to assist Sonia in managing day-to-day affairs, the CWC decided. The resolution passed at the meeting said: “The CWC authorises the Congress president to affect necessary organisational changes that she may deem appropriate to take on the challenges listed above.” Sonia had expressed a desire to relinquish the post but was unanimously requested to continue till the AICC session was convened to elect the new president. The general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, later said the session would be called “as soon as possible”. Since many leaders had voiced outrage over the letter, which had raised questions about the functioning of the party as well as the leadership vacuum, the resolution said: “The CWC makes it clear that no one will be or can be permitted to undermine or weaken the party and its leadership at this juncture. The responsibility of every Congress worker and leader today is to fight the pernicious assault on India’s democracy, pluralism and diversity by the Narendra Modi government.” Rahul Gandhi too expressed deep anguish at such an initiative by senior leaders, wondering how a controversy could be created at a time when the Congress was fighting a grim battle against the BJP in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere. He said such moves helped the BJP and wondered how Sonia was questioned when she was in hospital. Four among the 23 who had written the letter are members of the CWC and were at Monday’s meeting — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik and Jitin Prasada. They said that conveying their views to the party president was not a crime and that their intention was not to question the leadership of Sonia or Rahul. Azad and Sharma reaffirmed their faith in the leadership while recalling their association with Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi and iterated their “unflinching resolve” to fight the RSS-BJP. Some members demanded action against these leaders for allegedly leaking the letter to the media, with the veteran Ambika Soni leading this group in an emotionally charged speech. But the four said they were not aware how it got leaked, and that raising questions on a party forum did not make them dissidents or rebels. Their commitment to the Congress cannot be questioned, they said. Azad insisted that it be made clear before the media that they were all part of the CWC resolution issued on Monday. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and senior leader A.K. Antony expressed pain at the media discourse on the party’s internal affairs, arguing that such episodes weakened the Congress and helped the BJP. Antony said it was cruel to question the role played by Sonia in these difficult times. Almost every leader, young and old, agreed that the leadership crisis should be ended sooner than later and that a full-fledged party president should be elected. Almost everyone called for Rahul’s return as president. Contesting the perception that the party’s performance has not been effective over the past few months despite the failures of the Modi government, the resolution said: “The last six months have seen the nation in the throes of multiple crises. We have been beset by the Corona pandemic, downward-spiralling economy, massive job losses, growing poverty and brazen Chinese aggression. The two voices that have been at the forefront of exposing the government’s inadequate responses, divisive politics and audacious propaganda are of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.” The resolution vowed to strengthen the hands of Sonia and Rahul in line with the desires of millions of party workers. It said: “The voices of our two leaders have inspired a generation of Indians, both within and outside of the Congress, to rise and demand answers from this government which seeks to desperately distract the people through shallow and manufactured issues. It is under their leadership that crores of Congress workers and supporters have reached out to fill the large, callous gaps in governance left by this government as a result of which millions belonging to the poor and middle classes have been unjustly deprived of their rights and their livelihoods.” While the organisation’s restructuring will take a while, the dissenting voices may have been silenced for now. Sonia indicated a closure of the bitter chapter in her concluding remarks. Party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala quoted her as having said: “We are a large family. We have differences and different views on many occasions. But in the end we come together as one. I don’t hold any ill-will or grudge against any colleague. I treat everyone as part of the Congress family irrespective of however hurtful their views have been today or in the past. I have always risen above these to keep the family together.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
25-08-2020||India||Masks not needed for kids aged 5 and below||An international expert panel constituted by the World Health Organisation has recommended that children aged 5 years and below should not be required to wear masks. The WHO, while underscoring that people should abide by the practices recommended by their local authorities, also said that children aged 12 or older should wear masks under the same conditions as adults. The global health agency said its advisory was based on recommendations from an international expert group it had formed to review the evidence on Covid-19 and its transmission in children, and had taken into account children’s developmental milestones and psychosocial needs. “Children aged 5 years and under should not be required to wear masks. This is based on the safety and overall interest of the child and the capacity to appropriately use a mask with minimal assistance,” the WHO said. However, it said, there may be local requirements for children aged 5 or below to wear masks, or circumstances when such children are physically close to someone who is ill. “In these circumstances, if the child wears a mask, a parent or other guardian should be within direct line of sight to supervise the safe use of the mask,” the WHO said. A senior psychiatrist in India who was not associated with the expert group said the advisory was likely to have weighed the potential benefits and risks of masks in very young children. “Very young children are likely to imitate parents. So, if they see their parents wearing masks, they might gladly do that too,” Vivek Agarwal, professor of psychiatry at the King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, told The Telegraph. But, Agarwal said, the improper use of masks by young children is a possible source of worry. “The brain is still developing fast in very young children and improper use of the mask could lower their oxygen intake. We don’t want to deprive the developing brain of oxygen.” He said children below 5 years may not complain about discomfort from the improper use of masks. The advisory, also backed by Unicef, said any decision on having children aged 6 to 11 wear masks should be based on whether there is widespread local transmission in the area where the child lives and whether the child can safely and appropriately use the mask. It said that children aged 6 to 11 should have adequate adult supervision and instructions on how to put on, take off and safely wear the masks. The advisory also said that the potential impact of a mask on a child’s learning and psychosocial development should be considered in consultation with parents, teachers and doctors. Children 12 years or older should wear masks as do adults, in particular when they cannot guarantee at least one metre’s distance from others and there is widespread transmission in the area. A study by US researchers had last week found that children infected with Covid-19 — even those without symptoms — could carry high viral loads and thus serve as silent carriers of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan declines SC offer to apologise for tweets||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Monday declined the Supreme Court’s offer to apologise for his tweets, saying it would be “contempt of his conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem” if he were to withdraw a statement he believes to be true. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, which had on August 14 convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt, will on Tuesday examine his supplementary statement and pronounce the sentence. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt of court is six months’ imprisonment or a fine or both. The following is Bhushan’s supplementary statement, filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal on Tuesday: It is with deep regret that I read the order of this Hon’ble Court dated 20th of August. At the hearing the court asked me to take 2-3 days to reconsider the statement I made in the court. However, the order subsequently states: “We have given time to the contemnor to submit unconditional apology, if he so desires.” I have never stood on ceremony when it comes to offering an apology for any mistake or wrongdoing on my part. It has been a privilege for me to have served this institution and bring several important public interest causes before it. I live with the realisation that I have received from this institution much more than I have had the opportunity to give it. I cannot but have the highest regard for the institution of the Supreme Court. I believe that the Supreme Court is the last bastion of hope for the protection of fundamental rights, the watchdog institutions and indeed for constitutional democracy itself. It has rightly been called the most powerful court in the democratic world, and often an exemplar for courts across the globe. Today in these troubling times, the hopes of the people of India vest in this court to ensure the rule of law and the Constitution and not an untrammelled rule of the executive. This casts a duty, especially for an officer of this court like myself, to speak up, when I believe there is a deviation from its sterling record. Therefore I expressed myself in good faith, not to malign the Supreme Court or any particular Chief Justice, but to offer constructive criticism so that the court can arrest any drift away from its longstanding role as a guardian of the Constitution and custodian of peoples’ rights. My tweets represented this bona fide belief that I continue to hold. Public expression of these beliefs was, I believe, in line with my higher obligations as a citizen and a loyal officer of this court. Therefore, an apology for expression of these beliefs, conditional or unconditional, would be insincere. An apology cannot be a mere incantation and any apology has to, as the court has itself put it, be sincerely made. This is especially so when I have made the statements bona fide and pleaded truths with full details, which have not been dealt with by the court. If I retract a statement before this court that I otherwise believe to be true or offer an insincere apology, that in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Pakistan alters stand on Kashmir parties ||Pakistan on Monday appeared to be wooing the Valley’s pro-India camp, terming a joint pledge by four regional and two national parties for restoration of Article 370 a “political resistance movement”. Islamabad’s move comes at a time last August’s changes to Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional and geographical status are threatening to further erode the Valley’s already thin proIndia constituency. Pakistan has traditionally described the governments led by the Valley’s mainstream parties as India’s “puppet governments”. Militants have killed hundreds of leaders and activists of these parties over the past three decades. On Monday, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi addressed a news conference to announce a “very big development”. He was referring to Saturday’s joint pledge by the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, People’s Conference, Awami National Conference and the Jammu and Kashmir units of the Congress and the CPM to restore the special status. “A political resistance movement is gaining ground in Kashmir and the first sign is the joint statement.... What they said in the joint statement shows what is on their mind,” Qureshi, who had returned from China three days ago, said. “They are saying their political activities will be subservient to the sacred goal of reverting the status of J&K as it existed on August 4, 2019. It means they have rejected the August 5 decisions. It is a very big statement.” In their joint statement, the six parties have vowed to “tirelessly struggle to get back the special status and restore the constitutional guarantees forcibly taken away from J&K”. “There is unanimity amongst us that collective institution is the effective way to fight for these rights and tirelessly struggle to get back the special status and restore the constitutional guarantees forcibly taken away, against our will.” A leader of one of these parties said that Pakistan now “clearly owned the J&K mainstream” which “it had never done before”. “Look at the choice of his (Qureshi’s) words, reserved in the past for the (separatist) Hurriyat. They are calling our struggle a resistance movement,” he said. “It shows a tectonic shift and will clearly embolden us. Tomorrow, I won’t be surprised if we too give a call for a shutdown and the people follow us.’ Among the statement’s signatories are former chief minister Farooq Abdullah, once known as staunchly proIndia, and Ghulam Ahmad Mir, Jammu and Kashmir chief of the Congress. Qureshi said the political leaders had issued the joint statement after spending months in jail. “The Hurriyat’s stand is in front of us but the statement is from those people who had in the past looked towards Delhi. They have now changed their direction and are not looking towards Delhi. It is such a big change,” Qureshi said. He said China supported Pakistan’s stand on Kashmir and wanted the issue settled through UN resolutions. He said China was not going to blink in eastern Ladakh, where it’s engaged in a border standoff with India. The Valley’s proIndia or “mainstream” camp has always faced a credibility crisis here despite many people voting for them in elections. While the separatists have successfully shut Kashmir down hundreds of times, the proIndia parties never dared call for shutdowns, fearing a possible loss of face. Pakistan has a few times in the past unsuccessfully tried to woo the “mainstream leaders”. Thousands of men, including former chief ministers, legislators and other political leaders, were arrested by the security forces ahead of the August 5 decisions to prevent any unrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||PM fund cares for poll-bound Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that PM CARES would fund two 500-bed makeshift Covid-19 hospitals in Bihar, scheduled to go to polls later this year. Making the announcement on Twitter, the Prime Minister’s Office said the hospitals, set up by DRDO (Defence Research & Development Organisation), would be located in Patna’s Bihta and Muzaffarpur. “The 500 bed hospital at Bihta, Patna will be inaugurated today and the 500 bed hospital at Muzaffarpur will be inaugurated very soon,” one of the tweets said. The announcement came a day after the BJP held a meeting of the party’s Bihar executive to prepare for the polls. Addressing the meeting, BJP chief J.P. Nadda said the NDA would face the polls under the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar. The BJP is expected to use the hospitals as a prominent campaign tool, underlining how the party and the Modi government care for the Biharis. Bihar is among the worst-hit Covid-19 states with a pathetic Covid care infrastructure. The new makeshift hospitals will appear as oases in a desert and bring out the failures of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Voters will give BJP credit for the hospitals and not Nitish. “This (2 hospitals) will go a long way in improving Covid care in Bihar," the PMO stressed. The hospitals will have 150 ICU beds with ventilators and 350 normal beds with oxygen support. Doctors and paramedical staff would be provided by the armed forces medical services, the PMO tweets said. Junior home minister Nityanand Rai inaugurated the Bihta hospital on Monday and hailed both PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah. “Where are those asking about PM CARES funds? Come and see the 500-bed hospital in Bihta,” the Bihar BJP tweeted with the slogan: Bhajpa pe bharosa hai (we have faith in BJP). Despite deciding to contest the polls under partner Nitish’s leadership, the BJP has been cleverly trying to carve out an independent ground. It’s campaign focuses on hailing PM Modi and his contributions to Bihar while silently seeking to blame Nitish for everything that’s wrong in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||How ‘misreporting’ on ‘BJP collusion’ exposed the mistrust festering in Congress  ||The false alarm that created panic in the Congress, along with fears of an inevitable split, was a sensational misreporting by the electronic media suggesting that Rahul Gandhi accused the leaders who wrote the letter complaining about the drift in the party of colluding with the BJP. That this falsehood instantly triggered fierce bombarding exposes the deep fault lines within the party and the mistrust among the leaders. Under normal circumstances, it is unthinkable that seasoned politicians would start firing on the basis of media reports, without crosschecking with party colleagues. As soon as news channels flashed the report that Rahul accused those leaders of colluding with the BJP, former minister and Rajya Sabha member Kapil Sibal tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi says we are colluding with BJP. Succeeded in Rajasthan High Court defending the Congress party. Defending party in Manipur to bring down BJP government. Last 30 years have never issued a statement in favour of BJP on any issue. Yet we are colluding with the BJP.” Sibal’s retort to Rahul was seen as an eruption of open war in the party. While the tweet kicked up a political storm, Congress leaders sank into deep anxiety as many of them privately conceded that the reconciliation was impossible now. Several leaders blamed Rahul’s intransigence, saying that the supreme leader should have demonstrated maturity to salvage the situation instead of pushing the party to the brink. Sibal’s tweet generated over 4500 retweets and 11,600 likes within hours, apart from a fierce debate on the propensity of top leaders to drag the BJP to hide their own failures. While some described the allegation of collusion with the BJP of these diehard Congress leaders whose loyalty survived several ups and downs for decades as “intellectual dishonesty” and “a convenient escapist trick” by a leadership, which was running away from substantive debate on the issues raised in the letter, others lamented that Rahul failed to understand that genuine concerns should not be dismissed as a conspiracy in the larger interest of the party. But party’s communication chief Randeep Surjewala swiftly intervened to rebut reports that Rahul had made any such statement during the CWC meeting. Surjewala quoted Sibal’s tweet and said: “Rahul Gandhi hasn’t said a word of this nature nor alluded to it. Please don’t be misled by false media discourse or misinformation being spread. But yes, we all need to work together in fighting the draconian Modi rule rather than fighting and hurting each other, and the Congress.” Probably Rahul realised that Surjewala’s clarification won’t be enough to control the raging fire and decided to talk to Sibal in the middle of the CWC meeting. Sibal promptly put out this tweet: “Was informed by Rahul Gandhi personally that he never said what was attributed to him . I therefore withdraw my tweet.” Although the damage had already been done, as ridicule, scorn and sympathies poured on him from different quarters — including the BJP ecosystem as his loyalty and ideological commitment was under suspicion — the direction of discourse changed after this clarification. Some doubts still persisted as another report shown by television channels — that veteran leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had threatened to resign over the allegation of collusion with the BJP — was not denied. Many political observers maintained that the damage-control exercise showed Rahul had come on the defensive after the outbursts of Sibal and Azad. They refused to believe Rahul didn’t make the allegation. But Azad also clarified soon, saying, “A section of media is wrongly attributing that, in CWC, I told Rahul Gandhi to prove that the letter written by us is in collusion with BJP. Let me make it very clear that Rahul Gandhi has neither in CWC nor outside said that this letter was written at the behest of BJP. What I said was, yesterday some Congress person had said that we did it at behest of BJP and in that context I said, ‘it is most unfortunate that some colleagues (outside CWC) have accused us of collusion with BJP, and if those people can prove this allegation, I will resign’.” Many Congress members and leaders on Sunday used social media platforms to not only argue that such acts benefited the BJP but also said these leaders were working in collusion with the BJP. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja made the allegation of collusion with the BJP in a formal letter she wrote to Sonia Gandhi on Sunday. Azad was responding to these slanderous allegations while speaking at the CWC, which was projected as a dare to Rahul Gandhi. What was also debated by Congress supporters on different social media platforms on Monday was the leak of information from the CWC meeting that is strictly confidential. It was shocking that certain television channels gave running commentary of the proceedings, obviously based on live feeds supplied by somebody from within the party. Either some members were doing it or the support staff of leaders who were present in the room to offer technical assistance during the conference. Some leaders, however, were aghast that such important meeting was held through video-conference, allowing the participants the liberty of sending out live feeds in the absence of any monitoring. They wondered why can’t such a meeting be arranged physically by following social distancing norms. The flutter caused by misreporting on Rahul, that damaged the party considerably, could have been avoided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Need to verify complainant-BJP link: Bhushan||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan has insisted that he should be given a copy of the original complaint made by advocate Mahek Maheshwari that triggered the Supreme Court’s criminal contempt case on two tweets. According to a submission by Bhushan, Maheshwari was associated with a “prominent BJP member”. The submission did not name the BJP leader. Bhushan said he was entitled to a copy of the complaint to know whether the complaint was mala fide or politically motivated. “The implications of this are far-reaching because Bhushan and the public are entitled to know whether the complaint was mala fide or even personally or politically motivated,” said the submission filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal. Rajeev Dhavan is the senior counsel representing Bhushan before the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra. On August 14, the apex court had convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt. Maheshwari had first complained about Bhushan’s tweet on Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde. The bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari had converted Maheshwari’s complaint into a suo motu case. Article 129 of the Constitution vests the Supreme Court with inherent powers to take contempt action against any person. In the submission, Bhushan also listed some of the other contempt cases the Supreme Court had handled earlier. He cited the following examples: Bhushan pointed out: “Yet, according to the court, he was not guilty of contempt for the comments.” “A more telling example,” Bhushan said, is in the news reports of… (2013) where chief minister Mamata Banerjee gave a speech in which she said that judgments were delivered in exchange for money and “corruption has made inroads into the judiciary and democracy as a whole”. After counselling restraint to the chief minister, Calcutta High Court, which was then headed by Justice Mishra, did not indict her for contempt. The judgment then was delivered by Justice Joymalya Bagchi, who was sitting at that time with Justice Mishra. According to Dhavan, it is clear that:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Trivandrum International Airport: United against Adani takeover||The Kerala Assembly on Monday unanimously passed a resolution moved by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, urging the Centre to reconsider the decision to hand over the Thiruvananthapuram international airport through the public-private partnership mode. The Left government and Congress-led Opposition alliance had come out against the impending takeover of the airport by the Adani group that had earlier won a bid to run the six airports, including the one in the Kerala capital. Vijayan told the House while moving the resolution that the Centre had ignored the state’s offer to run the airport hitherto being operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). He said the state government had experience in successfully running the international airports in Kochi and Kannur while Adani Enterprises had no such experience. The Union cabinet had last week approved the Adanis’ takeover of the airports they had successfully bid. Congress lawmaker V.D. Satheesan who moved a no-trust motion against the Left Democratic Front government alleged that the state’s bid amount for the Thiruvananthapuram airport was leaked. The state government had hired law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas that has close familial links to Adani group chairman Gautam Adani. Satheesan said consultant of the airport project, KPMG, had advised the state government that the bid amount could be between Rs 134 and Rs 151 per passenger handled by the airport. “While the state’s bid was Rs 135, Adani Enterprise quoted Rs 168, which is 19 per cent higher. Since the state had the right of first refusal, if the competitor had outbid it by 10 per cent, we (would have) lost the bid,” said Satheesan. “If we (state government) had quoted Rs 151 (the maximum amount recommended by KPMG), we could have won the bid even if Adani’s bid was Rs 166 or lower. But Adani quoted Rs 2 more at Rs 168, which is over (the recommended) Rs 151. This shows the state’s bid was leaked,” said Satheesan. The one-day Assembly session summoned because the no-trust motion moved by the Congress basically became a venue to make allegations against the Left government, which denied all of them. With 93 members in a House of 140, the LDF was never in doubt about its numerical strength when Satheesan moved the motion. The debate on the motion was on when this report was filed. But leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, of the Congress, led his benches in their efforts to establish allegations of corruption against the government. “The chief minister’s office has become a den of corruption going by the recent developments,” Chennithala said citing the gold smuggling case and purchase of a data management software from a US-based firm, among others. Former secretary in the CMO, M. Sivasankar, was removed after details emerged about his close links with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling case that was unearthed by the Thiruvananthapuram airport customs last month. Chennithala said the people have lost faith in the government that has “failed on all fronts”. “This government has failed even in handling Covid-19 since it relied too much on media publicity with the help of PR (public relations) agencies,” said Chennithala. The government had already clarified that there were no PR agencies involved in the coverage by media. In his response to the motion, Vijayan took a swipe at the Opposition. “The Opposition doesn’t have confidence in themselves. If they are talking about the support of people, it is they who lack public support as we came to power with 91 seats but now have 93,” said Vijayan. “Today, even the AICC is discussing in Delhi about no confidence in their leadership expressed by some Congress leaders. Several Congress leaders are calling their colleagues as agents of the BJP. Not that the public discourse is about the future of the 135-year-old party,” said Vijayan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Supreme Court declines plea on online NEET||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to direct online exam or set up overseas centres for the NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) on September 13, saying interested foreign students must visit India for competing. The court passed the directions while dealing with an appeal filed by foreign aspirants,  who through their advocate Harris Beran, had pleaded that it would be impossible for them to visit India amid the pandemic as there are no proper international flights. But the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S. Ravindra Bhat declined the plea as it refused to interfere with the Kerala High Court order which had refused to direct the NTA to conduct online exams or set up centres abroad for interested overseas students. However, it directed solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the National Testing Agency which conducts the exam, to facilitate all arrangements to allow foreign students to fly in via the Vande Bharat scheme to write NEET. The bench said the foreign students must also observe the mandatory 14-day quarantine to protect “public health” though the petitioner was free to approach the respective state authorities to seek necessary relaxation of the norms. “The petitioner requested for relaxation of 14 days quarantine. We are afraid such a direction cannot be given as it would endanger public health,” the bench said while allowing the petitioner to approach the state authorities to ask for relaxation of quarantine requirements. “…that (quarantine) it is a matter of public health too. You can argue for your client…but, we need to take care of public health too. There is enough time, it’s (exam) on 13th (of September). Ask them to come now, so that 14 days quarantine can be over,” Justice Rao, heading the bench, said. Mehta said quarantine is a prerogative of the state governments on which the Centre can’t say anything. “I have no problem as such. So far as Vande Bharat flights are concerned, they do take care of certain categories,” Mehta said, while promising to facilitate interested students to avail of the flights for visiting India to write the exam. The testing agency had earlier told the Supreme Court that it could not set up overseas centres or conduct the NEET through online mode in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The NTA had filed an affidavit in this regard pursuant to the apex court’s July 29 notice to the Centre, Medical Council of India and the testing agency on the plea by around 4,000 students from Singapore, the Gulf and West Asian countries seeking allocation of overseas centres for conduct of the NEET or its postponement until the pandemic blows over. Kerala High Court had earlier dismissed the plea of the overseas students, aggrieved by which they had moved the present special leave petition in the apex court. On August 17, the apex court had dismissed another petition seeking postponement of the NEET saying the pandemic cannot be a reason to jeopardise the career of lakhs of students this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Entrance exam waiver for MBA||The technical education regulator has waived the requirement of entrance-test scores for admission to MBA and Postgraduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) courses, citing several states’ inability to hold these tests because of the pandemic. Instead, students can be admitted to these programmes on the basis of their graduation scores, the All India Council for Technical Education has said. The move has prompted some academics to question the insistence by the central government and its examination body, the National Testing Agency, on holding the national-level engineering (JEE Main) and medicine (NEET) entrance tests in September. Higher education regulator University Grants Commission too has asked all the universities to hold final-semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September. Normally, under the AICTE’s guidelines, the country’s 320-odd management institutes admit students on the basis of their scores in any of six national-level entrance exams or the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) conducted by individual state governments. The six national-level tests, conducted by central or private agencies and institutions, are the Common Admission Test (CAT), Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT), Common Management Admission Test (CMAT), AIMS Test for Management Admission (ATMA), Management Aptitude Test (MAT) and the Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT). While all the six national-level tests have already been held — mostly in the early days of the lockdown — many states have failed to conduct their CET. “In many of the states, some of the above entrance tests could not be conducted due to fear of spread of (the) coronavirus and there is no indication as to whether these tests are postponed or likely to be held or cancelled, etc,” the AICTE said in a circular last week. “Therefore... the PGDM/ MBA institutions are allowed to admit the students on the basis of marks obtained in qualifying examination by preparing a merit list in a transparent manner.” The circular, issued by AICTE member secretary Rajive Kumar, added: “However, first preference will be given to those candidates who have appeared (qualified) in any of the entrance tests.” Kumar told The Telegraph that the AICTE had received a large volume of representations from students and institutions citing the failure of some states to conduct the CET. “So we have allowed admission on the basis of (graduation) marks, but only after exhausting all the candidates who have taken any of the seven entrance tests,” he said. A teacher from a Noida-based engineering college cited the AICTE move to question the decision to hold the JEE Main, NEET and the final-semester exams in universities amid the pandemic. “If the AICTE can waive the requirement for entrance-test scores because of the Covid crisis, the National Testing Agency (NTA) should at least agree to defer the JEE Main and the NEET. Since admissions have already been delayed, they can sure be delayed by some more time?” the teacher said. Several states have opposed the conduct of the engineering and medical entrance tests now. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday posted a tweet asking the Centre to consider postponing these tests to avoid risking the students’ lives. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too has asked the government to listen to the students and arrive at an acceptable solution. An education ministry official, however, said the NTA was unlikely to defer the engineering and medical entrance tests since the Supreme Court had dismissed a plea from students and others seeking such postponement. The NTA had last week issued a media release saying the JEE Main would be held from September 1 to 6 for nearly 8.5 lakh candidates, and the NEET on September 13 for about 16 lakh candidates. The NTA has asked the states to provide the logistics and ensure law and order at the test centres. “In order to solicit support of the states for maintaining law and order condition, power supply, facilitation of movement of candidates and exam functionaries, crowd management in front of exam centres, etc, the NTA has also written to the state chief secretaries, DGPs, and DMs/SPs of the concerned cities,” the NTA release said. It said the states had also been asked to follow all pandemic safety protocols during the tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Jharkhand Congress leaders support Rahul Gandhi||Senior Congress leaders from Jharkhand have come out in support of Rahul Gandhi taking over reins of the 100-year-old political outfit if Sonia Gandhi does not agree to continue as president of the party. “Almost all the 17 Congress MLAs (75-year-old Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in May) are in support of Rahul being made president of the party, if health issues does not permit Sonia from continuing as party president. “It was the astute leadership of Rahulji and state-in-charge R.P.N. Singh which made Congress forge a winning alliance with the JMM and the RJD and wrested power from the BJP in the Assembly polls held in December. We are willing to walk that extra mile under Rahulji and are confident of wresting power at the Centre too,” said party’s Jharkhand working president and state’s spokesperson, Rajesh Thakur. Incidentally, the oldest political party of the country, the Congress seems to be divided into two camps, Gandhi loyalists and dissidents, during the ongoing Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday, where Sonia who took over as interim president after Rahul’s resignation, some 15 months ago, expressed her unwillingness to continue in her current post. State rural development minister and fourth-term Pakur MLA, Alamgir Alam who is also the Congress legislative party, emphatically stressed on reins being handed over to someone in the ‘Gandhi’ family. “If Sonia Gandhiji does not wish to continue as the interim president for whatever reasons, then Rahul should be made the president without much deliberation. We have seen what Rahulji has weathered in the last few years while going all out against a hostile ruling dispensation. He has shown the guts to stand up against BJP leaders and should continue to plan strategies for the party,” said Alam. Party’s lone MP from Jharkhand in the Lok Sabha, Geeta Koda (Singhbhum constituency) categorically wanted Rahul Gandhi as party’s president. “There should be no ifs and buts and Rahulji should be made party’s national president again after Soniaji’s resignation. One should not forget that it was due to the hard work of Rahul Gandhi that the party managed to wrest power in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh and even in Madhya Pradesh. We need Rahulji’s leadership to upset the nefarious design of BJP,” said Geeta Koda. Former Union cabinet minister and three time MP from Ranchi, Subodh Kant Sahai, also pitched in for Rahul. “Sonia Gandhi’s ability, capability, visionary leadership is unparalleled but unfortunately her health does not allow her to lead the party. Rahul Gandhi is fighting tooth and nail with Narendra Modi and he is the only one in the country who is giving a straight fight to the PM. Rahul Gandhi should lead the party without hesitation. “Only under his leadership Congress can fulfil the task to carry the entire opposition to save the nation and Constitution,’ tweeted Sahai on Sunday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-709
25-08-2020||India||Puri denies sale of century-old dharamsala||The Puri district administration has denied that a portion of the premises of Puri town’s lone government-owned lodge for pilgrims has been sold to six private hoteliers, as alleged by some social activists and the BJP. It has said the plot — making up 12 per cent of the century-old Bagala Dharamsala’s premises — is being used to rehabilitate the Jagannath temple sevayats (servitors) and some others whose houses and shops were demolished to beautify the shrine’s surroundings. A demolition drive was recently undertaken to clear areas within 75 metres of the temple to create a heritage corridor. The dharamsala, which provides cheap accommodation to pilgrims, is barely 300 metres from the temple. “It is wrong to say that the Bagala Dharamsala land has been sold to private lodge owners. The Dharamsala building has not been allotted to anybody (either),” the district administration said in a media release. “(Those) who have given away their land are mostly sevayats....” It said these people had responded to a government appeal and “donated” their land (on which their houses or commercial establishments stood) for the corridor project out of their “bhakti” (devotion) for the Lord. “The rehabilitation policy has been approved by the cabinet and (it) is being executed to ensure security of the temple,” the release said. It said that while the Bagala Dharamsala can lodge 200 pilgrims, the government is building a “pilgrim centre/ lodge with a capacity of 2,000 for poor pilgrims” and will create accommodation for another 8,000 in Puri. “Thus, the state government is in the process of almost increasing the poor pilgrim accommodation in Puri by 50 times, ie, from 200 to 10,000.” However, Jagannath Bastia, a social activist and journalist who has moved a public interest plea in Orissa High Court against the purported sale of the land to private lodge owners, accused the district administration of “trying to mislead public opinion”. “They have already executed the sale deed. I have documents to prove that. I will submit all the documents before the high court,” he said. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, who lost from the Puri Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 general election and has been protesting the alleged sale of the land, too refused to accept the administration’s version. “There is a big conspiracy. The bigger plan is to hand over properties worth crores of rupees to influential people,” he said. But Puri MP Pinaki Misra of the ruling Biju Janata Dal said: “Land has been allotted to those who had been staying within 75 metres of the temple for centuries.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
25-08-2020||India||Wi-Fi and new enclosures for Patna zoo||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday inaugurated Wi-Fi facility and new enclosures for various species of animals at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as Patna zoo, in the state capital. The Wi-Fi facility would facilitate the visitors to access free high-speed internet service, an official release said. The chief minister inaugurated a gharial enclosure, a rhino enclosure, a rhino conservation and breeding centre and a hyena enclosure, it said. Nitish and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi also planted a sapling near the rhino conservation and breeding centre. The gharial enclosure has been built at a cost of Rs 96.62 lakh with the help of Central Zoo Authority, the release said adding that 12 gharials — three males and nine females — have been kept at the enclosure where a visitor gallery is also being built. Similarly, a modern enclosure for double-horn rhinos, to be brought from Vietnam, has been constructed for Rs 100.7 lakh, it said. The rhino conservation and breeding centre is a first of its kind centre in the country, which has been constructed for Rs 538.74 lakh with the support of Central Zoo Authority. A total of 25 rhinos can be kept at the enclosure, spread at 3.5 acres of land. Currently, two rhinos — a male and a female — have been kept at the breeding centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-710
