26-08-2020||India||Sonia chairs meeting of Opposition CMs ||Chief Ministers belonging to various opposition parties on Wednesday got together and discussed the issue of GST compensation to states, with Congress President Sonia Gandhi saying the Centre's refusal to reimburse the states was nothing short of betrayal of the people by the Modi government. Gandhi convened a virtual meeting of chief ministers of opposition-ruled states to discuss the key issues confronting them. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren and chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel and V Narayanasamy attended the meeting. In her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said she agreed with Banerjee and Thackeray that all opposition-ruled states should together fight the Centre for their rights. "We have to work together and fight together against the Central government," Gandhi said at the meeting while endorsing Banerjee and Thackeray. "We should decide whether we have to fight or fear," Thackeray said at the meeting. Banerjee earlier said the situation was "very serious" and opposition-ruled states should fight unitedly. Gandhi termed the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) legislation as "anti-democratic" and alleged that the laws to protect the environment and public health are being weakened by the Modi government. She said announcements like the National Education Policy should worry the opposition as they are a setback for secular and scientific values and reveal the "insensitivity" of the government. On students' problems and the issue of exams arising out of the pandemic situation, she said it is being dealt with uncaringly by the Centre. Banerjee urged all the chief ministers to together move the Supreme Court for postponing the NEET and JEE exams as students are not prepared. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said the ruling party was using agencies against the opposition and was undermining the federal structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Centre given one week by SC to clarify it's stand on waiver of interest||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took note of the Centre's alleged inaction and asked it to clarify its stand within a week on the waiver of interest, on interest for deferred payments of instalments for loans during the moratorium period announced due to the coronavirus lockdown. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said the Centre had not made its stand clear on the issue despite the fact that ample powers were available with it under the Disaster Management Act and was "hiding behind the RBI". The apex court granted time to the government after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought a week's time to file a response. "My Lordships may not say that. We are working in coordination with RBI," Mehta said. The bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and Justice M R Shah, asked the solicitor general to clarify stand on the Disaster Management Act and whether additional interest on existing interest could be accrued. Mehta argued that there cannot be a common solution for all the problems. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioner, informed the bench that the loan moratorium's deadline would end on August 31 and sought its extension. "I am only saying that till these pleas are decided, the extension should not end," Sibal said. The apex court has now posted the matter for hearing on September 1. The top court had earlier said there was "no merit in charging interest on interest" for deferred loan payment installments during the moratorium period announced in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench was hearing a plea filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma, who has sought a direction to declare the portion of the RBI's March 27 notification "as ultra vires to the extent it charges interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period, which create hardship to the petitioner being borrower and creates hindrance and obstruction in 'right to life' guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India". Sharma has also sought a direction to the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide relief in repayment of loan by not charging interest during the moratorium period. On June 4, the top court had sought the Finance Ministry's reply on the waiver of interest on loans during the moratorium period after the RBI said it would not be prudent to go for a forced waiver of interest risking financial viability of the banks. The top court had said there were two aspects under consideration in this matter - no interest payment on loans during the moratorium period and no interest to be charged on interest. It said these were challenging times and it was a serious issue as on one hand, moratorium was granted and on the other, interest was charged on loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Antibody survey to guide school reopening||India has launched a repeat nationwide survey to measure changes in the new coronavirus infection’s prevalence after a three-month gap, and probe for the first time prevalence among adolescents to guide school-opening policies. The survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research, the apex health research agency, will look for antibodies to the coronavirus in 28,000 blood samples — 400 each from the same 70 districts where the council had conducted a similar survey in May. “We’ve embarked on the second survey — this is a work in progress. It should be completed by the first week of September,” said the council’s director-general Balram Bhargava. But the repeat survey will sample all members of households, including children and adolescents aged 10 years or above. The first survey had sampled one member from each household and sampled only people aged 18 years or older. “Prevalence rates among children or adolescents could have implications for school-opening policies,” a senior clinician-researcher who helped design the survey told The Telegraph. “It is not the only factor, but it could help guide decisions.” High prevalence among children and adolescents would support school opening, while low prevalence would imply greater risk, the researcher said, but asserted that the prevalence rate would not be the only criteria to determine school opening. In Bengal, the survey will screen households in Calcutta, Alipurduar, Bankura, Jhargram, East Midnapore and South 24-Paragnas. The ICMR has not yet made public the details of the first survey, although it had on June 11 revealed that the average prevalence across the 70 districts was 0.73 per cent. But researchers familiar with the findings have said some of the districts sampled had up to 25 per cent prevalence. Bhargava said on Tuesday that the first survey’s findings had undergone two rounds of peer review and were expected to be published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research this week. The repeat survey is expected to provide insights into the rate of spread of the infection in specific districts amid evidence from select cities that millions of people nationwide have been infected and have recovered without knowing it. Health researchers point to the increase in the prevalence in Delhi within a month. A survey by the National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi had in mid-June found that 23 per cent of the population had antibodies to the virus. But an independent survey by the Delhi state government in mid-July found antibodies in 29 per cent of the sampled population. The 6 per cent increase in infection prevalence applied to Delhi’s estimated population of 20 million would imply that hundreds of thousands of more people had become infected unknowingly during the period between the two surveys. While health authorities are tracking daily counts of patients with Covid-19, 80 per cent of infected persons are expected to have only mild symptoms or no symptoms. Such antibody surveys are intended to provide the true burden of infections. India on Tuesday recorded 60,975 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of infections to over 3.16 million, of whom more than 2.4 million have recovered, 704,348 patients are under medical supervision and 58,390 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||English August in Andhra||Fruit seller D. Shabeey of Masapet in Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh hopes his four children will do some “padha-likha” (reading and writing) work after receiving English education at the government school in the village. Last month, Shabeey, who is an OBC, gave his consent in favour of English-medium education at the local primary school. “I am a fruit seller. But my children will not do this work. They will certainly do some padha-likha work in life by learning English,” Shabeey told The Telegraph over phone. Andhra Pradesh has become the first state in the country to offer English as the medium of education in all its government schools, skirting legal challenges. All 45,000 government schools in the state earlier this month began offering English as the medium of learning, in addition to Telugu, from Class I to VI, a facility that will be extended to Class X over the next four years from the 2021 session. Telugu used to be the only medium of learning in government schools till the last academic session. Students were offered the option of studying in English only in Classes XI and XII. Experts have hailed the move as a step to bring about social change, ensure social and economic equality, and dismantle the monopoly of privileged castes and classes in education and jobs. The government had initially decided that all schools run by it would be turned into English-medium institutions. However, a case had been filed in Andhra Pradesh High Court challenging this as wrong and violative of the parents’ choice on the medium of instruction for their children. The petitioners had also alleged that the decision had violated the three-language formula suggested in the National Policy on Education, 1968. The court had found fault with both sides and struck down the decision. The YSR Congress government led by Jaganmohan Reddy then decided to offer English as an option in addition to Telugu, leaving the choice to the parents. The state government has also moved the Supreme Court against the high court verdict. Prof. Kancha Ilaiah, a researcher on social justice, recalled how the erstwhile Left Front government in Bengal had deprived a generation of English learning in primary schools in the 1980s, thereby stunting the academic mobility of many. In Andhra Pradesh, there are 62,000 schools, of which 45,000 are run by the state government, around 15,500 by private managements, while close to 2,000 are private aided, according to data available with the school education department. Of the 72 lakh children enrolled in Classes I to X, nearly 38 lakh are in government schools. P.V. Ramesh, senior adviser to the chief minister, said the main draw of the private schools was the medium of instruction being English. About 98.5 per cent of the private schools in Andhra Pradesh are English medium. “Middle class and lower middle class families are increasingly sending their children to private schools. The government-run schools are essentially serving poor children, those mainly belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and OBC communities and some sections of the economically weaker general castes. This is further accentuating the inequality that already exists in society because of caste and class,” Ramesh said. According to census data, SCs make up 17.08 per cent of Andhra Pradesh’s population, while STs constitute 5.53 per cent. The OBCs constitute 49.5 per cent, as per data on the website of the state’s backward classes welfare department. Around 19.6 per cent of students enrolled in government schools are SCs, 6.76 per cent are STs and 51.16 are OBCs. Ramesh said children from English-medium schools were more successful than their Telugu-medium peers in competitive exams such as the Joint Entrance Examination and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). “English-medium education (in government schools) is an attempt to check the widening social and economic inequalities in society,” Ramesh said. Ramesh said the changes had to face a lot of opposition. “We have taken the consent of parents on English-medium schooling. Over 96 per cent parents have given their consent. But Telugu medium is being continued for a section of children who have opted for it,” Ramesh said. Prof. Ilaiah said English-medium education was key to the social and economic progress of children of all section of society. “Elitism is perpetuated because of the monopoly over English education. Those lacking English education largely do not find any positions in any field of intellectual pursuit. The Andhra Pradesh government’s measure is a step towards demolishing elitism and exclusivity in professions,” Ilaiah said. He said higher education was also the fief of select castes. “All states should follow this model. States like Bengal and Tripura, ruled for long by Left parties, did not promote English education. As a result, social inequality is very strong there even today,” Ilaiah said. S. Rajeev Gandhi, the principal of an upper primary school at Madhireddypalli village in Chittoor district, said the parents of all the 60 students in Classes I to VI had chosen English as the medium of education. “Parents are very eager to give their children an English education. It is a new experience for all the teachers too,” Gandhi said. The education department has already made available books in English and has provided training to teachers for the new medium, Ramesh said. Linguist Panchanan Mohanty, who has served as a faculty member of the Centre of Applied Linguistics and Translation Studies at Hyderabad Central University for over three decades, however, said the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision was not well thought out. “Mathematics is a universal subject. Teaching mathematics in English is all right. But there is no logic to teach social studies in English. It is about society and culture. Ideally, the mother tongue is best suited for teaching of social studies,” Mohanty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||What Sangh forgot to tell envoy about Aamir’s visit||The Sangh parivar needs to offer Indian ambassadors posted abroad a crash course on the world according to the RSS’s brand of Hindutva. The Organiser, the magazine that RSS supporters are supposed to read, has split geopolitical hairs on actor Aamir Khan meeting Turkey’s First Lady Emine Erdogan in Istanbul recently and concluded that he committed a “blooper”. The assessment is part of the magazine’s critique of Emine Erdogan’s husband and Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for invoking the Caliphate and his “anti-India” stand. “Turkey is known for anti-India statements, especially on Jammu & Kashmir, open support to Pakistan and strategic alliance with China,” the article said. “The visit of actor Aamir Khan to Turkey’s first family should be seen in this light,” the Organiser advised its readers. But somebody forgot to tell the Indian ambassador who is expected to know more about such matters than a magazine whose worldview matches that of the RSS. Sanjay Panda, India’s ambassador to Turkey, had tweeted on August 16: “That special moment — First Lady H.E. @EmineErdogan receives India’s Cultural Ambassador and one of the finest exponents of meaningful cinema @aamir_khan on a location scouring trip to Turkey for his latest film #LalSinghChaddha.” Aamir, in Turkey to shoot for his upcoming film, had been received by the First Lady at the presidential residence in Istanbul on August 15. The latest issue of the Organiser dedicates its cover story to the Turkish President. Titled “Caliph & the Caliphate: The Dystopian Menace”, the report tears into Erdogan for attempting to “usurp the title of Caliph” and terming it dangerous for the world and India, which has a substantial Muslim population. Barring his religion, Erdogan has several strongman “qualities” that the admirers of the Sangh admire. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi had received Erdogan in 2017, the two leaders had publicly hugged and shaken hands and steered clear of thorny issues. The camaraderie ebbed after Erdogan criticised India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and supported Pakistan’s stand on Kashmir. After Erdogan’s comments in the Pakistan parliament last year, Modi had cancelled his scheduled visit to Turkey. The Organiser article makes a reference to Modi’s “chemistry” with Erdogan but without drawing any conclusion as in the case of Aamir. “Erdogan’s visit to India in April 2017, and the cordial relations between Erdogan and Modi showcased on the sidelines of the recent G20 summit are evidence of some personal chemistry between the two leaders, as well as points of contact between their leadership styles,” the article said. Then it says: “However, Turkey’s unfavourable positions on key strategic issues for India remain a hurdle….” The article flagged the threat posed to India by Erdogan, saying his “moderate version of political Islam is more likely to be welcomed by Indian Muslims”. The article acknowledged the rise of “Hindu nationalist” sentiments in India and underlined that Muslims feeling “threatened” by it may look towards the Erdogan-led Turkey as their “backer”. “And as the Hindu nationalist footprint strengthens in India, and Muslims feel increasingly threatened, they may seek a more powerful backer abroad to protect their interests, rights, security and identify,” the article concluded. The article claimed that the Khilafat movement by the “Ali brothers and company” had planted the seeds of “Pan-Islamism” during the Independence movement that led to India’s Partition. The magazine has a separate article on Aamir that stresses that his meeting with the President’s wife should be seen in the light of the Turkish leader’s Caliphate dream and strong anti-India stand. The article on Aamir is titled “It’s not Dil Chahta Hai”, referring to the actor’s 2001 film and adding that the “mere excuse of a courteous visit cannot save Aamir Khan from this blooper”. The article features pictures from Aamir’s visit. One picture of Aamir wearing a Turkish hat is captioned: “Aamir presented with a Ertugal Hat in Turkey has a deeper political meaning than mere cinematic appearance.” The article recalled Aamir’s 2015 comments on rising intolerance in India and his statement that his wife Kiran Rao often wondered whether the family should move out of India. In this context, the article mentioned Erdogan’s criticism of the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. The article went on to issue a wider warning to Bollywood to keep national interest in mind. “Freedom of speech certainly doesn’t imply hypocrisy, and maligning one’s own country for a fan base should be thrown out in the bin. Bollywood does need a reality check on people’s sentiments, and some stars need to know how, when, where and why they need to keep their actions in order,” the article said, pandering to a growing sentiment among Hindutva Right-wingers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||You’ve broad shoulders, be merciful: Dhavan||Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan told the Supreme Court that it would be making a “martyr” out of lawyer Prashant Bhushan if it sends him to jail, asserting that Bhushan would always be “critical” of the judiciary and cannot be silenced through contempt proceedings. Dhavan, who appeared for Bhushan, disagreed with the views of attorney-general K.K. Venugopal. Unlike Venugopal who suggested Bhushan should be let off with a warning if he expressed regret, Dhavan contended that Bhushan should not even be “reprimanded”. “If you want to impose a jail term, my advice would be don’t make Prashant Bhushan a martyr, like what happened after the Babri Masjid was demolished and Kalyan Singh was convicted of contempt…,” Dhavan told the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. “Don’t make Prashant Bhushan a martyr… this controversy will continue depending on what punishment this court gives to him. And this controversy will end only if this court shows statesmanship. Lordships must be merciful as they have broad shoulders. Criticism cannot be suppressed for the well-being of society,” Dhavan said. “This institution must have criticism and not just criticism but extreme criticism. Your shoulders are broad enough,” he said. BJP veteran Kalyan was sentenced to one day’s imprisonment and fined Rs 20,000 by the Supreme Court in October 1994 for contempt after he failed to prevent the demolition of the Babri Masjid while he was chief minister despite giving an undertaking to the court about its safety. Justice Mishra said: “There is a difference between an officer of the court and a politician. I am not commenting on Mr Bhushan. But that’s what is happening nowadays. You go to the press even in sub judice matters, make all kinds of comments when the court is already hearing it. “If someone with a standing of 30 years, like Mr Prashant Bhushan, says something, people tend to believe him. They will think whatever he is saying is correct. Had it been someone else, it was easier to ignore but when Mr Bhushan says something, it has some effect.” Dhavan said: “Although AG (attorney-general) says a reprimand is in order, I’ll say a general statement is enough and there is no need to reprimand him.” Justice Mishra wondered how all the petitions/applications filed by Bhushan first find their mention in the media before being heard by the court. Justice Mishra: “It is about the system, if we are going to destroy each other, who will have faith in this institution? You have to be tolerant, see what the court is doing and why. Don’t just attack. Judges can’t go to press to defend themselves or explain. “Whatever we have to say, we have to write in our judgments. There are so many things but do we have to go to the press? I will never do that. That’s the ethics for judges. If we are going to fight each other, pull each other down, we will finish this institution. “Haven’t people been criticising us? So many people criticise us but how many people have we convicted or punished? There is another case against Mr Bhushan pending since 2009, has he been punished there? I have to demit office and it is painful I have to deal with all this. Justice Mishra (in a choked voice): “If the Bar and the Bench are going to destroy each other, who will have faith in this institution? Don’t just attack. Judges cannot go to press to defend themselves. You (lawyers) are our voice.” Dhavan agreed that statements should not have been released to the media before the court took up the matter. Justice Mishra said that live reporting of the court proceedings were often one-sided and in many cases wrong, and referred to two legal websites for their alleged one-sided reporting. Dhavan said that instead of punishing Bhushan, the court could write a judgment laying down the code people should follow, but the idea should not be to silence Bhushan. “A reprimand may have repercussions not clear at this stage. Please say in the judgment ‘we don’t agree with Mr Bhushan but a code should be followed’,” he said. Justice Gavai asked if it was appropriate for lawyers to give interviews or attend webinars on sub judice matters. Dhavan agreed that lawyers “have no business” making comments on sub judice matters. At this stage, Venugopal said the veracity of Bhushan’s allegations against the former Chief Justices of India could be arrived at only after eliciting the views of the former judges, which would warrant a fresh inquiry. “Bhushan can’t be punished till that inquiry concludes…,” the AG said while suggesting that the court must “give a quietus” to the issue. Justice Mishra: “But there have been allegations against the sitting judges too. Should we call all judges here?” Venugopal: “Hearing those judges would mean a never-ending inquiry. So, Your Lordships can say that his defence cannot be taken into account. Therefore, Your Lordships can leave the matter at rest as it is now, by saying that his defence cannot be looked into.” Justice Mishra: “When the judges are speechless, who will protect them? Only the Bar will protect them. Only the attorney will protect them. How long will the system suffer this criticism? “You can criticise but do not attribute motives. Judges are condemned, their families are humiliated and they can’t even speak. You are the leader of the Bar. We expect you to be impartial. You may have love and affection for anyone but we want you to be fair. Don’t take sides. “For how long will the system suffer all this? I am retiring in a few days. Will it be okay if you or others start attacking me? Can you say anything against retired judges?” Justice Mishra: “What’s so bad in apologising? If someone has made a mistake, what’s wrong in seeking an apology? If you have hurt someone, why can’t you apologise? I am not commenting on Mr Bhushan right now. You go on to the extent of quoting Mahatma Gandhi but you can’t apologise?” Dhavan told the bench that although he himself had been critical of the judiciary, he was never hauled up for contempt. “I myself described former CJI Justice J.S. Khehar as a sultan in the court and I demonstrated why and how. There was no contempt case against me,” Dhavan said while referring to a number of his articles, books and comments on the judiciary. “The term ‘scandalising the court’ is ambiguous. Criticism of court is inevitable. Consider the bona fide of the ‘offender’ and then consider the offence. I have now written 1,031 articles, out of which 900 are on the Supreme Court and I don’t write unless there is something to say,” he said. Referring to the court’s order convicting Bhushan of criminal contempt and granting him a few days to consider an unconditional apology, Dhavan said an apology cannot be extracted through coercion. “Your previous order was almost as though the contemnor was being coerced into tendering an apology. This is not what the Supreme Court does — ‘we give you so many days, tender an apology’. This is wrong jurisprudence. No court can pass an order like this. “When a person is called for a contempt case, is he not supposed to offer a defence? An apology cannot be a mere incantation, an apology has to be made sincerely and he (Bhushan) sincerely says that ‘this is my belief’,” Dhavan said. Dhavan contended that “nobody can be forced to retract from what he believes to be his ‘bona fide belief’. If Mr Bhushan’s statement is read as a whole, it says he has the highest regard for this institution but he has his opinion about the last four CJIs and the manner in which this court has gone wrong. We criticise this court when we feel sincerely about this institution. “This court should invite criticism. It is the duty of all of us to make responsible criticism. Harley-Davidson is hardly a criticism when this is in public domain,” Dhavan said, referring to one of the tweets by Bhushan. The senior lawyer showed the court a copy of the Daily Mirror of the UK. The front page featured upside-down images of three judges, and the headline that screamed: “You fools.” The tabloid was referring to a ruling on a British government gag order on a book on espionage. No contempt action was taken against the paper for the contents of the front page. On Tuesday, Dhavan said: “This court can only survive on the basis of strong criticism.” Dhavan contended that if criticism of the judiciary is contempt, former CJI R.M. Lodha, former Supreme Court judges Madan B. Lokur and Kurian Joseph and veteran journalist Arun Shourie should also be convicted of contempt. “Apology cannot be coerced…. This was not scurrilous, this was a strong criticism of this court which is shared by several others in this country…. When you say ‘don’t do it again’, he is entitled to ask ‘what is it that I don’t do again?’. Such a reprimand or bald warning is too broad and shouldn’t be done. One cannot be silenced forever. “A message that he should be a little restrained in future should be enough. You want him not to do this again… not to criticise the court? Never to express his bona fide opinion, even if truth is his defence? No, he will always be critical…,” Dhavan said. Justice Mishra asked: “If we decide to punish him, what should be the punishment?” Dhavan said: “A general message, not even a reprimand. If you want to bar him from practice, you will have to hear him first.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Let Bhushan off with a reprimand: Venugopal||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to display “statesmanship” and let off advocate Prashant Bhushan with a “reprimand” or “warning” instead of sending him to jail for two tweets for which he has been convicted of criminal contempt. “Let this court show statesmanship and not use the powers of the contempt…,” Venugopal told the court. Venugopal, who had earlier clarified that he was appearing as attorney-general of India and not as the top law officer for the Centre, was responding to the court that had sought his opinion. On Monday, Bhushan had filed a supplementary statement, saying “an insincere apology… in my eyes would amount to the contempt of my conscience and of an institution that I hold in highest esteem”. The three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari reserved its verdict on Tuesday. It will be delivered by September 2, when Justice Mishra, who is heading the bench, is scheduled to retire. On Tuesday, at the commencement of the proceedings, Justice Mishra told the attorney-general: “Tell us what is to be done. We expected a different statement.” Venugopal, reading out from notes, submitted that several sitting and retired judges had over the years commented on corruption in the higher judiciary. Justice Mishra: “That matter, we already adjourned earlier and sent it to an appropriate bench.” The judge was referring to another contempt case — the events of which took place in 2009 — against Bhushan, which will be sent to another bench now. Venugopal: “The statements (by Bhushan) were perhaps only to tell the court about the facts and ask for reforms. It is a fit case to forgive him. Give him a warning and let him go.” Justice Mishra: “We shouldn’t be getting influenced by media reports (on the statements by the former judges). We will rather hear what the AG has to say. What, in your opinion should be the punishment to him?” Venugopal: “A warning to tell him ‘please don’t repeat this in future’.” Justice Mishra: “There is a positive part of the statement by Mr Prashant Bhushan in which he says he has faith in this institution. But at the same time, he says he won’t apologise since he hasn’t made any mistake. Everyone makes mistakes but the person must also realise it. What to do now? “If a person says he didn’t make a mistake and he won’t apologise for it despite repeated opportunities, what will be the purpose of saying ‘don’t do it again’? It is not about us or him. It is about the institution after all.” Venugopal: “I myself wanted to file a contempt case against Mr Prashant Bhushan when two CBI officers were fighting (in 2018) and he said I fabricated documents. But after he expressed regret, I withdrew. Let democracy follow in this case when he has exercised his free speech. It will be tremendously appreciated if the court leaves it at that. Even if he says he hasn’t done anything wrong, this court should take a compassionate view. I speak for the Bar also.” (Venugopal is one of the senior-most members of the Bar.) Justice Mishra: “If he (Bhushan) believes he has done no wrong, what’s the purpose of this warning?” Justice Gavai: “Mr AG, you too filed a contempt (case) against Mr Bhushan and withdrew it only after he expressed regret. But that’s not the case here.” Justice Mishra: “He has made several disparaging remarks against this institution, judges of this court. Even in the Ramjanmabhoomi case, only one judge has retired, the rest of them are still in this court.” Venugopal: “He won’t do this again.” Justice Mishra: “Let him say this. It was so simple. The case was about two tweets but he later added colours to these tweets….” The AG suggested the court can ignore Bhushan’s iteration and forgive him. Justice Mishra: “How can we? Everyone is criticising us that we haven’t considered his response, which, according to us, is even more derogatory. Now if we remove it, we will be blamed we deleted this on our own.” Venugopal said that since Bhushan had expressed his regret in the 2009 contempt case, he can do the same in the present case too. “Let him say this in the present matter too and say he expresses regret. That will be the statesmanship.” The bench: “Learned attorney-general, please read his reply. See what he has said, ‘the Supreme Court has collapsed.’ Isn’t that objectionable?” Venugopal: “I agree that the Supreme Court has done so much for the poor, undertrials and various other sections of the society. But this wasn’t the subject matter of the case against him. Let him express regret.” Justice Gavai: “And for that, we had given him three days.” Justice Mishra pointed out that Bhushan, rather than expressing regret, had dared the court to consider his defence. Venugopal: “Although it is too late for him to go back on what he has said, he can still express regret.” The court also pointed out that Bhushan in his reply had alleged that the court was becoming executive-minded. Venugopal: “The question is what will be the purpose of inflicting punishment. Let them (Bhushan) withdraw this affidavit.… Let this court show statesmanship and not use the powers of the contempt because of this affidavit.” Justice Mishra: “For that, they will have to withdraw it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||Kerala resort fishes in Covid waters||With tourism drying up, Aveda Resorts and Spa in the picturesque backwaters of Kumarakom is trying to ensure that it is not fish out of water. The holiday resort in Kerala has converted its swimming pool — a 150m long and 50m wide sliver of blue that runs between quaint cottages — into a fish farm to ensure its employees have some activity and the property earns a nominal revenue at a time the Covid-19 pandemic has halted tourism. Aveda Resorts and Spa, located near the Vembanad Lake, has been closed since the lockdown began in March. With the tourism sector showing no signs of picking up anytime soon, the resort management has begun farming pearl spots, or the traditional karimeen that is a delicacy in the state, especially in the southern backwaters. While the earnings from fish farming would be hardly sufficient to tide over the losses for Aveda Resorts and Spa in Kumarakom, one of the busiest tourist hubs of Kerala, it has helped the 20-odd workers still at the resort to learn a new skill. When the coronavirus tightened its grip on Kerala and the rest of the country, the workers of the resort spread over 3.5 acres were left with nothing much to do other than regular maintenance of the property, a high-end boutique resort with room tariffs ranging between Rs 7,500 and Rs 15,100 per night. “During a brainstorming session with the management, questions came up about how to utilise the time and what to do other than regular repair and maintenance of the property,” the resort’s general manager, Jyotish Surendran, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. “Eventually, a collective decision was taken to farm fish in the pool. The management took care of the investment of Rs 3 lakh, of which Rs 2 lakh was spent on buying seedlings,” he said. The next step was to get expert advice on aquaculture. The resort has been receiving professional help from the National Centre for Aquatic Animal Health, which is a part of Cochin University of Science and Technology. “After consultations with the experts, we decided to go for pearl spots since they are endemic to this region. So we emptied the pool and pumped in fresh water from the Vembanad Lake to provide an ideal environment for the 16,000 seedlings we purchased from four sources,” Surendran said. Since the resort already had a number of half-grown pearl spots in small ponds on the premises, they were also transferred to the swimming pool where they have started breeding. “The rectangular pool is 150 metres in length and 50 metres in width, with even depth which is ideal for aquaculture. We started fish farming on June 1, which would give sufficient time for harvest by Christmas,” Surendran said. “We hope to earn about Rs 20 lakh by exporting the fish to the Gulf by Christmas, when the demand is very high. But that amount would hardly be enough to cover our losses,” he added. With a likely yield of about 4,000kg of fully grown pearl spots, Surendran hopes to export them for at least Rs 500 a kg. Surendran said the resort was now planning to continue fish farming in some other location nearby when property reopens. “Now that we have learnt a skill, we don’t want to let it go waste. At least we can source our own high-quality pearl spots or other fish from our farm (when the resort reopens),” he said. But there is no plan to go for another yield from the same pool since the resort should be ready to receive tourists once the pandemic-related restrictions are eased. “More than 60 per cent of our guests during the peak season of November to March are Europeans. Business is usually dull in April and May, after which the Arabs start coming to enjoy the monsoon. Then our NRIs also come during the Onam festival,” Surendran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||UP journalist killed as cop turns back on him||A Hindi news channel journalist in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia was assaulted and shot dead after a police officer he had called to save him from attackers in front of a panchayat chief’s house on Monday night left the spot within minutes of arriving. There was haze over the reason behind the murder of Ratan Kumar Singh, 42, with one senior police suggesting a land dispute and the journalist’s family alleging retribution for Ratan’s “fearless journalism” that had highlighted “police atrocities” and had angered sections of cops and villagers. Inspector Shashimauli Pandey, whom Ratan had called up and who was said to be merely 20 metres away when the journalist was shot dead, has been suspended. Ratan is survived by his parents, wife and three children. Vinod Singh, Ratan’s father, has named 10 persons in the FIR for assaulting and shooting dead the journalist. Vinod alleged that inspector Pandey was hand-in-glove with the killers. Vinod said Ratan had gone to the house of the Phephna panchayat chief, Seema Singh, after receiving a call from a relative of the leader’s husband, Jhabar Singh. Sunil Singh, the person who had allegedly called, is among the six persons arrested. An eyewitness said on the condition of anonymity: “The killers were present in the house. I saw Ratan standing at the door of the panchayat leader’s house and speaking to some people inside. Soon, they were seen dragging Ratan onto the road and shooting him dead.” Vinod said some people of the village who were already at the panchayat chief’s house began “arguing with Ratan the moment he reached there”. “Ratan immediately called up Shashimauli Pandey, the Phephna police station in-charge. Pandey reached the spot soon, but left within five minutes. When the police officer was barely 20 metres away, the killers started beating my son and then opened fire. Pandey must have heard the gunshots but he didn’t return,” Vinod alleged. “I believe the police knew what was going to happen. The police didn’t like my son because of his fearless journalism. Ratan used to report frequently on police atrocities,” Vinod said. Some other eyewitnesses, however, said Ratan had run into the panchayat chief’s house to save himself after being attacked by some men when he was walking towards his home. The eyewitnesses said the killers followed Ratan into the house, dragged him out, thrashed him and shot him dead. Subhash Chandra Dubey, the Uttar Pradesh deputy inspector-general of police, said on Tuesday: “The government has suspended Pandey because of his behaviour during the incident. Further action will be taken against him after due inquiry. While six killers have been arrested, a hunt is on to nab the remaining four. We are going to charge the killers under sections of the National Security Act and the Goonda Act. Their properties will also be confiscated.” On Monday night, Ballia superintendent of police Devendra Nath had said Ratan’s murder was the fallout of a land dispute. “It was an old land-related dispute in the village. Somebody had kept stacks of straw and hay in Ratan’s field. We have arrested six villagers — Sunil Singh, Sushil Singh, Dinesh Singh, Arvind Singh, Vir Bahadur Singh and Vinay Singh — on the basis of the complaint by the victim’s father. The incident has nothing to do with Ratan’s profession,” Nath had said. Vinod, however, refuted the claim of land dispute. “The police are trying to turn it into a case of land dispute. Police officers are saying my son had fought with some villagers over stacks of hay and straw that had allegedly been kept in our field. I want the police to show me the stacks in our field. They are lying simply because the police and a section of villagers did not like his journalism,” Vinod said. The Yogi Adityanath government has announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for Ratan’s family. The Ballia Working Journalists’ Union has demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore for Ratan’s family and a government job for his wife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||India’s Parliament no-show||Five months on, the Modi government is yet to call Parliament into session even as several legislatures across the world and some within the country have met during the pandemic; taking necessary precautions, using technology where possible and amending procedural laws to facilitate legislative oversight over governance. Both Houses of Parliament were adjourned sine die on March 23 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases and have not met since then. Since the law mandates that the gap between two sessions cannot be longer than six months, the Centre is expected to announce a date for the next session soon. India, meanwhile, is conspicuous by its absence in a compilation of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) — a global organisation of national parliaments — of parliamentary responses to the pandemic. The parliaments of most of the major democracies have already met during the pandemic; some with restricted attendance and others in a hybrid model of part-physical and part-online presence. Where necessary, procedures have been tweaked to allow for temporary changes in the format. Both Houses of the US Congress resumed regular floor business in May, and they were in session together for the first time during the pandemic from June 25 with the larger House of Representatives also approving new rules for proxy voting and hearings by video conference. “Across the pond”, in the UK, procedural changes to allow hybrid and virtual sitting of the House of Commons were unanimously approved by the House on April 21 and “meetings in both formats started on 22 April including a historic first Prime Minister question time’’, the IPU compilation said. In Australia, both Houses sat from June 10 to 18, and are again meeting from Monday. “Pairing of government and Opposition members and senators (an unofficial arrangement) has been used to maintain the party composition of the Houses while fewer members and senators are present in the chambers during sittings,’’ the IPU said. The German Bundestag, according to the Library of Congress, changed the rules of procedure to relax quorum requirements and allow remote participation in some cases so that Parliament remained functional through the pandemic. The French Senate reduced the number of plenary sittings — one per week with only 10 questions to the government, with only the authors of the questions and heads of parties present. The National Assembly also reduced its number of sittings and held meetings remotely. Brazil passed a new resolution which enables its Parliament to work remotely during a public health emergency using video-conferencing and virtual management tools. The system allows MPs to register to a session and shows all phases of the legislative process including the bill under discussion, amendments, the results of each voting round, speeches, and committee agendas. Even Afghanistan, with its fledgling democracy, convened meetings of the Wolesi Jirga (House of the People) with restrictions; confining the sessions to pandemic-related discussions and scrutinising the government’s actions. Nothing in the Indian Constitution bars the government from making arrangements for hybrid meetings but the efforts here have been to have a physical session only with provision for all members to be present on the premises of Parliament. As of now, the plan is to spread the members of the two Houses over the two chambers in turns which again technically brings in the hybrid mode as participation of a Lok Sabha MP sitting in the Rajya Sabha will be through a special console provided for audio-visual communication. According to Article 85(1) of the Constitution, the President summons each House of Parliament to “meet at such time and place as he thinks fit’’, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-707
26-08-2020||India||‘Appropriate’ bench for Bhushan case||A Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on Tuesday referred to an “appropriate bench” a 2009 criminal contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan because of “paucity of time” before the judge’s retirement on September 2 to consider the “far-reaching ramifications” of the matter. The bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari has been hearing the case relating to criminal contempt of court against Bhushan for alleging in a 2009 interview to Tehelka magazine that “half of the 16 former Chief Justices of India are corrupt”. The same bench has convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt of court for levelling allegations against the judiciary in two tweets, and will pronounce the sentence before September 2. Regarding the Tehelka interview, the three-judge bench has requested Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde to list the matter on September 10 before an “appropriate bench”. “…There is paucity of time, otherwise we would have heard the learned senior counsel with respect to the questions which have been proposed. However, since the matter is pending for the last 10 years, as prayed for, we fix the date for hearing in the month of September 2020. Let the matter be listed on 10.09.2020 before an appropriate bench as may deem fit by the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India,” Justice Mishra said in the written order. During the next hearing, another judge is to replace Justice Mishra. Senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave have urged the court to refer the matter to a constitution bench, which has at least five judges. Retired judge Kurian Joseph had earlier suggested that the contempt cases against Bhushan be referred to a constitution bench because “substantial questions of law on the interpretation of the Constitution of India and having serious repercussions on the fundamental rights” are involved. During Tuesday’s hearing, Dhavan reiterated the plea that the matter ought to be referred to a constitution bench and the attorney-general of India, K.K. Venugopal, must also be heard. Dhavan requested the court for a fresh look at criminal jurisprudence relating to the contempt law and said it must also consider the questions framed by Bhushan with regard to a citizens’ fundamental right to free speech vis-à-vis courts’ power to punish for contempt. “These questions must be resolved once and for all. The court’s free-speech jurisprudence has expanded and its impact on the contempt law must be considered,” Dhavan submitted. Justice Mishra replied that there has to be sufficient pleadings, or written arguments, for framing questions and asked Dhavan if these questions could be considered without such pleadings. “I am short of time. I am demitting office. So whether it is proper for me to take a call on this (reference to a larger bench) is also an issue.… Some of these questions are already settled,” Justice Mishra observed. Dhavan argued that the moot question was whether the Supreme Court under Articles 129 and the high courts under Article 215 can take suo motu contempt action independent of other provisions of the Constitution, particularly Articles 19 (freedom of speech) and 21 (life and liberty) that he said “goes to the very heart of Bhushan’s defence”. “How much of the court’s free-speech jurisprudence has to be read into suo motu contempt powers? This is an important question in this case,” Dhavan said, to which Justice Mishra replied: “Let us leave this to an appropriate bench.” The senior advocate said these questions pertain to truth as a defence and bona fide opinion in contempt action. Dhavan pleaded that the court issue notice to the attorney-general, but Justice Mishra turned down the request saying that it was for the “appropriate bench” to consider the matter, as also Dhavan’s plea for appointing an amicus curiae (friend of court). “The main question is, if alleging corruption against judges would amount to contempt per se or not. Most of the points raised by you will be covered when we discuss that. Some of your questions can still be discussed but it will require a long hearing,” Justice Mishra said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tarun Tejpal who had been the Tehelka editor when Bhushan’s interview had been published, concurred that the issues raised required to be examined by a larger bench. “You should remember, people come to this court for relief. Their faith should not be shaken,” Justice Mishra said. Dhavan replied: “In my view, people come to court for relief and justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Valley domicile certificates in 5 days||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has now made it mandatory for its officers to issue domicile certificates to Permanent Resident Certificate holders and migrants in a mere five days, against 15 days earlier. “Govt fixes a time limit of 5 working days for issuing a domicile certificate to PRC holders and migrants. Reduces from earlier 15 days. Process made extremely simple,” a tweet by the department of Information and Public Relations said on Tuesday night. PRC holders are those residents who had exclusive rights over land and jobs in Jammu and Kashmir before the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A in August last year. Many people in the Valley believe the state’s special status was scrapped to change its Muslim-majority status by settling outsiders. The government has come up with a series of directives in the last few months to facilitate the process of issuing the domicile certificates. In May, the government imposed an extraordinary penalty of Rs 50,000 on the officers tasked to issue these certificates if they delay in issuing domicile certificates to certain classes of outsiders within seven days of the verification. Anyone who has resided in Jammu and Kashmir for a period of 15 years or has studied here for seven years or appeared in Class X and XII examinations in its educational institutions is eligible for the certificates. Some compared the timeline with never-ending investigations in into alleged human rights violations by security forces, referring to recent alleged fake encounter in which three civilians were allegedly killed in Shopian and declared militants. The government announcement came a day after lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday directed the officers concerned to speed up the process of issuance and delivery of domicile certificates in a “hassle-free way”. He appreciated the “enthusiasm” shown by the applicants. The government claims there was 90 per cent pendency of online applications for domicile certificates and directed the officers to speed up the process through online mode. Lakhs have already got these certificates, mostly in Jammu. Official sources said the pendency was a result of non-availability of high speed 4G Internet in the Union Territory.Union minister Jitendra Singh had on Sunday said PRC holders will also need a domicile certificate to apply for jobs and to get other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||13 killed in Raigad building collapse, child survives||Rescuers sifting through the rubble of a five-storey building in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on Tuesday found a four-year-old boy alive and his mother dead under the debris, police said. Thirteen people have died in the Monday evening collapse, with 12 bodies recovered on Tuesday. A man had died of cardiac arrest on Monday night after he was hit by a stone from the falling building, the police said. The Tareq Garden building, which was around 10 years old, collapsed at Kajalpura in Mahad, around 170km from Mumbai, an official said. There were around 40 flats in the building, he said. The boy, Mohammed Nadim Bangi, was taken by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel to a waiting ambulance. The dead include the boy’s 30-year-old mother Naushin Nadim Bangi and his two sisters, Ayesha and Rukaiya, aged seven and two years, the police said. A video shared by the NDRF showed the rescuers taking out the boy from the rubble on a stretcher amid claps by onlookers. NDRF director general S.N. Pradhan termed the rescued boy as god’s child. “Miracle child rescued alive — Gods Child. NDRFHQ teams find 4 year old Boy. Ops will continue, canines used. Lets all pray for more miracles,” Pradhan tweeted. The NDRF, police, residents and dog squads are working relentlessly to rescue people trapped under the debris, a police officer said, adding 13 excavators and other vehicles were engaged in removing it. The police on Tuesday registered an offence against five people, including the builder and architect of Tareq Garden, the officer said. The offence was registered against builder Farooq Kazi, RCC consultant Bahubali Dhamne and architect Gaurav Shah under Sections 304, 304A and 338 of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Congress letter-writers: Not dissenters ||The tension in the Congress created by the letter written by some leaders might have eased on Tuesday with Sonia Gandhi’s mature handling of the situation but serious differences on vital issues persist and the spectre of disunity still looms on the party. Many of those who wrote the controversial letter expressed gratitude for Sonia’s “gracious” and “thoughtful” response — she had said differences in a large family are natural — but the levels of mistrust and bitterness between the two groups have not come down. While one group is elated about the “crushed rebellion”, the other — indisputably much larger than the 23 signatories to the letter — believes attempt to brush the issues raised under the carpet would harm the party. One senior leader told The Telegraph: “We didn’t leak the letter. We don’t even have the copies of the letter with us. We had decided not to hold this debate through the media. But the letter gets leaked mysteriously a day before the Congress Working Committee. That harmed us because the undesirable act of leak dominated the discussions instead of the substantive issues we raised. We would have loved to discuss those fundamental issues at the CWC, not the leak.” This group suspects one office-bearer, arguing that the leak was a deliberate ploy to put them on the defensive. Although the immediate crisis was averted with Sonia’s refusal to take disciplinary action against the authors of the letter despite the outcry for punishment, there remains a clear divide in the party and off-the-record conversations in both camps suggest the party president’s conciliatory gestures haven’t reduced the antagonism. Another leader said: “We are traitors because we want the leadership crisis to end soon, because we want a collective decision-making mechanism till a full-fledged president takes over, because we want a more intense political resistance to the Narendra Modi government, because we advocated action on the ground instead of Twitter… so we should be punished. This pearl of wisdom is coming from our leaders at a time when Sachin Pilot and 19 MLAs have been embraced after they jeopardised the Rajasthan government. Rahul Gandhi should ponder how wise his advisers are.” This leader added: “Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik said at the CWC meeting yesterday that let there be action against them if they committed any wrong. Why was no action taken? Because Sonia showed maturity. What do these people want… to split the party, to weaken the Congress? We are not going anywhere. Our commitment is proven. Those who wanted to crush us should ponder what their political acumen is. If this is the way party is run, under the guidance of greenhorns and sycophants, only God can save us.” Some leaders also expressed similar sentiments on Twitter on Tuesday. Kapil Sibal tweeted a terse one-line message on Tuesday: “It’s not about a post. It’s about my country which matters most.” Another signatory to the letter, Vivek Tankha, Rajya Sabha MP and party’s legal cell head, tweeted: “Friends we are not dissenters but proponents of revival. The letter was not a challenge to leadership but a parchment of action to strengthen the party. Universally truth is best defence whether it be court or public affairs. History acknowledges the brave & not the timid.” Mukul Wasnik, always considered a systems man and a Gandhi family loyalist, responded to Tankha, saying: “Well said. Sooner than later those who saw the letter as an offence will also realise that the issues raised are worth consideration.” Wasnik has been the senior-most general secretary of the party, an integral part of the high command structure for over three decades although he has no public support of his own. Anand Sharma, who too has been close to the family since Indira Gandhi’s days, responded to Tankha: “Well said. The letter was written with the best interest of the party in our hearts and conveying shared concerns over the present environment in the country and sustained assault on the foundational values of the constitution. India needs a strong opposition to confront the BJP. Suggestions for the party’s renewal made in sincerity is not dissent. Wish all colleagues had read it.” Many important leaders privately express support to the group that signed the letter, saying the issues raised were vital. The opponents also agreed the crisis should end sooner rather than later, but are opposed to putting pressure on the leadership and generating negative publicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Breast cancer treatment, in half the time||Doctors at the Mumbai-based Tata Memorial Centre Hospital have shown that six-month therapy with the drug trastuzumab for early breast cancer is as good as the standard 12-month therapy in landmark findings that could at least halve the treatment cost. The researchers at the Tata Memorial pooled and reanalysed the results of six clinical trials worldwide involving around 11,600 breast cancer patients to establish that the short duration, or six-month, therapy is not inferior to the standard one-year therapy. Their analysis has shown that disease-free survival was 87.1 per cent among women who received trastuzumab for one year and 85.4 per cent among those who received it for six months or shorter. The overall survival was 93.4 per cent in the one-year group and 92.4 per cent in the six-month group. “These tiny differences are not clinically meaningful,” said Sudeep Gupta, a senior oncologist at Tata Memorial and the director of the Advanced Centre for Treatment Research and Education in Cancer, Navi Mumbai, who led the study. “Our analysis has established that shorter three to six months’ trastuzumab therapy is sufficient,” he said. For over 15 years, the 12-month trastuzumab therapy has been the standard treatment for a type of breast cancer called HER-2 positive. Doctors say the drug has improved cure rates but the 12-month treatment typically costs Rs 4 lakh for generic versions to Rs 8 lakh for the original brand. The drug can also cause heart-related adverse complications in a small minority of patients. “Our findings imply that treatment costs could be lowered by at least 50 per cent or even 75 per cent with reduced cardio toxicity without any compromise in the cure rates,” said Rajendra Badwe, director of the Tata Memorial. The research findings were published on Monday in JAMA Network Open, a research publication from the stable of the Journal of the American Medical Association. Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in India. Doctors estimate that between 150,000 to 200,000 women develop breast cancer across the country each year and around a quarter — 40,000 to 50,000 patients — have HER-2 breast cancer and thus qualify for trastuzumab treatment. The standard 12-month trastuzumab therapy had emerged after studies nearly two decades ago had established improved cure rates among women who received the drug for 12 months compared with women who had not received the drug. However, a study from Finland in 2006 had suggested that the benefits from nine weeks of trastuzumab therapy were similar to those from one-year therapy. Concerns about costs and the risks of cardio toxicity have prompted researchers in Europe to explore the short duration therapy. Several clinical trials, mainly in Europe, have in recent years compared trastuzumab durations between three and six months with 12 months but, individually, none, except one in the UK, were able to show that shorter durations were adequate. The Tata Memorial researchers pooled results from six such clinical trials and reanalysed patients’ data to generate statistically significant results that prove that three-month to six-month therapy is not inferior to the 12-month therapy. The other team members at the Tata Memorial were Seema Gulia and Sadhana Kannan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Isro signs pact with Odisha varsity||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Tuesday signed an MoU with the Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology (VSSUT), Burla in Sambalpur, to promote space research. Isro will provide the university financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh and also lend it technical support for research. The MoU was signed between secretary, department of space (DOS) and chairman Isro, K. Sivan and vice-chancellor of VSSUT Prof. Atal Chaudhuri through video conferencing. The MoU will remain valid for five years. Talking to The Telegraph, Prof Chaudhuri said: “An exclusive  Space Research Innovation Lab named as ‘Veer Surendra Sai Space Innovation Centre’ (VSSSIC) will be set up  at VSSUT, for carrying out space research and development in the area of Sounding Rockets, Launch Vehicles and Satellites.” Initially, the Isro will provide Rs 50 lakh as seed money to promote space research and provide the transfer of knowledge which is very important for an institute. “The grant in aid of Rs 50 lakh will be utilised towards the development of high end simulation tools, miniature test facilities (like static test facility, solid propulsion research lab, vibration table etc.) and establish the testing facility for scaled down models,” said the vice chancellor. “Later on it will consistently provide financial support on a long term basis for the development of space research and rocket technology. Nearly 100 students every year will get the benefit of the Innovation centre. Modern equipment will be installed in the innovation centre,” Prof Chaudhuri said. The grant will be utilised to create laboratory facilities for the conduct of research and development work in the area of sounding rockets, launch vehicles, and satellites. Chaudhuri said, “We will soon introduce a course on post graduate studies in space research. Those who will do the research can use all the facilities in different campuses of  Isro across India.  The scientists of the Isro will visit our university on a regular basis and deliver lecture to our students. Our students will also visit the Isro headquarters, Bangalore to get exposure.” As per the agreement, Isro shall provide necessary guidance to VSSSIC for developing the facilities to test and evaluate the launch vehicles developed by them on a progressive and sustainable growth basis. d. Considering the range safety and potential hazards related to rocket launching, Isro shall facilitate the limited utilization of the established sounding rocket launching facilities like Thumba (VSSC, Isro), Sriharikota (SDSC-SHAR), or Balasore (under DRDO) where all kinds of safety systems are available for the launch of future sounding rockets developed at VSSSIC, VSSUT. Chaudhuri  said how Isro had evinced interest to sign the MoU after the ‘sounding rocket’ developed by its students found a place in the Limca Book of Records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Package for Odisha rural economy||The Odisha government on Tuesday approved a special package of Rs 200 crore to boost the state’s rural economy badly hit by the corona pandemic. Under the package special, financial assistance will be provided to the poor, extremely poor and migrant workers in the next six months. Panchayati raj and drinking water minister Pratap Jena said: “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik today approved the special Covid-19 package to help the people of rural areas. The women self help groups (WSHGs) also can take advantage of the scheme. Nearly 60 lakh families in rural areas have registered as women self help groups and can avail the benefits of the scheme. “ Jena said: “It will also help migrant workers who had returned to the state during the pandemic to initiate various types of economic activities.” Under the scheme, the WSHGs can avail a one time loan of Rs 50,000 for the development of nano and micro enterprises. The loan can be availed by any member of the women self-help group or any of her family members. To promote agriculture and non-agriculture sectors, the Odisha government has also promised to extend financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh as a loan. “These can be availed by those small industrial units which have already completed a life circle of more than six months. The manufacturing units which are older than one year can also take the loan. Mainly producer groups and new enterprises will benefit from the scheme,” said the minister. The state government also promised to provide loan assistance of Rs 20,000 to micro units operated by the extremely poor people, widows and destitutes. “We will also provide Rs 1 lakh  loan assistance to skilled and semi-skilled migrants, who have returned to the state. They can utilise the money to start a new enterprise. They will also be given the freedom to utilise the money to revive various small units which are lying closed,” officials maintained. Officials said that nearly 10 lakh migrants have already returned to the state from various parts of the country after losing their jobs. Though many of them have started going back some might stay back. Sources said if the government required more funds it will utilize the District mineral (DMF) funds and Odisha Mineral Bearing Areas Development Corporation (OMBADC) fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India||Congress sets eyes on more seats in Bihar||The Congress is planning to contest more seats in the Bihar Assembly elections which may upset its allies in the state, though it does not want the polls to be held amid the pandemic. “It is difficult to tell right now about the number of seats we will contest in the coming Assembly elections. We are a national party. One thing is sure that we will fight on a good number of seats instead of just 41, and will perform better than last time,” Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha told The Telegraph. The Congress had contested in 41 seats in the previous Assembly polls as part of the then Grand Alliance with Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), both of which fought on 101 seats each. Since then, the JDU has left the alliance, but smaller parties like the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and others have joined it. The Left parties are also expected to be on board this time. Jha said that though the final decision on the number of seats to be contested will depend on the high command, the party wants that seat distribution should be finalised at the earliest to avoid the kind of situation the alliance had faced during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections where it got finalised in bits and pieces and continued till after the first phase of the polls. It had thrown all preparations haywire. Congress state legislature party leader Sadanand Singh asserted it would have to strengthen itself this time because its leaders and workers had become sad and pessimistic over seat distribution. “The Congressmen will become enthusiastic and charged when they have the hope of representing the party in the elections. For this we need to contest at least 80 to 85 seats or more,” Singh told this newspaper. Meanwhile, sources in the RJD, the largest party with 80 seats in the current Assembly, said that Lalu and Tejashwi have earmarked 163 out of the total 243 seats for themselves. They may opt to share 13 of these seats with the Vikassheel Insaan Party. “On the other hand, our top leaders have left 80 seats for the Congress, in which it will have to adjust other allies like the RLSP, the Left parties, allies from neighbouring Jharkhand like the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, and other smaller parties. Effectively, this will leave around 45 seats for the Congress,” a senior RJD leader said on the condition of anonymity. In this scenario, the Congress’s emphasis on having more seats to contest could not only upset the RJD but also other alliance partners. Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha asserted that there was “no problem in the Grand Alliance over seat sharing and talks over it are going on”. Harkhu said he doubted whether elections could be held at a time when 16 out of 38 districts in Bihar were affected by the floods and the coronavirus pandemic was raging. “The ruling parties want elections in this scenario because if the public is free of the fear of corona and the problems caused by floods and comes out to vote in large numbers, it will teach them a lesson,” Harkhu added. Congress sources said that leaders of all the allied parties were connected digitally. Virtual meetings were taking place and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also participated in one of them. However, how far they will heed the Congress’s demands, remains a thing to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
26-08-2020||India|| Sikkim inter-state movement bar to stay||The Sikkim government has decided not to heed the Centre’s directive and continue to impose restrictions on the inter-state movement of people and goods in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the Himalayan state. The decision to this effect was taken by the State Task Force on Covid-19 headed by chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) on Monday night. “Keeping the present situation of COVID-19 in the state, there will be no change in the inter-state movement protocol,” said an official release issued in Gangtok. The government, however, decided to remove the restrictions on inter-district and intra-district movement of men and material in the state on week days. “Inter and intra-district movement of vehicles will be allowed with the odd-even stipulation. This will, however, not apply to containment zones,” said the release. The task force said only localised movement would be allowed on weekends. “Inter and intra-district movement will not be allowed on Saturdays and Sundays. Saturdays will be utilized for sanitization of all offices,” added the release. Continuing restriction on inter-state travel is against the recent directive of the Centre, but enjoys popular support, given the spike in the number of Covid cases in the state in the recent weeks. From less than 100 positive cases till the end of June, the figure has shot up to close to 1,500. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had on Saturday written to states and Union territories, reminding them under the Central guidelines, there were no restrictions on either inter or intra-state movement of people or goods. In his letter, Bhalla also said no separate permission or e-permit was required for movement of persons or goods and warned that the continued imposition of such restrictions would be viewed as violation of Union home ministry guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Sikkim’s task force also decided to act strictly against anyone found violating the Covid guidelines. In this regard, it has decided to take action against a former secretary of the state’s information and technology department and the management of a pharmaceutical company for breaching the guidelines. While the government official is accused of facilitating the entry of four IT professionals from outside, who later tested Covid positive, and arranging their meetings with government officials, the pharmaceutical company is in the dock after 29 staff fled from the company’s guest house where they had been quarantined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-708
