27-08-2020||India||UP leader being harassed for signing the letter, alleges Kapil Sibal||Congress leader Kapil Sibal, who was among those who wrote a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul, on Thursday alleged that party leader Jitin Prasada is being targeted in Uttar Pradesh and termed it as "unfortunate". Prasada, a former union minister, was among the signatories to the letter that sought an active and full-time party president. Prasad is also a special invitee to the CWC. "Unfortunate that Jitin Prasada is being officially targeted in UP.Congress needs to target the BJP with surgical strikes instead of wasting its energy by targeting its own," Sibal said on Twitter. Reacting to it, another Congress leader, Manish Tewari who was also a signatory to the letter, posted a single word "Prescient" on Twitter. The Lakhimpur Kheri District Congress reportedly passed a resolution demanding action against Prasada, a leader from Uttar Pradesh, and has accused his family of being against the Gandhi family. Jitender Prasad, the father of Jitin Prasada, had also unsuccessfully contested for the post of Congress president against Sonia Gandhi in the past, the DCC reportedly said. The charge comes three days after the Congress Working Committee urged Sonia Gandhi to continue as party president and bring about organisational changes. The CWC was convened to discuss the leadership issue and the letter written by over 20 leaders on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
27-08-2020||India||No organ is safe in Covid-19, warn experts||Covid-19 can affect almost all organs besides the lungs and the initial symptoms may be totally unrelated to chest complaints, according to experts at AIIMS New Delhi. They stressed that classification of cases into mild, moderate and severe categories based just on respiratory symptoms should be relooked to include other organ involvement. Experts from the institute, including its director Dr Randeep Guleria, Dr MV Padma Srivastava, head of department of Neurology, Dr Ambuj Roy, Professor of Cardiology and Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor in the department of Medicine during their weekly 'National Clinical Grand Rounds' organised in collaboration with NITI Aayog discussed various possible extra-pulmonary complications of Covid-19. Dr Guleria said eight months into Covid-19, a lot has been learnt and accordingly strategies are being changed from time to time. From what we thought of as a viral pneumonia has a lot of other manifestations which are beyond the lungs, he said. "As we have known more and more about Covid-19, we have realised it causes many extra pulmonary manifestations. This is basically of the fact that this virus enters into cell through ACE2 receptors which although are present abundantly in upper airways and lungs, they are also present in many organs and thus other organs are also affected. "We have seen many patients who presented with features which are not been predominantly pulmonary but extra pulmonary manifestations," Dr Guleria said. He said though pulmonary manifestations continue to dominate as far as majority of Covid-19 cases are concerned, there is a significant number of patients who would present with manifestations which may be along with pulmonary manifestations or may be without pulmonary manifestations. "We as clinicians need to have a high index of suspicion during this pandemic -- when to suspect, treat and isolate these patients so that we can provide them good quality care," he stressed. The experts in the programme presented a number of cases in which the patients were labelled as asymptomatic or mild Covid but had serious life-threatening extra-pulmonary manifestations like stroke and heart blocks. "What started off as a viral pneumonia is now a multi-systemic disease. However, the jury is out whether SARS-COV2 is the culprit in these extra pulmonary manifestations or just an innocent bystander which happens to be at the wrong place at a wrong time," Dr Nischal said. "So the classification of Covid-19 into mild, moderate and severe cases based only on respiratory symptoms should be relooked into to incorporate other organ involvement," he said. Dr Nischal further underlined that management of such patients with other organ involvement should be as per existing guidelines of that particular complication. The doctor from the Medicine Department also highlighted the case of a 35-year old man who had headache and was vomiting but was found to have life threatening cortical vein thrombosis. When tested, he was found positive for Covid-19. He was asymptomatic for Covid19 as per existing severity guidelines, Dr Nischal said. "There is a big spectrum of neurological manifestations which have been linked to Covid-19. In some patients, brain is involved and it may lead to clotting, resulting in stroke or can cause infection and lead to encephalitis or other complications which have nothing to do with lungs," Dr Padma said. Dr Ambuj's team presented the case of a patient who came with a very low pulse rate, detected Covid-19 positive and required initial support with some medicines to improve heart rate. "Normally pacemaker is put in such patients to improve their heart rate but based on experiences documented in literature, we realised some of these could be due to Covid-19, so a pacemaker was not put and her heart rate gradually improved with supportive treatment. "Sometimes, the electrical pulse system of the heart which gives rise to heart beat can be affected in Covid-19 and it is self-limiting and improves with time. So these patients who would otherwise normally require pacemaker may not ever need it. "However, more evidence is needed to be definitive about this as it is a new disease and limited information and experience regarding it is available as of now," Dr Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
27-08-2020||India||Academicians appeal to PM not to stop JEE, NEET||Over 150 academicians from various universities in India and abroad have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that delaying the medical and engineering entrance exams -- JEE-Mains and NEET -- any further will mean compromising the future of students. Referring to the growing chorus against conducting these exams in September in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the academicians said in their letter, "Some are trying to play with future of students to propel their own political agenda". "Youths and students are the future of the nation but in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, clouds of uncertainty have gathered over their careers too. There are lot of apprehensions about admission and classes which need to be resolved at the earliest, they have said in their letter. Like every year, millions of students have passed their Class 12 exams this year and are now waiting at home to eagerly take the next step, the letter said. "The government has announced the dates for JEE-Mains and NEET any further delay in conducting the exams will result in waste of precious year for students. The dreams and future of our youth and students cannot be compromised at any cost. However, some are trying to play with the future of our students simply to propel their own political agenda and oppose the government, it said. The signatories include academicians from the Delhi University, IGNOU, Lucknow University, JNU, BHU, IIT Delhi and Indian academicians from foreign universities such as University of London, University of California, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Ben Gurion University, Israel, among others. "We strongly believe that the central government will successfully conduct the JEE and NEET exams taking full precautions to ensure that the future of students is taken care of and the academic calendar for 2020-21 is rolled out," it added. Over 14 lakh admit cards for the medical and engineering entrance exams -- NEET and JEE -- were downloaded after the National Testing Agency (NTA) released them on Wednesday, even as the issue was discussed extensively during a meeting of chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states who decided to jointly move the Supreme Court to seek deferment of these exams. The issue, which has been a matter of intense public discourse for the past few months, has evoked contrasting views with many backing the holding of the tests arguing that not doing so would result in a 'zero academic year' for students, while the Opposition and a section of activists demanding their postponement in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The issue also took political undertones on Wednesday with opposition leaders attacking the Central government. While the NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 9.53 lakh candidates have registered for JEE-Mains and 15.97 lakh students have registered for NEET. These exams have already been deferred twice in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. JEE-Main was originally supposed to be held from April 7-11, but postponed to July 18-23, NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, then pushed to July 26. They were postponed again and are now scheduled in September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
27-08-2020||India||Covid: India records highest single day spike in cases||Registering over 75,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time in a span of 24 hours, India's virus tally sprinted past 33 lakh on Thursday, while the number of recoveries crossed the 25 lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. A record 75,760 infections were added in a day taking the total coronavirus caseload to 33,10,234. The death toll climbed to 60,472 with 1,023 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. With a total of 25,23,771 patients having recuperated so far, the recovery rate was recorded at 76.24 per cent while the COVID-19 case fatality rate has declined to 1.83 per cent. There are 7,25,991 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.93 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 3,85,76,510 samples have been tested up to August 26 with 9,24,998 samples being tested on Wednesday. Of the 1,023 fresh deaths, 295 are from Maharashtra, 133 from Karnataka, 118 from Tamil Nadu, 90 from Uttar Pradesh, 81 from Andhra Pradesh, 55 from West Bengal, 41 from Punjab, 19 from Jammu and Kashmir, 17 each from Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Gujarat, 15 from Jharkhand, 14 from Assam, 13 each from Odisha and Kerala, 12 from Rajasthan and 11 each from Bihar and Haryana. Ten fatalities have been reported from Chhattisgarh, eight each from Goa, Puducherry and Telangana, six from Uttarakhand, four from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, two each from Tripura and Himachal Pradesh while Chandigarh, Ladakh and Manipur have registered one fatality each. Of the total 60,472 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 23,089 followed by 6,839 in Tamil Nadu, 5,091 in Karnataka, 4,347 in Delhi, 3,541 in Andhra Pradesh, 3,149 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,964 in West Bengal, 2,945 in Gujarat,and 1,282 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 1,219 people have died of COVID-19 in Punjab, 992 in Rajasthan, 788 in Telangana, 657 in Jammu and Kashmir, 634 in Haryana, 530 in Bihar, 441 in Odisha, 362 in Jharkhand, 274 in Assam, 257 in Kerala and 219 in Uttarakhand. Chhattisgarh has registered 231 deaths, Puducherry 180, Goa 165, Tripura 85, Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands 41 each, Himachal Pradesh 32, Ladakh and Manipur 25 each, Nagaland nine, Meghalaya eight, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
27-08-2020||India||Maldives sups with both India and China||The Maldives on Wednesday made it clear that it would continue with its balancing act vis-a-vis India and China, iterating that Beijing would remain an important development partner of Male a fortnight after India announced investment in the archipelago’s biggest infrastructure project. The last few weeks have seen India try to mend its frayed relations with its immediate neighbours in the face of the Chinese aggression in Ladakh but no country, not even Bangladesh, appears to be in India’s corner at present with all preferring to remain equidistant at best. Participating by videoconference in an event organised by the Maldivian embassy in China on the Maldives’ 55th Independence Day, foreign minister Abdulla Shahid said: “China has and will continue to be an important development partner of the Maldives.” On August 13, India had announced its decision to invest in the Greater Male Connectivity Bridge (GMCB), the largest infrastructure project in the Maldives that seeks to connect the archipelago’s capital with three neighbouring islands, including a new industrial zone, and is thrice the size of a similar bridge constructed by the Chinese. Along with the investment of $100 million for the GMCB, India had announced a new line of credit of $400 million. First democratically elected Maldives President Mohamed Nasheed’s tweet welcoming the decision had come as music to India’s ears: “The super low cost development assistance announced by @DrSJaishankar today is exactly what Maldives needs. Genuine help from a friend, to help us build critical infrastructure. Rather than eye-wateringly expensive commercial loans that leaves the nation mired in debt. @PMOIndia.” This was an obvious reference to the Chinese investment boom during the Abdulla Yameen years and what is known as debt-trap diplomacy where Beijing uses its deep pockets to offer cheap loans to countries that can ill afford to pay back, leaving them indebted to China and, thereby, helping it gain a foothold across the world. Both India and China have been competing with each other to increase their influence in the immediate neighbourhood, and New Delhi had hoped to see the Maldives dial back some of the pro-China moves made during the regime of President Yameen. But foreign minister Shahid has from the early days of this government in late 2018 maintained that the Maldives will remain engaged with China. In November 2018, during his first visit to India after Yameen was defeated in the elections, Shahid had spelt out the Maldives’ policy clearly: “(Former) President Yameen tried to play India against China, and China against India. He thought he could become the puppet master. Our government will not play one country against another. We have a strong India First policy but we will work with all countries also.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
27-08-2020||India||Tests to tackle Delhi  surge||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced measures, including increased testing, to curb a fresh spurt in Covid cases since August 16. More than 12,000 cases have been reported in the last 10 days, although the number of deaths has been much lower than what it used to be during the surge in the early days of the pandemic. The recovery rate is high. The number of daily cases has gone up from 652 on August 15 to 1,693 on Tuesday. “The reason we were able to control the corona situation in Delhi was that we had increased the number of tests, and now we will double the rate of testing. Around 20,000 tests are conducted in Delhi today, which will now be increased to 40,000 in a week. Our strategy of testing and isolation will remain the same,” Kejriwal said. “A new trend has been noticed — when corona patients recover and return home, the symptoms persist. Some suffer from lower oxygen levels and breathing issues. A few patients have also lost their lives because of low oxygen levels…. So, the government has decided that all patients who have recovered will be supplied with oximeters for a few more days. If their oxygen levels continue to remain low, oxygen concentrators will also be installed at their homes for free so that they do not need to visit hospitals,” the chief minister added. Kejriwal said no patient had died in home isolation since July 14, and that the recovery rate in Delhi was more than 90 per cent and the death rate this month 1.4 per cent. “Due to overconfidence, some people think they will recover even after they have symptoms. They do not realise that if they do not get tested in time, they end up infecting many people around them,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
27-08-2020||India||SC adjourns hearing of Sharjeel plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday adjourned by two weeks the hearing of JNU student Sharjeel Imam’s appeal for consolidation of multiple FIRs registered against him in various states for alleged sedition, after his lawyer sought permission to place certain additional documents on the issue. Sharjeel was arrested on January 28 and is now in judicial custody. He is accused of delivering inflammatory speeches at a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||MP: Don’t discuss J&K 4G||The meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology next week promises to be a heated one with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey now asking chairman Shashi Tharoor not to take up the issue of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir, citing an advisory from the Lok Sabha Speaker to all panels that the convention of not examining sub judice matters should be followed. Last week, Dubey had objected to Tharoor deciding to summon Facebook on September 2 without consulting other members after The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) expose revealed that the platform had given the BJP kid-glove treatment while implementing the company’s hate speech rules. Not only did he write to Speaker Om Birla seeking to move a breach of privilege against Tharoor — in retaliation to the Congressman making the first such move — Dubey subsequently followed that letter up with another demanding the former minister’s removal as panel chairman. Wednesday’s missive to Tharoor comes after Birla sent out an advisory on Tuesday to the chairpersons of all the committees, reminding them that the proceedings of their meetings and the conclusions should not be revealed to the media before the report is tabled in Parliament. Further, he urged them to keep in mind Rule 270 and other necessary rules and directions while selecting subjects for examination. Rule 270 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha states: “A Committee shall have power to send for persons, papers and records: Provided that if any question arises whether the evidence of a person or the production of a document is relevant for the purposes of the Committee, the question shall be referred to the Speaker whose decision shall be final...’’ On sub judice matters, the Speaker said: “I would like to point out that as per convention, the Committees do not take those subjects for examination where the issue is pending in the Courts.’’ The advisory is being perceived in parliamentary circles as a middle path response to Dubey’s demand for action against Tharoor. Citing the Speaker’s letter, Dubey flagged the discussion on 4G services in J&K, scheduled for September 1, and said: “Since this issue is presently pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, any further deliberations on this would again be a violation of the relevant Rules/Directions as well as disregarding the recently issued advisory...’’ As of now, both contentious issues — 4G services in J&K and Facebook — remain on the agenda for the panel’s meetings on September 1 and 2 respectively. Both issues have been included as part of the subjects selected for the consideration of the panel during the 17th Lok Sabha: 4G services in J&K under “Suspension of telecom services/Internet and its impact” and Facebook within the purview of the examination of “Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Situation in Ladakh most serious since 1962: Jaishankar||Foreign minister S. Jaishankar has called the situation in Ladakh the “most serious” since the 1962 conflict. “This is surely the most serious situation after 1962. In fact, after 45 years, we have had military casualties on this border. The quantum of forces currently deployed by both sides at the LAC is also unprecedented,” Jaishankar told Rediff.com in an interview ahead of the release of his book. A solution to the border row with China must be predicated on honouring all agreements and understandings without attempting to alter the status quo unilaterally, the minister said in a clear assertion of India’s position on the issue. “As you know, we are talking to the Chinese both through military channels and diplomatic ones. In fact, they work in tandem,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||IIT Bombay and Delhi chiefs against postponing JEE ||The directors of IIT Bombay and IIT Delhi have said any postponement of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main will land the tech schools and students in uncertainty and cause academic disruption. Several chief ministers, including Mamata Banerjee, and students’ organisations have demanded that competitive exams such as the JEE Main and the medical National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) be deferred because of the pandemic. The exams are scheduled to begin from September 1. IIT Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri said on Wednesday that deferring JEE Main might not be the right solution since there was no clarity on how long the Covid-19 pandemic would last and “how long we can keep our young aspirants guessing over their future”. “Even if the exam is postponed by two months, there is no guarantee that the Covid crisis will end by that time. The best way to get over any uncertainty is to get done with the uncertainty. The idea will be to hold the test by enforcing all safety precautions to guard against the spread of the infection, both by the test centres and the candidates, as well as facilitating the candidates’ safe travel to the exam centres,” Chaudhuri told The Telegraph. Chaudhuri said all international entrance exams like SAT, GMAT, GRE and TOEFL are being held as scheduled by adhering to safety protocols. He pointed out that the Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918 had lasted over two years, killing nearly 15 million people in India alone. However, there is no record to suggest any major disruption in academic activities in universities during that period, he said. “The issue is if Covid continues for two years, should academic activities be stopped for two years?” Chaudhuri asked. IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao has put out a post on Facebook stating that the pandemic is not going to recede in another six months to one year. The institutions and stakeholders need to get used to this new normal and the “earlier we realise that, the better it is for all of us”, he has written. “As far as JEE Main is concerned, the exam is now conducted multiple times in a year. In case some students cannot write the JEE Main this time, they can take the exam after six months. I don’t see any reason for a concern. The consequences of postponing these exams any further can have serious repercussions on IIT academic calendars and for the candidates,” Rao has written. JEE Main is held to admit students to BTech courses in the National Institutes of Technology and many other engineering institutions. The top 2.5 lakh scorers are eligible to appear for JEE Advanced, conducted by the IITs for admission to their BTech programmes. Nearly 8.5 lakh candidates have applied for JEE Main, to be conducted by the National Testing Agency from September 1 to 6. Around 16 lakh students have applied for the NEET, which is scheduled for September 13. The NTA has written to the state governments to ensure power supply at the exam centres, law-and-order monitoring, crowd management and facilitation of the movement of candidates. The NTA chief has appealed to students to take the test under the standard operating procedure put in place for the smooth conduct of the exams. The IITs usually admit students in July. If JEE Main is held next week and JEE Advanced later in September, the academic session for the fresh batch can start in December. If JEE Main is further delayed, the new batch will lose most of this academic year, and the time gap between the 2020-21 and 2021-22 batches will be minimal, Rao pointed out. “I fail to see how we can run two batches together. It will become a zero academic year for lakhs of students. Our academic calendars are too packed already and linked to too many other things. The delays can impact the careers of so many bright student,” he wrote. IIT Delhi is the organising institute for JEE Advanced, which is scheduled to be held on September 27. The director has mentioned in the Facebook post that all preparations for JEE Advanced are already in place. The director of Punjab Engineering College, Dheeraj Sanghi, has suggested that JEE Main be spread out over 10 weeks. “I feel one sitting should be held once a week. JEE Main is scheduled to be held in 10 sittings over six days. If it is staggered over 10 weeks with a frequency of one sitting per week, and students are allowed to take the test as per their convenience, a lot of the concerns can be addressed,” Sanghi said. There has been a nationwide online campaign against compromising students’ safety by making them sit for exams in the middle of the pandemic. The campaign caught the attention of Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg who has lent her support to the cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Fight-without-fear cry at Opposition meet||Seven Opposition chief ministers have resolved to collectively fight what they described as an assault on the federal structure by the Narendra Modi government whose political antagonism is threatening to disrupt governance in several parts of the country. The grievances of these chief ministers are not restricted to the usual charge of financial injustice because of political bias but their complaints involve structural issues of Centre-state relations, misuse of central agencies for harassment, attempts to impose ideological hegemony and conspiracy to topple Opposition governments. Participating in a video conference called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the chief ministers repeatedly asked her to create a permanent platform for collective action and contended that democracy would not survive in India without the protection of the federal structure and multi-party system. They accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being interested only in imposing the RSS agenda of cultural and religious uniformity while being completely oblivious to the people’s concerns. Sonia was surprised to note that non-Congress chief ministers demonstrated greater keenness for a united fight against the BJP, contrary to the perception that the regional allies were not in tune with the Congress’s aggressive anti-Modi posturing. They requested Sonia to take the lead in offering stiff politico-legal resistance to the BJP government in the larger interest of India’s pluralist democracy. Sonia, apparently not prepared for such a demand, responded in agreement instead of promising any concrete plan. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee emerged as the central figure at the meeting, with Sonia giving her exceptional importance. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a new entrant in the so-called secular camp, was the most belligerent. He said: “All of us are in the same boat. We face similar challenges. These meetings — exchanging pleasantries and eating snacks — won’t help. We have to decide: Darna hai, ki ladna hai (To fear them, or fight them). Agar ladna hai, toh jo hoga woh hoga (If we have to fight, don’t fear the consequences).” In the typical Shiv Sena style, describing himself as the son of a combative father, Uddhav said: “We are for satyamev jayate, not satta-mev jayate (We want truth to triumph, not power to triumph). On people’s issues, there can’t be any compromise. We are also elected governments. If people have elected Modi, we are also elected by the people. It is not that different sets of people have elected us. If somebody tries to suppress the voice of the people, our duty is to make that voice louder.” Laying stress on the inviolable rights of states in the federal scheme, Uddhav said: “Rajiv Gandhi brought panchayati raj with the objective of decentralising power. Now we are moving in the reverse direction as everything is being centralised.” Uddhav added: “Do we want to reach a situation where only one man rules this country? What will be left of democracy without federalism? The dues and compensation under the GST is a genuine grievance but the fundamental question is whether we should go back to the old system. The states have a right to collect taxes. Or should we explore a middle path?” Uddhav questioned the strategy of meeting only during crises. “The states are undoubtedly distressed because of non-payment of GST dues. The states cannot survive in this financial distress. But why should we meet only in crisis? We should evolve a common programme and approach the Centre collectively for people’s rights. There are issues like environment, exams and resources. Development does not mean loot of natural resources. We shouldn’t wait for a crisis. Our unity should ensure the crisis is averted in advance.” Mamata asked the Congress to take the advice of a collective fight seriously. She said: “States are bulldozed in the garb of cooperative federalism. If we speak up, central agencies are unleashed on us. They disturb us in various ways. But we have to fight for the people. Never saw this type of atrocities in democracy.” Mamata added: “We are not supposed to speak out despite so many problems. The media is not allowed to speak. There are tools like Facebook to damage the Opposition. Every scheme will be decided by the Centre; we share data and financial burden but the Centre will write to beneficiaries as if the state has done nothing. They collect taxes from our people and then we have to beg for our share. If they want to arrest us, let them do that. But we have to fight for the people. We have to launch a people’s movement.” Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren lamented that the resistance put up by the Opposition was very weak. He said: “We are unable to forcefully raise the issues. We saw how the migrant labour issue was handled by the Centre. The economy is in a mess, there are massive job losses and the people are very angry. The Centre has broken the backbone of states financially by not paying GST dues and denying aid for the Covid-19 fight. Then there is discrimination against Opposition states.” Soren added: “All resources are being privatised. The Centre is strategically collecting revenue by increasing cess and excise duties on petroleum products despite low international prices of crude oil but the states get nothing. Coal and iron blocks are being sold to private parties. There are issues like the new environment law and the sale of PSUs and even the railways. The whole strategy is to disturb the Opposition-ruled states. We have to counter them politically, otherwise the country will be destroyed.” Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot contended that a democratic approach cannot be expected from the Modi government. He said: “The way they have worked after coming to power in 2014, we feel suffocated. There is no redress of genuine grievances. Our suggestions are ignored; the Prime Minister never replies to our letters. The government is interested only in enforcing the RSS agenda; it has no interest in solving people’s problems. When the states were fighting Covid-19 and acute financial distress, they were pulling down governments.” Asking all the non-BJP parties to create a political movement, Gehlot said: “This government will not listen unless this discrimination and threat to democracy are made big political issues. All states are reeling from an acute financial crisis; they can’t even pay salaries now. No matter what the economists and experts say, this government does not listen to sane advice. Their interest is political, not economic. We wanted a moratorium for six months on debt repayment, which was denied. None of the suggestions we gave to the Prime Minister was acted upon.” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel called for a movement against profiteering by selling national resources. He said: “All profit-making public sector units are being sold to crony capitalists. There is no consultation with states on any issue. We were told to buy our own coal mines. There has to be a movement called ‘India against Profitisation’. States can’t be mute spectators when such reckless decisions are taken. A collective fight is needed.” The chief ministers of Punjab and Puducherry, Amarinder Singh and V. Narayansamy, lent their support to the demand for a collective fight. Amarinder said: “Let us go to the Prime Minister together and force the issue.” His concern was primarily financial assistance and the Covid-19 fight as he wondered how schools and colleges could open when the corona crisis was peaking. Sonia, in her opening remarks, referred to the Centre’s tendency to thrust decisions without consultations. She referred to issues like GST compensation, the new education policy, the new environment law draft, the ordinance on agriculture marketing and the sale of PSUs and asked the parties to make a coordinated effort in the coming Parliament session to check the government’s “anti-democratic tendency”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||‘Business before people’ for government||The Supreme Court on Wednesday slammed the Centre for failing to clarify its stand on the waiver of interest on loans that became eligible for a six-month moratorium that ends on August 31 — and accused it of being keen to protect the interests of businesses but not the common man. The loan moratorium, which was announced on March 27, was designed to help borrowers tide over the Covid-induced crisis. It also helped banks skirt a regulatory tripwire that obligates them in normal circumstances to recognise defaults of more than 90 days as bad loans on their books. As a result of the moratorium, retail and home loan borrowers were allowed to stop making EMI payments without the risk of botching up their credit scores. But while granting the moratorium, the Reserve Bank of India did not say anything about the waiver of accrued interest during the period of the moratorium. It was assumed, therefore, that this would be tacked on to the outstanding sum and automatically extend the tenure of the loan. The even more contentious issue was whether banks would charge interest on the accrued interest — a sort of penal levy — and if it was fair to do so while granting the relief to borrowers. The three-member bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said the government was “hiding behind the RBI” and refusing to clarify its stand on the subject despite a clear directive from the court. “You cannot be interested only in business and not about the sufferings of people…. The problem has been created by your (Centre’s) lockdown. This happened because you (Centre) have locked down the whole country,” the court said. “This is not the time to consider the (plight of) businesses. The plight of the people has to be considered also,” Justice Bhushan told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta who appeared for the Centre. Justice Bhushan told the Centre through the solicitor-general: “You have to tell us your stand on two things: the Disaster Management Act and whether the interest on loans will be charged or not.” The lockdown was announced under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which grants sweeping powers to the Centre. The court was of the view that the Centre had ample powers under the act to provide all sorts of succour during a disaster like the present pandemic and there was no reason why it should not take a stand on waiver of interest on these loans. Not all borrowers have sought a moratorium and many continue to pay their EMIs inclusive of interest — which raises the argument whether an interest waiver to one group of borrowers actually penalises the person who fulfils his contractual obligations. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by an Uttar Pradesh-based businessman, Gajendra Sharma, and a few others who have challenged the constitutional validity of the RBI’s March 27 circular through which the moratorium was granted. The petitioners contended that the failure to grant a waiver of interest while offering the moratorium was unconstitutional and amounted to a violation of Article 21 (the right to life and liberty). There have been two submissions by the petitioners: first, that the entire amount payable including principal and interest should not be charged during the moratorium period. Second, at least the demand of interest on interest should not be made and the relief ought to be extended by the Centre and the RBI. In its affidavit filed earlier, the RBI had contended that interest was the main source of a bank’s income and a waiver would result in huge losses to banks. Mehta, the solicitor-general, said the Centre and the RBI were working in close cooperation and it would be “unfair to say” that the government was “hiding” behind the apex bank. “Our (the Centre’s) stand cannot be different from that of the RBI,” he said, indicating that the government may also not agree to a complete wavier of interest. However, the bench said the government must come out with its affidavit on the issue. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that the Union government had still not filed its affidavit and its counsel had been pleading for a number of adjournments on the ground that he was seeking instructions from the finance ministry. Mehta told the court that the RBI had taken a decision on August 6 that the question of interest waiver would be decided on a “sectoral basis” but did not elaborate. The solicitor-general appeared to be referring to the monetary policy committee’s decision to start a new debt restructuring programme that allows banks to pick borrowers who will be allowed to reschedule their loans for another 24 months with some also qualifying for a moratorium. The new programme will start from September 6 when the RBI is expected to come out with a notification. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for some other petitioners seeking a similar interest waiver, submitted that as the moratorium period was to end on August 31, the default would accrue from September 1. “I am only saying that till these pleas are decided, the extension does not end,” he said, suggesting that the moratorium ought to be extended. The court said it would consider all the issues on September 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||‘Rigid’ China continues construction||Chinese troops have been continuing construction work, including building of roads and additional camps, in the “occupied” zones in eastern Ladakh despite Beijing and New Delhi last week maintaining during diplomatic talks that the two sides would keep working towards complete disengagement along the Line of Actual Control. Defence ministry sources on Wednesday hinted that the two sides were planning to hold another round of military talks next week to initiate the stalled disengagement process. “The stalemate continues after a series of talks, and the disengagement process at the multiple friction points has completely stalled. What is more worrying is that the Chinese troops have not budged from their occupied zones and continue building roads and military camps inside India-claimed lines amid the ongoing dialogue,” said a security official attached to the home ministry. The latest diplomatic talks between India and China last Thursday had failed to achieve a breakthrough but both sides had agreed to carry forward the dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels. So far, the five rounds of military talks, in addition to the diplomatic discussions, have failed to break the logjam. “The date has not been fixed yet but another round of military talks is expected to take place by the end of next week,” said a defence ministry official. During the diplomatic and military talks, India has been pressing for restoration of status quo ante at the friction points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — where the Chinese troops have been holding on to their newly claimed zones and have so far shown no intent to pull back to their side of the LAC. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army, the defence ministry official said, has been adamant on not pulling back from the Finger areas near the Pangong Lake, causing the impasse. “They are now claiming the occupied zones as their own territory and want Indian troops to move further back from our own land. They have been very rigid,” the official said. The sources said defence minister Rajnath Singh had last week held a review meeting with national security adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the tri-services chiefs. “During the meeting, the minister was given a PowerPoint presentation on the prevailing situation along the LAC, especially the friction points, and the operational preparedness of the Indian Army,” said another security official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Whiff of Himanta-Madhav power struggle ||Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s face for the Northeast, has proclaimed he has no intention of contesting the Assam elections and has spelt out his goals for the “last few months” for those thinking he is “after some post and position”, prompting murmurs in Delhi that this is the fallout of a simmering faction feud. After crossing over from the Congress and spending close to five years in the BJP, Assam finance minister Himanta is learnt to be getting restless, a situation aggravated by his purported power struggle with another influential leader, BJP general secretary Ram Madhav. Himanta on Tuesday posted two tweets that caught the attention of BJP managers in Delhi. “(A) few people feel that I am after some post and position,” Himanta wrote, raising eyebrows in the central leadership about the possible target. “My only ambition is to see a BJP GOVT with 100+ seats,” he added. “In my last few months, I want to work for my state as much as possible to have eternal satisfaction,” Himanta wrote, referring to the Assam elections that are due in April 2021. While claims of selfless service by politicians are usually taken with a pinch of salt, Himanta did not hide his frustration in the second tweet. “As I have already indicated in several public platforms that I am not interested in contesting the next Assembly election, my role will be limited to contribute whatever I can for my party and for my state. For Assam’s future we need to have a strong nationalist govt,” he wrote. BJP leaders in Delhi read Himanta’s tweets as an outpouring of his disappointment at not getting what he believes is his due. Many had seen Himanta as Assam’s chief ministerial face when he joined the BJP in 2015 ahead of the Assembly polls the following year. He, however, had to settle for the finance ministry. Then BJP chief Amit Shah was said to have been impressed with Himanta’s political clout and manoeuvring, and this ensured that he became the convener of the NEDA (Northeast Democratic Alliance). Himanta is seen to have aided the BJP’s drive to extend its influence over the whole of the Northeast. The NEDA was envisaged by Shah to get powerful regional parties spread across the northeastern states to align with the BJP. Himanta in a way was made the BJP boss for the entire Northeast. Himanta’s position as the unquestioned leader of the Northeast, however, began colliding with an equally ambitious leader’s desire to dominate the region, that of Madhav. Madhav, who has deep interest in the region since his RSS days, secured the charge of the BJP’s affairs in the Northeast along with Jammu and Kashmir, also central to the party’s scheme of things. The alleged clash between Himanta and Madhav played out in Manipur recently when the BJP-led Biren Singh government faced a crisis after four MLAs of the Conrad Sangma-led National People’s Party resigned. This was seen as a revolt against Biren Singh, who is regarded as a Madhav loyalist. As the BJP’s Manipur government tottered, Himanta herded the four MLAs to Delhi, met Union home minister Shah and announced that the crisis was over. “The swiftness with which the MLAs ended their rebellion after Himanta’s intervention was fishy,” a BJP leader said. Madhav struck back. At the BJP headquarters in Delhi recently, he paraded five Manipur Congress MLAs who had switched loyalties. “Nobody can destabilise the Manipur government now,” Madhav declared, Biren Singh by his side. Himanta did not respond to calls and a text message from this newspaper. Madhav could not be reached for comment. Madhav, despite his clout, has failed to get into the good books of Narendra Modi and Shah, many in the BJP believe. He has been waiting in the wings as leaders junior to him have made it to the Rajya Sabha. His closeness to the RSS, however, has seen to it that he remains an important player in the party organisation. “Himanta had wanted to contest the last Lok Sabha polls and hoped to get a key berth in the Modi government,” a BJP leader said, adding that with the Assam polls scheduled next year, Himanta was gearing up to extract his pound of flesh. On Wednesday, another tweet of Himanta drew attention, with the BJP leader hailing Congress veteran and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi as “our revered senior leader”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Nishan-e-Pakistan award storm in Geelani cup||Pakistan’s award of the country’s highest civilian honour to separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who has preferred political reticence since the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year, has finally stirred those close to him into action, but only to wrestle an alleged campaign to malign him. Geelani’s family has issued a statement saying the “vicious campaign” against the 90-year-old leader, who is under house arrest since the August 5 decisions, had left him disturbed and taken a toll on his health. Geelani’s family, however, made no mention of a letter attributed to the leader and doing the rounds on social media that claims that he has rejected the Nishan-e-Pakistan award. The purported letter has triggered a blizzard of criticism in the Valley, further cornering Geelani who has already faced condemnation for appearing to capitulate before Delhi during the Valley’s gravest crisis. Geelani, a hardliner who once saw himself as the tallest leader of Kashmir and enjoyed widespread support, became an unlikely casualty of the scrapping of Article 370, falling silent apparently because of the fear of his immediate family being hounded. During the government’s unprecedented crackdown that followed, the separatist camp was left in disarray, with top leaders either landing in jail or being put under house arrest. The hawk’s supporters attribute Geelani’s silence to his failing health but have never explained why he chose hibernation the very moment Kashmir lost its special status and was subjected to one of the most brutal clampdowns and communications blockade. Although Geelani remains under house arrest, it would not have stopped him from at least issuing a statement. Geelani addressed his supporters for the first time in nearly a year on June 30, issuing an audio message in which he announced that he was ending his decades-long association with the hardline Hurriyat Conference, heaping a litany of corruption charges against his colleagues in the separatist forum as the reason. The announcement earned Geelani much criticism, with many accusing him of surrendering before Delhi when the Valley needed him the most. The hawk had spearheaded the separatist movement for decades, being a vocal supporter of militancy and shutting Kashmir down on hundreds of occasions. While Pakistan is believed to be unhappy with Geelani for lying low, the neighbouring country conferred its highest civilian award on him — the first Kashmiri to be honoured thus — on its independence day on August 14, triggering a blizzard of criticism in the Valley that forced the leader’s family to react on Monday. The award by Pakistan is being seen as an attempt to further stir the Kashmir pot and also to placate Geelani. “It is unfortunate that people with vested interests have launched a vicious campaign to malign the stature of Quaid (leader),” a statement issued by Geelani’s two sons — Nayeem Geelani, a doctor, and Naseem Geelani, an academic — and son-in-law Zahoor ul Haq Geelani said. Not making a direct reference to the letter being attributed to Geelani Senior in which he has rejected the award, the statement said: “Repeated and fabricated letters in his name, posts, comments and imaginary stories is disturbing him and affecting his health very badly. The unnecessary social media campaigns and hounding of the family only adds to our already stressful life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Direct booking for Vande Bharat ||Passengers taking international flights from India need not apply to the civil aviation ministry and can directly book their tickets with the airlines, said an official statement on Wednesday. A standard operating protocol issued by the home ministry on August 22 stated that persons who are eligible to travel on outbound flights “will apply to Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) or an agency/agencies designated by MoCA for this purpose with necessary details, including places of departure & arrival”. The ministry said on Twitter on Wednesday that it “has designated all the airlines operating under Vande Bharat Mission & air transport bubble arrangements as designated agencies for this purpose”. “Passengers may book tickets directly with the airlines concerned. They need not apply/register with the Ministry of Civil Aviation,” it added. While scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic, special international flights have been operating under Vande Bharat Mission and bilateral air bubble arrangements. Since July this year, India has signed separate bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries like the US, the UK, the UAE, Germany, France and Qatar. Under a bilateral bubble pact, airlines of both the countries can operate special international passenger flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-705
27-08-2020||India||Deposits stuck in bank for a year, customers struggle ||In February, 82-year-old Kishan Lal appealed to India’s finance minister for help, saying in a Twitter message he was ready to donate his kidney and eyes if someone could help arrange funds to treat his daughter, who had a brain tumour. The Lals had enough savings to tide over the medical crisis —more than Rs 25 lakh in Punjab & Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. But withdrawals were capped at Rs 50,000 from each account at the time because authorities were investigating fraud at PMC. The withdrawal cap is now at Rs 1 lakh per depositor. “I just borrowed money from wherever I could, I had to save my daughter,” said Lal. “If I had access to my own money, I’d not have been ashamed.” The RBI took control of PMC last September after it was accused of fraud and concealing non-performing loans. PMC’s top officials and the owners of a realty company that received the bulk of the loans were arrested. The withdrawal cap has left many of PMC’s over 900,000 depositors in deep difficulty. Some say they are struggling to clear loans or pay their children’s school fees, while others say they depend on friends for their groceries. The situation at PMC has also amplified concerns about the health of India’s tens of thousands of co-operative banks, which often serve communities in the rural interior and have assets worth around $220 billion, about 11 per cent of India’s total banking sector assets. These banks, many of which are tiny, are subject to less stringent regulation than commercial banks and currently, more than two dozen of them are facing lending or withdrawal restrictions by the RBI because of financial irregularities. Asked about the delay in resolving PMC’s problems, Jai Bhagwan Bhoria, an administrator appointed by the RBI to revive the bank, told Reuters: “The recovery is an ongoing process and it takes time in actual realisations due to legal steps and hurdles faced.” The PMC crisis has also sparked courtroom battles. In one of them, Sandeep Bhalla, whose parents have nearly Rs 1 crore blocked in PMC, has told Delhi High Court that depositors of PMC were “discriminated against” compared to those from commercial lender Yes Bank. In March, the RBI imposed a cap of Rs 50,000 on withdrawals from Yes Bank, after its finances deteriorated. But less than 24 hours later, the finance minister announced that India’s top state-run bank, the SBI, would infuse funds into Yes Bank and the withdrawal curbs were subsequently lifted. The finance ministry told the court the government had not infused any funds in Yes Bank but it was investors and the SBI who came to its rescue, according to court documents. The SBI is 57 per cent government owned. The judge wasn’t convinced. Noting PMC depositors were in a “dire state”, the court said the RBI and the finance ministry played a crucial role in rescuing Yes Bank and asked them both to “delve into the aspect” of why PMC depositors were differently treated. The RBI told the court the two lenders were “fundamentally different”, including the different regulations governing them. It also said with PMC’s “really precarious financials”, no investors were willing to bail it out. The court is set to hear the case in mid-September, ahead of the first anniversary of PMC’s collapse. Set up in 1984, PMC is a regional lender with 137 branches across six states and by last year, it had deposits of $1.5 billion. Yes Bank is far bigger with more than 1,000 branches across India. Many depositors said they were unaware of the differing regulatory structures for banks, and believed PMC was like any other commercial lender. “If it was not safe, why did you name it a bank?” asked Pooja Chaudhary, 26, who said she had to struggle for hours last month to get custody of her father’s body after a hospital refused to release it until she cleared medical bills. “My father died, and I couldn’t even cry,” said Chaudhary, who said her savings of Rs 15 lakh were blocked in PMC. Earlier this month, dozens of PMC depositors organised a protest in Mumbai and shouted slogans against the RBI. “Get well soon RBI. Thanks for doing your job so well that we lost all our life savings,” read one poster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Odisha trims syllabus by 30%||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced a 30 per cent reduction in syllabus for students of classes 1 to XII in the current academic year. The government was forced to take the decision as the schools that are closed since the second week of March are yet to open. Though online classes are taking place, the majority of the students are not able to benefit from them in the absence of smartphones. Even those who have smartphones are often unable to connect to the classrooms because of the unreliable mobile network. Reports are pouring in from different parts of the state on how students are being forced to climb atop 150-feet tall water tanks and hills to get connected to mobile networks and access online classes. The Telegraph in its August 4 edition had published a story titled “Battle for Education, atop 150 ft-high tank”, highlighting the problems of college students who are risking their life and limb for online lessons. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said: “Studies have been badly hit by the corona pandemic. Classroom teaching has been affected to a large extent. However, we have decided to rationalise the syllabus by up to 30 per cent without compromising with the core concepts. The new revised syllabus will soon be published and uploaded on the websites of Board of Secondary Education, Council of Higher Secondary Education  and State Council of Educational Research and Training.” “The changes in the syllabus have been finalised with the approval of three committees,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Youths band together to make a film||They are amateurs drawn from sundry backgrounds — daily wagers, salesmen, tutors and motor mechanics. But they share a common trait — patriotic fervour and a passion for movies. That is what brought 70 youths of Gunupur town in the tribal dominated Rayagada district of Odisha together and made them pool in their modest savings to shoot a film on a patriotic theme and release it on YouTube on August 14, on the eve of Independence Day. So far, 10,000 users have viewed the movie on YouTube. The total budget for the project was Rs 15,000. The youths put together their pocket money to produce the aptly titled Hindi film, Kurbaani — The Sacrifice of Life. The 23-year-old youth who directed the venture works in a lodge at a monthly salary of Rs 5,000. Director Livingstone Takiri told The Telegraph, “We had been watching the aggressive designs of Pakistan and China with concern. We have seen extremist attacks on our soil and supreme sacrifices made by the Indian soldiers while repelling such attacks. When I met my friend’s father, who is in the BSF, he gave me a clear picture of what is actually happening on our borders. So we decided to make a movie on this theme.” The biggest problem for the group was arranging at least 30 pairs of dresses for the movie and props like guns to create a realistic look. “We took 45 days to prepare 40 sets of guns out of plastic bottles and other plastic materials. The issue of military uniform was sorted out when jawans of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) posted here assured to loan us their uniforms for 15 days,” said Livingstone. Though around 40 people in the group are semi-literate, there are ones with degrees in pharmacy and BEd who were very enthusiastic from the beginning about working for a good cause. “Everyone was at home due to the lockdown. To avoid being caught by the police for not adhering to social distancing norms, we used to leave for shooting early in the morning. We almost always carried biscuit packets with us,” said Nitesh Ranjan Nimala, 22, a tuition teacher. Cameraman Dwarikanath Panigrahi, 21, who is an amateur photographer and also did the editing, said, “Sometimes we also took rice, pulses and vegetables from our homes and cooked in the forest and ate when we got hungry during shooting. Though it was just a 24-minute film, the shooting went on for 2 months. All the shooting was done with the help of one DSLR camera.” There were also drivers in the group and they helped arrange the vehicles used in the film. “We requested the vehicle owners to let us use them for carrying the artistes to the film set and also for other purposes. Thankfully no one objected. It was all good jugaad (flexible approach) which made us successful,” said Anjan Panigrahi, 23, a driver by profession. Parents of some of the group members were roped in to play the role of military officers. “We put stickers on the uniforms to make them look authentic,” said a member. The film has been hailed by critics for the sheer determination of its makers. “It is a good effort. The way they brilliantly use technique and sound and the dialogue delivery is superb. There are many good pictures which have never been awarded with any awards. Here the award is not important but the all-out efforts made by the youths need to be appreciated,” said film critic Surya Deo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
27-08-2020||India||Minor raped and killed in Bihar, 1 held||A 24-year-old youth has been arrested for the alleged rape and murder of a minor in Bihar’s Gopalganj district. Police arrested the accused Jai Kishore Sah and forwarded him to jail on Wednesday and said it was a case of rape and murder in which the victim’s private parts were also mutilated. The incident occurred at Bakhraur village under Sidhwalia police station in Gopalganj district on Tuesday. The area is around 160km northwest of the state capital Patna. According to the police, the 9-year-old victim had been playing on her own at around 10 in the morning and disappeared soon after. Her parents started looking for her all around and asked their neighbours too, but in vain. In the evening, they became very worried and started searching frantically in neighbouring homes. It was then that they came upon a sack in the neighbour’s house with blood oozing out of it and discovered her body. Subsequently, they informed the police who came and sent the body for post-mortem. Police said the owner of the house claimed her nephew had committed the crime while she was not at home. “The girl was raped and then smothered to death. The accused had tortured her brutally. There were injuries on various parts of the victim’s body. The accused stuffed the body in a gunny bag with the intention to dispose it of later,” said Sidhwalia station house officer (SHO) Ranjeet Kumar Paswan. According to the police, the accused is in the business of fruits. Meanwhile, a video of alleged gang rape of a woman by seven persons was widely shared on various social media platforms on Wednesday. Bihar police traced the site of the crime to an area near a government high school under Aandar police station in Siwan district. An FIR has been registered in connection with the incident. Siwan superintendent of police Abhinav Kumar said that four of the seven accused have been identified and a special team has been formed to arrest them. This is the third gang rape incident in Bihar this month. The two earlier incidents happened in Patna and Muzaffarpur districts and came to light after videos of the heinous acts were also shared on social media. A 70-metre bridge over the Bakra river in Araria district of Bihar collapsed late on Tuesday evening while several people and vehicles were crossing it. It is feared that some of them could have drowned in the incident that happened under Jokihat police station. The district administration has roped in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) to conduct search operations in the flooded river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-706
