28-08-2020||India||Congress MP dies of Covid-19||The Congress MP from Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, H. Vasanthakumar, died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Chennai on Friday, the party said. The 70-year-old first-time MP, who was admitted to the Apollo Hospitals on August 10 after he tested positive for the coronavirus, died of the illness, a party spokesperson told PTI. Earlier in a statement, Apollo Hospitals said the MP was in a critical condition and was being treated by a team of doctors for severe Covid-19 pneumonia. Vasanthakumar was a two-time MLA and elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2019 elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of Vasanthakumar and said his efforts in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. "Saddened by the demise of Lok Sabha MP Shri H. Vasanthakumar Ji. His strides in business and social service efforts were noteworthy. During my interactions with him, I always saw his passion towards Tamil Nadu's progress. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Centre issues rules for J&K administration||The Centre has issued rules for a smooth functioning of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, specifying that the police, the all-India services and the anti-corruption bureau will be under the direct control of the Lieutenant Governor (LG) of the Union Territory. The rules, notified by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, also made it clear that in case of a difference of opinion between the LG and the council of ministers (when it is formed) with regard to any matter, the former shall refer it to the Centre for the decision of the president and shall act according to that decision. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) notification said there will be 39 departments in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, including agriculture, school education, higher education, horticulture, floriculture, election, general administration, home, mining, power, PWD, transport and tribal affairs. Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, was abrogated on August 5, 2019 and subsequently, the state was bifurcated into Union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The Union territories came into existence on October 31 last year. "In exercise of the powers conferred by section 55 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, read with the Proclamation dated 31st October, 2019 issued under section 73 of the said Act, the President hereby makes the following rules...," the notification said. It said the LG shall, in respect of matters connected with "public order", "police", "All India Services" and "Anti Corruption Bureau", exercise his executive functions in his discretion under the Act. The LG, on the advice of the chief minister (when elected), shall allot the business of the government among the ministers by assigning one or more departments to a minister. The council (of ministers) shall be collectively responsible for all the executive orders issued by any department in the name of the LG and contracts made in the name of the president in connection with the administration of the Union Territory, whether such orders or contracts are authorised by a minister with respect to a matter pertaining to a department under his charge or as a result of discussions at a meeting of the council. The notification said all communications received from the Centre, including those from the prime minister and other ministers, other than those of a routine or unimportant character, shall, as soon as possible after their receipt, be submitted by the secretary to the chief secretary, the minister in-charge, the chief minister and the LG for information. Any matter, which is likely to bring the government of the Union Territory into a controversy with the Centre or a state government, shall, as soon as possible, be brought to the notice of the LG and the chief minister by the secretary concerned through the chief secretary. In case of a difference of opinion between the LG and a minister with regard to any matter, the former shall endeavour by discussion within two weeks from the date of such disagreement to settle any point on which the difference of opinion has arisen. Should the difference of opinion persist, the LG may direct that the matter be referred to the council, which shall consider it at its next scheduled meeting and convey its decision, but not later than 15 days from the date of such reference. In case no such decision is received within 15 days from the date of such reference, the LG's decision shall be deemed to have been accepted by the council of ministers. In case of a difference of opinion between the LG and the council with regard to any matter, the former shall refer it to the Centre for the decision of the president and shall act according to that decision, the notification said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Covid not a ground for postponing Bihar polls, says SC||Stating that Covid-19 cannot be a ground for postponing elections, the Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a PIL seeking to defer the Bihar assembly polls till the state is free of the novel coronavirus. The Election Commission of India will consider everything, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said. The bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said it is a premature petition as no notification for the assembly polls has been issued till now. The petitioner, Avinash Thakur, had sought a direction to the Chief Election Commissioner to postpone the polls due to the COVID-19 pandemic on the ground that the Representation of the People Act provides for the deferment of polls in extraordinary situations. How can we ask the Election Commission of India (ECI) to not hold elections? Covid cannot be a valid ground for postponement of elections, the bench stated. The petitioner's counsel said the RP Act provides for the deferment of polls due to an extraordinary situation. To this the bench said it is for the ECI to decide and the court cannot direct the poll panel to not hold elections. The petitioner's counsel also argued that elections are not paramount but human life is, and even MLAs and common people are suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench said it cannot pass orders for the deferment of polls and the ECI will take into account every situation. It said no writ can be applied like this and dismissed the PIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Varsities cannot promote students without conducting final year exams: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said that states and universities cannot promote students without holding final year exams by September 30. Upholding the UGC decision to hold final year exams, a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said if any state feels they can't conduct exams by that date, they must approach the UGC for new dates to hold the exam. Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena, is one of the petitioners in the apex court and has questioned the UGC's directive to hold examinations amid the coronavirus pandemic. The UGC had earlier said that the July 6 guidelines are based on recommendations of experts and have been made after due deliberation and it is wrong to claim that it will not be possible to conduct the final examinations in terms of the guidelines. Assailing the decisions of some states like Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel final year examinations, the UGC had said that such decisions directly affect standards of higher education and will be an encroachment on the legislative field of coordinating and determining the standards of higher education that is exclusively reserved for Parliament under Schedule VII of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Covid: Govt's guideline for airlines||The government has permitted the airlines to serve pre-packed snacks, meals and beverages on domestic flights and hot meals on international flights, according to an official order. Moreover, any passenger who refuses to wear a face mask in a flight can be put on the no-fly list by the airline, said a senior official of the aviation regulator DGCA. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, in-flight meal service was not permitted on domestic flights since their resumption on May 25. On international flights, only pre-packed cold meals and snacks were being served depending on the flight duration since May this year. In an order issued on Thursday, the Civil Aviation Ministry said, "Airlines may serve pre-packed snacks/meals/pre-packed beverages on domestic flights depending on the duration of flight." Airlines and charter flight operators can "serve hot meals and limited beverages" on international flights "as per the standard practices", it added. The ministry said only single-use disposable trays, plates and cutlery should be used while serving food or beverages in domestic and international flights. "Crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal/beverage service," it noted. The ministry also permitted the aircraft operators to let passengers use the in-flight entertainment system on international as well as domestic flights wherever available. "Disposable earphones or cleaned and disinfected headphones will be provided to passengers at the start of the journey," it noted. Meanwhile, a senior official of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, "A passenger who refuses to wear a face mask can be put on no-fly list by the airline." The official said no new order has been passed in this regard as the airline and its cabin crew are sufficiently empowered under the existing DGCA rules to take action. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can choose to put an unruly passenger on its no-fly list after internal deliberations. Subsequently, other airlines may follow suit in putting that passenger on their no-fly lists. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the 'Vande Bharat Mission' and bilateral air bubble arrangements that have been signed with various countries. Domestic flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months in view of the pandemic. However, airlines are allowed to operate 45 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Orissa HC allows same-sex couple to live together||The Orissa High Court has allowed a same-sex couple to continue a live-in relationship, stating that human beings, irrespective of gender identities, are entitled to full enjoyment of their rights. A division bench of Justice S.K. Mishra and Justice Savitri Ratho, while hearing the habeaus corpus plea of a 24-year-old transman earlier this week, said “the state shall provide all kinds of protection to them, including right to life, right to equality before law and equal protection of law”. The petitioner, who identifies himself as a man, said the mother and the uncle of his partner forcibly took her home in Jajpur, and arranged her marriage with another person, prompting him to approach the court. Justice Mishra, who headed the bench, ruled that the duo has the right to decide on their sexual preference, and directed the Jajpur superintendent of police to ensure that the partner gets to join the petitioner in Bhubaneswar. The mother, a widow, and the sister would be allowed to visit the woman at the petitioner’s house, he said. Justice Ratho said that freedom of choice was available to the two, who have decided to live together. The bench also observed that although the woman will join the company of the petitioner on account of a judicial intervention, there is no bar on her in case she wants to part ways with the petitioner or go back to her mother. “The society should support their decision. We hope and trust that the duo will lead a happy and harmonious life,” Justice Ratho added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Naveen seeks Modi intervention over NEET and JEE||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over phone seeking his intervention for the postponement of NEET and JEE (Main) exams scheduled next month in view of the Covid pandemic and the flood havoc in parts of the state. Naveen’s conversation comes a day after his letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ seeking deferment of these exams till normalcy is restored in the pandemic-hit country. Around 90,000 students from Odisha will be taking these exams for admission into medical and other technical courses. In his missive to the minister, Naveen said that given the situation in the wake of the pandemic it would be unsafe for students to visit the test centres physically. He had also argued that students may face transportation problems considering that the number of centres were very few and several examinees would be coming from far off areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
28-08-2020||India||Left parties to join forces with Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar||The Left parties have decided to join forces with the Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar to counter the ruling NDA in the upcoming Assembly elections. The decision came after meetings with Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which leads the Grand Alliance. The Congress, the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) are its other constituents.  The development comes on the heels of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) quitting the alliance. Leaders of the three main Left parties — the CPI, the CPM and the CPI-ML — said that the decision was taken after they felt the necessity to check the division of secular votes in the bid to defeat the BJP and its allies — chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) — in the state. “The CPI and the CPM leaders met RJD state president Jagdanand Singh on Wednesday for around two hours to discuss the modalities of a broad-based alliance to overthrow the NDA government in Bihar. The differences among the parties in the past have weakened the fight against the BJP and its allies,” CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey told The Telegraph. Pandey pointed out that an “in principle” agreement has been reached that the Left will be with the Grand Alliance on all 243 Assembly seats in the state. He also said the CPI and the RJD had contested the polls together in 1995 in which the former had won 26 out of the 55 seats it had fought on. Pandey said the aim was to “bring all secular powers together” to defeat the communal forces. He added that the RJD has assured the Left of a honourable seat-sharing arrangement. Apart from the CPI, the CPM and the CPI-ML, All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) and Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) are the other Left parties active in the state. All the six Left parties contested the 2015 Assembly elections in a bid to provide a third option to voters away from the Grand Alliance and the NDA, but were rejected. They could muster only around 3.5 per cent votes in the state, and only the CPI-ML managed to win three seats. However, it is also a known fact that the Left parties have an extensive presence across Bihar and have the ability to influence results on at least 50 seats. The CPI-ML has held a few meetings with the RJD and its state secretary Kunal said that their essence was to contest the polls together to defeat the NDA. “There should be an honourable seat-sharing deal if the alliance or the agreement has to work out smoothly. The Left parties are ready to put their entire strength to defeat the communal forces endangering our country, state and the Constitution,” Kunal told this newspaper. Meanwhile, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has authorised Jagadanand Singh to proceed with the talks with the Left parties to take them on board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||States shocked at Centre's GST compensation turnaround||The spirit of cooperative federalism lay in tatters at the altar of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Thursday after the Centre disclaimed its constitutional obligation to compensate states for any annual shortfall in tax collections this year. The GST regime had transformed the country into a single common market in July 2017 and the states had agreed to subsume all their levies under a single tax. The Centre had promised to compensate them if collections failed to record a 14 per cent annual increment in revenues over the base year of 2015-16. At the end of a stormy five-and-a-half-hour meeting, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman left the states with two stark and disagreeable options: either borrow Rs 97,000 crore from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India to meet a small part of the expected Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year, or raise the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of debt. The Centre hopes to collect just Rs 65,000 crore this year from the GST compensation cess, which is levied on a handful of “demerit goods” like luxury vehicles, aerated drinks and tobacco products. The states, which had hoped to join forces and persuade the Centre to borrow money and pay them for the GST shortfall, were in for a shock when Sitharaman circulated a note prepared by attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that essentially said that any compensation to be paid could only come out of the cess corpus, which has been turned bone dry this year because of the large payout in 2019-20. The government then added salt to the wounds by parcelling out the uncovered GST shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore into two components: a sum of Rs 97,000 crore that it claimed was attributable to what it termed “GST implementation”, and a larger share of Rs 138,000 crore that was ascribed to what it called Covid-related factors. The government argued that it was under no obligation to pay the Covid-related shortfall since there was no express provision in the legislation for a pandemic or crisis-related situation. It wasn’t immediately clear on what basis the Centre had divided the uncovered GST shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore into these two streams —and the Union finance minister did not elucidate either at the virtual meeting with the state finance ministers or in her interaction with the media later. Sitharaman firmly stated that the Centre was in no position to borrow the amount on to its books and then defray the sum as the states had hoped. The states, which have received no GST compensation in this fiscal, have been struggling to raise revenues from the few taxes they still levy and were obviously furious when presented with this virtual fait accompli. “The government’s refusal to pay GST compensation to the states is the biggest betrayal in the history of federalism in India.… The states are feeling cheated,” said Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister of Delhi. An irate Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said the AG’s note ought to have been circulated before the meeting. “Why was this note kept under wraps till the last minute?” he asked. “Clearly, the 41st meeting of the GST Council was not a healthy one. The Government of India has thrust a decision on us and this is not in the spirit of the GST regime. The solution that was arrived at is not satisfactory. But we have no choice. We have seven days to take this to our cabinet, where we will discuss the future course of action,” Badal told a virtual media conference later. Sitharaman, who described the pandemic as an “act of God”, did not place the options on the table until the fag end of the meeting, sources said, thereby precluding any discussion. The states asked the Centre to send them a detailed note on the two options so that they could pore over the fine print before deciding which way to vote. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said: “Most of the states are against the idea of borrowing on their books. There was hardly any time for a discussion on the options. So, the states asked for details in writing; we will respond accordingly.” Mitra added: “But as I mentioned in my letter on Wednesday, the Union finance minister had gone on record during the 39th GST Council meeting to say that the Centre was duty bound to compensate the states. This obligation is enshrined in Section 18 of the 101st Constitution Amendment Act, which led to the creation of the GST regime.” “Just because they (the BJP) are in a majority, it doesn’t mean that they can force a decision upon us,” said T.S. Singh Deo, cabinet minister in the Chhattisgarh government. “The Centre, as mentioned in the GST Act, is bound to pay compensation in case of losses. Instead of asking the 31 states to borrow, why can’t the Centre borrow and distribute the amount among the states?” Sitharaman said the Centre, in consultation with the RBI, would provide a special window to the states to borrow Rs 97,000 crore at a “reasonable” rate of interest. This money could be repaid after five years from the collection of cess. Under the second option, the states can borrow the entire uncovered GST compensation shortfall of Rs 235,000 crore through the special window. The Union finance minister said the Centre would facilitate discussions between the states and the RBI to ensure they get a cheap rate on the loans that would be linked to the yield on the government security depending on the maturity period. “All states will roughly get the same rate of interest,” Sitharaman added. Most states are likely to opt for a 10-year loan with a moratorium on repayment. But there was no assurance that it would be granted. “This effectively implies that the RBI will have to inject a huge amount of liquidity -- or it will have to crank up its money supply. In other words, either directly or indirectly there will be monetisation of this part of the deficit, which will have its own implication on the economy as a whole,” said M. Govinda Rao, economist and a member of the 14th finance commission. The problem is exacerbated by the fact that most states do not have the head room to borrow because of the limits that are placed on them under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. Sitharaman offered to get round this problem by relaxing the limit. “I have offered states a 0.5 per cent relaxation on their FRBM limit if they decide to borrow on their own without fulfilling the conditions of completing the tasks under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme,” she said. In May, the Centre had raised the borrowing limits of the states to 5 per cent of their gross domestic product for 2020-21 granting them access to an extra resource pool of Rs 4.28 lakh crore. A part of this was linked to specific reforms to be implemented in terms of the Atmanirbhar Bharat stimulus package. It was not immediately clear if the relaxation was being made within the 5 per cent limit or if the borrowing cap was being effectively raised to 5.5 per cent. Revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said a sum of only Rs 97,000 crore was attributable to the implementation of the GST, while the rest was on account of the coronavirus pandemic hitting the economy. “We do not know whether they have run an economic model to separate out the two streams to determine which part of the shortfall is attributable to GST implementation and which portion relates to Covid-related issues,” said Mukesh Bhutani, managing partner of BMR Legal. Sitharaman insisted that the states would be able to repay the borrowings based on the compensation cess collections in future years. Although she did not state this explicitly, there is a view among pundits that the cess may be extended beyond the original five-year term till June 2022 -- which means that the consumers will eventually end up bearing the burden. “History tells us that when a cess is imposed in this country, it continues forever. A cess, which is an exception, is increasingly becoming the norm,” said Pratik Jain, partner and national tax leader at PwC. “Intuitively, I think the states will opt to borrow the full Rs 2.35 lakh crore this year itself. But we will have to wait and see.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||SC stays off order on  Muharram||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to pass any directive to permit the annual Muharram processions this year across the country, saying it would “create chaos and a particular community will be targeted for spreading Covid-19”. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian rejected the petitioner’s contention that the Muharram processions should be allowed as the court had earlier permitted this year’s Rath Yatra in Puri and worship at two Jain temples in Maharashtra amid the pandemic. Justice Bobde told the petitioner: “It is not possible to give general directions. It will create chaos and a particular community will be targeted for spreading Covid. We will not pass orders that could risk the health of so many people.” The PIL had been filed by a Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh, Syed Kalbe Jawad, who wanted a directive to all the states and Union Territories to permit Muharram processions. “You’re asking for vague directions for the whole country for this community. The Jagannath Puri case was one specific place where the rath was to go from point A to B. If it was for one specific place, we can assess the danger and pass orders. We cannot pass general orders,” CJI Bobde observed. The Supreme Court allowed Jawad to approach Allahabad High Court for permission to observe Muharram in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Pune doctor volunteers for second phase of Oxford vaccine trial ||A 48-year-old doctor, who was administered the Oxford Covid-19 candidate vaccine on Wednesday, said he was inspired by immunology greats Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner to volunteer for the second phase of the trial in Pune. The man, who was administered the vaccine candidate dose, said his vital signs were normal and he had resumed routine work. “As I work in healthcare sector, I know vaccines have made a huge difference in the quality of human life. When I read the history of vaccination, I got inspired by pioneers Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner who performed the trials on themselves. They inspired me to volunteer,” he said. Louis Pasteur (1822-1895) was a French chemist who proved that germs cause disease, and developed vaccines for anthrax and rabies. Edward Jenner (1749-1823) was an English doctor and discoverer of vaccination for smallpox. The volunteer said he had also volunteered 10 years ago for clinical trials for a vaccine against the H1N1 (swine flu) virus. The phase-II clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India started at the Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital here on Wednesday, with two volunteers being administered the Covishield vaccine. Hospital authorities said the identity of the volunteers couldn’t be revealed. The doctor said his 21-year-old daughter had also volunteered during the trial of a vaccine on cervical cancer in 2014. “My daughter, who is pursuing a BTech degree, has volunteered and become eligible for the (Covishield) trial as her reports of Covid-19 and antibody came negative,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||UP BJP MLA warns against using upper caste title in molest complaint||A man bearing the name of a BJP MLA in Uttar Pradesh can be heard in an audiotape warning a local leader against uttering the word “Thakur” while complaining against alleged molesters and also not to make it evident in the police case that the accused belong to the upper caste. Opposition parties in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh often accuse the Yogi Adityanath government of pampering Thakur castemen while victimising others, particularly the Brahmins. The caller in the audiotape of a purported phone conversation identifies himself as Chaturbhuj Prasad, general secretary of the BJP’s divisional sub-unit of Gorakhpur city. He addresses the person he calls as “vidhayakji” (MLA). The person who receives the call identifies himself as Radha Mohan. The four-time MLA of Gorakhpur Urban is Radha Mohan Das Agrawal. When The Telegraph contacted Agrawal on Thursday, he said: “I am fighting against a scam in the construction of an embankment and four MLAs of my own party are supporting the corrupt officers of the public works department. May be my enemies are floating such an audio to harm me. I don’t remember talking to anybody about this case of molestation.” Chaturbhuj Prasad, general secretary of the BJP’s divisional sub-unit of Gorakhpur city, didn’t receive calls from this newspaper. A BJP source said the conversation dates back to May. Chief minister Adityanath, a Thakur, had represented Gorakhpur for long in Parliament. Excerpts from the purported telephone conversation: Receiver: Radha Mohan speaking.  Caller: Vidhayakji, pranam. Receiver: Ji, pranam. Caller: I am Chaturbhuj Prasad, general secretary of the BJP’s divisional sub-unit of Gorakhpur city. Vidhayakji, I had a request. Receiver: Why don’t you talk to the MLA of your area (Gorakhpur Rural)? Caller: No, no, it is a matter of the Gorakhnath police station area, so I was compelled to call you. RK (name changed by this newspaper) lives in Alinagar. I know him well. His relative SK (name changed)  lives in Ram Nagar…. Receiver: Okay. Caller: SK has young daughters in his family. A Thakur family also lives in the area. Receiver: Thakur parivar nahin rehte hain, parivar rehte hain (Not a Thakur family, a family lives there). Caller: Yes, a Thakur family lives there. Receiver: Bhajpa mein hain, Thakuron ki sarkar chal rahi hai aur aap Thakur parivar ki baat kar rahe hain (You are in the BJP. The government is of the Thakurs, and you are talking about a Thakur family). What wrong have they done? Do Baniyas ever run the government? Behave properly with the Thakurs. Don’t say they are a Thakur family.   Caller: Sir, SK has young daughters in the family. For two, three, four months, these people are misbehaving with the girls. The day before yesterday, RK and his son, since they are relatives (of SK), went (to the accused) around 8pm to make them see sense. They fought during which MK (RK’s son) son, suffered face and head injuries. The other side has also suffered injuries, but the SO (station officer) of Gorakhnath accepted the application of only one side and is conducting a one-sided investigation. Receiver: Who is the SO there? Caller: Sir, I don’t know the name of the SO. (Someone from behind tells him the name of the SO) Receiver: What is the proof that there has been molestation? Caller: They are girls and whatever the family would say should be taken into consideration. Receiver: Have you lodged any complaint about the molestation before today? Caller: Sir, the honour of the family….   Receiver: This has been going on for four months. Who will believe if you level such allegations now? How old are the girls? Caller: They are 24-25 years old, sir. Receiver: Will they give a statement? Caller: Yes, sir, they will give a statement. Receiver: How many girls are there? Caller: They are two girls, sir. Receiver: Will both of them testify that they were molested? Caller: Yes, sir, they will. Receiver: Ask both the girls to write a statement addressed to the senior superintendent of police. You go to the SSP’s gate. Send me the statement on WhatsApp. Let me read it, then only call the SSP.  Caller: Okay sir, okay sir. Pranam, sir. Receiver: I have been seeing the theatrics of you people in BJP. It’s in your blood to be servile. Do what I have said. Prepare two separate letters. The allegations will be made in writing. Who all, and since when, have been molesting the girls. Then mention such and such SO. Just mention the names. You don’t need to spell out the obvious that the accused are Singhs (Thakurs) and the SO is also a Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||AAP leaders tongue-tied at Kejriwal’s silence on Bhushan conviction||Arvind Kejriwal and the senior leadership of his Aam Aadmi Party have maintained a conspicuous silence on the Supreme Court’s conviction of advocate Prashant Bhushan, a co-founder of the party who stands expelled, for criminal contempt. Even the Congress, which lost the 2014 Lok Sabha elections largely because of the graft allegations levelled by Bhushan, Kejriwal and their India Against Corruption movement, has expressed concern over the judgment. Second-rung AAP leaders have tweeted in Bhushan’s favour and shared his statement in court refusing to apologise. However, no AAP leader has signed any of the multiple statements issued in Bhushan’s support. Several Opposition leaders, including the Congress’s Digvijaya Singh and Shashi Tharoor, have lent their names to the statements. An AAP source told The Telegraph: “Prashant never came to our support when false cases were foisted on our leaders. Within the party, they (Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav, another expelled leader) are seen as ungrateful, considering the stature that common workers had elevated them to. They (Bhushan and Yadav) damaged our prospects solely to the benefit of the BJP in the 2017 Delhi municipal polls. However, they took a positive stand towards us in the Assembly polls earlier this year. So opinion within the party on whether or not we should stick our neck out for them is divided.” He added: “Some finality is awaited in his case, and the party’s official stand on his case will take shape, if at all, after the sentencing.” Kejriwal’s silence stands out in contrast to his activist avatar, like the time he had called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a “psychopath” after the CBI raided his office in 2015. The Delhi chief minister began to pipe down after AAP’s poor debut in the 2017 municipal polls. However, even as late as last year, Kejriwal had exclaimed after the Supreme Court verdict did not go completely in favour of his government in his tussle with the Centre: “What democracy is this?” Another AAP functionary told this paper on Wednesday: “The party’s general sentiment on this (Bhushan’s case) has been expressed by leaders like Ajoy Kumar, Ankit Lal, Preeti Menon and Jasmine Shah. The question is what stake do we have in this case? Does it benefit or harm us in any way? The case itself looks like a work in progress. Arvind does not need to constantly comment on everything.” An article being shared within AAP circles is journalist and former party leader Ashish Khetan’s recent profile of Bhushan in The Print web portal. The unease within AAP over taking a stand for a rebel, sources said, has been explained by Khetan who wrote: “The Bhushans’ (Prashant and his father Shanti Bhushan) tacit support to the misuse of agencies by the Centre against AAP smacks of double standard…. When the AAP government’s powers were whittled away illegally by an authoritarian central government, P. Chidambaram, casting away his trenchant political opposition to AAP, represented the Delhi government before the Supreme Court in 2017 and argued against the Centre’s unconstitutional assault on the elected government in Delhi.” Kejriwal’s silence is more telling at a time he has been accused by activists of playing second fiddle to the BJP by appearing to remain a bystander during the February riots in Delhi, then doing precious little for rehabilitation, and echoing the BJP’s propaganda that the protests against the new citizenship regime at Shaheen Bagh had led to the flare-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi sets up Congress group to look after parliamentary work||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday set up a 10-member group to look after parliamentary work, with five members each from the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Although no formal announcement was made, sources said the committee would include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Ahmed Patel, K.C. Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh from the Rajya Sabha and Adhir Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, K. Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Ravneet Singh Bittu from the Lok Sabha. Gogoi has been named deputy leader of the Lok Sabha. Bittu, a young MP from Punjab, has been appointed a whip along with Tagore. Azad, who was among the 23 leaders who wrote a controversial letter to Sonia on the drift in the party, on Thursday repeated his demand for elections to appoint a party president and Congress Working Committee members. He told the news agency ANI that a nominated president would not have even one per cent legitimacy under the present circumstances and therefore an election was  necessary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Arm-twist charge on GST compensation||The Congress on Thursday expressed deep anguish over the Narendra Modi government’s attitude of using brute majority in Parliament and the GST Council to arm-twist states into submission over the payment of compensation. Stressing that the Modi government had scant regard for the Constitution and its own commitments, the Congress also warned of a situation when states will think of walking out of the GST regime. The Congress-ruled states are upset because the Centre tried to create an impression that it was legally not bound to pay compensation even when the Constitution was amended to give a sovereign commitment to pay for the losses for five years. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said after the GST Council meeting on Thursday, “An impression was sought to be created that there is no legal commitment to pay compensation. The opinion given by the attorney-general was read out at the meeting. There is a clear trust deficit. An outcome has been thrust upon us. States will have to borrow. Though the issue of compensation is still open, we are not happy with the outcome. But the states have no option.” Indicating the possibility of a conflict, Badal said, “We have asked for seven days’ time to respond. We have to consult our cabinet. But in case a state is not agreeable, we demand that the dispute resolution mechanism should be activated. States can take legal recourse. The IGST (integrated GST) money of Rs 54,000 crore that the Centre appropriated should also be returned. We would have preferred one-third of the dues be paid from the Consolidated Fund of India and the rest could have been borrowed.” Chhattisgarh finance minister T.S. Singhdeo said, “Compensation was the basis on which the states gave their consent to the GST regime. Now the Modi government is trying to arm-twist the states because it has majority in Parliament and GST Council. They say compensation is not a legal obligation and are coercing the states to surrender. States’ rights to levy taxes were snatched and now we are told to fend for ourselves. Why is the Centre violating the Constitution and its own commitments?” Singhdeo added, “There were serious reservations among the states about the GST regime. The financial independence of states was at stake. But the Centre gave assurances. Now there is a crisis and the Centre is backing out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Government asks central universities to freeze teacher recruitment||The government has asked central universities to freeze teacher recruitment until "complete lifting" of the lockdown, a move welcomed by JNU teachers who have long been accusing varsity authorities of irregularities in faculty appointments. In a letter on Tuesday to the vice-chancellors of all the central universities, the education ministry said that filling “general posts including teaching and non-teaching posts in central universities may be deferred till complete lifting of lockdown”. The universities were recruiting teachers entirely through online interviews because of the Covid crisis. The JNU teachers’ association had written several times to the government during the pandemic, alleging large-scale “illegalities” in the faculty appointments and laying the blame on vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar. The teachers’ association has long been making the same allegation and several teachers have petitioned Delhi High Court against particular appointments over the past several years. But the government has hardly ever acted on the teachers’ and students’ multiple complaints against the VC, who is perceived to be close to the ruling dispensation. A teachers’ association member described Tuesday’s ministry letter — which cited no explanations for the directive — as a “relief, at least for the time being”. According to the association, the JNU administration has been interfering in the teacher appointment process in various ways, for instance, by changing the advertised eligibility criteria just before the selection. The teachers’ main complaint is that Kumar has been violating rules by inviting subject experts of his own choice as members of the selection committees that interview the candidates. Under JNU’s rules and statutes, each of its centres or schools recommends a panel of experts for possible inclusion in its teacher selection committee. Once statutory bodies like the university’s academic council and executive council have approved the names, the VC invites any three of them to join the selection committee. However, the current dispensation has invoked a 1997 executive council resolution that authorised the VC to add names to the list of recommended experts and get them approved by the executive council. The teachers say this resolution applied only to the year 1997. Last year, Delhi High Court passed an interim order allowing the VC to add names to the list but requiring their approval from the academic council and the executive council. Since most of the members of both councils are nominated by the VC, deans and chairpersons, the VC gets all his agendas approved, a teachers’ association member said. “The VC calls experts of his choice these days. He does not include anybody from the list recommended by the centre or the school. Some of these experts have hardly published any paper in peer-reviewed journals,” the teacher said. Rajeev Kumar, a computer science teacher at JNU, said faculty recruitment was not urgent enough to be conducted during the pandemic. “Faculty recruitment should not be short-circuited, as is currently being done,” he said. “A faculty member, once appointed, stays on for the next two to four decades. Any compromise with faculty selection may therefore severely affect the academic environment.” Rajeev Kumar said that although the National Education Policy had recommended abolition of the MPhil course, JNU was recruiting teachers on the basis of the posts sanctioned for its integrated MPhil-PhD course rather than recalculating the number of required teachers after excluding the MPhil-related posts. “Instead of faculty recruitment, a VC’s time may be more meaningfully devoted to higher-priority tasks such as improving the infrastructure for online teaching and assessment, rescheduling the academic calendar, conducting admissions and calling the students back to the campus,” he said. An email sent to the JNU vice-chancellor and registrar seeking their reaction to the allegations of illegalities in teacher appointment has remained unanswered. The Central University of Rajasthan had sought permission for an online interview to recruit teachers. The ministry has advised it to wait for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
28-08-2020||India||Relook at quota preference within SC/ST||A five-judge constitution bench on Thursday ruled that there can be classification and preferential treatment within the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes so that the more backward among them have better access to reservation in education and jobs. The relatively better-off members appear to have “usurped” the benefits, defeating the very purpose of reservation to remove the disparities, the court said. The bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, however, referred the matter to a seven-judge or still larger bench for laying down the law on the subject as another five-judge bench of the apex court had in 2005 taken a contrary view that no such classification can be done. The apex court bench said on Thursday: “In our opinion, it would be permissible… to make such sub-classification to provide benefit to all to bring equality, and it would not amount to exclusion from the list as no class (caste) is deprived of reservation in totality.” The court noted that if the quota benefits are “permitted to be usurped by a few who are adequately represented, have advanced and belong to the creamy layer”, then it would “tantamount to creating inequality, whereas in case of hunger every person is required to be fed and provided bread”. “The entire basket of fruits cannot be given to the mighty at the cost of others under the guise of forming a homogenous class.” In 2014, a three-judge bench had referred the matter to a larger bench as it felt that the 2005 five-judge bench verdict needed to be revisited as it did not properly interpret a nine-judge bench ruling in 1992 on the issue. If there is a conflict of opinion between benches of similar strength, only a larger bench can overrule it. On Thursday, the bench that also had Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose said: “The million-dollar question is how to trickle down the benefit to the bottom rung; reports indicate that the benefit is being usurped by those castes who have come up and (have been) adequately represented. It is clear that caste, occupation and poverty are interwoven. “The State cannot be deprived of the power to take care of the qualitative and quantitative difference between different classes to take ameliorative measures.” The bench relied on the nine-judge bench ruling in 1992 that said the “creamy layer concept” for exclusion of benefit can be applied to the SCs and STs and it does not in any manner tinker with the presidential list under Articles 341 or 342 of the Constitution. The Articles mandate that only Parliament can include or exclude any caste/communities from the list of SC/STs by bringing a notified list. “The caste or group or sub­group continued exactly as before in the list. It is only those persons within that group or sub­group, who have come out of untouchability or backwardness by virtue of belonging to the creamy layer, who are excluded from the benefit of reservation,” the bench said. “Reservation was not contemplated for all the time by the framers of the Constitution. On the one hand, there is no exclusion of those who have come up, on the other hand, if sub­classification is denied, it would defeat right to equality by treating unequal as equal…. “The scavenger class given the name of Balmikis remains more or less where it was, and so on, disparity within the Scheduled Caste is writ large from various reports,” Justice Mishra, who authored the judgment, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-704
