29-08-2020||India||Unlock 4 guidelines: Metro trains, political gatherings allowed||The Union home ministry on Saturday issued the Unlock 4 guidelines under which metro trains will be allowed to resume services from September 7 in a graded manner, while political, social and religious congregations of up to 100 people will be permitted from September 21.  However, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students till September 30, with some relaxations for students of classes 9 to 12.  In a significant directive, the home ministry said that state governments shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government.  The ministry said that states and union territories may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work.  Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools in areas outside the containment zones only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers.  This will be subject to the written consent of their parents or guardians, according to the guidelines.  Metro rail will be allowed to operate with effect from September 7 in a graded manner, by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA), the Ministry of Railways (MOR), in consultation with the MHA.  In this regard, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the MOHUA.  Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, with effect from September 21.  However, such limited gatherings can be held with the mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitizer, the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||Amit Shah cured, to be discharged from hospital||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS here on August 18 for post-COVID care, has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time, hospital authorities said on Saturday.  "Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post-Covid care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time," the AIIMS said in a statement.  On August 2, Shah, 55, had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for Covid-19. He had undergone treatment for the coronavirus infection at Medanta Hospital and was discharged after he tested negative for the disease.  According to an earlier statement by AIIMS, he was admitted to the hospital on August 18 following complaints of fatigue and body aches, days after his discharge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's health condition slightly improves||Former President Pranab Mukherjee continues to be in deep coma and on ventilator support, but his renal parameters have improved, the hospital said on Saturday. Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mukherjee said he remains haemodynamically stable and is being treated for lung infection. A patient is haemodynamically stable when his blood circulation parameters -- blood pressure, heart and pulse rate -- are stable and normal, doctors say. Mukherjee was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain the same day. He later developed a lung infection and had a renal dysfunction, the doctors said. "Shri Pranab Mukherjee is being treated for lung infection. His renal parameters have improved. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support. He remains haemodynamically stable," a statement from the hospital said. The former President had also tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his admission. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012-2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||India's Covid-19 tally past 34 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally raced past 34 lakh with a single-day spike of 76,472 cases, while the number of recoveries surged to 26,48,998, pushing the recovery rate to 76.47 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry. The total number of Covid-19 cases rose to 34,63,972, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 62,550 with 1,021 people succumbing to it in a span of 24 hours, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.81 per cent in the country. There are 7,52,424 active coronavirus cases in the country currently, which account for 21.72 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and the 30-lakh mark on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 4,04,066,09 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to August 28, including 9,28,761 on Friday. Of the 1,021 fresh deaths, 331 were in Maharashtra, 136 in Karnataka, 102 in Tamil Nadu, 81 in Andhra Pradesh, 77 in Uttar Pradesh, 56 in West Bengal, 51 in Punjab, 20 each in Bihar and Delhi, 17 in Madhya Pradesh, 15 in Haryana, 14 in Gujarat, 12 in Rajasthan, 11 in Uttarakhand. Nine fatalities each were reported from Puducherry and Telangana, eight each from Assam, Jharkhand and Odisha, seven each from Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala, six from Chhattisgarh, five from Tripura, four from Goa, two each from Chandigarh, Manipur and Meghalaya, while Ladakh registered one death. Of the total 62,550 deaths, Maharashtra has accounted for the maximum of 23,775, followed by Tamil Nadu (7,050), Karnataka (5,368), Delhi (4,389), Andhra Pradesh (3,714), Uttar Pradesh (3,294), West Bengal (3,073), Gujarat (2,976) and Madhya Pradesh (1,323). So far, 1,307 people have died of Covid-19 in Punjab, 1,017 in Rajasthan, 808 in Telangana, 678 in Jammu and Kashmir, 661 in Haryana, 558 in Bihar, 456 in Odisha, 381 in Jharkhand, 286 in Assam, 274 in Kerala, 251 in Chhattisgarh and 239 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 199 Covid-19 fatalities, Goa 175, Tripura 94, Chandigarh 45, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 42, Himachal Pradesh 33, Ladakh 28, Manipur 27, Meghalaya 10, Nagaland nine, Arunachal Pradesh five, Sikkim three and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry said more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||‘Minority’ plea on Hindus in 9 states||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union ministries of law and minority welfare on a petition seeking the declaration of Hindus as minorities in nine states to enable them to run and manage their own educational institutions. Muslims, Christians and other minority communities enjoy the benefit at the national level under Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution. The court posted the matter for further hearing after six weeks. While Article 29 relates to the protection of the interests of minorities, Article 30 grants minorities the right to establish and administer their own educational institutions without much government interference. The petition, filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, has challenged the validity of Section 2(f) of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004, “for not only giving unbridled power to the Centre but also being manifestly arbitrary, irrational” and offending Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination), 21 (life and liberty), 29 and 30 of the Constitution of India” with regard to Hindus in the nine states where they are said to be in minority. According to the petition, the Act arbitrarily empowers the Centre to notify five communities — Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees — as minority at the national level. Upadhyay has submitted that Hindus make up 1 per cent of the population of Ladakh, 2.75 per cent in Mizoram, 2.77 per cent in Lakshadweep, 4 per cent in Kashmir, 8.74 per cent in Nagaland, 11.52 per cent in Meghalaya, 29 per cent in Arunachal Pradesh, 38.49 per cent in Punjab and 41.29 per cent in Manipur, but the Centre has not declared them as “minority”, because of which the community cannot establish and administer educational institution of its choice. “…Till date followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism; who are real minorities in Ladakh, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Kashmir, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur, cannot establish and administer educational institutions of their choice because of non-identification of ‘minority’ at the state level, thus jeopardising their basic rights guaranteed under Articles 29 and 30,” the petition said. “Their right under Articles 29 and 30 is being siphoned off illegally to the majority community in the states because the Centre has not notified them as ‘minority’ under the NCMEI Act,” it added. Senior advocate Vikas Singh appeared for the petitioner. According to the petition, while followers of Judaism, Bahaism and Hinduism are being deprived of their “basic right” to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice, Muslims, who are in majority in Lakshadweep (96.58 per cent) and Kashmir (96 per cent) and are present in significant numbers in Ladakh (44 per cent), Assam (34.20 per cent), Bengal (27.5 per cent), Kerala (26.60 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (19.30 per cent) and Bihar (18 per cent), can do so. Similarly, the petition said, Christians who are the majority in Nagaland (88.10 per cent), Mizoram (87.16 per cent) and Meghalaya (74.59 per cent) and are present in significant numbers in Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Kerala, Manipur, Tamil Nadu and Bengal, can also establish and administer educational institutions of their choice. Likewise, Sikhs are in majority in Punjab and there is a significant presence of the community in Delhi, Chandigarh and Haryana, but they can establish and administer educational institutions. Buddists, the petition pointed out, are in majority in Ladakh but enjoy the right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-701
29-08-2020||India||CLAT put off to September 28||The Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for entry to national law schools has been rescheduled to September 28 because of the complete lockdown in Bengal on September 7. The Consortium of National Law Universities met on Friday and discussed for over three hours the clash of dates and the inconvenience that thousands of examinees in Bengal could face in reaching centres. A notification issued at the end of the meeting said: “The Executive Committee assessed the prevailing lockdown situation in various parts of the country and, in particular, took into consideration the lockdown announced in the state of West Bengal for 7th September, and the continued lockdown in the state of Bihar until 6th September. On this basis, the Consortium has taken the following decision. The CLAT 2020 examination for both UG and PG candidates scheduled for 7th September, 2020, has been postponed to Monday the 28th September, 2020, from 2 to 4pm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Kerala gold scam: BJP’s turn to face music||The Kerala gold scandal has blown up in the face of the BJP. A statement attributed to a key accused claims that a pro-BJP television journalist had “requested the help” of the UAE consulate in the state capital to support the party in 2018. The statement also says the journalist offered the suspect advice to defuse the scandal through the consulate. The purported advice has a striking similarity with a claim made by a Union minister three days later. The scandal has taken the dramatic turn at a time the Opposition Congress and BJP have been seeking the scalp of chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan. On Friday, Anil Nambiar, the coordinating editor of the pro-BJP Janam TV, stepped down, pending an investigation, after the claims made in a handwritten statement attributed to Swapna Suresh became public. “In 2018, he (Nambiar) invited me for a dinner at Taj Hotel and had a couple of drinks together. He enquired about UAE investments in India and requested the help of consulate to support BJP,” said the statement that Swapna purportedly made before a central agency. Swapna is under arrest on the charge of helping smugglers bring in gold using “diplomatic baggage” in the name of the UAE consulate. An influential IAS officer in the Kerala chief minister’s office has already been suspended because of his links with Swapna. The BJP has not yet responded to the specific claim that Nambiar wanted the consulate to help the party. The nature of the help he allegedly sought is not clear. The UAE enjoys a special relationship with the Narendra Modi government and honoured the Indian Prime Minister with its highest civilian award last year. There had been reports in the western media that Indian security forces had helped capture and return the Dubai ruler’s runaway daughter off Goa in 2018. Nambiar, whose channel had played a key role in whipping up sentiments against the Vijayan government for implementing the Supreme Court order allowing women of all ages to enter the Sabarimala temple, has denied the claims in the handwritten statement. Earlier, call records had suggested that Nambiar was the last person Swapna had called up before switching off her phone and escaping to Bangalore after the smuggled 30kg gold consignment was caught. She was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Bangalore. Nambiar had then said he was in touch with her as part of his job as a journalist. But the statement attributed to Swapna says Nambiar had suggested that she advise “His Excellency”, a possible reference to the UAE consul-general, to issue a statement mentioning that the gold-filled parcel seized by customs officials at the airport on July 5 was a personal cargo and not diplomatic baggage. Three days later, on July 8, V. Muraleedharan, the minister of state for external affairs and a BJP leader from Kerala, had said: “We cannot call it diplomatic baggage. It’s a personal cargo that came for a diplomat. A diplomatic baggage is an official package sent from any country in official manner. Here some person had sent a parcel to a person with diplomatic immunity. On the airway bill, it was written diplomatic baggage. The person who came to receive the package was not having requisite papers.” However, the NIA later told a court in Kochi that fake stickers and insignia had been used to make the parcel, addressed to the attaché of the UAE consulate, look like a diplomatic baggage. On August 2, it was reported that Union minister Muraleedharan observed a one-day fast at his official residence in New Delhi, seeking the resignation of chief minister Vijayan over the gold scandal. According to Swapna's purported statement, she called up Nambiar to inform him that "His Excellency" wanted him to draft the statement. "Anil Nambiar agreed to send me the draft letter for this purpose," the statement attributed to Swapna says. "By then I was prantic (possibly 'frantic') about my own safety and was not in a position to follow this up further," the statement says. The consul-general, Jamal Hussein Al Zaabi, had left India shortly before the first round of nationwide lockdown had been announced on March 24. After news leaked earlier this week that Nambiar would be questioned by customs officials, Kerala BJP president K. Surendran had sought to distance himself from Janam TV.  However, Netizens soon dug up a 2015 Facebook post in which he had hailed the launch of Janam TV. Statements such as those attributed to arrested persons like Swapna can sometimes be made under coercion but what has landed the BJP in a quandary is that all the three agencies probing the gold scandal — the NIA, customs and the Enforcement Directorate — report to the Centre now run by the party’s leadership. Swapna's purported statement is unlikely to win plaudits for the UAE consulate. "Anil Nambiar had a cheating case in Dubai. And therefore could not visit Dubai for fear of arrest. At that time he wanted to go to Dubai to conduct a formal interview with (a jeweller who was in jail)." "He (Nambiar) wanted to get the issue cleared and thus contacted Sarith (another accused in the gold case and a former consulate employee) about two years back. Sarith in turn contacted me and I took up the matter with the consulate-general who cleared the issue using his influence in Dubai," the statement attributed to Swapna claims. It adds that "His Excellency" had been gifted a MacBook in keeping with his wish after he inaugurated a tile shop owned by a friend of Nambiar. In a Facebook post on Friday, Nambiar claimed he had called up Swapna only for an explanation from the consulate on the smuggled baggage. "In the last one year, I have called this woman only once. The intent of that call was to get the UAE consulate's explanation," Nambiar wrote. He said he didn't know Swapna had left the consulate last year. "While I had called her to check about the diplomatic baggage, I don't understand the reason for her statement that I had asked her to say it is not (a diplomatic baggage)," Nambiar added. "It is not my job to advise or give directions to Swapna." He said customs officials had during Thursday's questioning asked him about the calls he had exchanged with Swapna on July 5. "As the investigating agency, they fulfilled their duty. I said what I wanted to say. I fully cooperated with the investigation," Nambiar wrote. "I understand that my presence is becoming an impediment to news flow (at Janam TV). Hence I am stepping aside until the doubts surrounding me are cleared," he added. The CPM demanded on Friday that the BJP make its stand clear on the case. "It is clear that the BJP has something to hide as they have distanced themselves from Nambiar after the interrogation," the CPM said in a statement. The state secretary of CPM youth wing DYFI, A.A. Rahim, termed Nambiar a "small fish." "Anil Nambiar is only a small fish. Big sharks are in the ministry of external affairs," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Six states appeal to SC to put off NEET, JEE Main||Ministers from six Opposition-ruled states, led by Bengal law and labour minister Moloy Ghatak, on Friday urged the Supreme Court to postpone by six to eight weeks this year’s all-India engineering and medical entrance tests keeping in mind the Covid crisis. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental courses is scheduled on September 13; and the JEE Main for engineering courses from September 1 to 6. Some 25 lakh students are expected to take these exams. The IIT-conducted JEE Advanced, which the best 2.5 lakh performers in the JEE Main can take, is scheduled on September 27. Besides the pandemic, which the petitioners say is having a psychological effect on the students apart from its threat to physical health and constraints on studying, the petition also cites the floods in various states to seek postponement of the exams. The joint petition, expected to be heard on Monday, seeks a review of the Supreme Court’s August 17 judgment that upheld the authorities’ decision to conduct the NEET. Hearing a batch of petitions from students seeking postponement of the exam or its conduct in the online mode, the court had ruled that cancellation or postponement would force the students to lose an academic year and affect their future careers. While the court had passed the judgment only on the conduct of the NEET, the petitioners have now also sought postponement of the JEE. “If the Impugned order dated 17.08.2020 is not reviewed then grave and irreparable harm and injury would befall on the student community of our country and not only will the health, welfare and safety of the students/ candidates appearing for the NEET/JEE examinations would stand imperilled but also the public health at large would be in severe jeopardy in these Covid-19 pandemic times,” the petition says. “The Union government has created an unfortunate situation whereby the students/candidates may become vectors and carry the infection back to their homes and put their parents, grandparents, family, relatives and friends at risk of infection. This multiplier effect will be disastrous for the health of the nation.” Apart from Ghatak, the petitioners include Rajasthan finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, Jharkhand health and family welfare minister Raghu Sharma, Chhattisgarh food and civil supplies minister Amarjeet Bhagat, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, and Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Ravindra Samant. Filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, the petition seeks the postponement of the exams “in a manner that achieves the twin objectives of ensuring that the academic year of the students (2020-2021) is not wasted and their health and safety is not compromised”. “The Union government must ensure that the present dates of the examinations are postponed at least by 6 to 8 weeks and ensure that the academic session commencing by January 2021 and the academic year of the students are not lost,” Fernandes said. “Postponing the examination by 6 to 8 weeks would give adequate time to the Union government to make adequate transportation i.e. special buses, trains and flights in consultation with the state governments so that the students have a hassle-free and safe access to their examinations centre.” The petitioners have also cited logistical difficulties: “Such large movement of people (25 lakh examinees travelling to the exam centres and back) will prove a serious health hazard and defeat the twin present-day solutions we have of combating the Covid-19 pandemic i.e. social distancing and avoidance of large public gatherings.” They find it “ironical” that the exams were postponed in early summer when the number of the Covid-infected was much smaller “and now, when the daily spread of the virus is at its peak, the examinations are directed to be conducted forthwith”. “Now the Union government has suddenly woken up to realise that their inertia (in combating the pandemic) is going to cost lakhs of students their academic year and therefore as a knee-jerk reaction, (it) has haphazardly and hurriedly fixed the dates of the examinations, which remedy will prove worse than the disease itself,” the petition says. It argues the students are in no frame of mind “to appear in probably their most important and life-defining examination”. “It is of utmost importance that the correct and healthy mental and psychological environment is created so that the students can give their best performance,” it says. The petition also highlights the floods in “Bihar, As-sam, Arunachal Pradesh and parts of Meghalaya in July; Mumbai, Konkan and Karnataka in the first week of August; and flash floods in parts of Rajasthan on August 15”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Lives of lakhs of students at risk: Teachers||Holding university exams in September, as sanctioned by the Supreme Court on Friday, would “risk the lives of lakhs of students” considering the challenges of ensuring social distancing at the centres and in public transport, segments of teachers and state government officials have suggested. The apex court has upheld the University Grants Commission (UGC) directive that mandates exams in September for the country’s more than one crore final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. Some academics have, however, welcomed the elbow room the court has given to state governments to postpone — in consultation with the UGC — the exams in universities within their borders if they believe the pandemic situation requires such a step. UGC officials said that about 200 universities had already conducted final-year exams while 370 had informed the commission they planned to do so. Over 300 universities had been undecided till Friday, when the court delivered its verdict. Arun Kumar, general secretary of the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations, a body of teachers from state government-run institutions, hoped the states would be able to have the exams postponed. “The state government-run universities have mostly not held exams. Students, parents and teachers have been opposing the holding of exams,” he said. “Now the judgment has come (but) the states can still ask for deferment. I feel that the lives of lakhs of students will be at risk if the exams are held now.” India’s 260-odd state government-run universities boast more affiliated colleges and more students than any other category of varsity, and could account for well above half the country’s final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, a UGC official said. While the UGC has allowed the exams to be held online, most of the major universities are not even considering the option given the lack of reliable Internet connectivity and lack of devices among the poorer and rural students. According to the UGC’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for holding the exams, the states must instruct local authorities to issue movement passes to the invigilators and other teachers, officials and staff engaged in the conduct of the exams. The students can use their admit cards to travel between the exam centre and home. Students who have a cough, fever or cold should be made to sit in a separate room or allowed to take the exams on a different set of dates, the SOP says. The rooms at the centres can accommodate no more than 12 students each. The examinees and the examination staff are required to download the Aarogya Setu app. Several state governments, like those of Bengal, Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra and Delhi, have openly opposed September exams. “The college rooms don’t provide much space for social distancing,” a senior civil servant from Andhra Pradesh said. “Besides, the students will have to travel by public transport, where too social distancing would be a big challenge.” Delhi University executive council member Rajesh Jha, however, said the apex court had “tried to check the centralisation of decision-making in higher education” by giving the states a say. He said the UGC was insisting that its decision on September exams be implemented but “the message in the Supreme Court judgment is that the states’ and universities’ concerns must be accommodated”. The all-India engineering (JEE Main) and medical (NEET) entrance tests — as well as the IIT-conducted JEE Advanced — are also scheduled in September. A combined pool of 25 lakh students is expected to take these exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||NEET and JEE: Congress protests on streets and online||The Congress on Friday held protests across the country and online against the government’s decision to conduct NEET and JEE examinations from September 1, alleging that it would put millions of students and their families at the risk of getting infected at a time Covid cases were rising sharply. While the Youth Congress held demonstrations in the national capital and several major cities, most senior leaders joined a campaign on social media with the hashtag “SpeakUpForStudentsSafety”. Members of Congress students’ wing NSUI are organising a hunger strike at their he-adquarters to press for the demand to postpone the exams. Referring to the distress that the government’s decision had caused to the millions of students and their families, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in a statement: “You are our future. We depend on you to build a better India. Therefore, if any decision has to be taken regarding your future, it is important that the decision is taken with your concurrence. I hope the government listens to you and acts upon your wishes. This is my advice to the government.” Rahul Gandhi said: “Everybody understands what has happened in the past three-four months, the devastation it has caused. The economic destruction, the pain this country had to bear. I don’t understand why you (students) should be held responsible, why further pain should be imposed on you. “I can clearly see the government has been incompetent. But why should the government force anything on you? The government should listen to you. The decision should be made after a conversation, on the basis of a consensus.” Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas, who along with many other workers was detained by Delhi police for holding demonstrations, said: “The home minister of India, several chief ministers, governors are infected with the coronavirus. Does this government think students are corona-proof? When so many other exams have been put off, why not JEE-NEET?” A large number of Congress leaders posted video messages asking whether the lives of students were less precious than MPs as Parliament had not been convened for months. Congress leaders recalled the plight of millions of migrant workers who had braved police atrocities and hunger to return home, alleging that similar mismanagement was being demonstrated in the case of students now. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “The travel of 25 lakh students from villages and small towns at a time when the transport system is functioning barely at 35 to 40 per cent is difficult. Where will they stay? In Bihar, for example, only two of the 38 districts have exam centres for NEET and seven districts for JEE. Apart from logistical issues, there are psychological issues caused by the lockdown. What will happen if the students get infected? Apart from inefficiency, this is a government of apathy and arrogance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Kashmir judge calls for withrawal of Article 370 please||A former high court chief justice from Jammu and Kashmir on Friday called for the withdrawal of all petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370, adding an uncommon appeal: “Please don’t invite a judgment which may close the chapter forever.” Kashmir-born Bilal Nazki, who retired as chief justice of Orissa High Court in 2009 and later served as chairman of the Jammu and Kashmir human rights commission, tweeted: “All petitions related to Art 370 should be withdrawn, let this fight be political (and) please don’t invite a judgment which may close the chapter forever.” The tweet came amid a debate about the judiciary in the country, which gained traction after lawyer Prashant Bhushan was convicted of criminal contempt for two of his tweets on past and present Chief Justices of India. On Friday, asked about his tweet, Nazki told The Telegraph in a light-hearted manner: “You can deduce a meaning or write you did not understand. A tweet is not a statement. It is crisp, just to generate a discussion and know each other’s opinion.” Later during the conversation, the former judge said a “change” had been perceptible in the judiciary over the past few years. He attributed it to the “ideology” of the judges. “In my 15 years’ experience as a judge, no government ever tried to influence any judge, but ideologically sometimes a person is different. Every judge… is a human being after all,” Nazki said. The Supreme Court is hearing a slew of petitions challenging the constitutionality of last year’s abrogation of Article 370 that stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. The Nazki-headed human rights commission too was abolished last year after the central government cancelled the special status and bifurcated the state into two Union Territories. The Centre has since shown zero tolerance towards any opposition to the August 5, 2019, decisions, arresting thousands during the clampdown that followed. Top political parties in the Valley, whose key leaders had spent months in jail, last week joined hands and vowed to fight for the restoration of Article 370. Asked why he was calling for the withdrawal of the petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370, the former judge said it was because “if something is decided in the court then all will say it is concluded. Otherwise, other options are open.” “Two results are always possible (in court), so why take the risk of a negative decision?” Nazki said. Asked whether this was not possible in all cases and whether nobody should approach the courts then, Nazki said he was only expressing “my opinion”. The former chief justice said the courts were sound in India but regretted that some important cases were not being heard. “You take (the cases challenging the abrogation of) Article 370. Similarly, habeas corpus petitions are the most important cases. We have learnt there are many habeas corpus petitions pending in the Supreme Court. Even Mehbooba Mufti’s case is pending there,” he said. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba has been under arrest since August 5 last year, and her daughter Iltija Mufti has challenged her detention in the Supreme Court. A habeas corpus is a writ requiring a person to be brought before a judge or into court, especially to secure that person’s release from arrest unless lawful grounds are shown for their detention. “It should not happen. Every judge knows and every lawyer knows that the court has to give preference to habeas corpus. (As a judge) in Hyderabad, we had decided to decide these matters in three months,” Nazki said. The former judge said that ups and downs were expected as courts in India were evolving. “When a child grows, sometimes it falls ill, sometimes it suffers from typhoid but that does not mean the child is gone…. Our system is evolving,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Another BJP-linked skeleton in Facebook’s hate-post closet||Facebook allowed a hate post by a BJP lawmaker in Assam to remain on its pages for more than a year despite an alert from an NGO, the New York-based Time magazine has reported. Earlier this month, The Wall Street Journal had reported that Facebook had condoned violence-inciting posts by the Hindutva ecosystem, including a BJP legislator from Telangana, on the advice of Ankhi Das, its public policy director for South and Central Asia. Time reported that despite complaints from the NGO Avaaz in 2019, Facebook had for over a year failed to remove a post by Assam MLA Shiladitya Dev that blamed Bangladeshi Muslims for rapes. “But halfway through the hour-long meeting (with Avaaz in July last year), Shivnath Thukral, the most senior Facebook official on the call, got up and walked out of the room, Zoyab [a former Avaaz official] says, saying he had other important things to do,” the Time report says. “Among the posts was one by Shiladitya Dev, a lawmaker in the state of Assam for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” the report says. The report added: “He had shared a news report about a girl being allegedly drugged and raped by a Muslim man, and added his own comment: ‘This is how Bangladeshi Muslims target our [native people] in 2019.’ “But rather than removing it, Facebook allowed the post to remain online for more than a year after the meeting until Time contacted Facebook to ask about it on Aug. 21.” Like Das, who has been linked to the BJP and Trinamul, Thukral — a former journalist like Das — formerly ran an Internet campaign linked to the BJP. “Before joining Facebook, Thukral had worked in the past on behalf of the BJP. Despite this, he was involved in making decisions about how to deal with politicians’ posts that moderators flagged as violations of hate speech rules during the 2019 elections, the former employees tell Time,” the Time report says. “In 2013, during the BJP’s eventually successful campaign to win national power at the 2014 elections, Thukral worked with senior party officials to help run a pro-BJP website and Facebook page. The site, called Mera Bharosa (‘My Trust’ in Hindi) also hosted events, including a project aimed at getting students to sign up to vote, according to interviews with people involved and documents seen by Time.” The site changed its name to “Modi Bharosa” in 2014. Thukral and Dev were yet to respond to phone calls, text messages and emails from this newspaper. A Facebook spokesperson on Friday afternoon asked for time to reply to the queries but had not done so when this report was filed. After the WSJ report, Facebook had said its policies prohibited hate speech and incitement irrespective of political affiliation. But it did not explain why anti-Muslim posts in the name of the leader of the BJP’s legislature party in Telangana, T. Raja Singh, were allowed. The Delhi Assembly has since begun an inquiry into whether Facebook had any role in the February communal riots that killed 53 people. Time quoted a Facebook spokesperson as saying: “We failed to remove (Dev’s post) upon initial review, which was a mistake on our part…. Our understanding is that Shivnath’s volunteering (at Mera Bharosa) at the time focused on the themes of governance within India and are not related to the content questions you have raised.” Thukral is currently public policy director with WhatsApp, owned by Facebook. “But WhatsApp’s future as a payments application in India depends on final approval from the national payments regulator, which is still pending,” Time reported. “Facebook’s hopes for expansion in India have been quashed by a national regulator before, in 2016, when the country’s telecoms watchdog said Free Basics, Facebook’s plan to provide free Internet access for only some sites, including its own, violated Net neutrality rules. One of Thukral’s priorities in his new role is ensuring that a similar problem doesn’t strike down Facebook’s big ambitions for WhatsApp Pay.” Several police complaints had been lodged against Dev this month after he called late Assamese author Syed Abdul Malik an “intellectual jihadi”. Avaaz’s report in 2019 cited several hate posts by Dev on Facebook, including two interviews to TV channels in which he blamed Bangladeshi Muslims for rape and other crimes. Titled “Megaphone for Hate”, the Avaaz report had said: “Despite repeated calls from Avaaz to Facebook to proactively enforce with human content moderators its Community Standards on hate speech in Assamese, Bengali and Hindi with a team that understands the issues specific to Assam, Facebook has not yet committed to doing so. “The 213 examples that Avaaz flagged as hate speech to Facebook were shared over 99,650 times. Facebook has taken down 96 of the posts, pages and comments we reported to them. These were at least viewed 5.4 million times.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Supreme Court upholds UGC exams directive||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the University Grants Commission’s directive to universities to hold final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30 but left the door ajar for state governments to seek Covid-related postponements. The court rejected the stand taken by some states and other petitioners that the exams must be cancelled in view of the pandemic and the students awarded degrees on the basis of internal-assessment marks. It, however, ruled that the states are empowered under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to seek postponement of the exams “in consultation” with the UGC, the higher education regulator. Bengal was among the states that had opposed the September exams, contending that the examinees would be at risk of catching the coronavirus infection. Such states must now seek UGC approval to postpone the exams in universities located within their borders. On Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “I can tell you this much that examinations will not be held in September. That question does not arise. If the examinations are to be held, I will urge the education minister to look into the possibility of holding the exams before the Puja, through online or offline mode, so that the students are not inconvenienced.” The country is estimated to have more than 1 crore final-year students in undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Other states like Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra and Delhi too have opposed the September exams. On Friday, the Supreme Court bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said: “Final year/ terminal-semester examinations are... the only way to figure out what students know... (and allow) the students to improve upon their overall score.” While the UGC has allowed the exams to be held online, most universities are not considering the option given the lack of reliable Internet connectivity and devices among students from poor or rural families, and the impossibility of invigilation. The apex court passed its verdict after hearing a batch of petitions and cross-petitions. While some states, students and organisations had sought cancellation of the exams, other petitioners had questioned the decision by some states to scrap the exams and award degrees on the basis of internal assessment. “Final year/ terminal-semester examinations are important because the learning process is a dynamic interaction where the only way to figure out what students know is to seek evidence of their knowledge and to evaluate it. Performance in examination, especially final year/ terminal-semester examination, (is a) reflection of the competence of the students,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, wrote. “Terminal-semester/ final-year examination also provides an opportunity to the students to improve upon their overall score/ marks which are very crucial for academic excellence and opportunities of employment.” The court interpreted provisions of the UGC Act 1956 and the National Disaster Management Act 2005, under which the State Disaster Management Authority is constituted, to rule that the UGC guidelines overrode the states’ say on the conduct of the examinations. Exam cancellations do “not fall within the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and shall have no protection of Section 72 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005”, the court said. Section 72 has an overriding effect over any law inconsistent with the Disaster Management Act. But this special power cannot be a fetter on the UGC’s powers to issue directives on higher education, such as the mandatory conduct of exams, the court ruled. However, a state government cannot compromise on the health of its people, either — so the UGC guidelines shall not “fetter” the state’s powers “to take appropriate measures to contain the disaster”. “The state authorities are competent to assess the situation in a particular state regarding (the) possibility of holding of examinations,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Bhima-Koregaon case: Bombay HC refuses bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||Bombay High Court on Friday refused to grant bail to lawyer and activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case being probed by the National Investigation Agency. A bench led by Justice R.D. Dhanuka rejected an appeal filed by Bharadwaj in June, whereby she had challenged a special court’s order that denied her bail on health grounds. Bharadwaj, 58, had approached the high court seeking bail, saying that she suffered from diabetes and hypertension, which put her at a higher risk of contracting coronavirus at the Byculla women’s prison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||Court nod with riders for Mumbai Muharram ritual   ||Bombay High Court on Friday granted permission for a Muharram procession in the city under stringent restrictions because of the pandemic. A bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar gave permission after the Maharashtra government granted hearing to a local Shia Muslim organisation that had petitioned the court seeking permission for a symbolic procession for Muharram. The state government and the petitioner, the All India Idaara-e-Tahafuz-e-Hussainiyat, reached an agreement and informed the court on Friday, following which permission was granted. As per the court’s order, participants will be permitted to bring out the procession on August 30 (Sunday) between 4.30pm and 5.30pm on a pre-determined route only on trucks and not on foot. A maximum of five persons will be allowed on each truck and only five will be permitted to walk with the Tazia symbol for the last 100 metres, the order stated. The five will have to give their home addresses to police beforehand, the court said. The All India Idaara-e-Tahafuz-e-Hussainiyat had argued that if the state government had permitted Ganesh idol immersions with health safeguards, it must also permit the Muharram procession.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-702
29-08-2020||India||UP panchayat chief threatens to convert in 'land grab' protest||A village panchayat chief in Aligarh district has threatened to convert to some other religion along with his family, accusing a BJP MP of going back on his promise of “protecting Hindus” and “grabbing our land”. “We had supported (Hathras MP) Rajvir Singh Diller in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections because he had promised to protect the rights of Hindus. He had told us that his entire political life was dedicated to the Hindus. But now, he is victimising us and grabbing our land. My entire family is disillusioned and we are planning to convert to some other religion soon,” said Ashok Azad, the elected chief of the Daurau-Chandpur village panchayat in Aligarh district, from where the MP hails. Hathras is an adjoining district. “Rajvir’s wife Rajni Diller had contested the 2015 panchayat election against me and lost. Although he never showed any anger against me and sought my help in the Lok Sabha elections, he changed after winning and became vindictive against me and my family,” Azad said. “Four months ago, the authorities demolished a portion of my house on the orders of the MP. They claimed that the constructions had been made on gram panchayat land. Later, he constructed a boundary wall on my land, claiming it was his property. I have moved court against the demolition and encroachment but the police are warning me against pursuing the case,” he added. “There are 20 members in our family and all of us have moved an application before the local administration requesting that we be allowed to relinquish Hinduism and adopt some other religion,” Azad told reporters. Diller, the MP, rubbished the allegations. “The panchayat chief had constructed a room on the land of the gram panchayat. The villagers had submitted a complaint with me and I had forwarded it to the local authorities. My wife never contested a panchayat election. Whatever he is saying is a lie,” Diller said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
29-08-2020||India||Not act of God but mismanagement by Modi government: Congress||The Congress has described as a “lie” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking to blame God for the economic crisis, arguing that mismanagement by the Narendra Modi government had derailed growth much before the pandemic struck. The Centre on Thursday disclaimed its constitutional obligation to compensate states for any annual shortfall in GST collections this year, with Sitharaman calling the pandemic an “act of God” that had left the government in no position to borrow the amount on to its books and then defray the sum as the states had hoped. “...We are facing an act of God which might even result in a contraction of the economy, to what per cent I am not getting into that,” Sitharaman had said after a meeting of the GST Council. Several Congress leaders, however, pointed out that six successive quarters had witnessed decline in the GDP growth rate, the worst phase in 23 years. Responding to the “act of God” excuse, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “India’s economy has been destroyed by three actions: Demonetisation, flawed GST and failed lockdown. Anything else is a lie.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “Quarterly GDP growth rates: Q2 2018-19 — 7.1%, Q3 2018-19 — 6.6%, Q4 2018-19 — 5.8%, Q1 2019-20 — 5.0%, Q2 2019-20 — 4.5%, Q3 2019-20 — 4.7%, Q4 2019-20 — 3.1%. Was this also an ‘Act of God’ or Act of Master Actor, Madam Finance Minister?” The “master actor” quip appeared to be a reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who the Congress often ridicules for his perceived theatrical skills. Asked whether he was contesting the government’s claim that the corona-induced lockdown had hurt the economy, Ramesh told The Telegraph: “Economic deceleration was very much in evidence even before Covid-19 struck. Six consecutive quarters of declining growth. Two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth is the widely accepted definition of recession. Covid-19 and the manner in which it has been managed have worsened the economic situation.” On social media, Ramesh said: “Parliament passed a law that the Centre will compensate states for GST shdortfalls for five years. The Centre is now passing the buck to states, telling them they should borrow to make up shortfalls. This is abdicating the Centre’s legal obligations. Pathetic! States should oppose tooth and nail.” Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate asked whether the pre-pandemic economic decline and the 45-year-high unemployment rate were also acts of God.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
29-08-2020||India||Uddhav asks officials to see if Metro site can shift out of Aarey Colony||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked the Mumbai Metro and MMRDA officials to examine whether the proposed Metro car-shed in Aarey Colony can be shifted to Pahadi Goregaon area near Oshiwara. An official in the Urban Development department said the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had already sought a 200-acre plot in Pahadi Goregaon for Metro line 6 (Lokhandwala-Jogeshwari-Vikhroli-Kanjur Marg). The Metro line 3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) passes through Aarey Colony and the car shed was also supposed to come up in this forested area. There were huge protests as the project involved felling of over 2,000 trees in Aarey Colony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-703
