30-08-2020||India||JEE Advanced 2020: Architecture Aptitude Test on October 8||The Architecture Aptitude Test (JEE Advanced AAT 2020) will be held on October 8. The Indian Institute of Delhi, conducting body of JEE Advanced 2020, has announced the AAT 2020 date in the JEE Advanced brochure. The Joint Entrance Examination Main, or JEE Main 2020, will be conducted from September 1-6, 2020. JEE Advanced AAT 2020 will be conducted in 23 IITs across the country. The registration portal, according to official information, will be available from October 5 (10 am) to October 6 (5 pm). Candidates seeking admission to BArch programme in IIT (BHU) Varanasi, IIT Kharagpur and IIT Roorkee will be required to qualify AAT 2020. The registration form will be available on the official website of JEE Advanced, jeeadv.ac.in. Only those candidates who qualify in JEE Advanced 2020 will be eligible to sit for JEE Advanced AAT. The exam will be conducted from 9 am to 12 pm. Candidates will be required to reach the AAT 2020 examination venue by 8:30 am. JEE Advanced 2020, for admission to IITs, will be conducted on September 27. JEE Advanced registration will begin on September 11. In the JEE Advanced brochure, IIT Delhi has also mentioned the dates for JoSSA counselling. The Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) is going to start the registrations for counselling, for BTech admissions IITs, NITs and GFTIs tentatively on October 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Galwan: Indian Navy deployed warship in South China sea post clash||Following the Galwan valley clash on June 15 in Eastern Ladakh, the Indian Navy sailed out its frontline warship for deployment in the South China Sea reported ANI. The deployment is said to have displeased the Chinese who raised objections during diplomatic talks between the two sides. The Chinese have been objecting to the presence of Indian Navy ships in the region where it has significantly expanded its presence since 2009 through artificial islands and military presence. "Soon after the Galwan clash broke out in which 20 of our soldiers were killed, the Indian Navy deployed one of its frontline warship to the South China Sea where the People's Liberation Army's Navy objects to the presence of any other force claiming the majority of the waters as part of its territory," government sources told ANI. The immediate deployment of the Indian Navy warship in the South China Sea had a desired effect on the Chinese Navy and security establishment as they complained to the Indian side about the Indian warship's presence there during the diplomatic level talks with the Indian side, the sources said. During the deployment in the South China Sea, where the American Navy had also deployed its destroyers and frigates, the Indian warship was continuously maintaining contact with their American counterparts over secure communication systems, the sources informed. As part of the routine drills, the Indian warship was being constantly updated about the status of the movement of military vessels of other countries there, they said adding that the entire mission was carried out in a very hush-hush manner to avoid any public glare on Navy's activities. Around the same time, the Indian Navy had deployed its frontline vessels along the Malacca Straits near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the route from where the Chinese Navy enters the Indian Ocean Region to keep a check on any activity of the Chinese Navy. A number of Chinese vessels also pass through the Malacca Straits while returning with oil or taking merchant shipments towards other continents. The sources said the Indian Navy is fully capable of checking any misadventure by the adversaries on either the eastern or the western front and the mission-based deployments have helped it to control the emerging situations effectively in and around the Indian Ocean Region. The Navy also has plans to urgently acquire and deploy autonomous underwater vessels and other unmanned systems and sensors to keep a close eye on the movement of PLAN from Malacca Straits towards the Indian Ocean Region, the sources said. The Navy is also taking care of the Chinese vessels present around the Djibouti area and has deployed its assets in the vicinity for protecting national interest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Masks, smart cards essential for travelling in Delhi Metro ||Wearing masks and the use of smart cards have been made mandatory for travelling in the Delhi Metro, which resumes services next month after a five-month hiatus. The new guidelines issued by the Delhi government on Sunday listed severe restrictions, including a ban on tokens, and limiting the number of passengers in each coach. The authorities, however, have not shared any figures in this regard. Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the air conditioning system will be "renovated" to ensure circulation of fresh air inside coaches. NDTV quoted the minister saying, "We will renovate the air conditioning system in such a way that ensures that maximum fresh air comes in. We are yet to take a decision about what should be the optimum temperature inside the metro trains." The minister also said that trains will not stop at all metro stations and there are plans to open stations in phases - social distancing, thermal checking, and proviing hand sanitiser will be maintaines across stations. "The token system will be completely shut because it can increase the spread (of coronavirus). Moreover, it won't be possible to sanitise a token every time. People will use smart cards or other recharge mediums to travel," Gahlot said. "All stations will not be opened. Those in containment zones will remain shut. Other than those, there are more stations which will remain shut, the list for the same will be prepared and people will be informed about it," he further informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||India can become world's toy hub, says PM||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India has talent and ability to become a toy hub for the entire world and called upon startups to work towards realising this potential while being "vocal about local toys".

He said the global toy industry is over Rs 7 lakh crore but India's share is very small, as he stressed on the need to work to increase it.

Modi called upon start-up entrepreneurs to 'team up for toys' and said it is time to get vocal for local toys.

In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, the prime minister also said people have shown an unprecedented restraint and simplicity in their festivals during the Covid-19 pandemic.

He also hailed farmers for an increase in sowing area for different grains.

"This is a time for festivals but at the same time, there is also a sense of discipline among people due to the Covid-19 situation...There is a close link between nature and our festivals," Modi said.

He also asked young entrepreneurs to develop computer games in and also about India.

In his address, Modi also noted that India will complete its 75 years of Independence in 2022 and suggested a host of measures to teachers to help bring to light contributions of thousands and lakhs of "unsung heroes" of the freedom struggle.

It is important that our youngsters are aware of them, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Sushant case: Rhea called for questioning by CBI for third day||The CBI called actress Rhea Chakraborty for the third consecutive day on Sunday for questioning in the case of death of her boyfriend and filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput, a police official said.

The 28-year-old actress is accused of abetting Rajput's suicide.

Her brother Showik Chakraborty was also called by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for the fourth day in a row for questioning in the case, the official said.

Rhea Chakraborty and her brother reached the DRDO guest house at Kalina in Santacruz, where the probe team is stationed, around 10.30 am, he said.

A Mumbai Police vehicle escorted the car in which the two arrived at the guest house, he said.

Rajput's manager Samual Miranda and domestic help Keshav also reached the guest house in the morning.

Earlier, Rhea Chakraborty was questioned for nearly 10 hours on Friday and allowed to return home under police escort as a large number of media personnel were present outside her building. She was quizzed for around seven hours on Saturday.

Her brother is being questioned by the CBI since Thursday.

On Saturday, the CBI also questioned Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and accountant Rajat Mewati at the guest house.

Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14.

Rhea Chakraborty had been earlier questioned by the Mumbai Police in the case. The Enforcement Directorate has also quizzed her in a related money laundering case.

The Supreme Court last week upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput's father in Patna against the actress and others for allegedly abetting his son's suicide and misappropriating his money, to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in India crosses 35-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally zoomed past 35 lakh, just a week after it crossed the 30-lakh mark, with a record single-day spike of 78,761 cases, while recoveries surged to 27,13,933 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry data.

The total coronavirus cases rose to 35,42,733, while the death toll climbed to 63,498 with 948 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.

The recovery rate has increased to 76.61 per cent while the Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.79 per cent.

There are 7,65,302 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 21.60 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.

India's Covid-19 cases rose from 20 lakh to 30 lakh in 16 days, 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days while it had taken 59 days for the cases to cross the 10 lakh-mark.

It took 110 days for Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while just 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post.

India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23.

According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,14,61,636 samples have been tested up to August 29 with 10,55,027 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Influence of autocracy on democracy is increasing: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday said the country’s founding fathers would never have imagined that democracy would be in peril at a time when the 75th anniversary of Independence was not too distant. Without mentioning the Narendra Modi government, Sonia referred to the attack on institutions, attempts to silence voices of discontent, and the spread of hatred and violence in society, regretting that regressive thinking had clouded progressive vision. Speaking at a videoconference on the occasion of the foundation-laying ceremony of the new Assembly building in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Sonia said: “Regressive thinking is dominating good thinking. The influence of autocracy on democracy is increasing.” Alleging that democratic institutions were being systematically demolished, the Congress president said: “After two years, we will complete 75 years of Independence. Our founding fathers and nation-builders wouldn’t have imagined we would face such a difficult phase after 75 years of freedom when our democracy and Constitution would come under threat.” Prime Minister Modi never misses an opportunity to refer to the 75th anniversary of Independence, viewing that milestone in terms of development targets such as a doubling of farmers’ income and improving cleanliness. He has never referred to the occasion in the context of the strengthening of democracy, constitutional culture or the freedoms guaranteed to citizens. Sonia made it clear that the threat to democracy was among her overriding concerns. “Hamara samvidhan bhavano se nahin, bhaavnaon se bachega (Our Constitution will be saved not by buildings but by feelings),” she said. Modi plans to build a new Parliament under the Central Vista project that has drawn criticism. Sonia said: “We have achieved a lot of success in the last seven decades but much is yet to be done to fulfil the vision of the founding fathers of our democracy. For some time now, there has been an attempt to derail the country. Our democracy is grappling with new challenges. The anti-poor, anti-national forces have captured power by instigating people to fight among themselves and by spreading hate and violence in society.” She added: “What do they want? They want to silence the people of India; they want to silence our youths, our tribals, our farmers, our small traders, our women, our soldiers…. They want to shut this nation up. They want everybody to keep their mouths shut.” Sonia, grappling with discontent within her party, understands that the Congress can regain its political space by sharpening the ideological battle lines through a reaffirmation of its commitment to secularism and constitutionalism. Unlike many other Congress leaders, she has been exceptionally forceful and forthright in her averments on ideological issues, which helped her dislodge the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2004.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Covid spurs diabetes alert ||An expert group on diabetes has urged doctors to stay vigilant against several “scenarios” during the coronavirus epidemic that could increase the risk of uncontrolled blood sugar in diabetes patients and others. The Diabetes Expert Group, a panel of doctors from public and private institutions, has said that while diabetes can raise the risk of severe Covid-19, the infection itself or corticosteroid therapy could also cause blood sugar levels to rise. The doctors have cautioned that high blood sugar might be detected in hospitalised Covid-19 patients even if they had not been previously diagnosed with diabetes. They have said this can occur either because of weight gain during the lockdowns or because of disordered diet, poor exercise, mental stress and even the unwarranted use of the corticosteroid dexamethasone in mild Covid-19 infections. Around 70 endocrinologists and other senior doctors from institutions across the country have signed the statement, published last week in the journal Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research and Reviews. “Our call for action emphasises very strict control of blood sugar in patients with diabetes and in those not known to have diabetes,” said Anoop Misra, chairman of the Fortis-Centre for Diabetes, Obesity and Cholesterol, New Delhi, who led the effort. Misra and his collaborators have also cautioned that several factors can singly or together trigger high blood pressure among hospitalised Covid-19 patients. These include an inflammatory condition called a cytokine storm, the frequent use of dexamethasone and health staff’s failure to monitor blood sugar regularly. The doctors have underlined that the molecular gateways the virus uses to enter human cells are also present on pancreatic cells, and at a greater density compared with lung cells. A study from Wuhan, China, had earlier found that 17 per cent of Covid-19 patients with severe disease had developed pancreatic injury, suggesting the virus might be attacking pancreatic cells in addition to lung cells. Any additional injury to pancreatic cells already under attack by the cytokine storm could suppress the secretion of insulin, the expert group said, urging that any blood sugar abnormalities observed should be corrected aggressively. The expert group includes doctors from AIIMS, New Delhi, and hospitals in Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Calcutta, Jaipur and other cities. The doctors have also expressed concern that blood sugar levels may have increased among diabetes patients and those in pre-diabetes phases who could not contact doctors during the lockdown or did not visit doctors fearing that clinics and hospitals were Covid-19 hotspots. Lack of money during the lockdown may have prevented some patients from buying medications or insulin. Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak, Haryana, had last month reported that the non-availability of insulin and poor diet control during the lockdown had worsened patients’ blood sugar levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||High school baby step; lockdown condition||Unlock 4 has put the onus on parents of pupils from Classes 9 to 12 to decide if they want to send their children to school outside Covid containment zones from September 21 to seek guidance from teachers. The new guidelines issued by the Union home ministry say the states should not impose any local lockdowns outside containment zones without consulting the Centre. This condition will necessitate clarity on the staggered total lockdowns in Bengal. Metro trains can operate in a graded manner from September 7. (See chart above) Unlike Unlock 3, the guidelines for Unlock 4 have dropped bars from the prohibited list, which has been interpreted by a section of the hospitality industry as a nod to serve liquor. On schools, the new guidelines say: “Students of classes 9 to 12 may be permitted to visit their schools, in areas outside the containment zones only, on voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers (from September 21). This will be subject to written consent of their parents/ guardians.” Lockdowns outside containment zones have been tied to “prior consultations” with the Centre. “State/Union Territory governments shall not impose any local lockdown (state/ district/ sub-division/ city/ village level) outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the central government,” the guidelines say. Bengal has been observing occasional total lockdowns across the state. The next total lockdown is scheduled on Monday, and three more are lined up in the first half of September. The new guidelines do not refer to bars. The guidelines for the previous round, Unlock 3, had said: “All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones” and specifically mentioned bars, Metro trains and congregations besides facilities such as cinemas and swimming pools. The Unlock 4 guidelines have specifically exempted the Metro and congregations from the prohibited list. But the guidelines do not mention bars in the list of activities not permitted even outside containment zones. “All activities, except the following, shall be permitted outside containment zones,” Saturday’s guidelines say and list “cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (excluding open-air theatre) and similar places”. A reference to bars either way would have cleared the confusion. Bengal excise officials said they were “evaluating” the guidelines and waiting for clear instructions from the state government. Bars in the state have been told to keep 15 days’ stock, the officials added. Metro officials in Calcutta said their “infrastructure is ready”. “We will have to depend on the state government for crowd control,” a Metro official said. The Union housing and urban affairs ministry has called a meeting of all managing directors of Metro rail corporations on September 1 to finalise the standard operating procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan contempt sentence on Monday||A three-judge Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra will on Monday pronounce its sentence on advocate Prashant Bhushan, who was held guilty of criminal contempt of court on August 14 for two tweets on the judiciary. The judgment is expected to be delivered between 10.45am and 11am. The court had reserved its verdict on August 25 after extensive arguments on the quantum of sentence. Monday’s verdict could have a crucial impact on the citizens’ fundamental right to free speech vis-à-vis the judiciary’s own immunity from perceived contemptuous remarks that could lower its image in the eyes of the public and damage the majesty of law. A large number of former judges, including ex-Chief Justice of India R.M. Lodha and Justice Kurian Joseph, civil liberties activist and various others have urged the apex court not to punish Bhushan for the tweets. Attorneygeneral K.K. Venugopal has advised the court to let Bhushan off with a reprimand or warning. Bhushan has refused to tender an unconditional apology, as sought by the court, and defended his tweets as his “bona fide belief”. He has told the court that apologising would amount to committing “contempt of his conscience”. Constitutional expert and Bhushan’s lawyer Rajeev Dhavan had during the hearings persisted with the plea for a lenient view, cautioning that the court would make a “martyr” out of Bhushan if it punished him for the social media posts. Dhavan had pointed out that the court should be open to criticism and said the judges’ “shoulders are broad enough”. However, the bench of Justices Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Muraria, wondering “what is to be done”, had asked what would be the purpose of warning Bhushan if he believed he had done no wrong, observed that he had made several disparaging remarks against the judiciary and pointed to Bhushan’s stature and standing of 30 years, adding that his comments would have an impact on people. Criminal contempt of court invites a maximum punishment of six months’ imprisonment and/or a fine. Initially, advocate Mahek Maheshwari had filed a criminal contempt case against Bhushan over one of the tweets. However, on the basis of another tweet reported in the media, the Supreme Court converted the proceedings into a suo motu case by invoking its powers under Article 129 of the Constitution. During the hearings, Bhushan had invoked Mahatma Gandhi and submitted that he would not seek any “magnanimity” or “mercy” from the court and was willing to submit himself to any punishment to uphold his bona fide beliefs. He had argued that he was neither a “cheerleader” nor a “courtier” of the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-699
30-08-2020||India||Youth Congress launches protest for jobs||The Youth Congress on Saturday launched the second phase of its nationwide “Rozgar Do (Give Employment)” campaign. The Youth Congress will mobilise jobless youths, hold demonstrations, run signature campaigns and approach even BJP legislators to ensure that real concerns like unemployment and the economic crisis dominate the public discourse. Youth Congress in-charge Krishna Allavaru said the situation had worsened because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mishandling of the economy and the unplanned lockdown. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas said: “Modi wore German goggles worth Rs 2.5 lakh to watch the solar eclipse. We will give him any spectacles, even if it is worth Rs 10 lakh, with which he can see jobless youths. He is enjoying his life — shooting for hours for a one-minute video with peacocks, changing clothes six times. But he can’t see the rising unemployment. We will force him to address this pressing problem.” The Youth Congress also released songs and posters to be used during the campaign. One song said: “Bhashan se pet nahin bharta, rozgar do/Pet bhi khali, jeb bhi khali/Bata do koi sarkar ko rozgar do (One can’t fill one’s stomach with speeches, give employment/ Our stomachs are empty, as are our pockets. Someone tell the government to give us employment.)”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Bihar: BJP eyes more seats in Assembly polls||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday chaired a meeting of senior Bihar leaders amid indications of the party driving a hard bargain with ally Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United for a larger share of seats in the upcoming polls. The BJP has taken the lead over the two other allies of the NDA in Bihar, the JDU and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, in launching aggressive preparations for the polls, indicating intentions to demand a bigger share of the election pie. The party has already held rallies through the virtual mode, organisational meetings and on Saturday Nadda held a meeting with BJP MPs from Bihar. Among the main items on the agenda was a discussion on the seat-sharing arrangement, sources said. During last year’s Lok Sabha polls, JDU boss and Bihar chief minister Nitish had driven a hard bargain with then BJP chief Amit Shah and the two parties contested 17 seats each, leaving the remaining 6 for the LJP. The BJP, riding Modi’s popularity, wanted to be the big brother in Bihar but Nitish managed to restrict it and strike an equal seat-sharing arrangement. Using the same formula, the BJP could demand equal seat sharing for the Assembly polls, party leaders indicated. “Seat sharing talks with allies haven’t yet started but the BJP is determined to get a bigger role in Bihar,” one Bihar MP said. “The BJP’s support base has widened,” the MP added. The BJP had always been a junior ally to the JDU in Bihar before Nitish snapped the 17-year-old ties with the saffron party over the projection of Modi as the Prime Minister candidate in 2013. When the Bihar leader returned to the alliance in 2017, the BJP was no longer the party he had dealt with in the past. The JDU has been pressing that while Modi may be the pan-India brand, in Bihar Nitish is the NDA’s tallest leader. The BJP has already declared that Nitish would be the face of the NDA in the polls but by giving in on this count the party appears to be preparing the ground for demanding a larger number of seats to contest. “If we contest an equal number of seats and manage to win more than the JDU, then it will establish that our support base has widened,” one BJP leader said. Despite declaring that Nitish would be the face of the alliance, the BJP’s campaign so far looks an independent push with no mention of the chief minister. It’s online campaign talks about achievements of the “NDA government” and urges the voters to have “faith in the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Gold deposit fraud charge on Kerala MLA||An Indian Union Muslim League MLA has been booked in Kerala on the charge of cheating depositors in connection with a gold investment scheme run by his jewellery group. The controversy has mounted pressure on the Congress-led United Democratic Front, in which the League is a partner, at a time when it is trying to corner the Left government over a gold-smuggling case. M.C. Kamaruddin, MLA from Manjeshwar, is accused of swindling hundreds of depositors from whom his company, Fashion Gold Jewellery, had allegedly collected crores of rupees. Many of the depositors have complained to police that the company stopped paying even the profits from their investments since late last year. They have alleged that neither Kamaruddin nor the company’s managing director, T.K. Pookoya Thangal, responded to their calls. The jewellery’s three branches — two in Kasaragod and one in neighbouring Kannur — have downed shutters since January, apparently because of financial problems. Kamaruddin, charged under Section 420 with cheating, has alleged a “politically motivated case”. “This is a civil matter and not a case to be handled by the police. It’s a politically motivated case and the police were forced to register it against me,” he told a TV channel. Sources in Kasaragod said the individual depositors’ investments in the scheme ranged from a few thousand rupees to several lakhs. Among the complainants, Abdul Shukur has said he invested Rs 20 lakh, Suhara has claimed investing Rs 1 lakh while E.K. Arif has claimed investing Rs 5 lakh. They have told the police the company used to regularly pay the profits every year until all the payments stopped late last year just ahead of the shutdown. Some depositors have alleged the cheques issued to them last year had bounced because they carried forged signatures of the managing director. Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday sidestepped reporters’ questions on the case against the ally. “I will comment later,” he said. The controversy has pushed the Congress on the backfoot after nearly three months of bashing the CPM over the gold-smuggling case, in which a senior bureaucrat has been questioned multiple times by central agencies. The secretary to the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, was suspended after he was accused of links with some of the key accused. The BJP has recently been sucked into the controversy with reports saying a friendly journalist had requested some of the accused to help the party with their diplomatic connections and advised them to defuse the scandal through the same connections. The CPM has demanded Kamaruddin’s resignation as MLA to facilitate a fair investigation. “He must resign or his party should remove him. Otherwise he can tamper with the investigation,” Kasaragod CPM district secretary M.V. Balakrishnan told The Telegraph. “It’s unfortunate that Chennithala could not take a stand when it came to scamming these investors, most of them lower-middle-class people.” Balakrishnan alleged the company had begun defaulting on payments to the investors in 2017. “They paid small amounts of profit to some investors, while the cheques issued to the others bounced.” No clear picture has emerged on how much the company owes the investors. “The police investigation can throw more light on the number of investors and the money owed to them. We feel that Kamaruddin’s company owes Rs 110 crore to the hundreds of investors,” Balakrishnan said. Sources said the company was formed in 2013 and the gold scheme was floated soon after.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Congress warns Facebook of legal action||The Congress on Saturday warned Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg of legal action if the American company continued to interfere in democratic processes to help the BJP and allow its social media platforms to spread communal hatred in India. Two days after Time magazine reported that Facebook had allowed a hate post by a BJP lawmaker in Assam to remain on its pages for more than a year despite an alert from an NGO, the Congress shot off its second letter to Zuckerberg. Earlier this month, after The Wall Street Journal had reported that Facebook had condoned violence-inciting posts from the Hindutva ecosystem, including BJP leaders, the Congress had written to Zuckerberg urging him to investigate the “blatant biases and dubious practices” of the social media giant’s management team in India and make immediate amends, saying interference in the electoral processes of the country would not be tolerated. In its letter on Saturday, written in connection with the Time report on BJP MLA Shiladitya Dev blaming Bangladeshi Muslims for rapes in a Facebook post, the Congress said: “We urge you to let us know what steps your company is planning to take to investigate these matters and draw a plan of action to stem the rot in your India operations. We will also be pursuing legislative and judicial actions in India to ensure that a foreign company cannot continue to cause social disharmony in our nation for pursuit of private profits.” The letter, written by general secretary in-charge of Congress organisation K.C. Venugopal, added: “You may recall our letter to you on August 17, 2020, outlined the Facebook India team’s blatant biases and interference in India’s democracy (as exposed by The Wall Street Journal). We draw your attention to the article in Time magazine dated August 27, 2020, that reveals more information and evidence of biases and a quid-pro-quo relationship of Facebook India with the ruling BJP.” It went on: “This article makes three main points that are alarming and violate both the spirit and the law of operations of foreign companies in India. “1. The BJP has been allowed to exercise control of WhatsApp’s India operations in return for a possible licence for its payment operations, which is critical for the future of WhatsApp in India. 2. More than just one person in your company’s leadership team in India are biased and partisan in favour of the ruling BJP in their professional endeavours. The problem is larger, deeper and more pervasive than initially assumed. 3. The WhatsApp platform used by 400 million Indians has been willingly allowed by your India team to be appropriated for hate speech and the consequent tearing of India’s fabric of social harmony.” The messaging app owned by Facebook has been so rampantly used in India to spread unsubstantiated, fake and hateful content, especially by the Hindutva brigade, that it has spawned the term “WhatsApp University”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has tweeted the Time article with this message: “America’s Time magazine exposes WhatsApp-BJP nexus: Used by 40 crore Indians, WhatsApp also wants to be used for making payments for which Modi government’s approval is needed. Thus, BJP has a hold over WhatsApp.” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera and party data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarty issued a statement iterating its demand for a probe by a joint parliamentary committee into the allegations against Facebook. “The unholy nexus between Facebook’s India operations and the Modi government is now unravelling fast and has become a global issue. There is a need for an investigation by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC). The investigation must include how Facebook manipulated voter opinion, allowed hate speech and was oblivious to fake news,” the statement said. The two leaders also said that WhatsApp must not be granted approvals for its payment operations in India until such an inquiry is complete and the actions recommended are implemented by the company. The Congress also asked Facebook to probe the latest revelations about WhatsApp’s links with the BJP and make the report of its internal investigations public. Alleging that it is not only Facebook India head Ankhi Das who is involved with the BJP, Khera said another senior executive, Shivnath Thukral of WhatsApp, was an unabashed devotee of the ruling establishment and was partisan in his professional conduct. Khera said: “The Time expose reveals Thukral was hired by Facebook in 2017 only because he was ‘extremely close’ to the ruling establishment. Thukral’s relationship with the BJP goes as far back as 2013 when he operated websites and Facebook pages for the 2014 election campaign in conjunction with other party affiliates who continue to hold senior positions in the current government.” The Time report mentions that when members of the NGO Avaaz had met Thukral to complain about the Assam BJP MLA’s Facebook post, he had walked out of the meeting saying he had other important things to do. The Time report says that Thukral had in 2013 worked with senior party officials to help run a pro-BJP website and Facebook page. “The site, called Mera Bharosa (“My Trust” in Hindi) also hosted events, including a project aimed at getting students to sign up to vote, according to interviews with people involved and documents seen by Time,” the article says. The site changed its name to “Modi Bharosa” in 2014. Referring to this, Khera said: “It was in 2014 that this ‘Mera Bharosa’ Facebook page changed its name to ‘Modi Bharosa’, and thus started sharing pro-BJP and pro-Modi content.” The Congress spokesperson added: “In May 2020 the former chief security officer of Facebook, Alex Stamos tweeted, ‘Local policy heads are generally pulled from the ruling political party and are rarely drawn from disadvantaged ethnic groups.… This naturally bends decision-making towards the powerful.’ This is a ringing endorsement of Facebook’s dubious operations and lobbying efforts.” Khera alleged that WhatsApp had become the “lifeline for the vicious and malicious propaganda of the BJP ecosystem”. “It is now the mainstream tool of misinformation. WhatsApp wants 40 crore Indians to not use it just for communication but for making payments as well. That is how WhatsApp can earn revenue and its future in India is dependent on this payment feature. This would be a multi-billion-dollar initiative for which WhatsApp needs the Modi government’s approvals and permissions. This is where it gets murky,” the Congress spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||American found dead in Varanasi||A 38-year-old American woman who had apparently been learning occult practices in Varanasi since November last year has been found dead in a guesthouse. Police said on Saturday that after an initial investigation it appeared that Cynthia Michelle Boots from South Dakota had been unwell for the past two weeks and taking medicines on her own. She was found dead in the guesthouse near Dashaswamedh Ghat along the Ganga on Friday. “The police have recovered from her room some painkillers, Hindu prayer books, idols of Goddess Kali and a stick, besides her visa, passport and some cash. The local intelligence unit has informed the American embassy,” said Rajesh Singh, the station house in-charge of the Dashaswamedh Ghat area. A police source said: “The initial investigation suggests that she arrived at Varanasi on November 15, 2019, and stayed in a guesthouse near Manikarnika Ghat. From there, she used to accompany some foreigners to the other side of the Ganga and practise tantric art. After a few months, she went to Jaipur, where she fell ill and visited a doctor. She returned to Varanasi this July and joined a group of tantriks who practise black magic. She used to take grass (marijuana).” The source said Cynthia had recently argued with some policemen when they asked her not to openly smoke marijuana on the ghats of the Ganga or sit there for long at night. Crooks in the guise of spiritual gurus and tantra practitioners have often been accused of giving dried datura (thorn apple) powder to people coming to Varanasi in the quest for moksha. All parts of the flowering plant are poisonous and can cause delirium, hallucination and even death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Central Information Commission headless, fifth time in 6 years||The Central Information Commission (CIC) is once again headless, the fifth time in the six years of the Narendra Modi rule and despite the Supreme Court last year asking the government to fill up vacancies without any delay. Not once since the Modi government assumed office on May 26, 2014, has the chief information commissioner at the CIC been appointed without some delay, which in some cases resulted in transparency activists seeking court intervention. In one instance, the post remained vacant for almost 10 months. “The repeated failure to appoint the chief and other commissioners of the CIC in a timely manner appears to be a deliberate attempt by the government to undermine the RTI Act & frustrate people’s ability to seek information to hold the government accountable,” transparency advocates Anjali Bhardwaj and Amrita Johri of Satark Nagrik Sangathan observed in a statement. This time round, outgoing chief information commissioner Bimal Jhulka retired on August 26. Though Jhulka’s date of retirement was known from the day of his appointment, the government waited till the last month to set the ball rolling for choosing his successor by advertising the post. Technically, the government is not in breach of the Supreme Court judgment of February 15, 2019, as the wording of the verdict allows the ruling dispensation some wriggle room. “We would also like to impress upon the respondents to fill up vacancies, in future, without any delay. For this purpose, it would be apposite that the process for filling up of a particular vacancy is initiated 1 to 2 months before the date on which the vacancy is likely to occur so that there is not much time lag between the occurrence of vacancy and filling up of the said vacancy.” Referring to the advertisement, RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj — who was also a petitioner in the public interest litigation filed vis-a-vis vacancies at the CIC and also in several of the State Information Commissions — said the government is following the court order in letter but not in spirit. She further pointed out that there are four vacancies for information commissioners in the CIC despite the Supreme Court directing the government on December 16, 2019, to complete the appointment process within three months. Only one vacancy was filled up and now the total number of vacancies at the IC level is four with Jhulka being elevated to the chief’s post in March. This, according to another transparency advocate with the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, Venkatesh Nayak, has affected the appellate process. Currently, over 35,000 appeals and complaints are pending before the CIC. “I have lost track of the number of times the CIC has gone headless since 2014,” said RTI activist Lokesh Batra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Mahanadi keeps rising in flood-hit Odisha ||The Mahanadi river, the biggest in Odisha, is swelling by the hour, inundating more and more villages along its course. Hundreds of villages have been marooned as water from the river breached the embankments at several points. All the tributaries of the river are in spate. Rivers such as Baitarani and Brahmani have swollen, making the flood situation in the state critical with more than 11 lakh people being affected. Sources said nearly 2,543 villages have been marooned while the overall death toll has increased to 16. On Saturday, the skeletal remains of two unidentified persons were retrieved from the banks of Baitarani river in Jajpur. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told The Telegraph, “More villages are likely to be marooned. We have already shifted more than 70,000 people to higher places and the operation to move more people to safety is on. We have asked district collectors to remain on high alert and immediately send damage assessment reports.” The state administration is expecting the flood situation in the Mahanadi system to worsen in the next 48 hours with more rains likely at various places, according to the meteorological department. While Hirakud reservoir on Mahanadi in Sambalpur is releasing water through 46 sluice gates, rivers in the downstream have swollen and crossed the danger mark at several places. Another two sluice gates of the reservoir are likely to be opened as more and more water keeps entering the dam from the upper catchment area because of heavy rains in the neighbouring Chhattisgarh in the last two days. Against its full capacity of 630 feet, the water level in the Hirakud dam has reached 627 feet. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has deputed six senior IAS officers — Hemanta Sharma (Kendrapara), D.K. Singh (Cuttack), Vishal Dev (Balasore), Bishnupada Sethi (Bhadrak), V.V. Yadav (Jajpur), Satyabrata Sahu (Jagatsinghpur) and revenue divisional commissioner (central division) Anil Kumar Samal (Puri) — to monitor flood management and co-ordinate with the state government and the district administrations. Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have already been positioned in different parts of the coastal belt to tackle emergencies. A Odisha Fire Service team on Friday night rescued a person at Khandas village in Jajpur district who had been sitting atop a tree for eight hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Covid: Fleecing warning to Odisha hospitals||The Odisha government has warned all the private hospitals that action will be taken against them if they charge exorbitant fees from Covid-19 patients. The government said that all the  tests must be done at the approved rate notified by it and hospitals should charge reasonable fees. The state government in a notification published the rate chart for private hospitals for treating coronavirus patients. According to the rate chart, a private hospital can charge from Rs 2,950-Rs 4,750 for a general bed including medicine, investigation, PPE kit, food and other consumables and from Rs 10,000-Rs 17,000 for treating a patient in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and from Rs 12,000 to Rs 18,000 for treatment of a patient in ICU with ventilator facilities. The government came out with the new guidelines even as the number of corona positive cases in the state touched 97,920 with reports of 3,252 new cases during the past 24 hours. The death toll stood at 470 with 14 more casualties reported in the last 24 hours. Health secretary P.K. Mohapatra said: “We will ensure that not a single patient is exploited by any private hospital. We will take action against hospitals that don’t adhere to the new guidelines.” The guidelines also make it mandatory for private hospitals having 30 beds or more to set aside at least 10 per cent of beds exclusively for Covid-19 patients with an option to convert the entire hospital into a Covid hospital. However, they have to intimate the district collectors and state level officers for data updating in this regard. They have to appoint an authorised medical officer who will coordinate with state authorities. “Such reserved beds must include appropriate numbers of ICU beds with ventilators dedicated for COVID patients. (At the rate of 10% of all available beds),” the order said. The notification further said as the Covid patients usually have high anxiety and they must be handled very gently with proper and regular counselling on the status of the disease and the outcome of treatment. Only patients who want to pay on their own or are covered under their own insurance schemes shall be treated in private hospitals. No reimbursement or payment of any kind towards treatment of such patients will be made by the government, as per the new guidelines. As per the new guidelines, the hospital staff will work for 14 days and then remain in uarantine for another 14 days after which they can again resume duty. The hospital shall regularly share all information with the government regarding availability of facilities, number of patients, line of treatment, availability of beds and charges. The hospital shall provide COVID-19 test results to the patients. Hospitals have been asked to create a help desk accessible physically and telephonically for counseling to the relatives of patients and share information on status of patients’ health with their attendants regularly. Hospitals shall install CCTVs in the patient treatment area for management, facilitation and screening of footage by appropriate authority as and when required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
30-08-2020||India||Camel smuggling bid busted in Bihar||Bihar police have busted an inter-state gang of camel smugglers with international links and seized 23 camels in Kishanganj, around 400km northeast of the state capital. The animals were being allegedly smuggled to Bangladesh. Six persons — four from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh and two from North Dinajpur in Bengal — were arrested in the operation conducted on Thursday night. “We received a tip-off that a truck carrying camels on National Highway 31 was to cross our district. A 3km stretch of the highway passes through Kishanganj before it moves into Bengal. There was no time as the vehicle would take just a few minutes to traverse the 3km stretch. But we managed to intercept it near Rampur checkpost,” said Kishanganj sub-divisional police officer Anwar Javed, who led the operation. An SUV was escorting the truck and the people travelling in the two vehicles were arrested. The police found seven camels crammed in the truck. The arrested persons have confessed that they were transporting the camels from Rajasthan to Bangladesh. Their confession led to the seizure of 16 more camels kept in the villages of Khuda and Ambariya, located along the Bihar–Bengal border. However, the people who were looking after the animals fled before the police reached the villages. “We often keep seizing cattle being smuggled by gangs, but the seizure of camels is a rare one. There is no desert in Bangladesh. These animals were meant for the meat market in the neighbouring country,” Javed told The Telegraph. The arrested persons have revealed there are 13 more members of their gang in Uttar Pradesh and Bengal. Bihar police have alerted their counterparts in the neighbouring districts about the gang members. Sources said more technical and manual investigations were going on to ascertain the different aspects of the case, especially how the animals could be taken to Bangladesh despite border fencing and the presence of Border Security Force (BSF). The distance to the Bangladesh border from Kishanganj is around 22-28km through the “Chicken’s Neck” or Siliguri Corridor in Bengal. “What is also surprising is that the animals were being transported such a huge distance from Rajasthan unchecked. We are investigating this aspect as well. The mobile phones of the arrested persons have also been seized. We have put the rescued animals in a shelter run by an organisation associated with former Union minister Maneka Gandhi,” Javed said. Meanwhile, the police team involved in the operation ran into another problem as one of the arrested persons tested positive for coronavirus and was sent to an isolation centre under custody. A move is afoot to get all the team members tested for the disease. Police sources said that 10 camels were seized from smugglers in 2015 and another 61 in 2016 in Kishanganj district while being illegally transported from Rajasthan to Bangladesh. Camels are found mostly in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. According to the livestock census results of 2019, there were 2.5 lakh camels in the country, a sharp decline of 35 per cent from the 4 lakh population in 2012. Rajasthan has enforced the Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation on Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 2015, which bans any export of the desert animal for slaughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-700
