31-08-2020||India||Indian Army thwarts PLA attempts to change Pangong Tso status quo ||In a fresh confrontation in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese army carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake but the attempt was thwarted by Indian troops, the Army said here on Monday. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) "violated" the consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 to change the status quo. Government sources said a sizeable number of Chinese troops had moved towards the southern bank of Pangong lake in an attempt to occupy the area but the Indian Army quickly made significant deployment to foil the bid. The sources said there was no physical clash between the troops of the two sides during China's attempt to open a new front in the prolonged border standoff. The two sides were earlier engaged in a confrontation on the northern bank of Pangong lake but it was for the first time such an incident occurred on its southern bank, they said. It is also the first major incident in the area after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but it is yet to make the details public. However, according to an American intelligence report there were 35 casualties on the Chinese side. In a statement, Col Anand said the Indian Army thwarted the Chinese intentions to "unilaterally" change facts on ground and undertook measures to strengthen Indian positions in the area. "On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo," he added. "Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground," the Army spokesperson said. A Brigade Commander-level meeting was held at Chushul to resolve the issues, he said. The spokesperson further said the Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect India's territorial integrity. Government sources said the top strategic and military brass including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs were briefed in detail about China's unsuccessful attempt. China's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian claimed its border troops always strictly abide by the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and never cross the line. Chinese border troops always strictly abide by the Line of Actual Control (LAC). They never cross the line. Border troops on the two sides have been in close communication regarding the issues on the ground, the spokesperson said at a media briefing in Beijing in response to a question by a Japanese journalist about the fresh incident at Pangong lake. Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson of the Western Theatre Command of the PLA, alleged that on August 31 the Indian army broke the consensus reached at the previous multi-level talks between the two sides and illegally crossed the line again near the south bank of Pangong lake and the Reqin Pass, making a blatant provocation and causing tension along the border. The Chinese military is taking necessary countermeasures and will closely follow the developments to resolutely safeguard China's territorial sovereignty and peace and stability in the border areas, Zhang said in a statement released by Xinhua, the country's official news agency. In Delhi, people familiar with the developments said India has taken the Chinese attempt "seriously" and the Army has further increased its deployment of troops and weaponry in and around the southern and northern banks of the Pangong lake. They said the attempt reinforced the assessment by the Army that China has not been serious in disengaging its troops from the friction points as it was still trying to change the status of the LAC in the new area. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh. The two sides began a process of disengagement on July 6, a day after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in eastern Ladakh. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas. At the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off began on May 5 following violent clashes between the two armies in the Pangong lake area. The incident in Pangong lake was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute relates to the 3,488-km-long LAC that stretches from the Ladakh region in the north to Sikkim. Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Even as both sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian Army stepped up its strength in all key areas along the LAC to deal with any eventualities. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing the operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", according to sources. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clashes. Following the incident, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army has sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||The truth shall prevail, long live democracy, says Bhushan||Activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, who said on Monday that he would submit the token fine of Re 1 imposed by the Supreme Court, described the contempt case for his tweets against the judiciary as watershed moment. "What is very heartening is that this case has become a watershed moment for freedom of speech and seems to have encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society,” he said a press conference by CJAR (Campaign for Judicial Accountability & Reforms) and Swaraj Abhiyan.

"I would be failing in my duty if I do not thank my legal team, especially senior advocates Dr Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave. I am more confident now than ever before that truth shall prevail. Long live democracy! Satyameva Jayate!" Bhushan said.

Bhushan, who has indicated he would file a review petition, said he has the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court and judiciary and his tweets were not intended to disrespect the apex court. The tweets, he added, were merely meant to express his anguish which he felt, "was a deviation from its sterling past record".

The issue was never about "me versus the Judges, much less about me versus the Supreme Court", he said.

Bhushan further said: "When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen.

"I am extremely grateful and humbled by the solidarity and support expressed by countless persons, ex-judges, lawyers, activists and fellow citizens who encouraged me to remain firm and true to my beliefs and conscience."

He said that these people strengthen his hope that this trial may draw the country's attention to the cause of freedom of speech and judicial accountability and reform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Former President Pranab Mukherjee dies at 84||Former president Pranab Mukherjee, one of India's most cerebral and respected politicians, died on Monday evening following a 21-day battle with multiple ailments. He was 84.

Mukherjee, who was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital on August 10 and was operated for a removal of a clot in the brain the same day, is survived by two sons and a daughter.

The long-time Congress leader and seven-time parliamentarian had tested positive for COVID-19 at the time of his admission and was being treated for a lung infection. He had suffered a septic shock on Sunday due to it. Doctors said he died of a cardiac arrest at 4.30 pm.

His son Abhijit Mukherjee was the first to break the news of his death. "With a Heavy Heart, this is to inform you that my father Shri Pranab Mukherjee has just passed away inspite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital and prayers, duas and prarthanas from people throughout India! I thank all of You," he said on Twitter.

The government has announced a seven-day state mourning throughout India from August 31 to September 6. "During the period of state mourning, the National Flag will fly at half-mast on all buildings throughout India, where it is flown regularly, and there will be no official entertainment," a home ministry statement said.

The date, time and venue of the state funeral will be intimated later, it said. As condolences poured in for India's 13th president, who served as the country's first citizen from 2012 to 2017, President Ram Nath Kovind described Mukherjee's demise as the passing of an era.
A colossus in public life, he served Mother India with the spirit of a sage. The nation mourns losing one of its worthiest sons. Condolences to his family, friends & all citizens, Kovind said on Twitter.
Endowed with perspicacity and wisdom, Bharat Ratna Mukherjee combined tradition and modernity, Kovind said. Expressing his condolences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described him as a scholar par excellence and a towering statesman who was admired across the political spectrum. "India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum and by all sections of society," Modi tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee."

"I join the country in paying homage to him. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family and friends," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||The Minister who read too much  ||Pranab Mukherjee was an unusual politician and his success was unusual given that the odds were stacked against him. He was not a grassroots politician and he lost most of the elections he contested. He was not an intellectual in the Bengali sense of the word and he didn’t come from an English-speaking background (all his life he spoke the Queen’s language with a heavy Bengali accent). He was also singularly lacking in charisma. He thus broke all the rules that had governed Bengal’s politics harking back to C.R. Das and Subhas Chandra Bose to Siddhartha Shankar Ray and Jyoti Basu. But he had other strengths. Most notable was the fact that he was born into politics. From their home in Mirati village, his father Kamada Kinkar Mukherjee controlled, and had an iron grip on, Birbhum district politics. Along with his alphabet, his son learnt the first rules of public life: influence-peddling and networking. He was a zealous student and never forgot the lessons. Mukherjee’s first big opportunity came soon after he had moved to Calcutta in the 1960s and dived into the thick of state politics. The Syndicate that ruled the Congress Party in Bengal, as elsewhere, threw a dissident leader out of the party. Mukherjee sensed that politics in India was changing and he chose to side with the dissident leader and was also expelled. He had timed it perfectly. Feelings against the Congress party were rising and in the assembly elections the dissidents scraped together enough seats to be the deciding factor. The Left successfully wooed the breakaway Congress by agreeing to make the Congress dissident leader the chief minister. Even Jyoti Basu agreed to serve as the deputy chief minister. Mukherjee knew though that no good could come out of an association with the Communist party. By then, the Congress Party had split into two parties - the Indira Gandhi Congress and the old Congress. Mukherjee skilfully negotiated a way for his group to ally with Indira Gandhi and even managed to win himself a junior minister portfolio in Delhi. His senior in the ministry was Kamlapati Tripathi, a UP Brahmin who preferred temple-hopping to ploughing through ministerial files. That task was left to the young Mukherjee who learnt the other important lesson, one his father had not taught him, namely that if you want to run India, you must know your files. He was not house tamed by the babus -- he became one. Mukherjee was not quite the ultimate old-school politician. True, he had friends in every political nook and cranny and beyond, and he knew when to cash in on his friendships. True, he held almost all the great offices of state, shuttling between finance, defence and external affairs with equal ease. But he had one redeeming feature which the rest lacked. He could read, and he read, every file that came his way. Jagjivan Ram, the most outstanding of all Indira Gandhi's ministers, was once asked who was the best minister he had seen. “Pranab Mukherjee,” Ram replied. Why? “He reads the files” was Ram’s response. Others had different views. Arun Jaitley who regarded Mukherjee highly thought there was always a danger of losing the tree for the wood. Pranab had a fondness for Jaitley but thought that without spending time on files, one could never have a grip on the Ministry. Understandably, Mukherjee's role model as Finance Minister was C.D. Deshmukh, a civil servant who went on to become the governor of the Reserve Bank and then the Finance Minister. Mukherjee harboured ambitions of being prime minister but being elevated to the presidency was an impressive consolation prize. In the political world, he was famed for his elephantine memory that made him the go-to man during any political discussion. Whether it was Bengal or any other part of the country, he could rattle off events and even the dates on which they occurred. “He was a ‘human computer’ like Shakuntala Devi. In most states, he could also give you the macro picture. He was relied on for spot information,” said a former bureaucrat. In addition, he was a meticulous diary-writer and brought out two books based on his memories and the contents of his diaries. Mukherjee held a law degree as well as an MA in history and political science. He often made jokes about his diminutive stature. Many in the political world turned up at his doorstep for advice when they were in difficulties. Once he shifted into a counselling role, many say, he would switch off his political side. He was also an administrator who could keep his cool when all others around him were losing theirs. Towards the end of his political career, bureaucrats reported he got irritable more quickly but even that was only an occasional flare-up, such as on TV when he ticked off interviewer Rajdeep Sardesai and told him to mind his tone when speaking to a former president of India. Above all, he was a man who cared about politics and political processes. One visitor to Rashtrapati Bhavan found him intently watching the parliamentary proceedings on Lok Sabha TV and muttering irately at the screen: “He should not have said that.” Early in his career, he caught Sanjay Gandhi's eye and was catapulted to high office even before he was 40. It is said he won his attention with the help of Kamal Nath, who was, at the time, a Calcutta businessman but making his mark in politics. Mukherjee proved his worth as a junior minister in the finance ministry. Noida, on Delhi's outskirts, was Sanjay Gandhi's pet project but even he could not get the State Bank of India to open a branch in Noida. At Mukherjee's suggestion, the Finance Ministry was split into two independent entities -- Revenue and Finance -- both reporting independently to the prime minister. As the revenue minister, Mukherjee instructed the State Bank of India to open the branch. The problem was resolved and a legend, that of the go-to man, was born. By 1980, when Indira Gandhi returned to power after the brief Janata Party interregnum, Mukherjee received a huge promotion and was made Commerce Minister at the age of only 47 -- still very youthful by Indian political standards. In 1982, two years later, his dreams came true. He became the Finance Minister of India. Mukherjee fought the election against Indira Gandhi's wishes and lost. Indira Gandhi was reluctant to include a defeated candidate. It was Sanjay Gandhi who persuaded his mother to change her mind. It also set the curious precedence for finance ministers (or wannabe finance ministers) who lost the election to be inducted into the Cabinet through the back door. Arun Jaitley and Jaswant Singh took advantage of this unfortunate example. Manmohan Singh did one better. He became the Prime Minister. Pranab Mukherjee was essentially a Sanjay Gandhi protégé but he was aware of the negative consequence of this association. He downplayed this relationship and instead pulled out all the stops to portray himself as an Indira Gandhi man. But his relationship with Sanjay was to haunt him later in his career. Rajiv didn’t trust the Sanjay men and Mukherjee’s clumsy effort to become an interim prime minister when Indira Gandhi was assassinated was seen as an additional and very glaring black mark. Pranab was not included in the Rajiv Cabinet in 1984 and later at the first opportunity, Rajiv Gandhi expelled him from the Congress Party. It took him a great deal of effort (and a failed attempt to launch a party) to be allowed back. Mukherjee admitted that being dropped from the cabinet left him “shell shocked and flabbergasted”. The Rajiv years were for Mukherjee the years of wilderness and the political aridity spilled over to the Rao era. He could regain a cabinet berth only in 1995 after 12 long years in the no-man’s land.  Earlier, it was during his time in the Commerce Ministry that he grew close to Dhirubhai Ambani and the Reliance Group. At the Commerce Ministry, he learnt the intricacies of how, especially in the heyday of the licence raj, duties could make or break products and, indeed, companies. By the time Mukherjee was back in favour, the Rajiv Gandhi government had lost its energy amidst the artillery fire surrounding the Bofors gun deal, and also the Shah Bano imbroglio. Later, he was pipped to the post to be finance minister in P. V. Narasimha Rao’s government. Mukherjee had misread Rao as he earlier had misread Rajiv Gandhi. He had also misread the change in ideological climate. Globalisation was beginning and was being endorsed even by communist countries. Deng's China and Gorbachev's Russia had all mended their ways. Mukherjee, a diehard statist, was the wrong man at the wrong time. Not merely did Rao have a new finance minister, he also had a radically new economic policy. The nation had made a 180-degree turn. Mukherjee was history's baggage. Still he got another innings when Chidambaram was replaced by Mukherjee in the UPA era. But he was clearly at odds with the new India. Worse, he was largely blamed for the economic downturn of the UPA2 that paved the way for a Modi triumph. His last act as the Finance Minister was to introduce the infamous Retrospective Taxation which amended a 50-year-old regulation and gave the government power to change laws with retrospective effect. This was Mukherjee’s last hurrah and a valiant last-ditch effort to bring back the rules-regulation Raj. From all accounts, he succeeded. The new law is said to be the single important factor in reducing foreign investments in India. His departure in 2012 for the Rashtrapati Bhavan saved him some embarrassment. Mukherjee himself always insisted he couldn’t become prime minister because he didn’t speak fluent Hindi. Others joked that, with his strong Bengali accent, he didn’t speak English either. Even after decades in Delhi and criss-crossing the world, his accent didn’t change the slightest. Some put this down to his innate belief in Bengali superiority. “Bengalis know there is only one language on earth and English is just a dialect of Bangla,” said another bureaucrat who knew him well. Mukherjee was unfazed whether he was meeting the Queen of Great Britain or any other world leader. “He would speak to the Queen in Buckingham Palace and he stuck to his village college-teacher English. He didn’t care about his background or his height,” the bureaucrat said. Mukherjee’s first job had been as a lecturer in a local college before he shifted to Calcutta. It was common knowledge that Mukherjee, and many others, blamed former West Bengal chief minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray – with whom he didn’t get along -- for the Emergency. But Mukherjee, himself, was a prime beneficiary of the Emergency and a charter member of the Sanjay Gandhi faction. He was also at odds with former minister A.B.A. Ghani Khan Chowdhary, another Congress Party mass leader in Bengal. In other ways, he was the quintessential Congressman and he took a stern line on communalism. Once when a communal incident broke out and others were caught off-balance, he delivered a strong lecture, quoting, as he was wont, earlier instances when the Congress had fought communalism – even throwing in the exact dates when the incidents had happened. Later in life, however, he took a milder line towards an organisation like the RSS. He adopted the view, as one observer explained, that “if you keep them in the doghouse, they will do many things in an effort to shock you”. Mukherjee argued that the RSS should be mainstreamed and that would force them to “soften down,” the observer said. That outlook may have been the reason for his trip to Nagpur in 2018 where he addressed RSS swayamsevaks and even praised the institution’s founder, though he did also emphasize the importance of tolerance. It was an open secret that Mukherjee wasn’t Sonia Gandhi’s first choice for the presidency. But he built up support at different levels and is said to have forced her hand and easily won the largely ceremonial post. He had recognised he was growing older and the one job he wanted wasn’t coming to him. Later, when Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, he knew that nothing would induce the BJP to give him a second term, but he did sound out Modi gently about his re-election. “You are a Congress nominee,” said Modi almost mischievously. “If the Congress Party proposes your name, we shall consider it,” Modi added. Mukherjee knew the game was lost. He bowed out quietly and gracefully, citing “health complications relating to old age”. Modi was otherwise kind to Mukherjee. He may not have given him a second term but he did honour him with the Bharat Ratna. That was more a put down to Advani (who certainly contributed much more to the nation from the Hindutva point of view) and also to Manmohan Singh (whose contributions surpass Mukherjee's by the long shot). It marked a low-key close to a long and illustrious political career. While it wasn’t perhaps the triumphant finale that he might have chosen for himself, it was very far from an ignominious ending. Mukherjee was predeceased by his wife, Suvra Mukherjee, who died in 2015. The couple had two sons and a daughter. Sharmistha Mukherjee is an accomplished Kathak dancer and choreographer who contested the 2015 Delhi Assembly election as a Congress candidate but failed to win. Abhijit Mukherjee served as a Congress MP from Bengal from 2012 to 2019. In 2012, Sharmistha wrote about her father for India Today, recalling he had to walk nearly 10km every day to school and there was a stream on the way that during the monsoon became a gushing torrent. “Whenever I close my eyes trying to visualise my father, I see this little boy standing by the roaring stream thinking about how to cross it. He has crossed that and many other barricades in his life and walked a long way since then,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Aveek Sarkar elected PTI Chairman||Aveek Sarkar, the Editor Emeritus and Vice Chairman of the Ananda Bazar Group of Publications, has been elected Chairman of Press Trust of India, the country's premier news agency. Sarkar's election was ratified by PTI's Board of Directors at their meeting on Saturday. He succeeds Vijay Kumar Chopra, Chief Editor of the Punjab Kesari Group of newspapers. Sarkar, 75, started training as a journalist while he was a student, just out of school. After graduating from the University of Calcutta, he went to Britain where he came under the tutelage of the legendary editor of The Sunday Times, Sir Harold Evans. He was schooled in journalism by such iconic figures as Edwin Taylor in design and Ian Jack in sub-editing. As Chief Editor of the Ananda Bazar Group, Sarkar was the moving force behind the transformation of the group's publications, which include Bengali language daily Anandabazar Patrika and English daily The Telegraph, both of which he personally edited. In addition, the Calcutta-based group also runs six television news channels in various languages, of which the most prominent is the Hindi-language ABP News. The group also publishes a large number of magazines. Sarkar is a man of varied interests and counts books, food, wine and art among his principal loves. He is a fitness fanatic and spends almost two hours every day on yoga, weights and rowing. He was captain of the Royal Calcutta Golf Club (RCGC) for 10 years. He was the founding Managing Director of Penguin India, the Indian counterpart of Penguin Books, the founding Editor of Business Standard and also the pivotal figure behind the acquisition of STAR News by the ABP Group in 2003. Besides Sarkar and Chopra, the PTI Board members are Vineet Jain (Times of India), N. Ravi (The Hindu), Viveck Goenka (the Express Group), Mahendra Mohan Gupta (Dainik Jagran), K.N. Shanth Kumar (Deccan Herald), Riyad Mathew (Malayala Manorama), M.V. Shreyamskumar (Mathrubhumi), R. Lakshmipathy (Dinamalar), Hormusji N Cama (Bombay Samachar), Praveen Someshwar (Hindustan Times), Justice R.C. Lahoti, Deepak Nayyar, Shyam Saran and J.F. Pochkhanawalla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Supreme Court slaps token fine of Re 1 on Bhushan for contempt||The Supreme Court imposed a token fine of Re 1 on advocate Prashant Bhushan whom it found guilty of contempt for two of his tweets on Monday, adding that in case he failed to pay by September 15 he would have to undergo a three-month jail sentence and be barred from practising for three years. A bench of Justice Arun Mishra, B R Gavai, and Krishna Murari observed, “Freedom of speech cannot be curtailed but rights of others need to be respected.” The verdict said not only had the bench persuaded Bhushan to express regret but Attorney General K. K. Venugopal had also opined that it was in the fitness of things that the contemnor should express regret. The bench also noted that the statements of Bhushan submitted in the court were released to the media before they were taken on record. Alter, Bhushan said he would submit the token fine of Re 1, but indicated he would file a review plea against the order.
Bhushan said he had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court and judiciary and his tweets were not intended to disrespect the apex court. "While I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment," he said hours after the top court imposed the fine.

"I have had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court. I have always believed it to be the last bastion of hope, particularly for the weak and the oppressed who knock at its door for the protection of their rights, often against a powerful executive," Bhushan said at a press conference by CJAR (Campaign for Judicial Accountability & Reforms) and Swaraj Abhiyan. During an earlier hearing, the Supreme Court bench had orally observed that the sentence, if any, will not be enforced against Bhushan till the decision is taken on his plea seeking review of the judgement convicting him in the contempt case. On August 14, the apex court had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary and maintained they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in public interest. Bhushan in his statement had refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for the tweets, saying what he had expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold. On August 25, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan had urged the top court to show "judicial statesmanship" and not make Bhushan a "martyr" by punishing him for contempt over the tweets, after the activist-lawyer rejected fresh suggestions from the court for an apology. Dhavan, representing Bhushan, had suggested that the top court recall the August 14 verdict convicting the activist lawyer and not to impose any sentence. He urged it to not only close the case but also to bring an end to the controversy. Justice Mishra is demitting office on September 2. Venugopal had requested the court to forgive Bhushan with a message that he should not repeat this act. He also said Bhushan, who has been refusing to tender an unconditional apology for the tweets, should withdraw all statements and express regret. The bench had then given 30 minutes to Bhushan to "think over" withdrawing his statements made in the court and said he made "disparaging remarks against the institution and the judges". The bench had earlier, on August 20, granted time till August 24 to Bhushan to reconsider his "defiant statement" and tender "unconditional apology" for the contemptuous tweets. Referring to Bhushan's statements and his refusal to apologise, the bench had told Venugopal that mistakes were committed by all but they needed to be accepted, but Bhushan was not willing to accept that. Dhavan had argued that reprimanding Bhushan like "don't do it again" as suggested by the Attorney General will not be correct and instead a statesman-like message should be there like "Mr Bhushan though we disagree with many things, but from next time you should be more responsible".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Indian Army thwarts fresh attempts by China's PLA to change status quo in Ladakh||In a fresh incident in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese PLA carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong Tso lake but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops, the Army said on Monday. Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said troops from China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) "violated" the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements on the ongoing standoff in eastern Ladakh, and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo on the night of August 29/30. A brigade commander level flag meeting is currently in progress at Chushul to resolve the issues, he said. "On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo," Col Anand said in a statement. "Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the Southern Bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground," the Army spokesperson said. He said the Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect India's territorial integrity. It is the first major incident involving the troops of the two countries after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. China also suffered casualties but it is yet to make the details public but according to an American intelligence report it was 35. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks in the last two-and-half months but no significant headway has been made for a resolution to the border row in eastern Ladakh. The two sides began a process of disengagement on July 6, a day after a telephonic conversation between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tensions in eastern Ladakh. However, the process has not moved forward since mid-July. The PLA has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other friction points but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward in Pangong Tso, Depsang and a couple of other areas. At the five rounds of Corps commander-level talks, the Indian side has been insisting on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The face-off began on May 5 following violent clashes between the two armies in the Pangong lake area. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). Prior to the clashes, both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Even as both sides were engaged in diplomatic and military talks, the Indian Army stepped up its strength in all key areas along the LAC to deal with any eventualities. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane has already conveyed to all the senior commanders of the Army, overseeing the operation of the frontline formations along the LAC, to keep up a significantly high state of alertness and maintain the aggressive posturing to deal with any Chinese "misadventure", sources said. The tension between the two sides escalated manifold after the Galwan Valley clashes. Following the incident, the government gave the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Army sent thousands of additional troops to forward locations along the border following the deadly clashes. The IAF has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizeable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||SC rejects Mallya's plea seeking review of 2017 order in contempt case||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya seeking review of its 2017 order holding him guilty of contempt of court for transferring USD 40 million to his children. A bench comprising justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan said, "We do not find any merits. Review petition dismissed." The apex court had reserved its verdict on the review plea on August 27 after hearing arguments from both sides. Mallya had filed the petition seeking review of the apex court's May 9, 2017 order by which he was held guilty of contempt of court for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violation of the order. The fugitive businessman, who is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is presently in the United Kingdom. The apex court's 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred USD 40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in "flagrant violation" of various judicial orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's health declines||The condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee declined on Monday morning and he has suffered a septic shock due to his lung infection, the Army's Research and Referral Hospital said. Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mukherjee said he continues to be in a deep coma and is on ventilator support. Mukherjee is being managed by a team of specialists, they added. The former president was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated the same day for removal of a clot in his brain. He later developed a lung infection. "There has been a decline in the medical condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee since yesterday. He is in septic shock due to his lung infection and is being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support," the hospital said in a statement. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Modi champions swadeshi dog breeds in Mann ki Baat||No one can fault Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his choice of metaphors and sense of timing. When the economy has gone to the dogs and the government is in the doghouse over Covid-19 and the China border crisis, Modi used the better part of his monthly Mann ki Baat radio address on Sunday to champion the cause of rearing swadeshi dog breeds that have “astounding beauty and quality”. The avowed objective was the dogged pursuit of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), under which no “domain” should be left “untouched” by its “influence”. “Friends, I have also been told that Indian breed dogs are also very good and capable. Among the Indian breeds, Mudhol Hound and Himachali Hound are of excellent pedigree. Rajapalayam, Kanni, Chippiparai and Kombai are fabulous Indian breeds. They cost less to raise and are better adapted to the Indian environment and surroundings,” Modi said, according to the English translation of Mann ki Baat. Modi’s affection for man’s best friend is well documented. In 2013, asked whether he regretted the Gujarat violence of 2002 (over 1,000 people were killed in riots), Modi, then Gujarat chief minister, had told the Reuters news agency: “Someone else is driving a car and we’re sitting behind, even then if a puppy comes under the wheel, will it be painful or not? Of course it is. If I’m a chief minister or not, I’m a human being. If something bad happens anywhere, it is natural to be sad.” In Sunday’s Mann ki Baat, the Prime Minister could not stop talking about dogs. “Now, our security agencies are also inducting these Indian breed dogs as part of their security squad. In the recent past, Mudhol Hound dogs have been trained and inducted in the dog squad of the army, CISF and NSG; Kombai dogs have been included by the CRPF. Research on the Indian breed dogs is also being done by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research with the aim to make them better and more beneficial,” Modi said. The Prime Minister urged people to “search for these breeds on the Internet and know more about them”. “The beauty and qualities of these breeds will leave you astounded! The next time you think of raising a pet dog, consider bringing home one of these Indian breeds. At a time when Atmanirbhar Bharat is becoming a mantra of the people, how can any domain be left untouched by its influence?” the Prime Minister said. Modi also spoke at length about the toy industry and urged people to be “vocal about local toys”. He said India had the potential to become a toy hub and called upon start-ups to take up the challenge of converting the country into one. The Prime Minister brought up the issue of toys while highlighting the plight of children, who have been forced to stay indoors because of the pandemic. Modi called upon start-ups to “team up for toys”, saying the country had the potential to become the toy hub of the world. The Prime Minister did refer to Covid-19, lauding people for showing “discipline” and “responsibility” while celebrating festivals during the pandemic. At the end of the address, he urged people to remain vigilant by wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing. LAKH-PLUS DISLIKES Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat video uploaded by the BJP’s official YouTube channel has been greeted with 1.80 lakh dislikes and 17,000 likes till 1.15am on Monday. Such an overwhelming negative response to an official social media upload of the Prime Minister is rare. Some believe this could be a fallout of the Centre’s decision to go ahead with the JEE-NEET exams amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
31-08-2020||India||Covid: IMA appeal to help private doctors||The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to establish a “national solatium” to be paid to the families of all the doctors and other healthcare workers who die from the coronavirus disease. In a letter to Modi, the association iterated its concern about the growing number of Covid-19 infections and deaths among healthcare workers and urged that the Rs 50-lakh solatium approved for government staff should be extended to the private sector. More than 2,000 doctors have been infected by Covid in the country and 309 have died, the association said in its second such letter to Modi. It had on August 8 sent a similar letter, counting 196 deaths among doctors. General practitioners who remain the first point of contact for most patients across the country account for 188 of the 309 deaths mentioned by the association. The Centre had earlier this year announced a Rs 50-lakh insurance scheme to cover around 22 lakh government healthcare workers, including hospital ward staff, nurses, paramedics, technicians, doctors and specialists. The Union health ministry had on July 31 said it had received 131 claims from the families of healthcare workers who had died from Covid-19. A senior health ministry official said on Sunday that the ministry had not released data on the number of infections among healthcare workers. “All we’re pointing out is that Covid-19 does not differentiate between public and private sector,” Rajan Sharma, national president of the association, told The Telegraph. “Doctors and other healthcare workers in the private sector are also exposing themselves to the risk of the infection.” The association said it was “constrained to point out that” doctors and other healthcare workers in the private sector “could have stayed back at home during the epidemic” to protect themselves. “They chose to serve the nation in the best traditions of the medical profession,” it said in its appeal to Modi. “The solatium approved by the government for colleagues in government services in all fairness is deserved by the children of these martyrs as well.” All doctors who have laid down their lives fighting this epidemic should be treated on a par with the martyrs of the armed forces and acknowledged appropriately, the association said. It added that the surviving spouse or dependents should be provided with a government job. Sharma said the association had learnt through anecdotal accounts that the solatium in place had “failed to reach the unfortunate beneficiaries due to the inadequacy of the chosen instrument and indifference”. The association has called for a dedicated system to administer the solatium. The association’s August 8 list of doctors who had died from Covid-19 included a 55-year-old paediatrician from Chandigarh, a 55-year-old radiotherapist from Patna, a 55-year-old neurosurgeon from Chennai and a 59-year-old ophthalmologist from Howrah. The association says general practitioners have died in Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Covid: beyond containment stage, focus on reducing deaths||India’s coronavirus epidemic is beyond any prospects of containment at multiple sites that have widespread transmission or high infection prevalence rates and where health authorities have quietly turned their focus to curbing deaths, experts have said. Public health specialists and epidemiologists say that efforts to contain the infection through measures such as contact tracing made sense during the early stages of the epidemic but are fatigue-inducing and wasteful in areas with widespread transmission. The Union health ministry had earlier this week urged 10 states, including Bengal, to focus on “containment, contact tracing and surveillance” among the actions required for early diagnosis, effective treatment and mortality reduction among Covid-19 patients. The advisory also asked the states to ensure that at least in 80 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases, all the close contacts were “traced and tested” within 72 hours. Contact tracing helps identify and isolate people who might be infected to prevent further spread of the infection. But the scale of the epidemic at many places, experts say, would render containment efforts futile. India on Sunday recorded 78,761 new Covid-19 cases, including 16,286 in Maharashtra, 8,362 in Karnataka and 3,012 in Bengal — three of the 10 states that account for 89 per cent of the mortality. The average daily number of new cases over the past week has been 71,113. If every new positive case had only three contacts, field health staff would need to trace and test over 210,000 people every day. When there are hundreds or thousands of new cases every day, contact tracing will cause fatigue with little impact, said Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and president of the Indian Public Health Association. Surveys in Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune have suggested that 17 to 51 per cent of the sampled populations in some localities had been infected by the coronavirus, pointing to widespread transmission that has been invisible or not accounted in the daily Covid-19 counts. “The response in such circumstances should focus on mitigation — or efforts to minimise deaths by ensuring that every patient who needs hospital care gets the best care possible,” Rai said. “Testing all contacts would be wasteful. Resources should be conserved to improve and expand the treatment facilities.” India’s number of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision on Sunday was 765,302, the second highest in the world after the US, whose corresponding figure is over 2.5 million. Some epidemiologists say the successful containment achieved early in Kerala and at Dharavi in Mumbai probably raised expectations that similar feats would be possible across India. Kerala was the first state to detect a coronavirus case on January 30, and used rigorous contact tracing and quarantine to keep the daily number of infections below 100 till early June. The number has grown since then and the state on Sunday recorded 2,397 new cases. “There’s nothing surprising about the rise in numbers, whether in Kerala or elsewhere — this is the nature of this coronavirus,” said Jaiprakash Muliyil, a community medicine specialist and former principal at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Kerala did a fantastic job, a superhuman effort to help keep infections low as long as it was possible. But Kerala’s early success created an impression that it was possible to contain the virus.” Health authorities working alongside local doctors in Mumbai also helped achieve a steep decline in the number of new infections in Dharavi — from a daily average of 43 in May to one of 19 in June to single-digit numbers in August. They adopted standard public health measures — contact tracing, testing suspects, isolating patients and moving vulnerable elderly people to temporary shelters away from the infection’s hot-zone. “What Dharavi did demanded huge amounts of effort and determination,” said Oommen John, a public health expert at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “It is unrealistic to expect the model to be replicated everywhere else.” Some experts argue that India has pursued both containment and mitigation simultaneously. “It doesn’t have to be a choice — one or the other — we’ll have to ride both horses depending on the ground situation,” said Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior clinician-researcher at the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research. “A lot of effort has gone into preparing health facilities for Covid-19 patients and trying to ensure that the patients receive effective treatment,” he said. “Given the state of our health system, India has thus far done much better than it might have,” Bhatnagar said. Health officials have attributed India’s declining mortality rate among Covid-19 patients — from 3.3 per cent in mid-June to 2.7 per cent in mid-July to 1.79 per cent on Sunday — to early diagnosis and effective treatment. But health experts expect the epidemic to continue to pose severe challenges. “It’s bound to grow,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a senior epidemiologist in Lucknow and member of an ICMR task force on epidemiology and surveillance. “The key to effective response lies in recognising what is going on at the local level. The response should be tailored to local situations.” Contact tracing and containment efforts will remain important in areas where the infection is still emerging, for instance, across rural areas or clusters of villages with few infections. But in areas with widespread transmission, Reddy said, the appropriate response would be mitigation and personal protection measures such as masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Justice Arun Mishra averse to farewell||Justice Arun Mishra, who headed the Supreme Court bench that has convicted lawyer Prashant Bhushan of criminal contempt and is scheduled to sentence him on Monday, has declined any farewell party from the Bar. He is due to retire on September 2. According to sources close to the judge, Justice Mishra has cited the pandemic to politely turn down the offer from the Supreme Court Bar Association and the Confederation of Indian Bar to give him a farewell. It is customary for the Bar to give a farewell to every retiring judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||A migrant without memory, a boy and a reunion||When Daya Bhuyan, 65, was reunited with his family in Odisha on Sunday, one could have been forgiven for wondering why it had taken a migrant worker five months to return home after the lockdown. Except that for Daya, the lockdown had lasted three decades. A lockdown of his memory that had shut away from him his entire past life, even his own identity. Daya, then an unmarried young man, had left his village in Gajapati district to work as a construction labourer in Arunachal Pradesh sometime in the 1980s. Nobody in his village of Abasingh remembers the exact year he left, nor whether he ever visited home in the years before his mind went blank. Most of his elders and some of his contemporaries in the village are dead. Daya seems to have lost his memory, from whatever cause, by the late 1980s. The man from the Saora tribal community lived in a shack in the forests of Ziro Valley in Lower Subansiri district, keeping himself alive by selling firewood. It’s an unlikely friendship that he struck up there with a teenage boy named Rubu Ama, who would trek miles to visit him, that eventually led to his homecoming. Officials from the two state governments also played a part. Daya’s nephew Mukunda Bhuyan said: “We are happy to see bada bapa (uncle) after such a long time.” “We’ll take care of him. He doesn’t need to go anywhere or work any more. We are indebted to Rubu Ama Sir.” Ama, now a 32-year-old school owner in Ziro town who had probably not been born when Daya first arrived in Arunachal, described to The Telegraph how their friendship began in 2003, when he would have barely been 15. “He lived in a makeshift hut of bamboo and tarpaulin near a hill 7km from my home. Of this, 4km was navigable by car but one had to walk the remaining 3km,” Ama said over the phone from Arunachal. What began as a boy’s curiosity about a mysterious forest dweller who spoke little and “did not remember anything”, not even his own name, grew into a lasting friendship. The local people used to call Daya “Jagapati Karji” — the first word a distortion of “Gajapati”, Daya’s home district whose name he seemed to remember, and the second an Odia surname familiar to the villagers, thanks probably to some other migrant from Odisha. “When I first met him I was not interested in finding out where he was from or what his past life had been like,” Ama said. However, he realised his friend’s many vulnerabilities and chipped in with help whenever he could. When Daya fell ill last September, Ama, owner of the Royal Blue Pine Academy (Class I to X), started providing him with monthly rations, bringing it himself or sending it through others. In October, Ama shot a video of Daya on his mobile and passed it on to a WhatsApp group of Odias living in Arunachal, requesting them to circulate it across social media platforms. They did but with little result. When Daya’s health worsened during the lockdown, Ama kept in constant touch, more determined than ever to reunite his friend with his family. “He couldn’t recall his parents’ names properly, and identified himself as Jagapati Karji. But he was able to name his district and village more or less correctly,” Ama said. “On July 26, I made another short video of him and shared it on social media. Through some Odia people here I got in touch with a man called Abhilash Panda, who helped me track down Daya’s home address.” Panda, an ABVP member from Bhubaneswar, told this newspaper: “I contacted a journalist friend who helped me trace Daya’s village in Gajapati.” The journalist also found out that Jagapati Karji’s real name was Daya Bhuyan. Ama later showed Daya photos of himself as a young man as well as those of his brothers and his village, all sent by Panda, and told him the little that had been gleaned about his past life. “Daya broke down and pleaded with me to take him home,” Ama said. “I brought him to my house on August 8 and got him to speak to his family through a video call. Although he could not recognise them, he was desperate to return home.” Daya, however, fell ill and was admitted to hospital for a week from August 13. “I spent a whole night with him at the hospital to see him recover,” Ama said. By then the Odisha and Arunachal governments had got in touch. “Today (Sunday) we took him to his village. The entire village was elated to see him back,” said Gajapati district assistant labour officer Subhash Chandra Mandal, who had accompanied Daya back from Arunachal. Sources in the village said Daya seemed to have recognised his younger brother Suku Bhuyan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Bangalore metal beats coronavirus blues||They say that life’s a carousel
Spinning fast, you gotta ride it well
The world is full of Kings and Queens
Who blind your eyes and steal your dreamsHeaven and Hell, by Black Sabbath If the pandemic has flipped like a carousel the world as we knew it and things have spun out of control, Bangalore’s musicians can say they have worn the thorny corona with resounding optimism and not allowed their dreams to be stolen. Although Covid-19 has kept everyone home, bands in Bangalore, which reverberates with the power of metal and is home to India’s only dedicated open-air heavy metal festival, have found ways to use the time creatively, and in some case more purposefully, in spite of zero earnings from music. Most band members usually have day jobs that leave them to battle the maddening traffic in the city. With everyone working from home now and the pandemic putting paid to live shows, the musicians have enough time to rethink, relook and build on their repertoire. The bands are also connecting with fans by uploading on social media videos of how they have been creating music during the lockdown. Chintan Chinnappa, guitarist of the hugely popular thrash metal band Inner Sanctum who describes himself as a “lawyer by day, rock star by night”, has been missing live shows but would rather look for low-hanging fruits for now. Because of the lockdown, it has been a rather different kind of six months for the band that had opened for Metallica, the iconic American heavy metal band, in Bangalore in 2011. “We miss the adrenaline of live shows. But we need to stay busy and creative using the time in hand,” Chinnappa told The Telegraph. “It’s been very difficult for bands. But the only advantage is we have time to cultivate our fan base and work on our music,” he added. “As we have day jobs, we didn’t have time earlier to build on our outreach. Lots of us are using this time to build visibility and stay alive when it’s time to hit the stage,” Chinnappa said. Inner Sanctum is gearing up to release its first offering of the Covid season — a single titled Divided By Hate that will be a big-budget music video. “You need to make time for your passions, otherwise you go crazy in such times,” Chinnappa said, adding that most band members with salaried jobs would survive the current crisis. Srikanth Panaman, lead guitarist of the metal band Bevar Sea, recounted how the members used to juggle between day jobs and concerts with little time left for anything else. “We had taken a break in 2016 to rethink and refocus, but were still busy with our jobs. Covid-19 has actually helped us regroup and we are now set to complete our new album,” Panaman said. Of course, he misses the well-attended shows and all that energy of playing on stage. “Live is always great and we miss playing on big stages. But again, we took the positives out of the current situation and didn’t buckle under the pressure of not doing shows,” said Panaman, who is an IT consultant. Like most other bands, members of Bevar Sea snuck in to the comfort of their homes to work on new music and rethink their musicality. “We took our jam room totally online and used technology to share notes on our new production. We will start taking one member at a time to the studio (to maintain physical distancing) to record his track until everything is put together,” Panaman said. “But of course, we miss sitting together and getting instant feedback from each other,” he added. Building his home studio is another project in the works so that the band wouldn’t need to hire studios. The vocalist of Bevar Sea, Ganesh Krishnaswamy, who doubles as the drummer of a band named Kryptos, used the time to come up with his solo sideshow Megadrone in which he played lead guitar, base, synthesiser and the drum track. “After a few weeks of lockdown I realised we would have to stay indoors for long. So I didn’t want to slide into frustration and instead put down some ideas that developed into this one-song album of 55 minutes,” Krishnaswamy said. While money flow depends entirely on the traction a song receives on online music platforms like Apple Music and Spotify, the response has been very encouraging for his Covid-time solo release. Since stepping out was no longer easy, Krishnaswamy converted his guest room into a home studio where the album took shape. “In fact, I’ve already finished writing for the second album for which recording will start in mid-October,” he said adding that being creative was the best way to beat the Covid blues. Krishnaswamy is in no hurry to play live with powerful amplifiers thumping music into head-bangers in the crowd. “Live music is not coming back anytime soon. Even if it does, I don’t want to go out there unless I am vaccinated,” said Krishnaswamy, who handles digital strategy for an ad agency during the day. He too said band revenues had been badly hit. “We are making music but we don’t earn anything, although fans do buy merchandise of Kryptos,” Krishnaswamy said. But as Black Sabbath might have said in the current context: “And it’s on and on, on and on and on/And on and on and on and on and on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||India’s first woman cardiologist dead||India’s first woman cardiologist S. Padmavati, who drew scores of young doctors into her speciality, introduced the country’s first super-specialisation cardiology course, coronary care unit and mobile coronary care van and amazed her colleagues by swimming well into her 90s, died from Covid-19 on Saturday. She was 103. Sivaramakrishna Iyer Padmavati, described by some fellow cardiologists as the “godmother of cardiology in India”, passed away after a 10-day battle with pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus, her colleagues said. Padmavati pioneered several aspects of coronary care services over more than two decades at the government-run Lady Hardinge Medical College and Maulana Azad Medical College in New Delhi. She founded the National Heart Institute in 1982 to continue patient care and research. She contributed to early research in India on coronary heart disease, rheumatic fever and high blood pressure, introduced a coronary catheterisation lab for diagnostic cardiology at Lady Hardinge in 1954 and launched coronary care services and a coronary care van at Maulana Azad in the late 1960s. “Mobile coronary care vans are so common, almost mundane now, but she introduced this concept to India,” said O.P. Yadava, chief cardiac surgeon at the National Heart Institute. Padmavati was director-principal at Maulana Azad when Yadava joined the first-year MBBS course there. “Many of the top cardiologists in the country today were her students,” Yadava said. Padmavati was born to a family of barristers in Magwe, a small town in Myanmar, in 1917 and studied medicine at the Rangoon Medical School. She then left for England, where she acquired the Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians of London and Edinburgh. She continued her postgraduate training in Sweden and the US before returning to India. Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, the then Union health minister, appointed her a lecturer at Lady Hardinge where she rose to become professor and head of medicine. The government honoured her with the Padma Bhushan in 1967 and the Padma Vibhushan in 1992. Colleagues on Sunday remembered her as a person of many facets -- an aficionada of silk saris and solitaire diamonds who relished a glass of port every evening and continued to swim into her early 90s. “During one of her swims at age 88 she suffered a heart attack – someone noticed that she wasn’t swimming properly,” Yadava said. She was moved to the National Heart Institute where she underwent a bypass surgery. “Six months later, she began swimming again and continued till she was 93,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Pinarayi Vijayan unveils ‘100’ Onam gifts||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday announced enhancements in food and social security schemes and the health infrastructure while declaring that 100 new projects would be inaugurated in the next 100 days. He told a news conference the distribution of dry ration kits, a feature of the state’s relief efforts during the 2018 and 2019 floods and the 2020 lockdown, would continue for another four months. “More than 86 lakh such kits were distributed (at the start of the lockdown).... With 1.5 lakh more ration card holders (added since then), the government has distributed more than 88 lakh food kits for Onam (which began last week),” he said. “Food kit distribution will continue for another four months. But if you ask me what the most effective change made by the Left government was, I would say it’s the social security pension (for the destitute, widows and others).” Vijayan said 35 lakh people received Rs 600 a month as social security pension when his government assumed charge four years ago. Since then, the sum had been increased “to Rs 1,000, then Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,300”. “Now we are adding another Rs 100 (to make it Rs 1400.) The beneficiaries increased from 35 lakh to 58 lakh; now another 23 lakh have been added,” he said. Vijayan added that from now on, the pensions would be paid every month instead of every three months. He said his government had already appointed “9,768 health workers, 1,200 house surgeons and another 1,152 health workers on ad hoc basis” during the Covid crisis. He said that over the next 100 days, his government would increase testing to 50,000 a day (from about 35,000), and raise the number of family health centres from 386 to 539. Vijayan said 24 new government hospitals, including medical colleges and district and taluk hospitals, would be opened in 100 days, as would “10 new dialysis centres, three catheterisation labs and two more modern cancer centres”. Some 500 government school buildings will be rebuilt at Rs 5 crore each, and another 35 at Rs 3 crore each. Fourteen new school buildings will be inaugurated. “While 45,000 classrooms at government schools are already hi-tech (with digital learning facilities), all the lower primary schools (up to Class IV) will be converted into hi-tech classrooms,” Vijayan said. He promised 11,400 computer labs for schools that lack them, and laptops for 5 lakh students. Some 50,000 jobs will be created through 15,000 enterprises in the non-agriculture sector, and another 1,000 posts in colleges and higher secondary institutions, he said. Vijayan had promised to generate employment to help Malayalis who had lost their jobs in the Gulf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi prods Modi on JEE and NEET exams||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said students wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address their concerns over holding the JEE and NEET exams amid the pandemic in his monthly radio programme but he spoke about toys instead. Modi said during the Mann ki Baat address that the country had the talent and ability to become a toy industry hub and called upon startups and entrepreneurs to “team up for toys”. Using the hashtag “Mann_Ki_Nahi_Students_Ki_Baat”, Rahul tweeted: “JEE-NEET aspirants wanted the PM to do ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ but the PM did ‘Khilone Pe Charcha’.” Rahul and the Congress have supported the demand to postpone the JEE Main engineering entrance exam and the medical entrance NEET, both scheduled in September, saying there was a risk to the health of students at a time Covid-19 cases were rising sharply across the country. Six state governments have moved the Supreme Court seeking a postponement. However, appearing oblivious to the countrywide campaign by students, political parties and activists, Modi on Sunday spoke not about exams but toys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal parrots Amit Shah, Sangh line on Onam||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has drawn flak for extending “Vamana Jayanti” greetings on the occasion of Onam, siding with a Sangh parivar belief and also sharing the same image that the BJP’s Amit Shah had done four years ago. While Malayalis overwhelmingly celebrate Onam as the mythological annual return of the Asura king Mahabali to his erstwhile kingdom, the RSS has often tried to turn this belief on its head by commemorating Vamana, the fifth avatar of Lord Vishnu who had banished Mahabali. Many see this as a Sangh parivar design to impose a “Brahminical version” of history (Vamana is a Brahmin and Mahabali an Asura), and an attempt to restore the “Brahminical order of inequality and oppression”. On Saturday, Aam Aadmi Party leader Kejriwal, who has frequently been accused of mirroring the BJP after being reelected in February, tweeted in Hindi on the first day of Onam festivities: “Greetings to all of you on the anniversary of God Vamana, the fifth avatar of Lord Vishnu. May Lord Vishnu’s benevolence be upon you forever.” Shah, then the BJP chief and now the Union home minister, had in 2016 tweeted on similar lines and shared the same image that Kejriwal has now tweeted: that of Vamana, wearing a sacred thread, banishing Mahabali by putting a foot on his head. Like in Shah’s case, Kejriwal’s tweet has angered Malayalis. Since the 2016 snub, when both the Left and the Congress in Kerala had criticised the BJP and the RSS, and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had slammed Shah for “ridiculing Kerala, Keralites and the culture of Kerala”, top BJP leaders have refrained from using the Vamana phraseology in official Onam greetings. Kejriwal, however, appears to have picked up the baton from the Sangh, whose official publications have stuck to the Bhagvata Purana’s account that Vamana was born on the eve of Onam, which falls on Monday. Poems of the Vaishnavite Tamil Alvars describe Vamana as the deity of the festival at least until the 11th century. However, Mahabali had taken precedence by the 16th century. Kejriwal’s office did not respond to queries from this newspaper on the CM’s tweet. Author Anita Nair tweeted: “About time I sent Mr Kejriwal a copy of my Magical Indian Myths where the myth of the Vamana apropos Mahabali and Onam is explained so even a 9-year-old child can understand it.” She added: “I have no qualms about Kejriwal choosing to offer Vamana Jayanthi wishes but to use an image of Vamana pressing down Mahabali into the netherworld is a direct reference to Onam. And as you know Onam is about welcoming Mahabali not Vamana.” Unlike in Shah’s case, Vijayan has not reacted to Kejriwal’s greeting choices. In 2019, AAP had replaced its Kerala convener C.R. Neelakandan, a veteran social activist, after he declared support for the Congress-led UDF in a few seats for the Lok Sabha polls, and clarified that it backed the CPM-helmed LDF. Vijayan’s partymen, however, did not mirror his benevolence. Subin Dennis, an economist at Delhi’s Tricontinental think-tank and a CPM member, wrote in flurry of tweets: “Kejriwal takes the Amit Shah road to extend ‘Vamana Jayanti’ greetings. In stark contrast, in Kerala we celebrate Onam, to commemorate the return of the just and righteous Asura king Mahabali, not to celebrate Vamana’s treachery. “Onam commemorates the day when popular Asura king Mahabali returns once a year to visit his people. But Sanghis prefer Vamana Jayanti, celebrating the restoration of the Brahminical order of inequality & oppression. It is a difference of vision about the future of society itself. “Now Kejriwal has joined the Sanghis to indicate what he prefers: the inequality of the order that was restored when Mahabali was subjugated by treachery, not the egalitarianism which Onam celebrates and seeks to build again.” Dennis’ tweets were widely shared by the CPM’s Kerala ecosystem. Congress MP Hibi Eden accused Kejriwal of being the BJP’s “B team”, which AAP has frequently been accused of after the party that rules Delhi failed to curb the communal riots in February that killed 53 people. Eden tweeted: “All Malayalees deserve this... for the enthusiasm they showed to vote for AAP and Kejriwal.… Freebies come and go but culture, history, traditions can’t be distorted like this.… BJP and AAP do the same when it comes to this.… B team of BJP.” Although AAP has no representation in Kerala’s elected institutions, Malayali pockets in Delhi are seen as party strongholds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
31-08-2020||India||Kashmir dailies roasted for silence on pellet injuries to Muharram mourners ||Valley newspapers faced criticism on Sunday for largely ignoring the pellet injuries to Muharram mourners in Saturday’s security force action, their silence in line with their year-old policy of not annoying the government for fear of a backlash or advertisement squeeze. Dozens of Muharram processionists were injured, some of them blinded or nearly blinded, when the forces fired shotgun pellets and tear gas canisters to disperse the mobs on Saturday and Sunday, mostly in the Srinagar and Budgam districts. Gruesome pictures of pellet-hit boys have taken social media by storm but several of Srinagar’s major dailies have given little or no space to the forces’ action, triggering outrage and a cry for an “independent media”. Class X student Suhail Ahmad was hit by pellets in both eyes on Saturday. His right eye is damaged and there is only a faint hope that the left would recover. Videos showed people using crude methods to remove pellets from the wounds of some of the injured, too afraid to visit hospitals lest they be arrested. Srinagar police chief Haseeb Mughal told reporters the mourners had defied the Covid curbs on gatherings and pelted the police with stones. Valley newspapers had in the past been sympathetic to the azadi cause and prioritised coverage of rights violations by the security forces. But they fell in line after the clampdown in August last year and began to resemble government bulletins. On Sunday, social media users, including journalists working for the national and international media in Srinagar, censured their coverage — or the lack of it — of the Muharram processions. Images of the front pages of major dailies were splashed across social media to prove the point. Shia mourners traditionally take to the streets during Muharram but the government had imposed restrictions this time, citing the Covid threat, after some processions earlier this week turned into pro-azadi demonstrations. “There is not even an atom of courage or for that matter honesty in editors of Kashmiri newspapers to report truth in their pages. What a meek surrender! I wonder how they live with themselves,” journalist Tariq Mir tweeted. “Mind you, #Bemina and #Budgam are not in #Kashmir. Otherwise the colossal human tragedy and pellet horror would have been reported by the Srinagar-based newspapers. Let us not be harsh on them. News is about proximity. Bemina and Budgam are far-off places. Let’s be considerate!” mocked journalist author Gowher Geelani. Bemina is a locality in Srinagar. Fahad Shah, editor of the news portal Kashmir Walla, said the shoddy coverage had underlined the “need for an independent media” in the Valley. Shah’s has been one of the few Valley news outlets willing to speak truth to the government, and he has been summoned by the police a few times over certain reports. An editor of an English-language newspaper said the Kashmir dailies were “gradually reclaiming the space” they had conceded last year after the clampdown. “There have been some brave pieces of late. All the newsmakers like Farooq Abdullah and others were behind bars; as they have returned to public life, our coverage is also improving,” the editor told The Telegraph. “But yes, there’s still a long way to go.” Another editor claimed the newspapers had been discreetly told to give the heaviest coverage to “developmental activities” by the government. “The (newspaper) business has been hit hard during the yearlong lockdown over the scrapping of Article 370 and the pandemic. Government advertisements are the dailies’ only source of revenue,” said the editor, a member of the now-defunct Kashmir Editors Guild. The guild, he said, had not issued a single statement or held a single interaction since the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year because of the “fear of a backlash”. When the government came out with a new media policy in June that empowered the State to decide what is fake news and act, no major media organisation in the Valley chose to criticise it. Journalists who have taken a stand have faced a crackdown, being booked and summoned by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-698
