01-04-2021||Opinion||Blind to love: Abuse of POSCO||Laws can be abused, but how they are abused depends on the prevalent attitudes of a culture. In India, the law against abduction is often evoked against the relationship of two consenting adults when their families want to prevent a union for reasons of caste, community or background. Thus, a committee studying the steep rise in the number of cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 noted, among other things, the use of the law to criminalize consensual relationships between two teenagers. This is a razor’s edge. The committee recommended that teenagers over 16 be tried as adults over 18 for sexual crimes, while mentioning the problem of punishing under-18 consensual sexual relationships. The recommendation for lowering the age for trial as adults was prompted, presumably, by the increasing sexual abuse of girls of three or four by teenage boys. But the law tars all teenagers with the same brush. Sexually active young people can have consensual relationships: is the POCSO Act meant to punish such non-criminal activity? This question is the focus of a recent case, in which a teenage girl had first accused a slightly older boy of rape and cheating, but later sought to depose before the Madras High Court that the relationship was consensual. When it broke down, she was urged by the State to charge the boy. The high court dismissed her plea, holding that crimes under the POCSO Act were non-compoundable — not open to compromise. The trial court had sentenced her erstwhile partner, who has since petitioned the Supreme Court. Reported statements from co-ordinate benches of the high court as well as the Supreme Court indicate that the higher judiciary is fully aware of the consequences of the POCSO Act’s silence on romantic relationships below 18. Sending a boy to prison for being part of a relationship of mutual love cannot be fair; it is as unfair as viewing innocent relationships as alien or unnatural. A law that seeks to punish the sexual abuse of minors has to be nuanced. Removing the non-compoundable element of the law in cases of relationships above 16 could have its own problems in a society that is happy to have rapists marry survivors. But crime must be distinguished from love in spite of the confusions produced by hindsight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||No end in sight: Myanmar crisis ||Sir — The latest round of international condemnation of the Myanmar army comes with the defence chiefs of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Japan and nine other nations denouncing the Tatmadaw in the wake of the brutal killings of over 100 civilians on the country’s Armed Forces Day (“Bloodbath”, March 30). Even as the Myanmar military chief, Min Aung Hlaing, mouthed platitudes about protecting the people and restoring democracy in the country, the armed forces continued with their ruthless repression of the protesters by firing indiscriminately at people, including children. It is ironical that the parade held last Saturday was to commemorate the start of Myanmar’s military resistance against Japanese occupation in 1945, but now the military is oppressing the citizens of its own country. But China and Russia are yet to criticize the Tatmadaw. This could make it difficult for the United Nations security council — where both countries hold the power to veto — to take action against the junta. The military, which overthrew the democratically elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi, has killed hundreds of civilians so far and lacks legitimacy. The absence of a strong international response, thus far limited only to sanctions against the top military brass and two companies it deals with, may be worsening the situation. These incidents should draw a harsher response from the international community. It is time that India — it was one among the eight countries that sent representatives to Myanmar on the occasion of the Armed Forces Day — forgoes its old ties with the Tatmadaw. Many people are having to flee the country. It behoves India to uphold democratic traditions and stand up for the basic human rights of the Myanmarese people. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn that India, one of the largest democracies in the world, chose to send its representatives to Myanmar for the Armed Forces Day parade. It turned out to be one of the bloodiest days in the history of the country with at least 114 civilians losing their lives. The other countries that sent their representatives to attend the event in Naypyidaw are Russia, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos and Thailand. Many are justifiably wondering why the Narendra Modi government chose to participate in the event rather than condemning the Myanmar military. Perhaps it would help to remember that India’s relationship with Myanmar has been complex. During the tenures of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, India prioritized its commitment to democratic values but was mostly neutral in its approach towards Myanmar. However, Indian foreign policy saw a marked change in the 1990s. The government of P.V. Narasimha Rao recognized the geopolitical importance of Myanmar and took significant steps to engage with it politically while also strengthening economic ties. Subsequent governments — both the United Progressive Alliance as well as the National Democratic Alliance — continued to build India’s relationship with Myanmar. In light of the recent developments, it is perhaps time that the Indian government rethinks its approach towards the country. We must honour our commitment to democratic traditions. On the other hand, there is no doubt that alienating Myanmar will be a problem as it is strategically positioned. The country’s growing relationships with Pakistan and China are a matter of concern as well. India must reconsider its strategies keeping these things in mind. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Moment of glory Sir — In a remarkable turn of events, ace Indian paddlers, Achanta Sharath Kamal and Manika Batra, made history by securing the Olympic berth in the mixed doubles category in table tennis after defeating the Korean pair, Sang-Su Lee and Jihee Jeon, ranked fifth in the world, at the Asian Olympic Qualification Tournament finals. The most impressive part of this encounter was the way Kamal and Batra — they are ranked 18th — turned the game in their favour after starting the match 0-2 (11-8, 11-6) down against their higher-ranked opponents. The Indian pair won six points in a row in the third game. This led to a slow but steady comeback. While the mixed team event in table tennis is being introduced at the Olympics for the first time, the Indian duo had played against Lee and Jeon earlier and defeated them during the 2018 Asian Games. Kamal and Batra must be lauded. It is an outstanding feat in a country where cricket is the only sport accorded any importance. C.K.R. Nathan,Ghaziabad Take care Sir — A recent study found that a food preservative used to prolong the shelf life of processed food items is responsible for compromising our immune system. The chemical, tert-butylhydroquinone, was shown to have ill effects and offer no health benefit. One of the researchers pointed out that before the pandemic, chemicals that may harm the immune system did not receive sufficient attention. While it is heartening that there is now a renewed focus on public health, it is unfortunate that it took a global health crisis for experts to be alert. We must prioritize health in order to deal with future pandemics efficiently. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||Bengal polls 2021: Caste matters||Religion, inveterate Marxists insist, is the opium of the masses. The comrades have their own fix — fixation— as well. Class, the myth goes, has been central in shaping Bengal’s politics. There is now data to suggest that caste — “a state of mind” in the Indian context, according to B.R. Ambedkar — has been as, if not more, influential in directing the political winds in the former fief of the Left Front. Consider the following facts. At around 24 per cent of Bengal’s population, scheduled castes hold a disproportionate sway over a significant number of assembly seats. According to one estimate, around 60 recognized SC communities make up more than 25 per cent of the population in nine districts, which, in turn, decide the fate of as many as 127 assembly seats. Seventy-eight constituencies in six other districts are at the mercy of SCs. Little wonder then that the Trinamul Congress and its principal rival, the Bharatiya Janata Party, have profited electorally by creating support bases among these subsets. In 2011, the year that the Marxists were shown the door from power by Mamata Banerjee, the TMC had won 37 of the total reserved seats; it increased its kitty to 50 in 2016. On both occasions, the TMC’s grip on the SC community was instrumental in its overall electoral dominance. This year, Bengal’s ruling party has fielded as many as 79 SC candidates, 11 more than the total number of reserved seats in the state. That may be because the momentum has shifted in favour of the BJP in more recent times and the party’s ambitions of conquering Bengal are undoubtedly fuelled by its phenomenal rise in assembly segments that have a notable presence of not just citizens from SC groups but also members of scheduled tribes. Indeed, the Union home minister has been on record, saying that the BJP has performed very well in the first phase of the Bengal polls that covered the districts that constitute south Bengal’s tribal belt. This only goes to show that unlike the claims of the foggy-eyed bhadralok, Bengal, like other parts of India, has been equally accommodating of the pulls and pressures of identitarian politics. The comrades may have only muddled up on one dimension of identity-based aspirations, putting the cart of class before the horse of caste. In fact, the capitulation of the Left may be attributed to its failure to meet the changing demands and aspirations of Bengal’s caste groups. This myopia catapulted its rivals who have now sapped the formidable sickle and hammer of their political potency in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||Red alert: No moral highground for CPM||In entering a pre-poll alliance with Abbas Siddiqui, the cleric of Furfura Sharif, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) believes it has done what every political party is supposed to do in electoral politics — give itself the best chance of winning votes. However, in being opportunistic — here’s the rub — the party has lost the moral and ideological high ground that it claims to occupy. A decade after losing power, the once invincible CPI(M) has been reduced to an also-ran in Bengal. Its vote share plummeted from 30.08 per cent in 2011 to 19.74 per cent in 2016 to 6.34 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The party seems to have decided to put ends over means to stay relevant politically. And that is where Siddiqui comes into the picture. Behind the magnanimity of leaving 40 or more seats to the Indian Secular Front lies the mathematics that even if Siddiqui can fetch 10 to 15 seats in Muslim-dominated pockets of rural south Bengal, it will make the alliance a decisive factor in the case of a hung assembly. This, one may argue, is the rise of the New Left, to which the communalization of politics is no longer an anathema. An alliance with a Muslim cleric may not be harmonious with the essence of a communist party but for the Left, existence precedes essence. If religious sentiments can fetch votes, it is now ready to let people be intoxicated with that opium. It has done this in the past but not with the brazenness of a pre-poll alliance and a joint Brigade rally with a pirzada. Viewing the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Bengal and Tripura as a premonition, the Kerala CPI(M), too, decided to go for soft Hindutva. In 2019, the Kerala state committee had urged its workers to involve themselves in religious activities and the management of temples. After the debacle in the Lok Sabha elections, it even decided not to press for the rights of women to enter the Sabarimala temple. The CPI(M)’s acting state-secretary, A. Vijayaraghavan, has been criticized by civil society members for making Islamophobic and xenophobic comments. Even in Bengal, as long as it was in power, the Left endorsed the ‘Hindu common sense’ propagated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh while succumbing to pressure from Islamic fundamentalists on issues such as the granting of political asylum to Taslima Nasreen. The Left’s campaign for the Bengal election is focused more on uprooting the Trinamul Congress than stopping the BJP. The CPI(M) has clearly differed from Dipankar Bhattacharya’s theory of BJP being the greater adversary. It has even rejected the ‘No Vote to BJP’ campaign as it believes that the campaign will sway voters towards the TMC. Intoxicated with the dream of settling scores with Mamata Banerjee for the electoral bashing of 2011, the CPI(M) has held the hands of Siddiqui who promises to eat into Banerjee’s Muslim vote bank, arguably her biggest strength. Little wonder then that Siddiqui repeated Sitaram Yechury’s view that in order to stop the BJP, one has to remove Banerjee first. The CPI(M)’s ‘pragmatism’ will help the BJP by polarizing voters further and attracting the anti-TMC vote. At the Brigade rally on March 7, Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders touched upon these issues. As long as the Left thinks that the BJP does not pose an immediate threat, it will pursue an opportunistic line. Fascism is the price one pays for the sin of opportunism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
01-04-2021||Opinion||Questions galore||The outcome of the ongoing elections to the West Bengal legislative assembly will have important implications for the working of not just the state’s polity but on the future of democracy in India. If the Bharatiya Janata Party is able to come to power for the first time in Bengal, there will be no stopping Narendra Modi’s relentless drive to create an Opposition-mukt Bharat and his unabashed endeavour to establish what can best be described as an ‘electoral autocracy’ in the country. Even if the BJP fails to ‘obtain’ a majority of seats in the assembly and form the government in the state, it would certainly improve its position and claim a ‘victory’ of sorts. Is it then a win-win situation for Modi whatever be the outcome of the polls? Not really. If a non-BJP government led by the Trinamul Congress (on its own or with the support of others) returns to rule Bengal for five years, it would temper Modi’s ambitions and constrain the BJP juggernaut, at least for a while. That would indeed be a welcome development for those opposed to the right-wing, Hindu-nationalist political party and its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Over the last seven years and especially during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, voters have voted very differently in state elections and national elections. Social scientists like Abhay Dubey of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies describe this phenomenon as the sarkarikaran — ‘governmentalization’ — of politics in the country in which the incumbent regime (at the Centre or in the states) has an advantage. This is what makes Bengal so important for the BJP even if there is good reason to believe that things are far from hunky-dory for the party and that it would be very challenging for it to repeat its impressive performance in the Lok Sabha elections two years ago when it won 18 out of the 42 parliamentary seats with a roughly 40 per cent share of the votes polled. There are huge imponderables and a number of questions the answers to which would be known only when the election results are declared. Which way would the anti-TMC vote go? Would it get split between the BJP and the Left-Congress combine, thereby helping the ruling party in the state? Or would the votes of those opposed to the BJP, including the votes of Muslims, get fragmented in a manner that would help the saffron party the way it did in 2019? There are theories galore and speculation is rife but no political pundit really knows what the outcome would be or even whether the electoral contest would be close or one-sided. I recently spoke to a number of political observers and I am summarizing the views of three of them here, simply because I agree with much of what they say. The political scientist, Suhas Palshikar, argues that the outcome of the Bengal elections is important because it would determine whether the BJP is able to spread its narrow notion of nationalism further and whether its version of electoral autocracy (chunauvi tanashahi) would get a ‘booster dose’. Indeed, in the BJP’s scheme of things, all those opposed to the elected Supreme Leader have to be branded as anti-nationals. During its rule, the use of the colonial-era anti-sedition law has multiplied manifold. One estimate by Article 14 indicated that 96 per cent of the sedition cases filed against 405 Indians for criticizing political leaders and governments over the last decade had been registered after Modi came to power in 2014. The website, which tracked sedition cases in the decade between January 2010 and December 2020, stated that 149 people were accused of making “critical” or “derogatory” remarks against the prime minister and 144 were accused of making remarks against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath. The author and journalist, Sagarika Ghose, said that the 2021 assembly elections in Bengal can be compared to the Battle of Plassey when the army of the East India Company led by Robert Clive defeated the much larger force of the then Nawab of Bengal, Siraj-ud-Daulah. Clive succeeded because he was not just a military leader but also a strategist who won over the nawab’s commanders like Mir Jafar. The BJP, too, has won over key commanders of the TMC like Suvendu Adhikari. Even if there are some who would describe her contention as exaggerated and consider her analogy stretched, few would disagree that the impact of the Bengal elections would be pivotal to Indian politics and its after-effects may be felt for decades. The political psychologist, Ashis Nandy, said that in these elections the West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, is pitted against a man “who is presiding over the destiny of 1.3 billion Indians”. The question that Nandy and others have raised in the larger political context is whether voters perceive political parties and leaders not in binary black-and-white terms but as ‘lesser’ or ‘greater’ evils while preferring the former. Will such perceptions influence voting trends in the Modi versus Mamata battle? One of the biggest changes that Modi has brought about is that India’s multi-party elections have been converted into an American-style contest between two personalities. Hence, his party’s frequent reference to Rahul Gandhi. The BJP, on its own, increased its vote share from around 31.3 per cent to 37.4 per cent between 2014 and 2019, while that of the National Democratic Alliance went up from approximately 37 per cent to around 45 per cent implying that in 2019 more than half of those who voted did not support either the BJP or its partners. But the ‘personalization’ of politics cuts both ways, particularly in Bengal. Just as Modi is bigger than the party he leads, so is Mamata Banerjee. She is the TMC. In this electoral battle between the two, there is a difference however. Didi’s emotional appeals to voters in general and to women in particular may give her an edge over the BJP. And this is where parochial appeals could matter. Subterranean understandings and covert coalitions cannot be ruled out. If the outcome of the polls is close, a variant of the ‘Maharashtra model’ could be replicated in Bengal, again with a difference because the BJP has no allies in Bengal like the Shiv Sena. One famous quote that Bengali ‘exceptionalists’ still love — while others pour scorn over it is — the one attributed to the ‘moderate’ Congress leader from Maharashtra, Gopal Krishna Gokhale, who died at the young age of 48 in 1915. Both Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi and Mohammed Ali Jinnah considered Gokhale to be their mentor. But the economic decline of Bengal began soon afterwards with the capital moving from Calcutta to Delhi followed by the bloody partition of the subcontinent and the de-industrialization of the state. Will Gokhale be proved right or wrong more than a century later? The answer to this question would depend on the ideological predilections and perspectives of the particular reader. How many voters in Bengal are cognizant of the national importance of their franchise? I wish I knew. Will May 2 provide us the answers? The wait could be excruciatingly long, like the elections conducted over eight phases in the state for the first time. The author is an independent journalist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-49
