02-04-2021||Opinion||Run dry: Sustainable water usage||World Water Day — it fell on March 22 — was a timely opportunity for global leaders to renew their commitment towards protecting freshwater resources and implementing sustainable water usage. And yet, the occasion went by without any significant acknowledgement of the scale of the crisis either in India or the world. This is a particularly serious lapse on the part of India in the light of its water-related challenges, more so at a time when summer — it is known to be unforgiving — is setting in. Droughts plague India every eight or nine years; a new study has predicted a manifold increase in the frequency of flash droughts that will severely affect water availability and, unsurprisingly, hit the poor the hardest. The ominous signs are already apparent — around 600 million Indians face high to extreme water stress; the Niti Aayog’s composite water management index found that 75 per cent of households do not have drinking water on their premises, with about 84 per cent of rural households not having access to piped water. The depletion and maladministration of groundwater resources contribute to the problem immensely. But attention must also be paid to agricultural practices for which water is over-extracted. India’s population has access to a mere 4 per cent of the world’s water resources, while its farmers use almost 90 per cent of the groundwater available. Of this, a bulk goes into cultivating water-guzzling crops such as rice and sugar cane — an estimated 2,497 litres of water go into producing a kilogramme of rice while a quintal of sugar cane uses up about 1,50,000 to 3,00,000 litres. In comparison, crops such as pearl millet, bottle gourd and corn need around 80 per cent less water than rice. But farmers, a significant section of whom are poor, prefer to grow rice because it has a guaranteed market unlike other produce. The government must incentivize alternative crop-growth patterns for the farming constituency. There should also be an increased focus on water-efficient irrigation technologies, such as the drip method, which supplies water directly to the root zone of a crop through a network of pipes and emitters. There is a case for the State to subsidize the installation of related infrastructure to encourage such methods of irrigation. Water taxes must be levied in urban areas: in Calcutta, 30 per cent of the municipal corporation’s filtered water supply is wasted daily. Most important, targeted public awareness campaigns must be conducted. A precious resource like water can only be saved if citizens realize the consequences of it running out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Positive step: Manchester Utd women's team plays against West Ham||Sir — The women’s football team of Manchester United recently played against West Ham for the first time in the famous Old Trafford stadium. This is truly historic. Like most other sports, football is widely considered to be a man’s game. Women playing in this iconic stadium would give more visibility to the sportspersons and encourage more women to take up the ‘beautiful game’ professionally. Priyanka Paul,Calcutta Play fair Sir — The system of electoral bonds is not healthy for a democracy as it favours the political party with more chances of winning. It takes away a level playing field for all parties. The anonymity of the donor or the party being donated to keeps the common voter uninformed about the flow of funds. If the voter is empowered to know about the criminal precedents and income details of the contestant in an election, why should he not be equipped with the knowledge of a political party’s funding patterns and other such details? After all, such information could enable him to make the right call. Transparency in the electoral process could discourage quid-pro-quo arrangements between corporates and political parties. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla,Andhra Pradesh Sir — The electoral bond scheme is full of inherent dangers. It may promote elections, but it surely cannot promote democracy and constitutional values such as secularism and socialism. Hence it is bound to become counter-productive. As the scheme stands, there is no transparency as to who the contributors and the beneficiaries are. There is no cap on the funding. With public sector undertakings increasingly being given away to private parties, financial contributions will be made more liberally by vested interests to political parties as a quid pro quo. Now that religious majoritarianism is also on the rise, the bonds may be used to strengthen the divisive forces within the country. In view of such threats to constitutional values, the Supreme Court could have stayed the scheme or at least imposed strict restrictions, including the disclosure of the identity of donors and beneficiaries. An institution is known by its response to a crisis. The Constitution is now in crisis; one looks up to the apex court for redressal. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Bengal polls: Nandigram, big seat||The outcomes of 294 seats will decide the fate of Bengal’s crown. Yet, the symbolic importance of some seats is far greater than that of others. Nandigram — polls were held here yesterday — is an assembly constituency that has cast its long shadow over the rest of Bengal this election season. The incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, is battling her bête noire, Suvendu Adhikari, who switched over to the Bharatiya Janata Party recently. The sour relationship between the contestants has undoubtedly made Nandigram the cynosure of pundits and psephologists. But the stature of the two political contestants in the fray should not deflect attention from another symbolic milestone achieved by Nandigram. It is commonly believed that regional issues propel assembly elections while national ones influence Lok Sabha polls. Nandigram seems to have turned this assumption on its head. In many ways, it is representing the tussle among the cross-currents that continue to shape national politics in India. The BJP has had no qualms about polarizing Nandigram’s electorate along religious lines. Religious division is not new in India; but Mr Adhikari’s party has the dubious distinction of turning it into political capital across the country. Attempting to confront this strategy of divisiveness is Ms Banerjee’s rhetoric of pluralism. She has been tirelessly reminding the people of Nandigram of their proud, inclusive history that helped them confront the brutal predations unleashed by the earlier Marxist regime when it tried to usher in industrialization using its preferred strong-arm tactic. The end — but not the means — cannot be disputed. The retreat of industry from Nandigram along with Singur crippled not only the hopes of Bengal’s industrial regeneration but also those of economic sustenance for the local youth. Indeed, the third diminutive knight in Nandigram’s arena — the candidate of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) — has raised the issue of rising unemployment, yet another aspect that will resonate with the national electorate. It remains to be seen whether Nandigram’s or, for that matter, India’s economic challenges manage to evoke a response from voters seduced by a narrative of hatred and division. Nandigram’s legacy is unique in Bengal’s political history. Now, by serving as a colosseum for contesting national choices, this tiny constituency has left an all-India imprint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||New Bengal||The West Bengal assembly elections are going to be an acid test for both Mamata Banerjee and Narendra Modi. For Didi, it is a struggle for survival; whereas for the latter, if the Bharatiya Janata Party were to win the elections, it would be a morale booster for two reasons — first, the BJP would rule a significant non-Hindi-speaking state; second, given Bengal’s historical past, the outcome would have a major impact on national politics. Significantly, possibly for the first time in the history of Bengal’s politics, the assembly elections are being fought on the planks of religion and caste. Bengal’s constituency of the bhadralok had, so far, succeeded in keeping these two elements out of the electoral domain. It did this under the influence of class, language and cultural factors. The Congress and the Left Front also played an important role in confining religion and caste to the private sphere. But this assembly election seems to be heralding a major transition in Bengal politics in this respect. The Left (1977-2011) strictly adhered to its ideological position, placing the economy on a higher pedestal while setting aside caste and faith. The bhadralok obliged, citing the supremacy of Bengali culture to these social institutions. J.H. Broomfield, who worked extensively on Bengal, conceptualized this as ‘bhadralok culture’, which revolves around ‘social honour’. This social honour, however, is the honour of the upper castes. Are caste and religion so insignificant as to be forsaken? According to the 2011 census, scheduled castes constitute 24 per cent of Bengal’s population. But their political and cultural representation is negligible. A few castes from the scheduled caste fold — Namashudras and Rajbanshis — are attempting to forge identity-based mobilizations — the Matua movement being an example. This explains the interest of political parties — the Trinamul Congress and the BJP, in particular — in these communities. As for Muslims — they constitute 27 per cent of Bengal’s population — their concentration in Murshidabad, Malda, Uttar Dinajpur, Birbhum, the South 24 Parganas, Nadia and Cooch Behar makes them a significant political category. Muslims have come a long way by shunning appeasement and appropriating politics by developing leadership from within the community. Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front, which is part of the Congress-Left coalition, has injected unprecedented dynamism into the electoral calculus. Asaduddin Owaisi, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief, is also manoeuvring to make a mark on the new, emerging spaces. The AIMIM has the potential to disrupt the prospects of the TMC and the Congress-Left-ISF coalition. The new element in Bengal politics is the rise of communities on the margins, especially of Dalits and Muslims who were marginalized in the name of Bengali identity. While this is a welcome change, there is danger lurking around the corner in the form of BJP. If it captures power, it would be detrimental to the Muslim-Dalit solidarity. The immediate task before these social groups is to make their presence felt in the political sphere and resist polarization.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Tamil Nadu polls: An ace up the BJP’s sleeve||Cries of “MGR Vazhga (Long live MGR)” and “Thalaiva, nee sollame poittaye (Oh Leader! You have gone without telling us)” rent the air as men and women wept and wailed and beat their chests as if one of their own had passed away. On Christmas eve in 1987, gloom descended over Madras and a sea of humanity gathered at the Marina to bid farewell to Marudur Gopalan Ramachandran aka MGR. The matinee-idol-turned politician, who strode over Tamil Nadu’s intertwined worlds of cinema and politics like a colossus, was interred dressed in his signature off-white synthetic vetti, full-sleeved shirt, dark shades and white fur-cap. On his right hand, as ever, was his Seiko watch. Decades after his interment, his admirers continue to flock to his grave. As they circumambulate the departed leader’s tomb, many press their ears to the granite slabs, hoping to hear MGR’s watch tick. The ritual followed by the believers of MGR, the founder of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam — a party linked to the rationalist Dravidian movement — is symbolic of the uncanny sway that MGR wields over Tamil Nadu’s masses and political parties. Even 34 years after his death, it is not uncommon to see politicians cutting across party lines playing the ‘MGR’ card. Come elections and the Puratchi Thalaivar becomes larger than life as politicians promise to bring back the ‘golden MGR era’ and flaunt their proximity to the departed leader in a bid to stake claim to his legacy. Over the years, different parties have tried to appropriate the charismatic leader’s legacy to gain political mileage. In 2005, after floating the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam, the actor, Vijayakanth, had projected himself as ‘Karuppu MGR (Dark-skinned MGR)’. Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan, too, have expressed their desire to revive MGR’s rule. But this election season, a new and unexpected entrant has joined the fray to stake claim to MGR and his legacy — the Bharatiya Janata Party. Tamil Nadu has been a tough nut to crack for the BJP. The party’s biggest USP — the popularity of Narendra Modi — is inconsequential in the state. According to several surveys, Modi has a negative approval rating in Tamil Nadu. But the biggest hindrance to the saffron party’s efforts of gaining a toehold in the Dravidian heartland is that it is seen as an ‘outsider’ — an upper caste, north Indian party that endorses the Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan principle. The BJP has resorted to appropriating — misappropriating — local icons and invested heavily in the MGR card to make inroads in the state. MGR’s phenomenal success as an actor and, later, as a politician and the emotions he continues to evoke among the people are nothing short of an enigma. His films projected him as the quintessential do-gooder. This carefully crafted image was manipulated to further his political ambitions. He also initiated Tamil Nadu’s culture of freebies — sewing machines and cycle rickshaws were distributed by his regime. But his master-stroke was extending the free mid-day meal scheme initiated by K. Kamaraj to cover over eight million schoolchildren. MGR’s politics was based on pleasing anyone and everyone, including non-Dravidian voters. After Kamaraj’s death in 1975, the anti-DMK votes got transferred to the AIADMK, powering its maiden victory in the 1977 assembly elections. To retain the non-Dravidian vote, MGR whittled down the atheist-rationalist aspect of Dravidian politics. As chief minister, he frequently visited shrines. The anti-Brahmin plank of Periyar was also abandoned as two of MGR’s closest acolytes, J. Jayalalithaa and H.V Hande, were Brahmins. The MGR administration was also generous in doling out funds for temple renovation. While his predecessors had been vocal in demanding greater autonomy for the states, MGR distanced himself from an anti-Centre, regionalist stance as he realized that his government was dependent on the Centre for funding its welfare schemes. MGR has emerged as a natural choice for the BJP, which is bereft of any local icons. The party hopes to make profitable political transactions by giving MGR’s legacy a pro-Hindu slant. The BJP realizes that it has little to gain in the 2021 polls but it hopes to dethrone the AIADMK and emerge as the principal opposition to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu. Only time will tell if the BJP would succeed in the long run by using the ‘MGR card’. But for now the party seems to be suffering from selective amnesia. MGR, the BJP’s new mascot, had called his ideology ‘annaism’, a heady mix of Dravidianism, Marxism and capitalism. Can the BJP be comfortable swallowing a dose of annaism?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
02-04-2021||Opinion||Building bridges||For a non-Bengali like me who loves Bengal deeply and has been staying in Calcutta for nearly a month to study the society and the politics in the state, the immediate question of interest is, of course, the same as what every Indian wants to know: will the prime minister, Narendra Modi, defeat the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, in the ongoing assembly elections? The answer — ‘no’ — is by now clear to every knowledgeable poll observer. What interests me no less is how the party of Modi and Amit Shah has been bringing Bangladesh into its election campaign, with the sole purpose of polarizing the electorate and, thereby, aggressively expanding its Hindu vote-bank. How the Bharatiya Janata Party uses Pakistan for the same purpose is well-known. Pakistan-bashing and showing Indian Muslims as the not-to-be-trusted ‘Other’ are the two sides of its same strategic coin. However, when it comes to Bangladesh-bashing in West Bengal (also in Assam), the BJP finds itself on a complex and slippery territory. Most BJP leaders outside Bengal, being prisoners of the ‘Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan’ mindset, simply cannot understand the salience of the commonalities of language, religion, culture and the subaltern identities of communities on both sides of the border. Nor can they seamlessly incorporate into their ‘Akhand Hindu Rashtra’ narrative the uncomfortable history of Bengal’s Partition in 1947 (which S.P. Mookerjee, founder of the Jana Sangh, demanded) and the later history of how the other Bengal seceded itself from Pakistan in 1971 but didn’t merge with India. Two recent examples suffice to show the conundrums the BJP is facing. First, since taking office in 2014, the Modi government has projected ‘infiltration’ from Bangladesh as a big threat to India’s unity and security. To counter this threat, it introduced the blatantly discriminatory and unconstitutional Citizenship (Amendment) Act, whose real intent is to appease the Hindu electorate in West Bengal and Assam. While releasing his party’s manifesto in Calcutta, Shah said, “[If] you vote for the BJP, leave alone illegal immigrants, not even a bird from across the border will be allowed to enter the state.” What he meant was that only Muslim birds would be stopped at the border, whereas Hindu birds would be granted free entry! This is because the CAA regards only Bangladeshi Muslims as “infiltrators” whereas all Bangladeshi Hindus (including those coming for economic reasons) are “religiously persecuted refugees” and, hence, automatically eligible for Indian citizenship. Sensible people in the BJP know that their party will never be able to implement the CAA and the National Register of Citizens in West Bengal where Muslims constitute 27 per cent of the population, an overwhelming majority of whom are Bengali-speaking and indistinguishable from Muslims in Bangladesh. Any attempt to ‘detect, delete, de-franchise and deport’ all “illegal immigrants” (only Muslims) would create a combustible situation that no government can control. It will also severely strain India’s relations with Bangladesh where both politicians and citizens are already infuriated by Shah’s smearing of Muslim ‘infiltrators’ as “termites”. The BJP faces an additional complexity in deporting ‘illegal immigrants’ in Assam because lakhs of them have been detected to be Hindus in the NRC published in 2019. For many Assamese, Hindu Bangladeshis are as much a threat to their identity as their Muslim counterparts. Therefore, hypocritically, the BJP’s election manifesto for Assam makes no mention of implementing the CAA in the state, while promising a new “corrected NRC”. The BJP’s second conundrum also reveals its opportunism. Even as it accuses Bangladesh of mounting a Muslim ‘demographic invasion’ of India, it has sought help from the same country for electoral gains in West Bengal. This is evident from Modi’s visit to the shrine of Harichand Thakur, the revered founder of the Matua community, at Orakandi in Bangladesh on March 27. Modi went to Dhaka to participate in the celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s independence. But he has cleverly used the visit to woo Matua voters in West Bengal, who are influential in at least 35 assembly seats. Never has an Indian prime minister been accused of so blatantly violating the model code of conduct and the ethics of democracy by campaigning for his party from foreign soil. Modi’s unbecoming conduct stands in sharp contrast to the visit to Bangladesh in June 1999 by the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, when I had accompanied him. The occasion was the inauguration of the Calcutta-Dhaka bus service. Vajpayee made it a point to take with him West Bengal’s then chief minister, Jyoti Basu, whose party, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), is the BJP’s staunch opponent. The 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s independence and the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, are, from West Bengal’s perspective, far more significant events. After all, West Bengal played a crucial role in Bangladesh’s liberation movement. Modi ought to have emulated Vajpayee’s statesmanlike example and asked Banerjee to accompany him not only to Dhaka but also to Orakandi. It would have raised the stature of India’s democracy in the entire South Asian region, especially among Bangladeshis. Instead, in an obvious act of political partisanship, he took Shantanu Thakur, a BJP MP and a Matua community leader from West Bengal, for the programme in Orakandi. But what is the point in expecting such enlightened behaviour from a leader who is busy accelerating India’s democratic descent and tearing apart India’s secular fabric. Clearly, the time has come for intellectuals and socio-political leaders in West Bengal and the rest of India to see through the BJP’s flawed, devious and divisive policy towards Bangladesh. It is a pity that in the current election season in West Bengal, even non-BJP parties have not articulated a bold new vision for reviving the age-old, socio-cultural and economic bonds between the two Bengals within the larger framework of mutually beneficial cooperative relations between India and Bangladesh. In both New Delhi and Calcutta, there is grossly inadequate commitment to removing all the hurdles in two-way trade, business and investment relations with Bangladesh which is so necessary for creating prosperity and employment for Bengalis on both sides of the border. Look at these comparative numbers. India-Bangladesh trade is barely $10 billion. China, despite not having a land border with Bangladesh, has a bilateral trade of over $20 billion. West Bengal’s own share in India’s exports of $8.24 billion to Bangladesh is estimated to be less than $4 billion. Another example: Vietnam (whose population is nearly the same as West Bengal’s) exports $40 billion worth of largely hi-tech goods to China, with which it, despite strained political ties, has a bilateral trade of over $100 billion. These numbers convey a clear message to West Bengal: reindustrialize rapidly and reform your politics to pursue this goal. West Bengal’s non-BJP politicians also need to better grasp their state’s excellent locational advantage for India’s connectivity with Bangladesh and beyond, which is critical for the success of India’s much-publicized ‘Act East’ policy. The state will get smooth access through Bangladesh to Myanmar, China, and countries in Southeast Asia and East Asia. Thus, instead of remaining confined in a less developed corner of India, West Bengal and the Northeastern states, along with Bangladesh, can occupy the centre of a new, interconnected and economically vibrant Asian landmass. However, none of these transformative changes can be achieved with barbed-wire fencing, the poisonous politics of CAA and NRC, ill-treatment of Hindus in Bangladesh and of Muslims in India, and New Delhi’s counter-productive outlook of making geo-economic and human development priorities subservient to its geo-strategic considerations. The two parts of the Bengal of the ages together suffered three Partitions in the 20th century — 1905, 1947 and 1971. The two parts cannot become one nation again. But they can — and should — certainly forge a new, win-win partnership in the 21st century. I hope this idea energizes the non-BJP parties at least in the next Lok Sabha and assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
