03-04-2021||Opinion||Be careful: Sachin Tendulkar tests Covid positive||Sir — It was worrying to hear that the Indian cricket legend, Sachin Tendulkar, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week and reportedly had mild symptoms, has now had to be hospitalized. The second wave of the deadly disease in India is not a myth, as much as people would like to believe it is. The fact that celebrities like Tendulkar, who have all the resources in the world to take precautions, are falling sick proves that the virus spares no one. None can afford to be complacent. It is high time people stopped behaving as though the pandemic is over and started being as careful as they were at the beginning of the lockdown last year. Purna Basu,Siliguri Turn for the worse Sir — After the Union finance ministry announcement of sharp cuts in interest rates on small savings schemes for the quarter beginning April 1 drew sharp criticism, it quickly reversed its stand, with the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, claiming that the order was an “oversight” (“Turf war over small savings”, April 2). While one does not know whether it was an actual goof-up or a sudden change of heart in view of the ongoing assembly elections, one thing is for certain: politics is dangerously mixed with economics in India. The embarrassing episode could have easily been avoided by the finance minister. In any case, small savings schemes have very low interest rates. In May, when the elections are over, the government should resist the temptation to reduce interest rates. While the market is doing well every now and then and the high monthly collection of the goods and services tax will give it a further boost — GST receipts of the Centre and state governments were set to cross Rs 1.2 trillion in March, the highest ever since the indirect tax reform in 2017 — a significant portion of household savings still goes into the savings schemes. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — The Centre’s U-turn within a day on small savings interest rates appears to have been driven by electoral considerations. With assembly elections in progress, the proposed slash in interest rates would have had an adverse effect on the prospects of the Bharatiya Janata Party. But did not the finance ministry’s mandarins know this before announcing the cuts? Nirmala Sitharaman’s attempt at damage control — she called the order an ‘oversight’ — is hard to believe. Can such an important decision be taken without the approval of the finance minister? Now ordinary citizens are sure that the axe will fall on their heads after the election or from the next quarter. Hira Lal De,Hooghly Sir — On the first day of April — widely observed as All Fools’ Day — the Union finance minister announced that the Centre has scrapped the notified interest rates on small savings schemes with a tweet that said, “Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn”. The Congress asked whether it was indeed an ‘oversight’ or whether the withdrawal of the order was on account of “election driven ‘hindsight’”. Indeed, how can ‘oversight’ be the reason for such a serious matter? Since the polls are still on, the gaffe would likely affect the results. When inflation is at about 6 per cent and is expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent, thus hitting savers and the middle class the hardest. The order was withdrawn as a face-saving measure, but as soon as the poll results are out, another such ‘order’ slashing interest rates is likely to be issued. Does the BJP think Indians are fools? If the first announcement was indeed a mistake, then why are those responsible for messing up a matter of such importance not being penalized? One shudders to think about the other decisions of the Centre that have been detrimental to ordinary people, such as the new labour codes. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Indians’ hard-earned money is doomed under the BJP. The finance minister hastily withdrew the small savings schemes announcement because it would hurt the BJP’s chances in the assembly polls, but there is every likelihood that the interest rate cuts will be announced again after the polls. Sayani Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Opinion||Cut to the quick||The bizarre flip-flop over the sharp reduction in the small savings rates has, once again, exposed the frailties of the Narendra Modi government’s decision-making process and its appalling insensitivity towards the people at the bottom of the pyramid. The decision to cut the rates — especially the proposal to pare the interest on the popular public provident fund to a 46-year low of 6.4 per cent — sent shock waves through the nation. Within hours, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, tweeted that the government had decided to withdraw the circular that had been issued because of an “oversight” but chose to offer no further explanation. Some reports have suggested that this was a routine decision taken by bureaucrats and that the finance minister was not kept in the loop before the announcement — a proposition that stretches credulity. The move to cut the small savings rates sparked howls of protest, especially in states like West Bengal that are in the thick of a fiercely-contested election. Bengal is one of the biggest contributors to small savings and accounts for roughly 14.7 per cent of the Rs 8.23 trillion corpus. There is a darker side to this story. For a fairly long time, banks have been lobbying the government to cut the small savings rates because these have restricted their ability to raise deposits. They have also tried to posit this as one of the reasons why they have not been able to lower lending rates in lockstep with the Reserve Bank of India’s reduction in the policy rate. Small savings rates are tied to the yields on government securities of similar maturity. The trouble is that bond yields, which had started to cool till last December, began to surge in early February after the government sharply increased its borrowing target to over Rs 12 trillion in 2021-22 against the market’s expectation of around Rs 10.6 trillion. As a result, the yield on the 10-year bond, which serves as a benchmark for the money market, soared to over 6.16 per cent and is slightly higher than what it was at the end of March 2020. The central bank has already blamed bond vigilantes for defeating its attempt to ensure an orderly evolution of the bond yield curve. The RBI’s Operation Twist — whereby it sells short-term bonds and buys long-dated securities — has failed to achieve the desired results because the market players have a vested interest in nudging yields upwards. Bond yields are largely countercyclical, which means that they tend to move up when the economy falters. There are no clear signs to indicate when the economy will bounce back to normal. This would normally suggest that the small savings rates are safe for now. But economic compulsions may force the government to revise the rates after June 30. Ms Sitharaman may just press the quarterly reset button leaving savers with no safe haven where they can earn just enough to stay ahead of inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Opinion||The heart of the matter: Cardiac advice for Sourav Ganguly||Sourav Ganguly, who has undergone angioplasty, is no doubt being looked after by excellent doctors in India, but the next time he is in London, he could consider having a chat with Jaspal Kooner, one of Britain’s most respected cardiologists. He has performed over 20,000 heart surgeries, trained 200 cardiologists and was once named the UK’s “doctor of the year”. He wears several hats (colourful turbans, actually), including that of the professor of clinical cardiology, National Heart & Lung Institute, at Imperial College London, and consultant cardiologist, Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, Hammersmith Hospital Campus. On Sourav, was Jaspal surprised that someone who was only 48 and had been cricket captain of India had suffered heart problems? “No.” He was not commenting last week on Sourav specifically but making a general point. With funding from the Wellcome Trust, Jaspal has set up a biobank that will make an Imperial College-sponsored “longitudinal” study over many years of 2,50,000 “representative” people — 1,00,000 in the UK and the rest in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Jaspal’s findings could affect “a quarter of the world’s population”. He wants to identify the “bio-markers” that explain why Indians, however young and healthy their lifestyle, are predisposed to diabetes and cardiac disease. Jaspal says this is where Sourav’s situation and that of others like him become relevant: “Curiously, if I compare Asians in their 30s and 40s, with Europeans in their 30s and 40s, the risk of heart disease is four to five fold higher. That ratio is higher in younger ages than in older ages. What the pandemic has shown is that it is even more important for Asians to take heed of their lifestyle, diet, exercise, all that kind of thing.” Let it rip Indian politicians should be a little careful before passing judgment on how women should dress. The Daily Telegraph’s fashion editor, Tamara Abraham, has taken Tirath Singh Rawat to task for equating women wearing ripped jeans with moral decay. She told me why she devoted an entire column to Uttarakhand’s chief minister: “Mr Rawat’s comments were problematic for so many reasons: the idea that a pair of ripped jeans could have any effect on one’s moral compass is ridiculous, but I also doubt he would have had much to say about a man wearing the same thing. As a senior politician, he has a valuable platform and he’s wasting it by telling women what they should or should not wear, instead of tackling the very real problem of violence against women in India.” Tamara explained to her readers that Rawat had berated an unnamed woman he had met on a flight: “‘You run an NGO, wear jeans ripped at the knees, move about in society, children are with you, what values will you teach?’ he said.” Tamara said she had not worn her own ripped jeans recently “but I’m inclined to start wearing them again in solidarity with women in India”. She added that “the only thing that will stop such politicians attaching conservative notions to innocuous garments is by normalising them. It’s a collective rebellion, and a way to tell the women of #rippedjeanstwitter that the world is on their side.” Tamara also made a telling point about the Delhi gang rape: “... Rawat, as a political leader, is using his platform to criticise women, when instead he could be using it to protect them. Eight years on from the fatal gang rape of a 23-year-old student on a New Delhi bus, violence against women remains a huge problem in India; though reliable data on physical attacks is unavailable, a former Minister for Women said around 70 per cent of India’s female population are victims.” Lost light The journalist, Anil Dharker, who died, aged 74, from heart surgery complications, was a friend I associated with the old cosmopolitan Bombay. Going through our email exchanges — he would often ask about authors for the lit fest he ran for the past decade — makes me feel Bombay is poorer for his passing. He was justly proud of his actress daughter; he would fly over to see her in Royal Shakespeare Company productions. He said it was “a pity” that Imtiaz Dharker, his ex-wife, did not want to be Britain’s Poet Laureate but respected her decision “to concentrate on her work without distractions”. Treasure trove Britain’s country homes are filled with Indian treasures, understandably so in the case of Patricia, Lord Mountbatten’s elder daughter, whose belongings fetched £5.6m at a Sotheby’s auction last week. The portrait of her father-in-law, the fifth Baron Brabourne, who was Viceroy of India in 1938 — he is buried in St John’s Churchyard in Calcutta — fetched £9,450. The 11-hour auction attracted 1,400 bidders from 55 countries. Indian valuables, including a pair of “exquisite gold and enamel elephants made in Jaipur” which Lord Mountbatten gifted to Edwina on their 24th wedding anniversary, will never be seen again since all have gone to anonymous buyers. Sotheby’s head of sale, David Macdonald, tells me: “The Mountbattens were a family that had very close ties to India.” He adds that Patricia and her husband, the 7th Baron Brabourne, “chose to spend several months honeymooning in India”. Footnote BBC TV presenter, Naga Munchetty, born to an Indian mother and a Mauritian father, along with Charlie Stayt, poked fun at the size of the Union Flag in the office of the housing and communities secretary, Robert Jenrick. To teach her to be more patriotic, the British government has decreed the Union Flag must be flown from official buildings, not just on special occasions but every single day. Didn’t Samuel Johnson say that “[p]atriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel”?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
03-04-2021||Opinion||Pragmatic vision||More Bengali than many Bengalis, the one-time Communist leader, Jolly Mohan Kaul, would have been deeply distressed if West Bengal failed to preserve its identity in the current elections. That danger also loomed ahead in 1977 when some feared that Siddhartha Shankar Ray’s Congress was too much under Sanjay Gandhi’s thumb. Being also a pragmatist, Jolly would not have been surprised at being inadvertently and posthumously responsible for my abrupt parting from Mumbai’s ironically named Free Press Journal which had earlier offered me its editorship. More of that later. The elections cropped up in conversation earlier this week with a Gujarati shopkeeper in the downmarket west London suburb of Feltham. He was basking on a park bench in the late March sunshine and allowed my wife and me space without breaching social distancing. What’s going to happen to “Mamta” was his immediate question on learning we were from Calcutta. Then, and to our considerable surprise, he warned that the four “dakoos” who rule India, ticking off “Modi, Shah, Ambani, Adani” on the stubby fingers of one hand, were after her blood. Jolly would have expected the Trinamul Congress, the Congress, the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front to unite in repelling the imperious invader. Although he acknowledged that religion could never be eradicated from the soil and soul of Bengal, and notwithstanding some soldiers of fortune seeking the loaves and fishes of office, the Bharatiya Janata Party is as alien to Bengal’s ethic as Mahmud of Ghazni was to the Somnath temple. The spirituality that tempered Jolly’s political quest could not have been farther removed from either the crude clay images smuggled into the Babri Masjid or the stagey spectacle of a crowned Narendra Modi in ostentatious prostration. Aware that even certain Marxists we both knew performed daily pujas, Jolly held that Jawaharlal Nehru’s secularism was doomed whereas Gandhi’s was not because it respected the power of religion. It’s what men live by. But that cannot justify bigotry or a revival of communal prejudice. At one level, the concatenation of recent events warns that civilization is under siege. At another, they are a reminder of realities that must be accommodated if basic liberties are to survive. About the time that Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian were making a stand in Sonepat, a well-known British broadcaster, Piers Morgan, had to quit the popular Good Morning Britain radio programme for saying he did not believe “a word” that the Duchess of Sussex had said in her notorious Oprah Winfrey interview about racist comments by one of her royal in-laws. Academia and the media have much in common. Both believe they serve lofty ideals. Both are exalted into vocations. But both must operate within a mundane framework. When told that a free press prevents corruption, Lee Kuan Yew retorted, “But the media itself is corrupted!” Echoing his scepticism, a Singapore editor asked an American holding forth on the rule of law, “Who makes the law?” No exclusive cadre steeped in virtue mans our universities and media. One brother can be a grocer while another reports for newspapers. Or one brother may work for the telephone corporation and another teach in a school or college. They report to editors or deans and faculty heads who might otherwise be bureaucratic departmental chiefs, run business offices or hold political office. Simplifying the hierarchy, above them are the owners of newspapers and television channels and the supposedly philanthropic business magnates who fund universities. Methods are much the same all down the line. If grocers can mix chalk with flour and telephone mechanics demand money for quick connections, why should newspaper reporters or school/college teachers not also expect gratification? A dignitary is not transformed into a selfless St Francis of Assisi just by being appointed a university trustee or to a newspaper’s board of directors. For that matter, the worthies who do the appointing may not foul their hands with filthy lucre but at the very least want their point of view propagated. More importantly, they have other business interests that cannot do without political patronage. There’s less pretence among the British. When a British-Indian newspaper’s owners in London made known their dissatisfaction with their editor in Calcutta, the latter promptly replied that his resignation would be ready before lunch. In contrast, a veteran Indian journalist in Delhi famously resigned with bitter criticism of the paper’s policies only after he was refused a sixth extension. Jolly was a realist. He understood the limitations of the flesh even as he reached out In Search of a Better World, the title of his memoirs. I can do no better than quote the book’s review that Rudrangshu Mukherjee, now chancellor of Ashoka University, wrote in this newspaper. Jolly was in financial difficulties after leaving the Communist Party of India until another former comrade, Prasanta Sanyal, recommended him for a job in Indian Oxygen where Sanyal worked. Initial resistance to the appointment soon ended. “The CPI leader, Bhupesh Gupta, who occasionally stayed with Kaul even after the latter had left the party, heard of the resistance and spoke to N. Dandekar who sat with Gupta in the Rajya Sabha. Dandekar was a member of the Swatantra Party, and was the chairman of the Indian Oxygen board. He spoke to the managing director and the path was cleared for Kaul’s appointment. Thus, one former comrade, one full-time communist MP and one Swatantra Party member helped to get employment for an out-of-work former member of the CPI. The power of the network!” When Jolly died last June, I paid tribute to him in the weekly column, “Global Village”, that I had written for the FPJ for many years. My article was received as usual by the Edit page editor, cleared by the editor and published on July 4, 2020. I thought nothing of it until three days later came an email from one “G.L. Lakhotia, Managing Editor” saying the paper’s “esteemed readers” were “unfamiliar” with Jolly and “were unable to connect with him”. The letter concluded, “In addition, we also received flak from our readers regarding this particular article. As such please note that we won’t be releasing the payment to the said column”. I responded by saying bluntly that I was discontinuing “Global Village”. My reply also pointed out that “morally and legally” the paper was obliged to pay for a column that was written within the terms of the arrangement and published. I also regretted that the letter was not from the editor to whom my reply was copied. There was no reply. No payment either. The editor and the editorial page editor sent flattering messages indicating they were no party to the managing editor’s decision. I wonder how Jolly would have reacted. He would undoubtedly have upbraided me for not investigating the FPJ’s political affiliations before starting “Global Village”. But being a practical man, he would probably have accepted that he who pays the piper calls the tune. The BBC’s Andrew Whitehead noted Jolly’s readiness to cut his losses. As secretary of the Port Trust Employees’ Association and a CPI district committee member, he led a peace march to Calcutta’s Maidan on Direct Action Day, 1946 but was too late to prevent bloodshed. “We found dead bodies on the way, so we immediately folded our flags and told the workers: let’s march back, let us try to see if we can save our locality from the riots at least... I think our tactics did pay off... The organised trade union movement in Calcutta was able to... maintain the solidarity of Hindu and Muslim workers.” It is clear even at a distance of 5,000 miles that West Bengal can say goodbye to such solidarity if the forces of majoritarian triumphalism are not repulsed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-48
