04-04-2021||Opinion||Dada-O-Dada||No, I don't agree with Mahua Moitra when she says the PM is catcalling the CM whenever he drawls “Didi-O-Didi”. In this case, Narendra Modi is heckling a political rival and the rest is unfortunate culturally misplaced intonation. That does not, however, change the fact that in this frenzied grab for Bengal, our politicians have predictably and generously traded in gendered slights. Everyone knows, when pushed to a corner, society will berate women for characteristics /roles/physiognomy/instincts, typically in the absence of which you wouldn’t be able to tell apart one gender from another. No less than the great Aristotle said in his Physiognomonics that some aspects of womanliness, such as her high pitched voice, can be equated with evil. In The Gender of Sound, Anne Carson writes, “Aristotle tells us… creatures who are brave and just (like lions, bulls, roosters, and the human male), have large deep voices.” More than 2,000 years later, BJP’s Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari feels the need to go beyond specific accusations against his former boss and say, “She uses filthy language for the Prime Minister. She is a 66-year-old aunty.” Harping on the apparent threat of Nandigram turning into “mini-Pakistan”, he refers to Banerjee as a “begum”. Another BJP leader, Dilip Ghosh, remarked about the injured CM, “The plaster was cut… now she is displaying her leg to everyone… If you want to display your legs, why a sari, wear a pair of Bermudas so everyone can have a good look." Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat too shamed an aam aurat not long ago for wearing ripped jeans. Adhikari and Rawat are middle-aged, but the 30-something Abbas Siddiqui of the Indian Secular Front also lashed out at actor-turned-TMC MP Nusrat Jahan, invoking not her absences from Parliament (27 per cent attendance in the Budget session) but her morality, as imagined by him. Nancy Astor, the first woman member of the British House of Commons, was referred to by her colleague Sir Henry Channon as “a decapitated hen” and “the mad witch”. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had earned the nickname Attila The Hen. In the biopic The Iron Lady, the Opposition minister tells the House: “Methinks the Right Honourable lady doth screech too much.” In real life Thatcher hired a voice coach. If talking women are a problem, women who keep their counsel are also not to be left alone. Goongi gudiya was the name given to Indira Gandhi by socialist icon Ram Manohar Lohiya. In 2019, an MLA from the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh said BSP chief Mayawati was "worse than a transgender". And Congress ally and PRP leader Jaydeep Kawade remarked about the BJP’s Smriti Irani: "She wears a big bindi on her forehead and someone told me that when a woman changes her husband frequently, the size of her bindi keeps growing." The late Left leader Subhas Chakraborty had ridiculed Mamata’s Maa-Mati-Manush slogan saying, “She is an infertile woman; what does she know about Ma.” No, I don’t agree with Mahua Moitra when she says the PM is catcalling the CM whenever he drawls "Didi-O-Didi". He is basically intoning a chauvinism that is so old that it is reflexive. But a woman’s ear is quick to catch it, so will a consultant please tell him that 49 per cent of West Bengal’s 7.2 crore electorate is women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||Happening now in my body: Antibodies||Something is happening to me, something strange. I have been feeling I am not myself, or what myself used to feel like once upon a time. Then I got seduced by promises of what a shot can do and I plunged into the vortex of the thrill of those promises and I went and took the shot. It was all going to be KachchheDin after that; KachchheDin is the dream a hot country should dream about. But something about the dreams that were meant to follow the shot — a single jab meant to be followed with a booster jab after five years — was not like it was a dream at all. I jabbed dutifully, and it was a flowery thing, you know, a pleasant looking bloom, and I jabbed a second time five years later, and it seems to have gotten worse and worse. That bloom, oh that bloom, that flowery bloom, what a blooming thing it turned out. I jabbed on a bloom and a blooming thing jumped back at me. Read the documents carefully, as they keep saying in the rushed disclaimers, conditions apply. They have all come to be applied, those blooming conditions of the thing that looked like a bloom. I know they said things about jabs and antibodies, and how good those antibodies would be for the body, but, truth to tell, I am no longer sure I did the right thing, twice over too. As I said, strange things have begun to happen to me and my body. Everybody said there would be side effects, take it, it is a good thing, there will be side effects, but then all shall be fine. I am no longer sure that is how it has turned out. I mean, look at the body and the antibodies. The body is at war with the antibody, whereas we were told — or, at least that was what I was given to believe — that the body and the antibody were a thing of common purpose, they are symbiotic. I fear it has not turned out that way. The body and the antibody are at war. They are going at each other, flailing, fuming, slaying, putting the other down through suffocation or silencing or just bent on murder, if that is what it has to be. Suddenly, the body is spotting antibodies and going at them as if at the enemy. This is an ability — or affliction — that came from that jab and the booster jab, two of them five years apart. There was a time we were bodies, far too many, I concede, and each different from the other in colour, shape and size, but we were all bodies. Milling about. Doing our own thing. We did different things, we wore different things, these bodies spoke different tongues and they bowed to different deities. But there was never any debate they were all bodies. Legit bodies. Then it began to change, a little after that first jab. We came to be told that some among the bodies we cohabited with were not bodies at all. They were termites. And being termites, they needed to be driven away, or better still, exterminated. They did not belong, they had infiltrated and become part of the bodies we were. What a dangerous and alarming thing. But now that they had been spotted, and their peril broadcast, relief was on the way, they would be dealt with. Lawfully. All that was required was to find a way of spotting all of them, each one, and putting them away so that our bodies, the legit bodies, came to no harm. Bodies began to look at other bodies in a way they never did, they began to see termites, and where they spotted termites, rightly or wrongly, they began to pinch and crush them, for that is how termites ought to be treated. And then the second jab, the booster. And that unlocked the key to antibodies, the real pestilence that had made home in our bodies like parasites do, and were slowly sucking the life out of us. But now that we know those antibodies exist and are being produced all the time, they can be taken care of. Look at you and look at me What a difference, oh dear me I think I am entitled to a fee To just look at you, you antibody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||A new darling of the BJP||The Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, seems to have suddenly turned into a darling of the current Bharatiya Janata Party regime. From a known LK Advani loyalist, Chouhan now is seen as one of the most preferred CMs of the party leadership. In the ongoing assembly polls in five states, he is competing with the Uttar Pradesh CM, Yogi Adityanath, in terms of canvassing for the party. He is being utilized extensively for campaigning. This Hindi heartland leader is addressing rallies and holding road shows even in the southern state of Kerala. Madhya Pradesh is among the states witnessing a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, but Chouhan still has to find time for campaigning. In contrast, the former Rajasthan CM, Vasundhara Raje, who hardly has any official responsibility now, is not being utilized for campaigning. Raje is equally, if not more, popular. While the Central leadership’s dislike for her is well-known, whispers in party corridors indicate that there is more to the new-found love for Chouhan. Word is that Chouhan is being pitched to undercut the emergence of Adityanath. The saffron-clad UP CM is in demand for campaigning in poll-bound states. There are fears over his increasing national popularity, particularly among the BJP’s core Hindutva voters. Those whispering are scared to name the leader who is feeling threatened by the rise of the monk. The Janata Dal (United), the party of the Bihar CM, Nitish Kumar, is contesting the West Bengal polls, but Kumar is not coming to Bengal to campaign. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, which is in the Opposition, has extended unconditional support to Mamata Banerjee in her endeavour to defeat the BJP, but the RJD leader, Tejashwi Yadav, is avoiding a visit to the state. This is in spite of the significant presence of people from Bihar in Bengal. While no official reasons have been cited so far, a top JD(U) leader threw some light on this. “Who will go to a state where [the] chief minister’s leg is getting fractured and top leaders of the ruling party and the Opposition are regularly getting bashed up? Bihar has seen peaceful elections over the last 15 years and the politicians of our state have forgotten how to do all the maar-dhad (fight). No need to risk limbs and life,” he said. On the other hand, a senior RJD leader gave a twist to it. “We have already made it clear that the lathi (stick) of Laluji is completely in support of Mamata didi in Bengal. It is doing the work to protect her and chase away the BJP. There is no need for Tejashwi to go there,” the RJD leader said. “Besides, common sense says we should not wade into swirling lathis. Nitish Kumar is also an intelligent leader,” he added with a wink. GN Saibaba, who is serving a life sentence in Nagpur for his links to the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), was formally dismissed from service as a Delhi University professor on March 31. Before his arrest in 2014, he taught English at Ram Lal Anand College. Since then, the paraplegic professor has been under suspension, with his family receiving half his pay. Two years after his conviction in 2017, his wife, AS Vasantha Kumari, received a notice for termination proceedings. She sought time to respond, and says she was not able to consult her husband. She pointed out that the late professor, SAR Geelani, had remained under suspension from DU’s Zakir Hussain Delhi College and was not fired even after his conviction in 2002 for the attack on Parliament the previous year. Geelani was acquitted later. Although Saibaba’s family says he is bedridden, his bail pleas have been rejected several times. His appeal is pending with the Bombay High Court. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association has opposed the termination of Saibaba’s services. The Union home minister, Amit Shah, just could not wriggle out of the responsibility of speaking out against the recent attack on nuns and postulants in Uttar Pradesh by the sangh parivar’s activists. Since he was in Kerala and campaigning in the Christian belt of Kottayam the day the news broke, Shah had to condemn the incident and promise action. Although the arrests came several days later, the people of Kerala generally feel that Shah would not have bothered to react, let alone speak of punitive action, had it not been poll time in the state where the BJP is eyeing the Christian vote bank. The man in a light blue uniform is a regular fixture at the entrance of the swanky Bihar police headquarters, and immediately grabs the eyeballs of visitors. Some express dismay, some laugh, and some shrug their shoulders to express pity for the khaki force over the need to hire a guard from a private security agency, that too for its own headquarters. Senior police officials were tight-lipped on the issue and refused to talk about why a constable could not have been deployed in place of the security guard. One source said that the security agency, considered to be one of the biggest in the country, belongs to a senior BJP leader, and the decision must have been taken at the upper levels of the government. He also pointed out that it shows how the party is keen on leaving its stamp everywhere. The Congress convinced the parliamentarian, K Muraleedharan, to contest from Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram to wrest the seat from the BJP which got its maiden win in 2016. Muraleedharan has been looking for that extra bit of support in a tight, three-cornered race against the BJP and the Communist Party of India (Marxist). He even convinced the party to get Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for a road show to boost his chances. But right before campaigning is to conclude, Priyanka has self-quarantined after her husband tested positive for Covid-19. Muraleedharan must be hoping he is luckier when it comes to winning the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||Fashion statement||Sir — The actress, Saiee Manjrekar, has said that she wears her mother’s old clothes. This makes an important statement. The fashion industry is one of the biggest contributors to waste and has a huge carbon footprint. The culture where celebrities mock each other for repeating an outfit has an adverse impact on young, impressionable minds. Upcycling old clothes or sharing a wardrobe with other members of one’s family or with friends is eco-friendly, cheap as well as trendy. India must begin encouraging the practice of thrift stores where items of fashion can be recycled.

Sweety Dogra,
Kanpur Sir — Elections are often described as a battlefield. But when an election to a small assembly constituency actually turns into one, as it did in Nandigram in East Midnapore, it sends out a chilling message (“Nandigram today: Where the divide can take us tomorrow”, April 2). When the chief minister of a state is virtually captured in a booth for two hours and has to be escorted out to safety and when Section 144 has to be clamped around booths, pointed questions need to be asked about the Indian electoral process as well as about where we are headed as a democracy. What we saw on television was no ordinary fight. Boyal, the area where the incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, was stuck in her wheelchair, saw both the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Trinamul Congress shout slogans like war cries, stones and sticks in hand. The complaint was that the TMC polling agent was not allowed anywhere near the polling station. Elsewhere, Banerjee’s arch-rival, the BJP candidate, Suvendu Adhikari, claimed that his polling agents, too, were not allowed into 122 booths. Jamming of election booths, accusations of rigging, intimidation and violence, no malpractice was spared when it came to allegations from both sides. Unfortunately, media personnel on the ground bore the brunt of the brickbats. The Election Commission’s observers later reported that in spite of ‘sporadic’ violence, polling carried on smoothly. Is that all there is to it? What is the worth of an election that can only be conducted in the presence of large groups of Central and state security forces. The EC must reflect on where it went wrong, as must the people and political parties of West Bengal.Khokan Das,
Calcutta Sir — While the chief minister of Uttarakhand seems to think that women should not wear ripped jeans as these are not synonymous with our culture, last year, in the Bhuj district of Gujarat, as many as 68 girls in Shree Sahajanand Girls’ Institute were allegedly forced to remove their undergarments to prove that they were not menstruating. A similar incident took place at a government institution in Khatauli in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. It is unfortunate that women now live in a society where undesired customs and traditions, obscurantist beliefs and medieval rules are gaining strength. A particular ideology seems keen on keeping Indian women in check in the name of upholding Indian culture. It is not culture but patriarchy that these men are trying to uphold. Kate Manne, who teaches philosophy at Cornell University, argues that misogyny is not about male hostility or hatred toward women; it is about controlling and punishing women who challenge male dominance. Misogyny rewards women who reinforce the status quo and punishes those who do not. It leads to physical and sexual violence against them as well. It is important that the quality of women’s lives in India is not compromised.

Haridasan Rajan,
Kozhikode, Kerala Sir — One essential step to our well-being that we often overlook is hydration. It can keep respiratory tracts clear, regulate body temperature, boost the immune system, keep muscles and organs active and so on. Dehydration is a common health issue, especially in children. Treating it is a priority in effectively managing illnesses.

M.R. Jayanthi,
Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||They are not amused||Being funny does not mean that everyone will like the humour. Samuel Johnson, for example, felt that the quibble was Shakespeare’s fatal Cleopatra — a remark both smart and funny, by the way — although generations of readers have been tickled pink as well as pricked into unexpected thought by Shakespeare’s quibbles and puns. But humour and wit producing an expansive sense of well-being are one thing; laughter weaponized for a defined purpose is quite another. Jesters and clowns in the courts of kings, whether in the West or in the East, were certainly entertainers, but they also kept a sharp eye out for anything out of kilter that would then become the target of their searing jokes. Satire has a similar purpose even today. The rainbow range from comedy to satire flourishes on incongruities of experience and conduct, sometimes opening up the mind to a benign inclusiveness and at others urging change through discomfiture, even shame. People laugh themselves into sanity and balance. In today’s professional world, however, even laughter has its programmed space. Drawing on the wisdom of Cicero and Quintilian, about a hundred years apart from one another, a university professor in the United States of America has designed a course for executives in the effective use of humour. This weaponization is different from that in satire: it is not for a moral or political purpose that laughter would be used but for better management. To break the tension and ease hurt, to laugh off an unarguable charge with a joke, to put overweening subordinates in their places, to seduce listeners on to the speaker’s side are goals that the wise old men of Rome had listed. They even suggested that a leader should aim at a chuckle, not a belly laugh. Confined to lessons for executives, humour loses its fun, if that is possible. But the old men’s pointers would have been perfect for politicians — and here India fails quite ignominiously. India’s politicians are singularly unfunny. When they are not viciously taunting their opponents in the garb of laughter, they are busy spouting highfalutin’ rhetoric about non-negotiable ideals. It does not stop there. No one else is supposed to laugh unless it is to hurt political opponents. While the US had wonderful fun with its last president, India is rapidly becoming a den of terrified humourlessness. Anyone who jokes, verbally or through cartoons,  about politicians, their notions, their faithful followers, or the religion and the persons they nurture or embrace, can be charged with sedition or simply be beaten up by anonymous lovers of the regime. Humour in India today is strikingly different from its purpose and methods that the American professor found useful in Cicero and Quintilian. Its first requirement is courage. Humorists, cartoonists and stand-up comics who persist in playing the irrepressible court jester are putting everything on the line. Fun is no longer funny.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
04-04-2021||Opinion||Wolf Warrior’s day||In 1962, the same year as the Sino-Indian war, Chalmers A. Johnson, an American scholar, wrote a great book — Peasant Nationalism and Communist Power: The Emergence of Revolutionary China 1937-1945. The book set the agenda for Chinese studies for a decade and more and its central argument was succinctly summarized in its preface: “The object of this study is to establish a basis upon which contemporary Communism in China may be understood as a particularly virulent form of nationalism.” Johnson’s insight is a useful corrective to the current Western view, which maintains that Xi Jinping broke with his predecessors to lead China in a belligerently nationalistic direction. The Western narrative, which saw the path charted by Deng Xiaoping and his successors as a non-ideological pragmatism destined to assimilate China into a world order defined by the World Bank and the World Trade Organization, was based on a simple misreading of Deng’s policy choices. For China’s leadership, communism and capitalism weren’t ideological choices; they were alternative means to a single ideological end: the restoration of Chinese supremacy. The ‘virulence’ that Johnson wrote about sixty years ago has been on display in recent times. China’s ‘Wolf Warrior’ diplomacy has flabbergasted its critics in Western foreign policy establishments. The Chinese ambassador to France, Lu Shaye, has described French critics of Chinese policy in Xinjiang and Taiwan as “mad dogs”, “crazed hyenas” and “ideological trolls”. Summoned by France’s foreign ministry for his comments, Lu Shaye didn’t turn up, saying he had a “scheduling conflict”. It’s useful to remember that Lu Shaye’s previous posting was as ambassador to Canada when Meng Wanzhou, the daughter of Huawei’s founder, was arrested in Canada at the behest of the United States of America. Lu Shaye had then achieved notoriety by accusing Canada of “Western egotism” and “white supremacy” for its extradition proceedings against Meng. Lu Shaye isn’t the only Chinese diplomat on a roll. The Chinese consul-general in Rio de Janeiro chose to address the prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau, in this way: “Boy, your greatest achievement is to have ruined the friendly relations between China and Canada, and have turned Canada into a running dog of the US.” Addressing a head of government as “boy’ isn’t normal, and the Western response to Wolf Warrior diplomacy is to see it as an outbreak of mad hubris sanctioned by Xi Jinping. In fact, China’s position on Hong Kong, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang has been remarkably consistent. All of these issues are ‘internal issues’ for China to sort out and foreign commentary and criticism are unacceptable interference. This is not just boilerplate about sovereignty: this is a viscerally felt, historically conditioned reflex: China was attacked, defeated, exploited, balkanized and pillaged by predatory colonial States, from the Opium War to the savage Japanese occupation of the 1930s and 1940s. The idea that a country like Great Britain can haul China over the coals for its treatment of dissent in Hong Kong, a port that it held as a colonial possession in living memory, is seen as an outrage. It’s how India might respond to Portuguese criticism of the integration of Goa into the rest of the country. Outside the West, no one sees the arrest of Meng Wanzhou as anything but hostage-taking. The fact that John Bolton could press Canada into arresting her for Huawei’s alleged breach of US sanctions against Iran is generally understood as a bid by the US to both marginalize Huawei (and, by implication, China) in the 5G wars and to bring China to heel in America’s long-standing bid to isolate Iran. America’s military power, its economic clout and its control over the global financial system have allowed it to legislate sanctions that bind the whole world. The Anglosphere’s intellectual achievement has been to pass off post-war American hegemony as a rules-based world order. China, rightly or wrongly, believes it now has the clout to call the West’s bluff. So China has done two things in response, one little, one large. In a tit-for-tat move, it has taken hostages of its own: two Canadian businessmen who are perfunctorily accused of spying. It is China’s way of saying to America that it can send proxy messages too. For China, this is an invaluable opportunity to argue that the rule of law that the West sets such store by is an elaborate rationalization of ruthless realpolitik. The larger response to the Canadian contretemps is China’s recently unveiled deal with Iran where it has agreed to invest massively in that beleaguered and broken country in return for cheap oil. At a stroke, it declared its intention to systematically subvert American sanctions against Iran and announced its presence as a major player in West Asia, even declaring that it would try to host an Israeli-Palestinian dialogue in Beijing. For many years, China’s attitude towards the wider world was seen to be pragmatically focused on markets and raw materials. Its Belt and Road Initiative was seen as an ambitious but charmless bid to expand its economic sphere of influence. The provocative aggression of its recent foreign policy, though, suggests that it plans to challenge America for the world hegemon championship and it believes it is a contender. It has chosen this moment for two reasons. One, the Trump administration’s bid to create a concert of anti-Chinese nations over the past four years forced China’s leadership to abandon a more calibrated assertion of China’s growing clout. Secondly, the Covid-19 pandemic illustrated for China, in the most dramatic way possible, the decline of the West. There is an unmistakable contempt built into Wolf Warrior diplomacy and this is, in large part, a contempt born of the ineptness and perceived decadence of Western countries, particularly the US, when confronted with the challenge of the coronavirus. The ongoing shambles in the US and Europe stand in such stark contrast to China’s success in taming the pandemic that this year of the plague has clearly been internalized in Chinese strategic thinking as a tipping point in the world’s balance of power. To have this behemoth of a country flexing its muscles in the most provocative way possible is bad news for the world. China is unlikely to be as militarily adventurist as the West but the danger that its hegemony presents to the rest of the world is of a different sort. As Johnson saw years ago, China is the uber nationalist State. China’s subordination of Tibet and its ethnic cleansing of Xinjiang aren’t national socialism in the classic German sense; it is, however, a sinister kind of majoritarianism. Chinese majoritarianism isn’t driven by a dominant religious community. It is, instead, fuelled by a suspicion of all religious identities as potential subverters of the only identity a Chinese citizen should have — a national identity. This is the French notion of laicité, taken to its logical and lunatic conclusion. Recently Macron’s government went to some lengths to limit the influence of foreign imams and Muslim organizations on French Muslims. China’s nationalism is similarly marked by a paranoia about extraterritorial loyalties. If Xi’s nation state is fascist, it is, ironically, a fascism with secular characteristics. 2021 marks a hundred years of the Chinese Communist Party. If the State it founded becomes the world’s hegemon, China will become, willy-nilly, a nation state model to be emulated. We should all pray that the Wolf Warriors don’t win. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
