05-04-2021||Opinion||Beti bachao: India's gender gap||In a precipitous slide, India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report, 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia. The report examines gender-based disparities in four critical areas: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment.  India fell steeply in the political empowerment subindex — the share of women ministers halved, that of women in Parliament and at the head of a state remained stagnant. This is not surprising given that in spite of repeated promises to pass the women’s reservation bill, it has been languishing in the Lok Sabha for over 10 years. There has also been a considerable decline in economic participation of women — data from several sources have already shown that the increasing domestic burden caused by the restrictions owing to the pandemic has resulted in the loss of employment for women — and they are now seven times more likely to lose their jobs than men. India also ranks among the bottom five countries in the health and survival subindex largely because of the skewed sex ratio at birth, institutionalized violence against women, forced marriage and discrimination in access to health. When it comes to education, in spite of some gains, 34.2 per cent women are illiterate compared to 17.6 per cent of men — once again, several surveys reveal that female students bore the brunt of the inequalities of online education, with household chores eating into their time. The question is how does this situation endure in spite of a slew of government policies ostensibly devised for the economic and social uplift of women? The answer lies in the gap between existing legislation and the understanding required of lawmakers about the challenges women face as well as their apathy towards these. Women’s empowerment campaigns have failed to go beyond the populism that governments indulge in. To cite one example, between 2014 and 2019 only Rs 159 crore — less than 25 per cent — of the Rs 644 crore allocated by the Centre for the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ scheme reached the districts and the states. Rights-based employment initiatives must be mobilized on a war-footing to make labour, health, education and politics representative. Perhaps the first step to address this yawning chasm would be to alter the idea of development, which, in recent times, has come to mean rising GDP accompanied by a corresponding fall in holistic social, human and economic growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
05-04-2021||Opinion||Reason helps: Appeal to safeguard personal devices||Among the many happenings that are newly familiar is the swooping down of police and investigators on laptops, computers and so on used by the writers, professors, journalists, lawyers and activists who are detained on charges of terrorist or anti-national activities. A group of academics has petitioned the Supreme Court asking it to specify guidelines for police and investigative agencies regarding the seizure, examination and preservation of personal digital and electronic devices and their contents. The petition represents a reassertion of the value of academic research, urgently needed at a time when academic and intellectual work is being deliberately devalued, and not only by the focus on terrorism and sedition. Abrupt confiscation of devices followed by arrests seems intended to intimidate and destroy respect, and to project preserved work as either suspicious or unimportant. The petition says that years of research can be damaged, distorted, lost or prematurely exposed by such seizures, since the police manual has no rules regarding the recovery of digitally stored material. The damage is not only an irreparable loss to growing knowledge, but also equivalent to the loss of livelihood of the researcher or writer, since the work is the product of lifelong study and fieldwork. Although the petition glances at the confiscation of electronic devices of some academics, it refrains from mentioning the allegations associated with these seizures, whether against the persons arrested or the agencies making the arrests. It does not go into recent allegations of planted material in computers. With unfussy reasoning, the petition asks for the right to academic freedom as part of the right to freedom of expression, the right to privacy, the right against self-incrimination, and the right to privileged communication. It has a few suggestions to induce accountability in the police — the owner or user of the device must be told why his material is needed, for instance. The person being arrested should not be forced to reveal passwords or encrypted material. The hard drive should be examined before the user and a neutral computer professional, and a copy of it taken; alternatively, a copy should be given to the user. By asking for accountability, lawful procedure and the restoration of the values of a thinking society, this petition demonstrates a different way of confronting the violation of rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
05-04-2021||Opinion||Read the reader||Sir — While book reviews have been one of the most enduring features of newspapers, few have ever thought of reviewing the kind of readers. Just such a unique review was carried in an online portal recently, with categories such as ‘the reader on the train who misses her station’ and ‘the reader who re-reads’. One thing is for certain, given the general aversion to reading in the age of vlogs and podcasts, any kind of reader — whatever their shortcomings — is a blessing in disguise.

Koyel Dutta,
Calcutta Sir — Collar Up, a Hyderabad-based non-governmental organization, has come up with a unique idea to prevent stray animals from being hit or run over by vehicles at night; this is laudable. Reflective, fluorescent collars are put on the animals so that they can be spotted from a distance at night. This will also prevent road accidents that occur while trying to save animals. An early morning ride can tell us how dangerous life on the streets has become for stray animals — we come across so many crushed carcasses lying on the highways and the arterial roads. What is more, besides coming up with this brilliant idea, the group has also created job opportunities for women. The NGO has tied up with women entrepreneurs from rural areas thereby creating a source of income for them. It is encouraging that such work is being done in the country.M. Pradyu,
Kannur Sir — Hopes of young children of going back to school will be dashed with the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. City schools are now deliberating a return to monotonous online classes. There was hope in the academic community that school might resume soon for all students, irrespective of the level they were at because the contagion was under control and vaccines have been rolled out. Unfortunately, laxity among the masses when it comes to adhering to preventive measures, the emergence of more virulent strains and the slow pace of the inoculation drive are the reasons for the recent surge. Another year of isolation will cost young students dearly. Physical and psychological health will suffer. More underprivileged pupils will be held back from learning owing to a lack of technical support. Child labour, early marriages, human trafficking and other social evils will spike too. Today’s young learners — who can see the leader of the country is now organizing election rallies at odds with safety guidelines in the name of democracy — will rightly blame us for the cost that these distractions are extracting from them.

Satabdi Dutta,
Burdwan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Opinion||More than meets the eye||If you think the Sachin Vaze controversy has revealed the rot in Mumbai’s police force, wait till you hear what is happening in China’s port city of Lianyungang. This ancient city was one of the 14 coastal cities that first opened up to foreign trade in 1980. It has seen Japanese occupation, but the sordid goings-on that have come to light now might put those dark days to shame. It is a sleazy world that rules Lianyungang, going by a recent judgment in which a 27-year-old policewoman was sentenced to 13 years’ imprisonment and a fine of five million yuan. She had joined the city’s police force as an auxiliary (temporary) police officer at the age of 19. In the next five years, says the judgment, she extorted 3.72 million yuan from nine men, eight of them senior officials and four of them policemen, by sleeping with them and then blackmailing them, sometimes with claims of pregnancy. Alongside the five million yuan fine, the policewoman also has to return the extorted money. Not convinced But netizens are not convinced that the young policewoman is guilty. Could a 19-year-old be in a position to seduce the director of her police station, and then within five years do the same with two police station heads, the deputy director of the Public Security Bureau, the vice director of a hospital, a primary school principal and the president of a trade union? Or, as netizens ask, is it a case of a clique of officials using a young rookie and compelling her to keep quiet? Moreover, how did these public servants have so much money to give her? On an average, the amount works out to 4,00,000 yuan per official, with the highest payment being 1.28 million yuan. The public debate on the judgment has embarrassed the administration. No sooner was the judgment posted online by a lawyer than a police officer called him with a request to take it down. The lawyer not only refused to do so, claiming that it was a public document taken from the court’s website, but also posted a recording of the phone call online. The judgment was immediately removed from the court website, with the court issuing a statement saying that since the case had gone into appeal, the judgment had not been implemented yet. Not even the official news agency, Xinhua, has bought this explanation. Tawdry reputation While the convicted policewoman’s voice remains unheard, her family has spoken up. If she was indeed extorting money, says her father, why did not the men go to the police? Because they were police themselves! The money they gave her was nothing but compensation for her “lost youth’’, he maintains. Her mother has revealed that the deputy director had reassured her that he would “take care’’ of her pregnant daughter. Her uncle alleges that the family is not being allowed to hire a lawyer of their choice to argue the appeal. At the foundation of the popular support for the policewoman lies the tawdry reputation of the Chinese Communist Party. Party officials, say netizens, are known to have lovers on the side; in this case, they got together to exploit a vulnerable girl. Why have they not been investigated? In the face of overwhelming public pressure, the local government quickly put out a statement that administrative disciplinary action had been taken against seven of the officials; the eighth was jailed last year for bribery. But netizens are not satisfied. Given the power of the officials involved, the trial ought to have been held outside Lianyungang, they say. Now, the appeal definitely must. Whether the demand is met or not, the public has decided who is guilty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Opinion||Bengal polls 2021: The need for public goods||The Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party have made their election manifestos public. The winner is supposed to deliver public goods, such as defence, primary education, health, poverty eradication, and so on. Only a government can provide public goods. In the light of the electoral promises made by the political parties, it is important to assess the degree of ‘publicness’ of the goods promised in the manifestos. Some of the electoral promises may be interpreted as privatized public goods in contrast to pure public goods. The privatization of public goods implies the provision of public goods targeted at a section of the population with tangible and immediate benefits. This act of privatization of public goods is known as political clientelism. The lack of education and awareness as well as the desperation amongst people to get benefits entice them towards privatized public goods instead of pure public goods, resulting in the lower provision of the latter. I have divided the major electoral promises of the TMC and the BJP to separate promises of privatized public goods from those of pure public goods. Assurance of a monthly basic income to female heads and Rs 10,000 per acre per annum to small and marginal farmers by the TMC fall in this category. The BJP’s assurances like the annual transfer of Rs 10,000 to refugee families, Rs 6,000 to fishermen and the continuation of the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana fall in this category too. The BJP’s promises of 33 per cent reservation in government jobs for women, free education for girls and free public transport for women limit the benefits to females only but the benefits are tangible and immediate. Free doorstep delivery of ration and Rs 5 per meal — the TMC’s pledges — offer immediate relief instead of addressing endemic poverty. The TMC’s student credit card targets the youth; the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana as promised by the BJP gives immediate benefits to tertiary healthcare seekers without caring about core public health initiatives. The assurance of effective implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission by the BJP would appeal primarily to government servants while the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and immigration curbs delimit the access to public goods and benefit certain groups directly. Contrastingly, the promise of more jobs, industries and MSMEs, increasing irrigated areas, uplifting the annual per capita income for people below the poverty line are important promises by the TMC towards the provisioning of broad-based public goods. Similarly, the BJP’s promise of a common admission test for all state government jobs makes access to public employment fair for everyone. The TMC has fewer assurances for education as a pure public good. Both TMC and BJP have promises in health, but the TMC’s promises — doubling health spending from 0.83 per cent to 1.5 per cent of the state GDP and establishing medical college-cum-super speciality hospitals in 23 district headquarters — have far-reaching implications. The BJP has talked of creating three AIIMS. The TMC offers greater pure public goods in agriculture — increase in cultivable land, cropping intensity and agricultural productivity — apart from assuring low-cost housing in urban and rural areas, piped drinking water, drainage, all-weather roads and 24x7 electricity in the sphere of basic services. The BJP has pledged to create a Sonar Bangla fund worth Rs 11,000 crore and constitute task forces to curb illegal and criminal activities. The analysis shows that the TMC has promised more pure public goods while the BJP has offered greater privatized public goods. Politicians are constrained in their efforts to provide pure public goods. The only way to make politicians deliver pure public goods is by raising awareness about the nature of their promises and their implications. If the pros and cons of different public goods are communicated effectively, then people would prefer long-term gains with higher implications for upward mobility than sops yielding short-term benefits. There should also be a process of evaluation of the provision of pure public goods. Independent agencies must create developing metrics instead of devising electoral campaign strategies for political parties. Pro-democratic crowd funding may be used to finance the initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
05-04-2021||Opinion||Different departures||One decision can sometimes be followed by another. The intervening time between the two can be short or extended, invariant or transformational. How important is this time and can it affect the final decision? This provides the framework for the following discussion. Dr B.R. Ambedkar was a modern liberal. Inspired by modern ideas of rationality, equality, freedom and liberty, he fought against inequality and untouchability in the caste system. His unique approach to modernity is examined here, in the context of the temporal framework. Modernity in the West distanced itself from all that is pre-modern, including Greek metaphysics and Christian theology, both of which justified the practice of inequality. René Descartes, the father of modern philosophy, lays down a clear-cut terrain of modernity in his Discourse on Method, by totally disinheriting everything from the pre-modern. This disinheriting included history, oratory, poetry (as it was considered a gift of the mind rather than the fruit of study), moral writings of pagans, customs and the evolutionary growth of societies. He rejects childhood as it is controlled not by reason but by appetite and teachers. Descartes also rejects classical logic and mathematics for their association with the pre-modern. Like Descartes, Ambedkar, too, embraced modern ideals. He used modern liberal ideas to critique Hinduism. This led him to move away from Hinduism, distancing him from leaders like M.K. Gandhi. Ambedkar felt that Hindu society is “devoid of humanity”. It does not “recognise the importance of an individual” and specifically does not respect Dalits as individuals. Untouchability — which is “nothing but concrete inequality” — pervades Hinduism. The only alternative for Dalits, according to Ambedkar, is to leave Hinduism. Thus there is an underlying thread connecting Descartes and Ambedkar — their desire to distance themselves from the societies that practice inequality in the pre-modern. This similarity is, however, confined to the domain of departure. There is a need to closely examine the other aspects involved in the process, especially the time between departure from the pre-modern and arrival at the destination, as also the nature of the place of arrival. Descartes, who finds nothing from the pre-modern to be acceptable, takes no time to decide between leaving the pre-modern and arriving in the modern. The modern that he wants to arrive at is governed by cognition which follows rationality, especially instrumental rationality, where there is a direct relationship between cause and effect. However, there are differences between Descartes and Ambedkar on two accounts. One is concerning Ambedkar’s choice of an alternative path from the past to ease the transition to modernity. The other is about the duration between their departure from the pre-modern and arrival at the modern. Interestingly, Ambedkar made the unique choice to consider alternatives from the pre-modern instead of toeing the Cartesian path of modernity. This was not acceptable to Descartes. Options from the pre-modern in any form are not permitted in modernity or to Descartes. This was also contested by B.K. Roy Burman. Here I would like to draw attention to the intervening time between Ambedkar’s decision to depart from Hinduism and his final arrival at Buddhism. A study of this interim period will throw a different light on how he arrived at this decision. There were about 21 long years — from 1935 to 1956 — between his decision to leave Hinduism and finally convert to Buddhism. During this time, he weighed various options — Islam, Christianity, Sikhism and Buddhism. He finally settled on Buddhism as it rejected the deeply entrenched hierarchy and inequality in Hinduism. Though modernity was a readily available option, Ambedkar did not feel that an immediate move to modernity would be a suitable path for the Dalits. Here I would like to highlight the significance of the time taken by Ambedkar between these two decisions. This eluded the attention of those like Burman. The long process of weighing different options before he arrived at the decision to convert to Buddhism should not be ignored. Ambedkar’s decision seems to have been governed more by the ethics of care than by radical politics. He felt that after being oppressed for so long, Dalits were not in a position to immediately embrace the ideals of abstract Cartesian individualism. This required long preparation, including education, literacy and learning to live a modern life. Ambedkar realized this and chose Buddhism as he felt that it provided both relief from oppression and opportunities for Dalits. Ambedkar used the analogy of a sailor who plans and makes the necessary arrangements before embarking on a voyage to explain the process of conversion and the need for prior preparation. Descartes, on the other hand, used the metaphor of demolishing an old house and living in an interim place while the new home was built. He envisaged the transitory phase to be brief whereas Ambedkar rightly predicted that it could be quite long. Hence, his decision to first convert from Hinduism to Buddhism instead of embracing modernity right away. The merits of the path taken by Ambedkar are apparent when compared with the activities of other Indian academics educated in the West. They, too, inherited the path of Descartes and modernity. However, unlike Ambedkar, they did not pay sufficient attention to calibrating their modern views for India. Not surprisingly, their attempts to forcibly fit modern ideas into Indian society remained unsuccessful. Ambedkar, on the other hand, turned his gaze away from the Cartesian path to critique Hinduism and liberate Dalits, and seriously deliberate on the suitability of modern ideas to the Indian situation. What distinguishes those like Ambedkar from Indian academics is turning towards or returning to India after learning political ideas from the West. This is reminiscent of the failed return of Pahom in Tolstoy’s short story, “How Much Land Does a Man Need?” or Abhimanyu’s failure to return from padmavyuham. In this context, the works of Ambedkar and other Indian thinkers will be an immense academic contribution in understanding different aspects of Indian society, particularly those that overlap with modern Western political ideas. A detailed reading of them will help us understand not only the similarities and differences with contemporary philosophers from the West but also enable us to appreciate the unique Indian approach to time and temporality. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-47
