06-04-2021||Opinion||India has a good claim to be at the high table of Afghan talks ||It has been a diplomatic embarrassment for India in more ways than one. First there’s the unpleasant fact that Pakistan was able to convince an old Indian ally like Russia to keep us out of the March 18 Moscow conclave on Afghanistan. Even worse, Pakistan was able to convince our new friends Washington to deny us a place at the table. During a 55-minute call, Pakistan army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa prevailed on US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken, reportedly arguing that India was "a spoiler", that "cannot be given a role in the peace effort". Russia, which wants to secure its Greater Eurasian backyard from radical groups like Daesh and the Taliban, is clearly distancing itself from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But why has Washington which brought India into the Quad, the four-nation grouping to counter China in the Indo-Pacific, played along? Washington has attempted to make amends. It ensured India took part in the 9th Heart of Asia conference on Afghanistan in the Tajik capital, Dushanbe on March 29-30 and also that it will be at the forthcoming six-nation U.N. peace conference in Istanbul, to be held at an unspecified date later this month. The Turkey meet will now include the "Troika Plus One" -- the United States, Russia, China and Pakistan plus India, and Iran. Mind you, India has a good claim to be at the high table. It has strong ties with all the major players in Afghanistan including Afghan President Ashraf Ghani -- also not invited to Moscow -- and his arch-rival, former president Hamid Karzai. Then we have links with Dr Abdullah Abdullah and also ethnic warlords like fiery Uzbek leader Abdul Rashid Dostum and others. New Delhi’s clout has been acknowledged even by US Special Envoy on peace Zalmay Khalilzad, who has won the confidence of US President Joe Biden, much as he did the Trump administration. India is also said to have persuaded Ghani to back down from his position that he would only hand over power to an elected leader. On the last day at Dushanbe, Ghani all but agreed to be a part of an interim arrangement with the Taliban. India also needs to drop its tired platitudes about an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned, Afghan-controlled” peace process when it’s amply clear that the Afghans are being led, owned and controlled by non-Afghans. Delhi, respected by Afghans across the ethnic divide, must not prop up only its Northern Alliance political protégés but widen its support by calling for a truly representative government that brings in the apolitical, educated next generation, women and minorities. It should also drop External Affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s clichéd poser of "a double peace" within and outside Afghanistan. We need to move quickly to mend frayed ties with Moscow, as a first step towards stopping Pakistan from capitalising on its key geostrategic positioning in landlocked Afghanistan.  Gen. Qamar Bajwa – and not Pakistan’s civilian leadership – confers with Blinken as he does with Khalilzad. Bajwa oversees Khalilzad’s meetings with the heads of Pakistan security agencies in Islamabad, and in Bahrain with the Afghan national security adviser Hamdullah Mohib and intriguingly, UK’s Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Sir Nicholas Carter and UK High Commissioner to Pakistan, Dr. Christian Turner. Similarly, Russia has grown into the role of the mullahs’ most sympathetic interlocutor.  Kremlin point-person on Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who set up the Moscow meet, routinely confer, not with India, but with Pakistan’s military leadership, and the Doha-based Taliban. Most crucially, India must drive home to the Russians that a Taliban ascendancy will see the proliferation of safe havens and terror camps of Al Qaeda, Islamic State- Khorasan, Daesh or the Haqqani Network, in Pakistan. The East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and the oppressed Uighurs will gain traction with Taliban support, and pose a threat not just to India, the West and the United States, but also to Moscow and Beijing. Delhi should convince Russia and the US not to release another 7,000 prisoners from US and Pakistan jails in addition to the first 5,000. Then it should also make it clear there’s no need to withdraw all US-NATO troops from Afghanistan by May 1, a Taliban pre-condition for a cease-fire. Security forces blame the released Taliban for the spate of attacks on students, working women, journalists and the educated workforce as well as Afghan security forces, with many killed by sticky bombs made in Pakistan, that cannot be tracked by bomb detectors. Clearly, the China-Russia-Pakistan confluence of interests seeks to limit the US and India’s role in Afghanistan. The joint military and naval exercises between Russia and Pakistan, and the state visits by Russian foreign and defence ministers to Islamabad, point to a bigger game in which Pakistan is working to lull Washington and Russia into believing it can be a trusted partner in peace. Biden’s team has tried to bring India in as its watchdog. It has appointed India to head the Taliban Sanctions Committee in the UN Security Council to monitor Taliban-orchestrated violence within Afghanistan. In this role – which dovetails into its moves to keep Pakistan on the Financial Action Task Force "grey list," -- India can help direct sanctions if it’s proved that violence against Afghan civilians and other targets emanates from sanctuaries within Pakistan. Can India do anything more to safeguard its own flanks? Taliban sources have told this writer that multiple approaches by Indian officials have been cold-shouldered and its requests that its "investments" be safeguarded have been laughed out of court. India needs to shrug off the pressure to talk directly to the Taliban and ensure that the onus on protecting its diplomatic missions, its workforce and construction projects lies with the US. India must emphasise that only Pakistan can bring about a 90-day cessation of hostilities because it controls the Quetta Shura and also the Taliban leadership in Doha. The next steps, which include setting up an interim transitional government in the run up to a Bonn 2.0 in Istanbul and overseeing a free and fair election to a new parliament, choosing a new president and a prime minister by a popular vote, will require not one conference but several before any agreement can be hammered out. All these require Pakistan not to play spoiler. The Bonn conference in 2001 succeeded because the Pakistan-backed Taliban had been pushed out of Afghanistan, and like-minded parties such as former King Zahir Shah-era émigrés, the Pashtun aristocracy and the Northern Alliance mujahideen and some Taliban were talking. Can a Bonn 2.0., which attempts to bring two bitter enemies together, succeed where even Doha has failed? Obviously, the US is eager to exit from Afghanistan. But if it moves too quickly that could open the doors to a fresh ‘spring offensive’ by the Taliban and a takeover of large parts of the countryside and the main cities. The Taliban’s also attempting to stoke resentment against the “Ghani Boys’ by spinning the narrative of corruption, accusing the head of the Central Bank of allegedly smuggling gold through a Gulf country. Then it points at three of Ghani’s cabinet members who are said to not even be of Afghan origin. There is some talk that India is making quiet moves to promote the son of legendary Northern Alliance leader Ahmed Shah Massoud. Alternatively, the head of the powerful Durrani clan’s name is being floated to head a possible future government. As India faces up to the reality that it has been reduced from once powerful kingmaker to backroom policeman, the Taliban’s ability to find new patrons is an alarming and fascinating replay of the past. Once it was Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Today if there’s one man shaking up the status quo it is Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, as much a key interlocutor for the United States and Russia, as he is for the Doha-based Taliban. Some say the new Taliban leadership will rid itself of Pakistan’s Army, just as they did the Saudi royals, citing their little-known refusal to meet Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman when he arrived on an official visit to Islamabad in 2019. With all eyes on Istanbul, Biden’s biggest challenge is to effect an honourable exit from Afghanistan, while hoping that international conferences with international stakeholders will be the quick fix. But given the power play between the Troika, the age-old conflicts that continue to divide Afghanistan’s essentially tribal society, and with nobody willing to commit to a cessation of hostilities, it looks like the "longest war" can only get longer. (Neena Gopal is an independent foreign policy analyst and author)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Death zone: Bastar bleeds||Bastar bleeds with a frequency that is chilling. Yet another ambush on security forces by Maoist insurgents in Bastar has led to heavy casualties. The recent attack — over 20 security personnel perished in it — had been preceded by similar strikes whose frequency has apparently increased since demonetization. The Narendra Modi government’s claim that demonetization had broken the back of the Maoist movement by choking their funds clearly merits closer scrutiny, as do the concerns that have been raised regarding the tactical and operational problems that continue to plague the security forces. There is scope to improve the quality of intelligence — the jawans had walked into a well-laid trap on Saturday. The scale of missions must be flexible: smaller teams acting on reliable intelligence have greater chances of success than operations involving ponderous troop movement. There are infirmities in the political stratagem adopted by successive Central governments. Soon after assuming power, the National Democratic Alliance, which had lambasted its predecessor, the United Progressive Alliance, for being soft on Maoists, had adopted a four-pronged strategy that prioritized security, development, the protection of the rights of tribal people and the management of public perception. It is now fairly evident that security has been prioritized over the other — equally critical — elements in the policy. The adoption of an iron hand has been the favoured strategy at the Centre. It has had some success: the theatre of conflict has shrunk to 30 districts. But an iron hand will not be able to eradicate the malaise: for that, it needs to be fitted in a velvet glove. This would mean severing the public support that the insurgents rely on. This, in turn, can only be achieved if the Centre is able to strike a healthy balance between security concerns and public welfare. Addressing the grievances that led the movement to strike roots — the stripping of the rights of the tribal people over land and other natural resources, embedded discrimination against indigenous people, poverty and its affiliated traps, predatory industrialization, to name a few — could be one way of re-engagement. Intermediaries — bona fide civil society groups and non-government organizations with deeper knowledge of relevant issues — should be accommodated into the parleys. Bengal, under Mamata Banerjee, fused the fist and the glove well to neutralize the red menace in the state. The Centre could learn from that experience. Given the state of federal ‘bonhomie’ in India, such collaboration is unlikely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Dubious move: Trinamul Congress supports Bimal Gurung||Sir — The decision of the Trinamul Congress to support the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction over the rival Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction can have far-reaching implications. It would help to remember that Gurung was booked under several charges by the Mamata Banerjee government, including murder and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, following the violence that broke out in Darjeeling over the demands for a separate Gorkhaland. At the time, Tamang’s faction stood by the TMC in the hill district. Now that the TMC has extended its support to Gurung, it remains to be seen how the alliance plays out. Gurung has emphasized that his party is not moving away from their demand for a separate Gorkhaland and has pledged support to the party which can take it forward. The question, now, is whether Banerjee will yield to this demand in the hope that Gurung’s support will reverse the waning political fortunes of the TMC in the hills.S.S. Paul,Nadia Take rest Sir — One of the casualties of working from home has been a good night’s sleep, as was corroborated by a nationwide study conducted by Wakefit. The report revealed that in Gurgaon, 42 per cent of the respondents complained about work keeping them up at night as compared to 17 per cent last year. This must be addressed immediately. It is essential to have a work-life balance for leading a healthy life. Jitendra Sharma,New Delhi Laughter therapy Sir — In times of crisis, humour can be reinvigorating (“They are not amused”, April 4). Laughter is infectious and, when shared, can bind people together and increase happiness. We lead stressful lives and the Covid-19 pandemic has turned our world upside down. Moreover, the political situation in our country is quite grim. In such circumstances, humour can help us face challenges in life and comedy, if done right, can open our eyes to our shortcomings as individuals and as a society. The importance of comedy cannot be overstated. We must all work towards nurturing a sense of humour. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Free for all: Irrational electoral promises||Sharp criticism of irrational electoral promises has come at last. In the context of changing an assembly constituency to a general one in Tamil Nadu, the Madras High Court has sent a series of probing questions to government departments and the Election Commission. The target of the high court’s ire is the promise of freebies in pre-election manifestos of political parties. The court has asked whether the Centre was coming up with a law governing manifestos, how many manifestos the EC has vetted since 2014, what action was being taken against political parties for not implementing promises and so on. Tamil Nadu holds its assembly elections today, and the escalating promises of competing political parties intended to lure voters form the immediate background of the questions. Freebies make people lazy; it makes them so unwilling to work that they run the danger of losing their properties to migrant workers. Most striking was the Madras High Court’s reported definition of the distribution of freebies as a corrupt practice: it destroys the purity of the poll process. Distributing mixer-grinders and televisions instead of paying attention to the improvement of infrastructure or employment opportunities is a corrupt way to garner votes. Corruption is contagious. Not only does the taxpayer stand by silently while government funds are drained by paying for freebies, but voters, too, sell their votes for the money political parties offer. They get the leaders they deserve. The Madras High Court’s observations have a countrywide resonance. Most political parties are culpable in this matter; some more than others. A promise of Rs 15 lakh for every bank account before a general election may be recalled in this context, as well as the promise of free Covid-19 vaccinations for everyone before an assembly election. The last promise had a twist: all governments attempt to make vaccines free in a pandemic — it cannot be a freebie offered by one particular party in one state. If democracy is to be meaningful, the culture of freebies and vote-buying must be resisted on all fronts. The court’s questions will have to be answered; ironically, the answers will come from the very entities that encourage and expand this form of corruption. Only the people can free electoral practices of taint. Not an easy battle, but it can be done.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||The political jab: Vaccine wars||The Anglo-Swedish company, AstraZeneca, collaborated with researchers at Oxford University to create one of the early vaccines to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Back in 2014, two years before the Brexit referendum, AstraZeneca’s board successfully rebuffed an $118 billion takeover bid by the US pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer, which has developed the other major vaccine for Covid-19. The then David Cameron-led Conservative Party government supported the deal, while the former Labour leader then in Opposition, Ed Miliband, viewed it as an attempt by an American pharmaceutical giant to cut down its tax liability at the cost of the United Kingdom’s scientific and research base. In addition to the political point about sovereignty and the taking back of control that has been made ad nauseum, Brexit is also about a particular trajectory taken by British capitalism since the Thatcherite years. This has entailed privileging capital in circulation over manufacturing, creating an economy dangerously lopsided towards the services sector that is further skewed by the preponderant role of finance in the UK’s economy. Ardent Brexiteers are celebrating the rapidity of the UK’s vaccine roll-out as one of the early signs of success of the UK leaving the European Union. An Anglo-Swedish company collaborating with Oxford University researchers prompted the British government to put the British flag on the vaccine’s packaging. The juvenile character of the Boris Johnson government was on display, once again, when the education secretary, Gavin Williamson, bragged that the UK was a better country than all the others because of which it was ahead in the race. The EU’s vaccine roll-out has been disparagingly characterized as a slow-moving tanker in comparison to the UK moving ahead like a speedboat by the European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, herself. To add to its vaccine woes, the EU was left in an embarrassing situation when it was involved in an unseemly row with AstraZeneca over reduced supplies of its vaccine to the EU. The EU threatened the invocation of Article 16 of the Northern Ireland Protocol that would have prevented the entry of supplies of the vaccine from the Republic of Ireland into Britain via Northern Ireland. This rash move brought up the question of the hard border on Ireland that the tortuous Brexit negotiations did so much to avoid, with the EU beating a hasty retreat after criticism by the Republic of Ireland’s Taoiseach, Micheál Martin, and the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. In Europe, doubts have been raised about the efficacy of the AstraZeneca vaccine, especially after fears of blood clotting. However, the European Medicine Agency has declared that the vaccine is safe. The UK may well be in an advantageous position as far as the vaccine roll-out is concerned on account of its quick decision-making, the formidable nature of its scientific research base and the global reputation of its universities. Ironically, Brexit threatens to damage the very sectors of the British economy — scientific research and cultural exports, for instance — that have been its success stories. The Covid-19 pandemic as well as vaccine nationalism seem to have exposed the bitterness that characterizes Britain’s ties with the EU after Brexit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Himalayan blunder in Uttarakhand||The unfortunate disaster that struck Rishiganga-Dhauliganga Valley in early February is a sad reminder of the consequences of undermining the natural vulnerability of the Himalayas. We should not delude ourselves into believing that this is the last disastrous Himalayan event that caused losses to life and property, including two hydropower plants. In an article in Nature in 2013, yours truly had cautioned that rising temperatures in the Himalayas raise the threat of glacial lake outburst floods. Of the 8,800 glacial lakes in the Himalayas, more than 200 have been classified as dangerous. Himalayan nations were urged to build an international network to monitor risks such as those from glacial lakes and give early warning of hazards — similar to the tsunami warning systems installed around the Indian Ocean. Did anyone listen and act on any of the prescriptions? No. That the Himalayan river catchments are vulnerable to landslides that temporarily dam rivers is well-known. The landslides are triggered by a plethora of natural and man-made factors such as heavy rainfall, earthquake, active geological features, deforestation, large-scale land-use changes and so on. In a relatively young mountain range such as the Himalayas, there are multiple reasons that lead — independently or synergistically — to hazard events such as the one we witnessed. Before jumping to conclusions, we must understand the non-linearity related to such events. Peddling half-baked ideas borrowed from grey literature and hearsay can be embarrassing. Watching the live pictures as they came in, it appeared to be a mudflow — a mix of debris, rocks, clay with some amount of water that is either contributed by heavy precipitation (rain or snow), a lake breach or the base flow of a river. Was it a glacial lake outburst flood? Not really. There aren’t any GLOF events known from the Indian Himalayas so far. Of the 34 GLOF events in the Himalayan region known thus far, four are from Bhutan, 16 from Tibet and 14 from Nepal. GLOFs occur mostly in monsoon, typically following a cloudburst and dense rain. That wasn’t the case here. The possibility of an avalanche and/or landslide driven flood event appears to be high. With more information trickling in from the site, this seems to have been the case. The sliding slope and the avalanche carried down massive quantities of debris comprising ice, snow, firn, rocks, clay and mud. Not many know that the Dhauliganga Valley, from Vishnuprayag to the Reni-Tapovan stretch — the site of destruction — has numerous geothermal (hot) springs, which indicate the underlying reasons for the area being geologically active and unstable. Recent evidence suggests that the Himalayas are warming more rapidly than other world mountains. The presence of geological features such as geothermal springs, can potentially trigger massive material movement of glaciers, snow, water and sediment. The Dhauliganga Valley between Reni village and Vishnuprayag is narrow; this prevented the voluminous debris flow from spreading, thereby downscaling its volume and speed. It may be useful to remind ourselves that the origins of the destructive 1970 floods that caused devastation in the Ganga Valley also lay in the Rishiganga watershed. Those floods became a precursor to the world famous Chipko Movement. Today, the memorial of Gaura Devi, the leader of ‘Chipko’, on the outskirts of Reni village, overlooking the massive destruction below, stands as a mute spectator to the drama that has unfolded. Why do we continue to suffer death and destruction despite the available scientific information? The difficulty seems to be the post-mortem approach in policymaking. We only respond through instruments such as disaster relief and other rescue mechanisms. Sadly, our investment in pro-active scientific approaches — natural hazard surveillance or flood forecasting — to prevent disasters is missing. In absence of robust science-policy-based instruments, we are left with the sad option of recovering dead bodies and counting our losses. The other concern is that our policymaking doesn’t appear to take good science seriously. This space has been left open to the media. Much of what goes into social media and grey literature is bad science and frivolous information. Consider the claims of the so-called experts on television channels: some said that dams are responsible for this tragedy, while others pontificated that the Himalayan glaciers will disappear in the next decade. This is patently unscientific information and the media, if they want to remain credible, must avoid falling prey to poorly-informed sources. To deal with the long-term sustainability of the Himalayas and their inhabitants, the following measures may be useful. Administrative controls, law enforcement and sanctions in case of violations are necessary to prevent environmental destruction. The introduction of environmental easements to the local citizenry in the Himalayas would protect the fragility of the mountains and address the concerns about providing economic incentives to the local people without harming the environment. Compensatory afforestation programmes funded by hydropower corporations need to be effectively monitored. These activities must mandatorily involve local communities, civil society and women’s self-help groups for meaningful results. The relocation of vulnerable villages/buildings to safer areas and the imposition of penalties for erecting structures on riverbanks are also necessary. Primary and secondary school curricula in the Himalayan states must include basic knowledge of geology and ecology of the mountains to ensure long-term environmental and human security. Finally, policymakers need to actively engage with scientists and experts with proven credentials to build a network of information based on land-use changes, hazard surveillance, weather monitoring and forecasting systems along the lines of the tsunami warning system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
06-04-2021||Opinion||Common concerns||The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, an informal arrangement among the United States of America, India, Australia and Japan, has gained prominent space in the larger public domain. On March 12, the US president, Joe Biden, hosted the first-ever summit-level meeting of the Quad that was attended by the executive heads of all four democracies. In their joint statement, an attempt was made by the four leaders to signal that the arrangement has multi-dimensional functionality. The statement reflects an ambition in terms of defining security and areas of cooperation broadly by including “shared challenges, including in cyber space, critical technologies, counterterrorism, quality infrastructure investment, and humanitarian-assistance and disaster-relief as well as maritime domains”. The potential of the arrangement has excited the public at large, particularly keen observers of and practitioners in the Indo-Pacific region. In this respect, moving away from the rhetorical pitch of the four leaders that accompanies such formal summits with the concomitant public relations exercise, the overall scope of the arrangement should be examined objectively. In this regard, the often neglected domestic impulses over foreign policy and informal international arrangements should also be factored in as these could be both an enabler of as well as an impediment to the goals and objectives. In all the four countries, there is public goodwill attached with the Quad in contrast to other fora established recently in Asia. The reasons are not hard to decipher. The four are established democracies and the already existing people-to-people contact among the four countries acts as an incentive for the democratically elected political elite in each one of these nations to engage with one another with ease. China’s political, economic and military heft has given the forum an additional weight in popularizing the group in the larger public space. Each of the four countries has been at the receiving end of China’s hyper-nationalist economic or militaristic designs. In Australia’s case, the present political elite, which was earlier sensitive not to annoy China, particularly during the rule of the Labor party, has now come out openly to join the Quad. Australia’s criticism of China’s handling of Covid-19 led to Beijing’s retaliatory policy of imposing high tariffs on Australian beef and wine exports. Indian public opinion is still raging against China’s military aggression along the Line of Actual Control on Ladakh’s frontier. The perennial highs and lows of the Japan-China antagonism rooted in World War II continue on account of various factors, including territorial contestations over the Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands. The US-China relationship is a subject of enormous and voluminous details. In brief, the economic relationship continues to be tarred by China’s alleged currency manipulation, unfair trade practices, the charges of hacking of government and corporate data, among other aspects. Although the Biden administration has given diplomacy and corralling of allies in Asia precedence over the polemical impulses of the Trump era, the de-facto reality is that the new US administration will continue to play hardball with China. All four Quad countries have strong economic interests in the ethnically and religiously diverse group of Southeast Asian nations, a vibrant economic region with varying political systems and a population of over 655 million. In each of the four countries of the Quad, there are domestic factors that need to be considered in terms of realizing the long-term potential of this group. First, the ability of the US, which is the prime anchor in this arrangement owing to its unrivalled economic and military strength, hinges on the ability of the Biden administration to strike a balance between domestic protectionist impulses and an ambition to restore the country’s leadership in the globalized economy, particularly in Asia. Jake Sullivan, the national security adviser, has reiterated that the Biden government wants a foreign policy that seeks to strongly factor in the interest of middle-class America. In a highly polarized US, the blue collar workers, particularly in the mid-West, are nearly evenly split in the swing states between the two parties. This may constrain Biden’s ability to support economic policies that are aimed at diversifying the supply chains based on the logic of comparative advantage in the area of manufacturing. Coming to Asia, Japan’s participation in international coalitions to maintain peace and security has been constrained on account of Article 9 of its Constitution. The provision forbids Japan to exercise the use of force as a means of settling international disputes. The earlier reluctance had been shunned by the Japanese political establishment and the provision has been creatively reinterpreted in the recent past. Japan’s Self-Defense Forces had started participating in UN peacekeeping operations since the 1990s. However, there is still internal resistance on the question of completely giving up Article 9. The internal debate on its abolishment will leave its imprint on the broader scope of the Quad’s future role. Australia has excitedly tied its fate with the Quad but the return of the Labor party in the upcoming elections may influence its future engagement with the grouping. India may prove to be crucial, just as it has during the Covid-19 crisis, with its manufacturing capacity because of labour surplus. Diversifying supply chains is at the heart of ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. Support to development of India’s infrastructure would be crucial to any strategy in this regard. Many in India have urged for a cautious approach that is predicated upon maintaining strategic autonomy. Indian’s participation in the Quad’s potential should certainly not be at the cost of its role in other fora, such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and BRICS where China is a co-member. The frequency of Sino-India territorial contestations along the LAC flared up in 2013, 2017 and 2020 just as India’s role in the SCO was increasing. India joined the SCO as a full-fledged member in 2017 after becoming an observer in 2005. A forum like the SCO, much like the Quad, is not a guarantor of peace between India and China along the LAC. However, the Quad’s multi-dimensional potential is much higher compared to other fora because of various factors. On top of it, each country within the Quad will continue to trade and engage with China. Apart from being a member of the P5, it is the world’s largest economy when measured by Purchasing Power Parity. On issues of global importance such as climate change, China’s participation is pivotal as it reportedly emits 28 per cent of the world’s total CO2 emissions. To sum up, the Quad provides a platform for four democracies to discuss and formulate strategies in meeting the prevailing common set of security and economic challenges. But to continue the momentum in the future and to create a connection between ambition and execution, the Quad requires a detailed blueprint by factoring in the local realities of all its constituent members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
