07-04-2021||Opinion||ON IT AGAIN: UGC offers 40 per cent of their courses online||Institutions in India seem to be acquiring new responsibilities. The University Grants Commission, the regulator of academic standards and other matters relating to higher education, is acquiring the mantle of director. Its directive to all higher education institutions to offer 40 per cent of their courses online on a government-mandated platform and not refuse any student mobility for credits thus acquired, however, comes in the guise of a regulation. Twenty per cent of online courses were permitted earlier; the leap in proportion and the pressure to comply manifest the Centre’s desire to make education online. Saying that blended education benefits students more glosses over the grave problems that students and teachers face when in-person classes are not possible. The government is not unaware of the problems students experienced during the pandemic, such as unstable internet connections and regular access to computers and smartphones. Numerous students have been losing out. Strangely enough, the UGC feels that these issues can be ignored. What is puzzling is the regulator’s loss of interest in academic standards. Forcing every institution to break up their courses into online and offline components, with the students allowed to choose the online component from other universities, which, in turn, would be free to arrange the topic in their own way, would destroy coherence. Each institution, meanwhile, would be compelled to match 60 per cent of its course to complement what has been taught online. This regulation rides roughshod over the integrity of the courses as well as the autonomy of educational institutions. There can be no common denominator of division — a physics course cannot be broken up like a course in literature, say, or archaeology. Who will decide on the offline and online components? The UGC obviously does not lay much store by the teachers’ belief that meaningful learning happens in in-person classes; online classes can support, not replace, the communication that takes place in a classroom. So it has directed educational institutions to upgrade their digital infrastructure in readiness for online courses. The matter of economics here is a bit obscure. What is certain, however, is that posts, both sanctioned and ad hoc, will shrink and disappear with online courses. The economics is crystal clear in this case. Is saving money by reducing teachers more important than academic standards and autonomy?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||Start young: appeal to lower vaccination age||Sir — The appeal sent by the Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, to the Central government to lower the age of Covid-19 vaccination for Indians to 25 should be paid heed to by the prime minister. Young, working people being vaccinated could hold the key to slowing down the transmission of the disease. The second coronavirus wave has already necessitated night curfews in Delhi and Maharashtra, with weekend lockdowns also being imposed in the latter. Breaking the chain of transmission, however, might be difficult unless young people, who are the most mobile, get their shots. Siddharth Mishra,New Delhi Downward slide Sir — India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2021 and has become the third worst performer in South Asia, ahead only of Pakistan and Afghanistan in the region (“Beti bachao”, April 6). The report’s criteria for assessment cover four areas: economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. A major part of India’s decline has occurred on the political empowerment index. There is a significant drop in the share of women among ministers — it fell from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021. The share of women in Parliament remains stagnant at 14.4 per cent. As for the participation of and opportunities for women in the economy, the present state is pitiful. There has been a fall in women’s participation in the labour force. The share of women in professional and technical roles has also declined. The share of women in senior and managerial positions continues to be low. Further, the estimated earned income of women in India is only one-fifth of that of men. This places India among the bottom 10 globally on this parameter. Women face discrimination in health and survival as well. India ranks among the five worst-performing countries in this regard. Wide gaps in sex ratio at birth are caused by high incidence of gender-biased sex-selective practices. With respect to educational attainment, one-thirds of women in India are illiterate — that is, 34.2 per cent, compared to 17.6 per cent of men. In addition, violence against women has risen over the years. Providing scope for girls and women to fulfil their aspirations requires a framework that promotes gender equality at the heart of every policy and programme. It needs to address the complex interplay of factors that operate at different levels. Women’s economic independence must be encouraged. They must be helped to learn about sexual and reproductive health and rights. Life skills education must be provided to women to equip them with knowledge, skills and an understanding of their rights. One must also focus on the prevention of violence by strengthening the response system. These, along with other micro approaches, hold the promise of a bright future for women. Empowering women will not merely benefit them as individuals but also be good for the entire community. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — Women’s participation in India’s progress remains minuscule in spite of the fact that women outperform men in certain realms. Going by the Global Gender Gap Report 2021, Indian women have been lagging behind those in other countries — Sri Lanka , Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan, for instance — on several fronts. Much of the decline can be attributed to the paucity of women in managerial and political positions, the burden of domestic chores, physical violence, forced marriages, unequal access to healthcare and discrimination at the workplace, among other reasons. It is no wonder, then, that Indian women continue to remain at the bottom. Even their income is estimated to be about one-fifth of that of their male counterparts. Factors such as domestic pressure and an inadequate support structure contribute to their low level of employment. India’s Constitution supports the idea of equal pay for equal work for both sexes in Article 39(d) as part of the Directive Principles of State Policy. Unfortunately, successive governments have done little to implement it, in spite of making tall claims during election campaigns. The women’s reservation bill is yet to see the light of day. Gender gap will continue to exist unless the gap between policy and its implementation is bridged. Countries like Iceland, Norway and Sweden comprise the world’s most gender-equal nations because they have managed to build and implement a strong social security network. There is a dire need to provide an enabling environment for women to be employed, besides ensuring better and safer transport and social security if India is to attain a pre-eminent position amongst developing nations. A country cannot truly progress if its women continue to be excluded from this process. If equality is to be achieved, pre-poll rhetoric must be supplanted by concrete steps in the direction of women’s empowerment. Vijay Singh Adhikari,Nainital, Uttarakhand Douse the flames Sir — The frequency of forest fires in India is a matter of great concern — around 36 per cent of India’s forest cover is prone to wildfires. Yet, little attention is being paid to this issue. This week, Uttarakhand witnessed 45 wildfires within 24 hours; the state has asked the Centre for help. The government must provide assistance at once — both in terms of manpower and money — in order to protect the environment and avoid threats to human and animal lives. The firefighters risking their lives to fight the flames must be lauded. Rupsa Barik,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||Get ready: Covid second wave||It appears that Covid-19’s second wave in India may be even stronger than the first. The existing data point to its troubling potency. India has witnessed a massive surge in the number of daily infections with eight states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi — bearing the brunt of the caseload. Bengal, which is witnessing public gatherings on account of an inexplicably long election during a pandemic, has no reasons to be complacent either. There were around 2,000 new cases in the state on Monday; the numbers could be higher given the poor rate of testing in such districts as Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore. The deployment of staff for election duty has made it difficult for some of the districts to meet their daily testing targets. The tidings are equally grim at the national level. During the first wave of the pandemic, it had taken 61 days for the caseload to rise from 25,000 to 92,000. The corresponding time is merely 22 days this time around. Coronavirus’s second coming can be attributed to a number of factors; institutional failures and public apathy are among them. A sense of complacency seems to have engulfed India — a modelling endeavour supported by the science and technology ministry had predicted the end of the pandemic by February this year — even as large parts of the world battled fresh assaults by the virus. This smugness may have been instrumental in laxities creeping into testing and surveillance mechanisms. Public indifference — the result of fatigue, bravado and sheer stupidity — towards the need to maintain safety protocols has also been a contributing factor. The government is at fault too, permitting large religious, social and political gatherings with little concern for the risks posed by these events. To prevent India from going under this wave, the following measures should be implemented on a war-footing. Surveillance, testing and tracing mechanisms must be revived: the thrust must be on decentralizing the monitoring apparatus. The vaccination programme — India can now fight the pandemic with medicine — must be widened to cover as many vulnerable constituencies as possible. Dispelling doubts about the vaccines and bringing vaccination to the door of households must be prioritized. The healthcare apparatus, especially in the nation’s hinterlands, must be prepared to cope with the rush of patients. Hopefully, India will survive the second wave with minimal medical casualties and vilification of minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||Tumpa and the bhadralok||“Tumpa” is a popular Bengali song, which was released in October 2020. This ‘dance number’ is the life of every household party and public festival in West Bengal. There is something remarkable about “Tumpa” that transcends its popularity as a ‘dance number’. “Tumpa” perhaps signals an epic moment in the cultural history of Bengal with the upper echelons of the bhadralok seemingly ready — finally — to shed their self-projected cultural elitism and fully embrace popular, ‘glocalized’ Bengali cultural forms. It is significant because it pushes us towards some serious critical thinking about the remaking of bhadralok culture and, in turn, the remaking of the bhadralok itself. It is interesting to note that the very idea of the bhadralok today is predominantly synonymous with that of an ‘artefact of the past’, a kind of a fossilized relic to be uncovered from the colonial archives. While the term referred primarily to the upper-caste, landowning class of Bengali Hindus in colonial India, the composition and the imagination of the bhadralok have undergone significant changes over the years. In 2004, Parimal Ghosh wrote an article in the Economic and Political Weekly titled “Where have all the ‘Bhadraloks’ gone?” — an insightful analysis of the changing profile and belief systems of the bhadralok in the post-Independence period that also had a subtle undertone of bemoaning the demise of the classical bhadralok. The post-Independence phase of the 1970s had produced the quintessential image of the jhola-carrying, radical, leftist bhadralok, articulate in political discourses, a lover of football as well as a connoisseur of ‘world art cinema’. This figure is peculiar: he speaks of Marxism and the emancipation of the working class but has a keen interest in keeping alive a strong division between ‘high’ and ‘low’; he professes secularism but has difficulty in pronouncing a Muslim name; he grieves the death of Maradona but continuously advises his son to focus on porashuno rather than on football. With the demise of Left politics in Bengal and the onset of ‘liberalization’, the bhadralok seems to be undergoing a complex process of metamorphosis that is difficult to capture in broad strokes. “Tumpa”, in terms of content and genre, represents an apparent ‘subalternization’ of the Bengali cultural world. The lyrics, diction, pronunciation, attire and body language of the lead actors and the singer represent a cultural world that is in absolute contrast to that of the imagined ideal of the refined bhadralok. The markers of this subaltern world are carefully chosen: poach-mamlet is a dinner-date delicacy; Digha is a potential honeymoon destination; nose-rubbing an expression of romantic love. This class identity is inscribed by the aspirations unleashed by a globalizing economy that is also constrained by the local limits of its realization. If one examines the lyrics of the song, it would resemble a parody of this subaltern world. It is a carefully and intelligently crafted composition packaged in a genre that has a popular appeal. Humour, a dominant element in the song, strives to make it inoffensive, rendering ‘harmless’ the objectification of ‘Tumpa’. It is this humour that creates a legitimate space to poke fun at the subaltern world. The bhadralok has always been perceived as a status symbol. It will continue to survive on such a sense of distinction. The neat difference between high and low culture may get muddled over time, but subtle distinctions may replace it while safeguarding the cultural and moral hegemony of the bhadralok. Even though some argue that we have arrived at a post-class society in which ‘class’ distinction in the traditional sense of the term seems to matter less, human society thrives on distinctions based on Othering and judgment. The term, bhadralok, may have become unfashionable, but bemoaning its death is perhaps premature because it will continue to thrive and exercise hegemony by reinventing newer ways of forging status distinction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
07-04-2021||Opinion||The air’s changing||One afternoon three or so years ago, I stepped out of our Calcutta offices for a smoke and a shot of bhaanr (earthen cup) coffee. Within earshot from where I stood is a small shrine to Hanuman that hugs the corpulent trunk of a banyan. The neighbourhood is a busy wholesale warren, scores pay obeisance to the deity as they pass by. That afternoon, a quite unusual devotee had arrived below the banyan. He wore a saffron shirt and a tilak emblazoned across his temple. There was a swagger to his manner. He hadn’t arrived to pray, he was hectoring the mahant of the shrine, a quiet, wizened man always turned out in dhoti and kurta. He sat there, in his implacable little space, hearing out what sounded more and more like a burst of bluster. Paraphrased, this is what the mahant was being told: the colour of the shrine is all wrong, it needs to be saffron, not white; it needs ornate lighting and it needs a loudspeaker which can drown out the azaan call that routinely rings out from a nearby mosque; it needs activity, bhajan and kirtan, some action. This was no way to run the affairs of a temple, help was required to assert its presence and help was at hand; “Panditji, kaho to log bhijwaaben? (Should I send men, Panditji?)” At this point, the elder could take it no more. He shed his calm and barked back: “Yeh Bangaal hai, aur yeh pracheen mandir aisehi rahega jaise rahaa hai, yahan tumahara hukmarani nahin chalega! Prasad lo aur badho aage!” (This is Bengal, and this is an old temple, it will run as it has run in the past. Your diktat will not work here, receive your prasad and carry on!) The visitor, most likely a sangh apparatchik out to push his authority, hovered a moment on the dare, then turned and picked his way. Three weeks ago, I was in central Calcutta again, in the vicinity of the Hanuman shrine, in a similarly busy lane opening on Dharmatala. I saw a febrile chant stampede across the streets: ‘Jai Shri Ram! Jai Shri Ram!’ There was nothing like a prayer to the intonation of it; it was the bellicose outcry of assertion and arrival. It reminded me instantly of that afternoon three years ago, and it made me wonder if the mahant under the banyan would still be able to bark back in the face of the new refrain strutting the streets: “Yeh Bangaal hai!” If at all iterated, his riposte would sooner be drowned than heard in today’s Bengal. Bengal is changing, or it already has; it isn’t the Bangaal the old mahant was invoking. We shouldn’t have to wait for the outcome of the assembly elections to acknowledge or understand that change. If Dharmatala is ready to echo the sectarian rabble-rousing of the northern heartland, something has changed, and it is not a fleeting change that will arrive and depart with election season. There is an unspoken, but probably well and widely understood, code to the ‘asol poribartan’ being promised — ‘real change’. It’s akin to the promise of ‘achchhe din’ whose distillation we all now know is unalloyed bigotry. Bengal is in the throes of it. It is a change that will leave much more than merely the banyan tree mahant censored. I hope Bengal understands the meaning of it; I fear that it may not. I fear, even more deeply and despairingly, that it actually does. That a securely buried demon seed from the past has been watered, and coaxed to sprout. And that such sprouting has become, tragically, a vociferously celebrated thing. Do more Partitions await Bengal? Or, to put it more bluntly, are Bengalis happy to build welcome arches to another one? And if so, where do they intend to sow the walls? And how many? I am not a Bengali, and I must seek pardon for affecting familiarity. I belong to a benighted neighbourhood called Bihar. Biharis have bestowed upon themselves the extreme poverty of pride, we are perhaps to Bengal what Sudama was to Krishna. But one of the things I did for the longest time take pride in was that Biharis were not sectarian about the daily conduct of their lives. There were flaming hiccups of infamy, of course — Bihar Sharif, Nawada, Bhagalpur. It cannot be said faith does not turn Biharis to bigotry; it often does, but the bouts came, most often, with a post-script of shame and apology. I come from a north Bihar village called Singhwara, which is twin to Paigambarpur. My grandfather’s most fulfilled afternoons were the afternoons on which he and Bachcha Mian from Paigambarpur would share a sip of tea and savories. Our rides home from the nearest railhead would always be on Wajib Mian’s open Willys. Singhwara households, even to this day, fetch their mutton from Daroga Mian and Ghafoor and Saddam, who have succeeded their father in the trade. But none of that is to suggest that cracks haven’t opened on either side of which we whisper unspeakable things and bear dark mistrusts. There were always walls, but there existed conversation across them. They shuddered when bricks began to be prised away for a project of ‘nationalist sentiment’. A few years down the line, all came asunder, but because it was patently a thing of sectarian pathology and hatred, it was no thing of pride. When I arrived in Calcutta to work more than a quarter of a century ago, I discovered my world, shattered and shaken by what had befallen Bhagalpur in 1989, suddenly rejuvenated. The Calcutta street was the reconjuring of home. I discovered a city willing to embrace beyond distinction of class, creed, and tongue. Perhaps I was wrong even then, perhaps what I perceived was a delusional invention of desire. But it was real and tactile too, make no mistake. The lordly rested in their mansions, north and south of Park Street, but the lungi-clad daily wager looked no less lordly snoozing away a sweltering afternoon on the back of his cart, or bathing with abandon on the many hydrants that gurgle along the city’s streets. They earned a half a penny worth but they were afforded to believe themselves no less worthy. I hope I don’t sound like I am patronizing poverty; I merely wish to say pelf isn’t a precondition to pride, and Calcutta breathed that almost surreal egalitarianism. Perhaps it still does, but it is no longer possible to be sure. Can it be said for certain that the impulse convulsing across Bengal is an impulse that answers to humanity? Is it an impulse that sings the song Bengal’s great sons have bequeathed mankind? Is it not an impulse amplifying the chasm between shei samay and ei samay? Can anybody be certain that in the run-up to these elections the humanity that was Calcutta has remained a living thing, or not come under assault? I wonder, and I have spoken from the heart; I am told that requires, in New India, an apology. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-46
