08-04-2021||Opinion||Support system: Women’s domestic labour||Women’s domestic labour has been getting judicial recognition as well as political endorsement. In January, the Supreme Court emphasized the fact that the value of a woman’s work at home is no less than that of her office-going husband. Compensating women’s domestic work has now found support among political leaders such as Shashi Tharoor and Kamal Haasan. It was even part of the seven-point agenda of the latter’s party for the Tamil Nadu polls. Such support is not entirely altruistic; it is tied to the spike in the importance of Indian women as a voting constituency. A 2019 study found that women voters have not only increased — the number of women voting in the 2000s rose to 883 for every 1,000 men from 715 to every 1,000 men in the 1960s — but they have also had a notable impact on re-election outcomes. This was evident in the results of the 2019 general elections. Narendra Modi won considerable support from women voters. Another reason for the new-found support for wages for domestic work was the redistribution of traditional division of domestic labour during the lockdown. With men being forced to lend a hand at home in the absence of domestic staff, there was some appreciation of the need to compensate women for their chores. Recognition and appreciation by the powers that be need not guarantee meaningful change. For the latter to take place, women must have an equal stake in devising policy concerning their roles and rights. This, however, remains a pipe dream; the representation of women in Indian politics declined sharply from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021. The women’s reservation bill has been awaiting passage in Parliament for more than a decade. The absence of women in institutions of influence has led to other blind spots. There has, for one, been an alarming drop in the participation of women in the nation’s labour force; from 30.3 per cent in 1990, it plummeted to 20.3 percent in 2020. Social conservatism — women often leave the labour force so that they can perform household work — gender bias at the workplace, poor wage rates, absence of maternity leave and the lack of safety are some of the causal factors. Reversing the declining labour participation rate among women requires simultaneous interventions at multiple levels — greater enrolment of women in education, supportive families, sensitive legislation that secures employment guarantees and so on. But all of this can happen if the scale and the layers of the challenge are recognized first.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Fallen off the map: China’s treatment of Uighurs||Sir — In recent months, several major Western retailers have expressed concern over China’s treatment of the Uighurs in the country’s cotton-growing Xinjiang district. Companies including H&M, Adidas, Burberry and Nike have been penalized for questioning China’s actions in this region — online shops of some brands have been blocked and the location of their stores have vanished from certain digital maps. While it is good to see brands prioritize human rights concerns over profit, there is little that the international community can do unless the Chinese government introspects and revises its policies in this area. Abhinav Chakraborty,Calcutta Out of control Sir — It is a matter of great concern that competitive clientelism in Indian politics, especially in Tamil Nadu, is escalating with each passing year (“Free for all”, April 6). In Tamil Nadu, where polling in the assembly elections has just concluded, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has promised, among other things, a washing machine and a free cable TV connection if it is voted to power. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, on the other hand, has said that it will provide a tablet to every government school and college student. Moreover, a day after the DMK promised to give Rs 1,000 per month to female family heads, the AIADMK upped the ante by offering Rs 1,500. The Election Commission’s rather restrained guidelines in the model code of conduct have not been able to put an end to such malpractices. Significantly, in the matter of cash, liquor, coupons and freebies in elections, Tamil Nadu seems to leave most other states way behind. Based on poll campaign observations, the EC has characterized more than 50 per cent of assembly seats — 118 out of 234 — to be “expenditure sensitive constituencies”. This is in sharp contrast to the 16 per cent in West Bengal and about 17 per cent in Kerala. At least two recent elections in Tamil Nadu — in the Vellore parliamentary constituency in 2019 and the R.K. Nagar assembly seat in Chennai in 2017 — had to be rescinded owing to exorbitant and unaccounted for cash flows and freebies offered by rival political parties. Such unabashed clientelism is antithetical to free and fair elections. Elections in Tamil Nadu can certainly do with some institutional scrutiny. Hopefully, people will soon begin to see the reality of these giveaways — that these come from the taxes which they themselves pay. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Over the last few years, it has become abundantly clear to the people that all political parties try to grab power by hook or by crook. This is in sharp contrast to the years immediately after the independence of India when parties worked towards the development and welfare of the electorate. They did not attempt to lure voters by offering them any kind of compensation. Nowadays, political parties include promises of freebies — these can be mixer-grinders, musical instruments or even cash prizes — in their election manifestos. The Madras High Court has rightly questioned the Centre and the EC about this practice. The Centre must enact a law governing manifestos and the EC, too, should be diligent in vetting them. The high court’s reported understanding of the distribution of freebies as a corrupt practice is not off the mark. Such actions will only destroy our democratic credentials. Md. Yusuf,Illambazar, Birbhum Sir — The practice of distributing freebies before elections has become a worrying trend in politics. Amidst the ongoing assembly polls in several states, this phenomenon is being debated, once again, with the Madras High Court directing a series of probing questions at the government departments and the EC. There is scope to learn from anti-corruption laws that already exist in India. The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 was enacted to combat corruption in government agencies and public sector businesses. A similar Act with regard to the practice of promising freebies in election manifestos could help curb malpractice. Political parties make outlandish commitments in their manifestos only to forget them when they come to power. It is time they are held accountable for their actions. M.R. Jayanthi,Chennai Way forward Sir — The selection of Rebecca Welch as the first female referee to take charge of an English Football League match is historical. She recently officiated Easter Monday’s game between Harrogate Town and Port Vale in League Two. Welch has become a role model in the world of sports. Surely, many will be encouraged to follow in her footsteps. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Secure grip: Cow slaughter and the National Security Act||Abusing the law may not always go unquestioned. Sitting on petitions challenging preventive detentions under the National Security Act between 2018 and 2020, the Allahabad High Court quashed the orders of district magistrates in 94 of 120 cases and ordered that the detained persons be released. Even though these cases were spread over 32 districts of Uttar Pradesh, the court reportedly noted the frequent similarity of phrasing in first information reports and among district magistrates’ orders. The charge of cow slaughter attracted the NSA most often in these cases. The identical phrases usually related to the place of alleged slaughter, a ‘tip’ to the police by an anonymous informer and the fear and disorder generated by the act that, in some instances, were shown to have prevented people from going to work. The emphasis on chaos was needed to invoke a law meant to prevent acts prejudicial to India’s security and public order, but allowing arrest without formal charge and trial. The high court, however, noting that bail was repeatedly blocked by using the law, also underlined the district magistrate’s ‘non-application of mind’ in a number of cases, lack of due process in others, pronounced that some cases fell under law and order, not the NSA, and that some were first allegations with no precedent. Although alleged cow slaughter is just one of the charges for which the UP administration loves to apply the NSA, the Allahabad High Court’s decisions to quash 94 of all 120 cases is of overwhelming importance. All those detained for alleged cow slaughter were from the minority community. The relation of this to the identical phrases of FIRs and orders that the judges remarked on is inescapable. It lays bare the processes of State-sponsored discrimination; the UP chief minister is one of the Central government’s most prized leaders. Last December, when quashing an NSA detention because of lack of due process, the Allahabad High Court had emphasized that the executive must exercise extreme care when applying an extraordinary law that permits no reference to ordinary laws. Personal liberty was paramount, so all legal and Constitutional safeguards must be in place before preventive detention was imposed. Therefore, when an administration ignores this principle, it can be inferred that it is personal liberty, and not crime, that is being targeted. Fear follows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Tips to sustain the great game||Lord Harris, the captain of England in 1878-79 and a founder member of the Imperial Cricket Council, once said, “You do well to love cricket, because it is more free from anything sordid, anything dishonourable than any game in the world. To play it keenly, generously, self-sacrificingly is a moral lesson in itself, and the classroom is God’s air and sunshine. Foster it, my brothers, so that it may attract all who find time to play it, protect it from anything that will sully it, so it may grow in favour with all men.” While the game has gone beyond men, the time factor is continuously driving its evolution. The test of skill, patience, resolve and tenacity over a period of five days is seemingly losing its charm in this era of breakneck speed. Shorter formats — ODI, Twenty20, T10, The Hundred — are becoming popular. Fans are an integral part of any sport; they are the principal consumers. The media, sponsors, administrators and players — in that order — trail them for their interest. Would this lead to a slow but certain extinction of Test cricket? The International Cricket Council has taken a number of measures — Day/Night Tests, four-day matches, a World Test Championship — to ensure its survival. Incidentally, the ICC’s market survey (2017-18) showed that there is a ‘market’ for all three ‘products’; out of a fan base of a billion, 70, 88, 92 per cent fans are interested in Test, ODI and T20 cricket, respectively. But the ICC chief’s concern with the financial viability of Test matches suggests a bleak future for Test cricket. In order to understand the psyche of fans behind liking any particular format — Test, ODI, T20 — a study based out of Calcutta was conducted by this author. It found no link between gender and preference for a format, even though age group appeared to be influential. The younger generation appears to like T20 while older fans enjoy Tests. In order to understand such ‘consumer behavior’, the study devised a construct — REST — to measure overall preference for a format. REST comprises four major dimensions: Result, Excitement, Skill and Time and Money. Apart from a game producing a result, the analysis revealed that close competition between teams leads to uncertainty of outcome, which, in turn, leads to enormous thrill for fans. A predictable or no result does not enchant fans. They also like formats that promote greater innovation in batting, bowling, fielding and even wicket-keeping and promise nail-biting finishes. The skill component comprises the different aspects of batting, bowling, fielding — aggressive or defensive. Finally, fans spend time and money to follow a game. When this concept was used to explain fans’ preference for a particular format using a ‘Structural Equation Model’ — an advanced multivariate statistical analysis that deals with the structural relationships between latent constructs like REST and measured variables like overall liking — the study revealed that ODI happens to be the most balanced in respect to REST parameters and attracts all generations almost equally. Result and Skill were found to be insignificant in explaining the preference for Test cricket and T20, respectively. Excitement was the most dominant factor to explain the preference for T20 whereas skill determined admiration for Test matches. This implies that the fans who love Test matches consider the display of various cricketing skills to be the most important factor and Result to be the least important aspect, while a T20 aficionado is inclined towards excitement rather than skill. These findings provide a hint to the ICC if it wants to ‘cross-sell’: attract the younger and the older generations to Test and T20 versions, respectively. In order to promote Test cricket, matches must be result-oriented and prove to be close encounters. T20 cricket needs to be a more skilful affair to interest older fans. Cricket is a beautiful game. It is ever-evolving with diverse formats, rules and championships. One needs to nurture these formats carefully so that each has a context. This may depend upon a country’s cricketing ability and popularity. Stay tuned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
08-04-2021||Opinion||Vision for the future||Some three decades ago, I decided to start working with adivasis and nomadic people. My workplace was Tejgadh, a village in eastern Gujarat. It is situated at the foot of a rocky hill and is skirted by the wide bed of the seasonally flooding Orsang river. The hill has hidden in it ancient caves with rock paintings from a period between 12,000 to 15,000 years before our time. The paintings in the caves should remind one of Mahasweta Devi’s classic, Pterodactyl, invoking a mythical bird and the agony of contemporary adivasi life. It was here that I decided to create the Adivasi Academy. I chanced upon Mahasweta Devi a few years later, and she accepted my invitation to visit the Adivasi Academy. After having a dip in the stream of the Orsang river and visiting the caves with the rock paintings — like the ones she had visualized in Pterodactyl — the first thing she said to me was that she would like to breathe her last at Tejgadh. In my long years of work with her, she would often repeat this desire. A decade and a half later she passed away in her son’s house in Calcutta. In order to respect her wish, I brought her ashes to Tejgadh and created a modest memorial, made of interwoven arches positioned on a red-brick pedestal with an inscription which reads, “Every dream has the right to live” (picture). In physical height, this memorial may be the shortest among memorials one has seen. In a sharp contrast — about 70 kilometres south as the crow flies — is the Statue of Unity installed to remember Sardar Patel. A few weeks ago, I had called young activists from many parts of India to meet at the Adivasi Academy. The purpose was to understand the situation in every state, going beyond reports one receives through the media. When all of us were seated around the Mahasweta memorial, I asked them to read the inscription and enquired what their unfulfilled dreams were. Those who came from Uttarakhand mentioned the melting glaciers, the fragile environment, its continuous degradation, the outward migration of the jobless hill people and the devastated social fabric. The friends from Nagaland complained about the lack of understanding among mainland Indians of the complex Naga history and society and about an increasing alienation. A friend from Meghalaya angrily added that unceasing mining has destroyed the legendary beauty of the Garo, Khasi and Jaintia hills alike. Kashmiri friends spoke with voices heavy with emotion about the complete disruption of normal liberties. Adivasi friends from the central states spoke about the plunder of their forests and rivers by big companies and the pauperization of folks going to cities in hordes in search of employment. Friends from Uttar Pradesh brought in the question of a deep social discord and the lack of opportunities. The Punjabi friends had a lot to say about the woes of farmers. Those from Maharashtra mentioned how the progressive ideas of Jyotiba Phule and Babasaheb Ambedkar had all been forgotten. The Tamil Nadu folks added that Periyar’s dream of an equal society has been entirely put in cold storage and big money and towering celluloid images have been dominating public life. The Karnataka friends highlighted nepotism, casteism and the decline of the egalitarian thoughts of Basavanna and Akkama. A Dalit leader from Gujarat said that he would like to collect small bits of brass and copper from every Dalit in India, mint a large coin out of them with Dr Ambedkar’s imprint and gift it to the president of India for laying at the foundation of the new Parliament building. Women present there spoke with great anxiety about how terrified they feel while expressing themselves in thought, emotion or costume. What Muslims and Christians said was not much different in tenor. Our discussion continued for several hours. My simple question had resulted in unpacking a wide array of historical deceptions and injustices, a longing for creating a society with at least minimum decency and a sense of justice. The seemingly artless words of the inscription had opened up so many wounds. The yearning of my friends in that discussion made it difficult for me to have normal sleep that night. During it, I dreamt, and I am not sure if they were dreams, delusions or debates in my mind. I saw things not so easily to be seen in real life in our time: newly constructed shelters, all clean and with good toilets and drinking water for migrant labourers; ministers and government officials mourning for the dead among the agitating farmers, and farmers celebrating the repeal of the Acts; home ministry officials telling migrants in Assam that no certificate proving their religion is required for asylum and citizenship. In one part of the dream sequence, I saw lynch mobs asking for forgiveness from all the men and women they had ever lynched, and the police accepting FIRs from victims as per the law book. The courtrooms in my dream had entrances adorned with the words, “Justice shall be given equally to all”. In another part of my long dream, I noticed religious fanatics of all shades drowning some books in the Arabian Sea. On asking them what those books contained, they said in many languages, “Oh, these were our books of hate words”. I also saw other books that probably were hospital registers, which showed no deaths of children for want of food or medicine. The National Crime Records Bureau records showed no new incidents of farmers’ suicide or the molestation and rape of women. I also saw a large gathering of mediapersons, but none of them looked scared and intimidated. Strange dream, indeed! I could see in it images, posters, statues and just empty shadows of martyrs who died for India’s freedom — scientists, thinkers, saints, artists, industrialists, sportspersons and mass leaders who made India a free and modern nation. When I opened my eyes, I tried hard to recall if one of the statues I had seen was actually of Rabindranath. Or was it someone else trying to look like him? I concluded that it indeed was Gurudev, for the words inscribed on the pedestal were, “Where the mind is without fear...” These words would sound so hollow if said by any deliberately made-up look-alike. And I said, almost spontaneously, “Khela hobe”. I am sure Mahasweta would have understood my dream. Her deep Bangla compassion for all lives and celebration of freedom, echoed by many Indians in an adivasi village in Gandhi’s Gujarat, are what the idea of India is all about. It has the right to live.  The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
