09-04-2021||Opinion||Time to act: Second Covid wave||Sir — In this second wave of Covid-19, the virus is spreading at a faster pace than last year, and the health ministry has alerted the people that the next four weeks are going to be critical (“Get ready”, April 7). Now who is to be held accountable for this situation? The common citizens as well as the authorities have brought this plight upon the country. As lockdowns and strict restrictions were lifted, most people began to flout the norms that should have been followed. Further, the vaccination drive gave the people a false sense of safety; they seemed convinced that if the remedy is already available then the malady cannot be fatal any more. Election campaigns in some states saw leaders and party workers completely ignoring all Covid protocol, since their aim was to amass votes rather than caring for the safety of the people. Rules were allowed to be flouted during religious festivals — congregations took place at various places — simply in order to appease the electorate along the lines of religion. Now the Centre is emphasizing the need for ‘people’s participation’ in controlling the second wave of the pandemic. The cooperation of the people is indeed crucial. Lockdowns can break the economic spine of the nation; the only alternative is to follow safety measures sincerely, keeping in mind that negligence is equal to imperilling oneself, one’s society, and the nation as a whole. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The second wave of Covid-19 appears to be more dangerous than the first as the number of active cases is rising at a rapid pace. This week, on several days, the country recorded a daily spike of over one lakh cases. The Centre has already warned the people about the gravity of the situation. While people were thoroughly scared by the first outbreak of this novel virus strain and tried to follow containment measures undertaken by the government earnestly, now it seems that they have become complacent with regard to following protocol even when they know that such behaviour risks their own lives and jeopardizes the health of others. The rapid spread of the virus in different parts of the country is truly a cause for concern. The situation must be remedied immediately. The pace at which the vaccination drive is being conducted must be increased. More people should be considered for inoculation — the age group covered must be expanded from above 45 to above 30 now. Those who are not following Covid prevention rules should be penalized since the casual approach of some people towards this crisis may prove to be costly for a large part of the population. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — The gravity of the situation with respect to the second wave of Covid-19 can be gauged from the comparative time taken for the spike in cases. While last year, it took 61 days for active cases to jump from 25,000 to 92,000, this time the same number took just 22 days. Governments must be held accountable for this — they ‘unlocked’ the states and allowed gatherings for electioneering, weddings and other festivities without masks or social distancing rules. People were also misled by scientists who predicted the end of the pandemic by February this year. Many people on social media also downplayed the seriousness of the issue. There are only a few remedies now. Door-to-door vaccination is a must, accompanied by an increase in testing and tracing. The government should focus on strengthening the healthcare infrastructure of the country. All gatherings — political and social — must be cancelled at once. Finally, it needs to be ensured that lockdown norms are followed strictly. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Back in focus Sir — The Congress has demanded an independent probe into the Rs 60,000 crore Rafale jet deal after a section of the French media claimed that Dassault agreed to pay one million euros as bribe to a middleman in India. The government has been asked if this merits a ban on the company. There must be an explanation from and action on the part of the government so that the people of India can find out the truth. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — There seems to be no end to the Rafale controversy. Even as new Rafale aircraft are arriving in India, allegations of bribery in the purchase have reared their head. While the case must no doubt be thoroughly investigated, the Opposition should also find new ammunition to attack the Centre with. Koushik Pal,Calcutta  Alarm bells Sir — Having lived in Calcutta for a while, I have come to know my locality like the back of my hand. But something seemed unfamiliar last evening. Soon I figured that I had never seen the lanes this clean with all the street lights working. This should not have been surprising; it is ‘election season’ after all, and the government is going all out to get people’s votes. But this trend is not unique to Bengal. Across India, polls serve as an alarm for ruling regimes. The prime minister had once said that there should be one election in the nation. On the contrary, there should be polls round the year to keep governments on their toes. Sangeeta Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||Money bags: SC allows sale of electoral bonds||While dismissing the petition seeking to stay the sale of electoral bonds before assembly elections began in several states, the Supreme Court had said that there is no illegality or anonymity in the periodic issuing of these documents since adequate firewalls are in place on the basis of the suggestions of the Reserve Bank of India and the Election Commission. The apex court’s nod has enabled the finance ministry to launch its quarterly sale of bonds to political outfits. The window period, on this occasion, will last till April 10. In spite of the highest court’s assurance, it will be fair to say that murmurs about the opacity of the mechanism persist. Earlier, every transaction greater than the value of Rs 20,000 had to be reported to the EC: this clause has been done away with in order to uphold donors’ secrecy. There is worry that this kind of anonymity could lead to the creation of a quid pro quo arrangement between business donors with deep pockets and the government. Such a patron-client relationship is disastrous for democratic equality; the party in government, flush with funds from influential donors, would have an unfair advantage over its rivals during elections; its patron, too, is likely to have considerable leverage on the levers of power on account of being the financer. There is also evidence that the field of electoral financing is far from equal. Before the last Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party had raised the lion’s share of its finances — 61 per cent — through this shadowy portal of electoral bonds, raising allegations of the deepening of the ties between State and corporations. Reservations have also been expressed — the EC had raised this very point earlier — that electoral bonds could encourage the channelling of black money into politics. The EC’s change of stance on the matter is mystifying. Opacity is antithetical to democracy. The Supreme Court has repeatedly highlighted the importance of transparency: in a path-breaking judgment, the court had made it compulsory for contestants to declare their assets and criminal antecedents, if any, while filing nominations. The thrust towards transparency should be taken forward to create a citizens’ fund for political donations that can be accessed on the basis of political performance or other parameters that safeguard the spirit of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||On hold: RBI keeps policy rates unchanged||The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee has decided, as was anticipated by most experts, to keep policy rates unchanged at 4 per cent (repo rate) and 3.35 per cent (reverse repo rate). The forecast for gross domestic product growth rate for 2021-22 remains at 10.5 per cent. The standstill in monetary policy comes at a time when uncertainty regarding growth as well as inflation has increased due to the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. The inflation rate of the consumers’ price index is around 5 per cent, well within the tolerance corridor of 2-6 per cent. Since inflation is above the target rate of 4 per cent and economic growth is indicated to be at a healthy double-digit, there is no point in reducing rates to emphasize the central bank’s accommodative policy stance. If the growth rate falters, or the inflation rate starts climbing, the RBI might have to consider interest rate changes depending on whether inflationary forces or growth hurdles turn out to be stronger. The RBI has also claimed that during 2020-21, it ended up with open market purchases of government securities to the tune of Rs 3.13 lakh crore. The central bank has, therefore, introduced a new scheme of secondary-market government securities acquisition programme termed G-SAP 1.0 for the current year. Under this arrangement, the RBI will make an upfront commitment to buy a specified amount of government securities to ensure that the yield curve of G-sec does not move suddenly and sharply. Orthodox monetary policy would avoid such a measure since it might appear to be a way of controlling yields and not letting the market determine interest rates. The RBI has emphasized strongly that this is not the objective. Its goal is to avoid volatility in yields and ensure a stable liquidity position. This is important since the yield curve is used as a benchmark in the pricing of many financial market instruments. Under the new scheme, the RBI has already announced an amount of Rs 1 lakh crore purchases during the first quarter of this year. The markets are certain to carefully track the impact on yield curves and judge to what extent it might turn out to be a proxy for exerting influence on the pricing of many financial market instruments. In short, the RBI has wisely put on hold any tinkering with policy rates in a situation that seems to be under control. But the new clouds of uncertainty hovering in the near future could make interest rates go up or down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||When Left Feels Right||When the forces both from the Left and the Right are getting aggressive and blinkered, when it has become difficult to exchange ideas with some semblance of affability, the long-established liberal values of tolerance, difference and dissent have prompted freedom-loving people to converse through disagreements intrinsic to a robust democratic system. Why then should the State feel a certain sense of disquiet at resistance? The Black Lives Matter Movement or the farmers’ protests are striking examples of the stamina of resistance movements to safeguard the basic human right of equality. Slavery, industrialization and today’s scourge of neoliberalism have been confronted by a resurgence in public opposition to the fervour of the Far Right, thereby replicating the drive for participatory democracy through opposition to the rise of capital, consumerism, and the free market economy. However, it is worrisome to see Left intellectuals glossing over, if not wholly condoning, the violence that comes out of resistance. State violence is to be condemned; but does it automatically follow that resistance violence is to be commended? This is a moral dilemma that neither Hannah Arendt (On Violence) nor other liberal minds confront squarely. But in his seminal work, Violence and the Sacred, René Girard argues that the need for disagreement is both sacred as well as an imperative for the evolution of democratic institutions. In an over-regulated political system with symptoms of a low trust government, the only remedy lies in the defiance of the official discourse and the doublespeak of the State narrative. This defiance can be transformative with the creation of social, cultural and intellectual spaces of fair play and justice with a deep commitment to equality. As Jacques Derrida points out in Specter of Marx, the ghost in Hamlet is like Marx, haunting human civilization whenever fundamental rights are threatened. Progressive radical thinking, with its substantial impact on history, has been responsible for the birth of the institutions of democracy that we enjoy today. Governments have the potential to translate social movements into legislation. It is possible that the progressive government of Joe Biden is keen on seizing the moment through its perception of the historical context. We in India, too, have much to learn from this and the Occupy Wall Street protests, a clarion call to a commitment to equal opportunity. Liberal action on the insensitive relationship between the police and the citizen, on the criminal justice system, on extremism and racism will depend on the sway the new generation of activists has on the ruling party. The pursuit of social and economic justice calls for a more robust, impartial and self-respecting system at a time when the Left stands discredited across the world. Political parties committed to a democratic manifesto remain spineless without the involvement of the Left with its inherent ability to establish a critical interface with middle-of-the-road liberalism. Likewise, in the absence of a sturdy liberal centre, the Left would decline to autocracy and sectarianism. It is time, therefore, to reclaim the Left as the critical constituent of a democratic structure whose presence is vital to moments of crisis and challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
09-04-2021||Opinion||Poles apart||The Indian government’s rescue and recovery package against the pandemic has been among the most niggardly in the world, amounting, shorn of ‘window-dressing’, to no more than 1 per cent of the gross domestic product. Other third world countries have done better, but not much better. By contrast, advanced countries have unrolled generous rescue packages. The United States of America, even under Donald Trump, released a package of $2 trillion, roughly 10 per cent of its GDP; the Joe Biden administration has announced a further $1.9 trillion, of which about $1 trillion constitutes transfers to the people. Altogether, the US would be spending 20 per cent of its GDP on such packages (although not in a single year). The European Union, too, has had substantial rescue packages during the pandemic. These packages have meant significant fiscal deficits. The International Monetary Fund encouraged enhanced government expenditures during the pandemic and, hence, implicitly larger fiscal deficits, not just in the advanced countries but even in the third world. This has given rise to a belief that it has abandoned its usual insistence on ‘austerity’ in these special times. Oddly, however, according to an Oxfam study, recent IMF loans to third world countries have almost invariably enjoined ‘austerity’ upon the borrowers. Oxfam found that of the 91 loan agreements signed by the IMF with 81 third world countries after March 2020, as many as 76 encouraged or required ‘austerity’ measures. These included cuts in public expenditure, including public healthcare expenditure and pension payments. They imposed wage-freezes or wage-cuts that would reduce the incomes of doctors, nurses and other workers in public healthcare facilities as well as cuts in unemployment benefits and sick pay. Such measures have been standard IMF prescription for decades. Their incorporation into loan agreements even during the pandemic suggests that the IMF not only discriminates between rich and poor countries but also that when it comes to the latter, its pious pronouncements signify nothing. It is not just the discrimination during the pandemic that is worrying; what is of concern is what happens afterwards. The world capitalist economies have, for long, been saddled with massive unemployment (which was only aggravated by the pandemic), although this fact is camouflaged by reduced worker participation rates because of the ‘discouraged worker effect’. Now, even after the pandemic abates, the advanced countries are unlikely to go back to a regime of fiscal rectitude such as that demanded by finance capital and articulated by the IMF. In fact, Biden’s rescue package has elements that are non-transitory and will endure even after the pandemic. We may be witnessing, in short, a revival of State intervention in demand management in the advanced countries under the cover of the pandemic. This is excellent news, for otherwise workers suffer through mass unemployment just to satisfy the caprices of finance that is opposed to such State intervention. (Joan Robinson, the renowned economist, had called the view that fiscal deficits should be eschewed or restricted in all circumstances the “humbug of finance”). The problem arises when we have governments stimulating economic activity in the advanced countries while governments in the third world are forced to adopt ‘austerity’. A growing developed world and a languishing third world, one may think, cannot possibly co-exist as the former is bound to pull up the latter. But Trump has already introduced protectionism in the US (which had started in a small way even under Barack Obama) and other advanced countries are likely to emulate the US. This means that the relocation of activities from the ‘North’ to the ‘South’, exemplified by the shift of manufacturing to China and of services to India, that had characterized neoliberal globalization till recently, could well be coming to an end. A boom in the advanced countries then will not pull up any third world country via this route and income compression imposed on the local population through anti-inflationary policies in the third world would ensure that prices of primary commodities supplied by it do not rise too much and have only limited growth-enhancing effects. Such a global divide, if it occurs, would break from what we have been witnessing under neoliberalism in two important ways. One, the distress of workers in the advanced countries would be somewhat ameliorated. This is necessary for the system since their restiveness constitutes a threat to it that can no longer be contained by resorting to a diversionary, neo-fascist discourse against the ‘Other’. Two, the big corporates of the third world would shift their activities even more to the global plane away from stagnant local economies without feeling constrained by such stagnation. This would mean an end to the recently-achieved de-segmentation of the world economy. During colonial rule, metropolitan capitalism had brought about a segmentation of the world economy: labour from the ‘south’ was not allowed to migrate freely to the ‘north’ (it still is not), and capital from the ‘north, although allowed to migrate freely to the ‘south’, never actually did so, except to areas like mines and plantations that refurbished the colonial pattern of international division of labour; and capital from the ‘south’, hemmed in by racial discrimination and a hostile colonial environment, faced protectionist barriers in the ‘north’. The ‘north’ and the ‘south’, therefore, got segmented. The ‘north’ developed high-productivity manufacturing; its labour market, made relatively tight by massive migration to the ‘new world’, allowed a rise in workers’ wages. The ‘south’, stuck with producing primary commodities, had its workers earning subsistence wages, placed amidst vast labour reserves created by the destruction of craft production through the ‘drain of surplus’ and through competition from imports. Neoliberal globalization effected some de-segmentation, as capital from the ‘north’ at long last located plants in the ‘south’ to take advantage of the latter’s low wages for producing for a global market. But, if there is protectionism in the ‘north’ against non-traditional exports from the ‘south’, and if the latter experiences stagnation and, hence, stagnant markets, then we shall see a re-segmentation of the world economy, with the working people of the ‘south’ consigned to acute distress. Even in the heyday of neoliberal globalization, as the Indian case testifies, there was an increase in the poverty ratio despite extraordinary growth. It does not follow, however, that the cessation of growth would mean a reduction in poverty. The poverty-engendering factors under neoliberalism, namely the undermining of petty production, especially peasant agriculture, will continue to operate even as the growth-rate collapses, which will only aggravate poverty and unemployment further. The three new farm bills in India, introduced in the midst of acute distress, make this clear. The IMF’s discriminatory behaviour thus portends great distress for the working people of the ‘south’, not just during the pandemic, but even afterwards. Two counteracting forces may be adduced against the scenario sketched above. One, finance would move ‘south’ en masse if the ‘north’ resorts to any fiscal stimulation of demand; but this, if it happens (and there are limits to the extent to which finance will flow ‘south’), will only mean that the entire world economy would remain submerged in crisis. The other is world-wide protests against the IMF’s discriminatory behaviour. If these do not succeed, then the ‘south’ will have little option except to delink from a globalization that promotes a re-segmentation of the world. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-45
