10-04-2021||Opinion||Take note: Toxic impact of pesticides on bees||Sir — New research has found that the toxic impact of pesticides on bees and other pollinators has doubled in spite of a drop in the amount of chemicals used. This is shameful. The study — based on the use and toxicity of 380 pesticides from 1992 to 2016 — shows that even if used in less quantities, pesticides can have a high level of toxicity. This indicates that efforts to reduce the harmful impact of pesticides on the environment have not been enough. Scientists have emphasized the importance of bees to human survival as they pollinate food crops. Any further fall in their numbers will destroy the delicate balance of the Earth’s ecosystem and affect global food supplies. Ria Sarkar,Calcutta Proud moment Sir — As a veteran actor with a long and illustrious career, Rajinikanth rightly deserves the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award (“Dadasaheb Phalke for Rajini just before polls”, April 2). For over four decades, Rajinikanth has been one of the most prominent figures in Indian cinema whose cult status remains unmatched. The contrast between Rajini’s on-screen characters — with their outlandish antics and style statement — and his simplicity and modesty in real life has endeared him to the masses. It was a wonderful gesture on the part of the superstar to dedicate the award to his bus driver friend, Raj Bahadur, who recognized his talent for acting and supported him during his struggling days. People like him are few and far between. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The decision of the government to confer the Dadasaheb Phalke award on the superstar, Rajinikanth — his distinct body of work spans decades — must be supported. Few in the field of Indian cinema have endeared themselves to the masses the way Rajinikanth has. While there is no doubt that the award is well-deserved, the Centre’s timing is indeed questionable. The announcement came days before the Tamil Nadu polls. Given that he has a strong — almost fanatic — fan base in the state, the decision had the potential to tilt public opinion in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party, giving it an unfair advantage. Had the timing been right, it would have been a moment of unbridled joy and celebration. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — There is no question that Rajinikanth should have been honoured with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award. However, the timing of the announcement is suspicious. Nevertheless, this is a moment of pride for the Tamil film industry. Chandan Kumar Nath,Guwahati Safety measures Sir — It was wonderful to learn that researchers at the Birla Institute of Technology,  Mesra have developed a filtration system for eliminating arsenic from groundwater. People in several states, particularly Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal, are vulnerable to the health problems caused by a high level of arsenic in water. Access to clean water is a human right. Hopefully, this low cost system will soon become widely available to the masses. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — There is little point in institutes coming up with cost-effective technology if governments do not make it widely available to people. This includes not just a financial commitment but also a significant amount of ground work. Roshni Sen,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — The ace sailor, Nethra Kumanan, must be congratulated for becoming the first Indian woman sailor to qualify for the Olympics (“Nethra does a first”, April 8). The 23-year-old had a 21-point advantage over her nearest rival — another Indian athlete, Ramya Saravanan — in the Laser Radial Class event. It is hoped that Kumanan will perform to the best of her abilities in the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. This is a proud moment for India as a nation. The sports ministry must extend its full support to Kumanan. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Opinion||Bristled beauties||Sukumar Ray may have got it wrong: whiskers — the gnof — may not have been the correct cipher for a shared solidarity. That honour, if New, Brave, Modern India is any indication, belongs to the moustache’s bushier cousin: the beard. That the beard has clipped whiskers’ wings and entered the hall of fame of culture and haute couture can be deduced from a glance at the gallery of India’s Most Wanted Men at the moment. The prime minister sports a handsome beard, ignoring jibes that his growing beard is inversely proportional to the nation’s shrinking economy. In the regimental party that he leads, the prime minister’s lieutenants have started sneering, in a manner of speaking, at lather and razor. When Narendra Modi was returned to power, one estimate found that as many as 18 of Mr Modi’s colleagues admired the beard — trimmed or long. Since cricket and politics mix well in the country, it was only apt that an almost entirely bearded Indian cricket team journeyed to play a World Cup. Of course, there has never been anything facile about facial hair when it comes to men. Charles Darwin believed that bearded men got the best women in primitive societies but modernity has weaponized the beard by embellishing it with other kinds of potency. Long hair and beard have, for long, served as emblems of asceticism: indeed, the sagely visage of the prime minister may not be a coincidence. Only a sage’s wisdom can help India crawl out of the deep hole that it finds itself in. The other virtue of the bearded is, apparently, their masculinity. Be it on the political minefield or the cricketing arena, India needs to be shepherded by Men and not Boys: the latter, unfortunately, do not have the beard on their side. Such ingredients as aggression, dominance and virility — represented by the beard — are being used to cook up the broth of a hyper-masculinity to quench the thirst of the country. There is, then, a case to argue that the Bearded Man is threatening the extinction of his Metrosexual brother who had, some years ago, taken the post-industrial order by storm by embracing a neat, mellow, even androgynous self. Does the latter’s demise signal a broader cultural shift away from civility, orderliness, decorum, inclusiveness — the elements that were integral to a quieter, peaceful world? Perhaps the ‘bushymen’ ought to think about this — stroking their facial locks to come up with a rebuttal. Curiously, the popularity of the beard — 55 per cent of men in the world are said to have one — has not made it democratic. It remains distinctly discriminatory, much like some of the grizzled political leaders. In an increasingly polarized India, beards of some communities are codes to unleash vilification and violence. And the sight of a bearded woman is, usually, a hair-raising experience across lands and cultures. Can the beard, if not the country, be made representative at least?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Opinion||A different welcome: Easter celebrated in America||Easter was celebrated on Sunday in America and around the world. Typically, parades and public Easter egg hunts mark the celebration, but this Easter and the last one were anything but typical. While vaccinations are increasing, the United States of America is still grappling with the coronavirus. Yet, Sunday saw the sun shining and flowers blooming, seeming to finally welcome spring. During the White House press briefing, as the press secretary, Jen Psaki, concluded with the reporters, a life-sized Easter bunny with a mask on popped into the room and handed out Easter candy to reporters. The White House’s traditional Easter Egg Roll was cancelled again owing to the pandemic, but President Joe Biden delivered some public remarks on the holiday, with the Easter bunny making another appearance. On the other hand, the former president, Donald Trump, welcomed Easter by issuing a statement about the “Radical Left CRAZIES who rigged our Presidential Election, and want to destroy our Country!” Easter is one of the biggest Christian holidays. However, churches are still feeling the effects of the pandemic. They have had to broadcast their services or resort to Zoom. On April 3, the Empire State Building sparkled and lit up like an Easter egg with the colours of spring. Americans spent almost $3 billion on Easter this year with a lot of the money going towards gifts and candy. Spring blossoms While Easter signals the start of spring, so does the bloom of cherry blossom trees across the nation, especially in Washington DC. In Kyoto, Japan, their flowers reached what is known as “peak bloom” on March 26: the earliest reported bloom since the year 812. It all started in 1912 when 3,000 cherry blossom trees were gifted to the US by the Japanese — these line the Potomac River in Maryland. As a result, every year the National Cherry Blossom Festival celebrating Japanese culture is held. “We continue to celebrate the roots of that and honour the culture and history of Japan and that is really important to us,” the president of the National Cherry Blossom Festival, Diana Mayhew, told The National. The festival usually draws in over a million people but Covid-19 has dampened the turnout these past two seasons. The Tidal Basin in DC is typically lined with trees, and this year saw clusters of people gathered around. However, the celebrations expand into the surrounding streets and restaurants with art shows, special deals and now 26 cherry blossom sculptures. The festival also hosts a design competition for artists. Even though celebrations were muted this year, a 3D cherry blossom-themed light projection was cast on the side of a building in northeast DC. You can see the trees grow, and its leaves and flowers blossom and then fall to the ground.Art exchange Greenpoint, a small neighbourhood in Brooklyn, New York, has recently become the art hub that will also take you on a treasure hunt. Steve Wasterval, a local artist, has been hiding miniature paintings he has made of the local scenery around the city in plastic Easter eggs while handing out hints to those who want to embark on this unique Easter egg hunt. Each painting is 2x1.5 inches big and depicts local, public areas like parks and cafes. Wasterval’s usually large paintings sell for $2,000-$3,000. But those would be tough to hide in the crevice of a telephone pole or a bus stand. Wasterval told NY Post that people have been asking him if they can just buy the miniature paintings instead. “I just happily tell them ‘No, you’ve got to find one,’” he said. “They’re special in that way. You can only find them.” He kicks off the painting hunt on Instagram by posting a photo of the painting near its hiding spot to give people a head start. He began this unique game three years ago but it has gained huge popularity recently, making it easier to find the treasures. On the other hand, in Greenpoint one may have easier access to free artwork. NBK Little Gallery is a free, tiny public art gallery in Greenpoint that runs completely based on trust and exchange of art similar to the ‘free books’ stands in some residential neighbourhoods. It is maintained by volunteers but essentially curated by strangers among the public. The artworks are kept in an abandoned ATM box. People can leave what they want and take what they want.Pop the question One of the big questions on people’s minds is, when can I kiss a stranger again? Dating during the pandemic was difficult; now, with the vaccine rollout, how do people ask their date if they have been vaccinated or not? Unsurprisingly, people are updating their online dating profiles to reflect whether or not they have received the vaccine, including which one. According to The New York Times, there has been a 258 per cent increase in the mention of vaccines on profiles on an online dating app. The San Francisco-based dating app, Coffee Meets Bagel, now has a feature that lets singles declare whether they are fully vaccinated, waiting for an additional dose, planning to get vaccinated, not getting vaccinated, or prefer not to say. The app’s co-founder, Dawoon Kang, said the app has been surveying people’s attitude towards dating and vaccination; for 78 per cent, it is a deal-breaker if their date does not take Covid-19 seriously. Kang added that 43 per cent of users have mentioned that if they come across a profile that says the person has been vaccinated, they are more likely to like the profile. Another report stated that profiles with a ‘yes’ to the question, “Will you get the Covid-19 vaccine?”, on the dating app, OkCupid, were getting liked at a rate of 25 per cent higher than those that answered ‘no’. Seeing someone’s vaccination status or even their anti-vaccination stance enables an app user to make an informed choice. This is a unique scenario that few would have thought of pre-pandemic.Footnote In a small town in North Carolina, a stray dog was caught trying to enter a Dollar General store. It was discovered that he just wanted to take the store’s purple unicorn plush toy. He attempted this thievery not once, but five times. The store called animal control, but instead of a punishment they ended up buying the toy for the little, furry robber. The dog, Sisu, and his unicorn were quickly adopted a day later, according to the animal services’ post on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
10-04-2021||Opinion||Shadow lengthens||I have been reading a new book on the Gujarat riots of 2002 titled Undercover: My Journey Into the Darkness of Hindutva. It is written by Ashish Khetan, who did some excellent reporting on the aftermath of the riots, particularly on the process by which the perpetrators went unpunished. Undercover is an important resource for scholars seeking to understand a bloody pogrom that occurred two decades ago. However, it also speaks directly to the present, since the regime that ruled in that state then is now in power at the Centre. “In Modi’s Gujarat,” writes Khetan, “if a bureaucrat or a police officer wanted to rise up the ranks, he had to implicate himself fully in the system’s deceit.” With Narendra Modi as prime minister and Amit Shah as home minister, this has become true of the Central government as well. And not just of bureaucrats and police officers either. Before 2014, official economic statistics issued by the Government of India were admired the world over for their reliability. Now, scholars don’t trust them anymore. In every sector, whether economics or health or education or electoral funding, deceit and dissembling, rather than truth and transparency, characterize the behaviour of this government. Another consequence of the Gujarat Model being adopted countrywide has been the shrinkage of space for debate and dissent. To quote Khetan again: “Tools honed and deployed over twelve years in Gujarat are now being used on a national scale to subvert, harass and demonise dissent, with critics of Modi characterised, and often jailed, as opponents of and threats to the nation.” To suppress peaceful dissent, the Modi-Shah regime has resorted to the arbitrary and excessive use of State power. The police and the intelligence agencies have been set to work to arrest individuals without notice, haul them off to jail, and — once they are safely behind bars — to begin assembling ‘evidence’ against them. Last year, the Delhi Police used the pretext of the February riots to come down with a savage hand on student leaders and feminist activists who had nothing to do with the riots, while refusing even to file FIRs against top BJP leaders who had openly called for violence. Of the police’s partisan handling of the riot cases, Julio Ribeiro wrote: “The patent injustice of Delhi Police’s approach is what riles the conscience of this old policeman.” The malign intent of the State is manifest in, among other things, the proclivity of the police to make arrests on weekends, when courts are closed and lawyers not at hand. It is also manifest in the regular recourse to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, an extraordinary harsh piece of legislation whose offence provisions are (as one legal analyst writes) “criminally overbroad, excessively vague, and nothing short of a legislative carte blanche to state-sponsored violations of fundamental rights.” The partisanship of the police, at the Centre and in the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, is demonstrated by the differential treatment of citizens according to their political affiliation. A climate activist tweeting in support of non-violent farmers is sent to jail for sedition; a politician calling for dissenters to be shot keeps his cabinet post. In town after town, the police indulgently look on as rowdy young men go from locality to locality, demanding that citizens donate money for a cause that is not their own. Vigilantism in support of the BJP is encouraged by the State even as peaceful expression by independent voices is met with imprisonment. Senior police officers taking orders from politicians in power is, of course, an old phenomenon in India. And it occurs in states not ruled by the BJP too, as the case of Maharashtra most recently shows. However, what is especially disturbing in the Modi-Shah regime is the communalization of the police force. Again, this is not entirely new — as far back as the 1980s, the police in several states of northern India were seen to be softer on trouble-makers from the majority community than on trouble-makers from the minority community. Now this majoritarian bias seems to have become more naked and explicit. In an article in The Indian Express, Vibhuti Narain Rai, a retired police officer whose integrity matches that of Julio Ribeiro, writes of a recent series of attacks by Hindutva mobs on Muslim homes in Madhya Pradesh. A video of these attacks caught an “unusual visual of a police inspector, his head hung in shame with two Hindutva zealots carrying saffron flags and a trident”. The inspector was embarrassed and ashamed, writes Rai, because “he and his colleagues were forced to watch hooligans plundering houses, beating hapless men and women and flaunting flags — all before the ashen faces of a large contingent of policemen.” The visual shocked Rai, who, like Ribeiro, always wore his own khaki uniform with honour, seeking to prevent violence before it occurred regardless of the consequences to his own professional future. Tragically, there are ever fewer officers of such courage and calibre in service anymore. And so, as Rai sadly writes, “a new unwritten Madhya Pradesh Police manual has emerged, where the police are not supposed to resist the lawbreakers. Rather, it facilitates the thugs by making sufferers leave their houses to take refuge.” In his book, Ashish Khetan writes of Gujarat under Modi that “[n]o government institution, no organ of the state was untouched by communal bias. The Gujarat police fabricated evidence...” The communalism of State agencies at the Central level has intensified since May 2014; and so have bribery and coercion in politics. Money and control of the State apparatus have always had a role in Indian politics; but never, before 2014, such a defining and determining role. The Election Commission’s scheduling of polls in different states is alleged to be influenced by the campaigning preferences of the ruling party. The misuse of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate to harass political opponents was not unknown in Congress times, but the BJP has taken it to a different level altogether. The tiny Union territory of Puducherry was only the latest in a series of states and UTs where Opposition governments were made to fall by the threat of State power and the deep pockets of the BJP working in combination. And as this column was being drafted, the family of a leading Opposition politician in Tamil Nadu was raided, while in Assam a BJP minister threatened a political rival that the National Investigation Agency would be let loose on him. That both states are now witnessing assembly elections is not at all a coincidence. In their quest for total power in Gujarat, Modi and Shah had three sets of allies: a committed civil service and police force, a pliant and propagandist media, and a submissive judiciary. (Of the courts of Gujarat, Khetan writes of how he experienced at first hand “the nadir of our criminal justice system, a subversion of what justice means and should mean to ordinary citizens”.) In their quest for total power in India, Modi and Shah have taken recourse to the same methods. They have had slightly less success, so far, for three reasons: first, several major states are not ruled by the BJP; second, although the major Hindi newspapers and most English and Hindi TV channels cravenly follow the party line, a few English newspapers and websites are still independent; third, although the courts have been timid and weak (especially on such matters as granting bail), there is the occasional judge standing up for individual rights and freedom of expression. However, the overall direction of what Modi and Shah want, and where India is currently headed, is clear. To quote Ashish Khetan one last time: “Majoritarian rule untrammelled by law; the veneer of democracy minus the substance of constitutionalism... the constant undermining of minorities, particularly Muslims; the impunity for Hindu right-wing rioters as opposed to the harsh treatment, including unjustified arrests and imprisonment, meted out to those deemed to be on the opposing ideological side; the persecution of activists and human rights organisations; the misuse and abuse of institutional and judicial processes to target political opponents and dissidents—the systematic manner in which Modi exploits the power of the state to crush any opposition, the sheer scale of state persecution... is without precedent in India.” A society in which one fears rather than trusts the police, where one cannot always expect judges to act fearlessly and without favour, where one’s innocence or guilt can be determined by what religion you belong to or which political party you vote for or fund — such are the consequences of the ‘Gujarat Model’ going national. We are, in institutional terms, farther away from the ideals of the Constitution than at any time since the Emergency of 1975-77 and, in social and moral terms, farther away than any time since the adoption of the Constitution on January 26, 1950 itself. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
