11-04-2021||Opinion||Why give Romeo a bad name?||Who would have thought that a Shakespearean character, a young romantic tragic figure, would reach the pinnacles of infamy in India — in campaign speeches of all things — nearly 500 years after he was imagined? At the time of the 2017 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the BJP had promised that if it came to power it would set up “anti-Romeo squads” to “ensure the safety of college-going girls” and “check eve-teasing”. And now, when the Bengal elections are underway, the “star campaigner” of the BJP, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, has promised the same for this state. For a moment if we were to suspend discussion about women’s safety in UP post the BJP’s big win, and all debate about women’s situation in Bengal as also any comparison with UP, and simply accept Adityanath’s views as right honourable, the question still remains — why give Romeo a bad name? Why give Romeo a bad name? Besides being the prescription of a chauvinistic, moralistic, baton-wielding regimen, the term anti-Romeo is flawed. Shakespeare’s Romeo was a painfully young man, immature and overreaching. When he first appears on scene, he is moping having been rejected by the object of his affections, Rosaline — not Juliet. He woos Juliet passionately, but from a distance. Sample this: “O, that I were a glove upon that hand,/That I might touch that cheek!”. It is Juliet, who is more rooted in realities. In the balcony scene, the 13-year-old says, “I have no joy of this contract to-night;/It is too rash, too unadvis'd, too sudden.” That is fiction. Now for fact. Why not just call eve-teasers, eve-teasers? Why not call the squad, anti-eve-teasing squad or Nari Suraksha Bal or some such? Why not talk about teaching the men some tehzeeb, or going beyond beti bachao and facilitating beti empowerment — compulsory karate lessons from primary school, boxing, judo, taekwondo? Why give poor Romeo a bad name? We in India have loved Romeo for the longest time, though in our interpretation, he will always be less than Devdas. In the 1987 film Dance Dance, Cobra…sorry, Mithunda rolls his bedroom eyes at Mandakini as she sways and sings ‑ Romeo o Romeo/ Janeman tu number one. In Mr Romeo (1996), Prabhu Deva twists his India rubber frame as he sings “Romeo teri kismat hasate gaate khul jaaye/Juliet jaisi pyaari ek haseena mil jaaye.” And in Roop Ki Rani Choron Ka Raja (1993), Anil Kapoor displays much swag as he gives lip to the song Romeo naam mera, chori hai kaam mera. Around the same time, Bengal was discovering Anjan Dutt’s Ranjana Ami Aar Asbo Na. A song about a Muslim schoolboy who has been ticked off and threatened with a beating by Ranjana’s brothers. The whole tragi-comic song is part exhortation and part commentary on society. It is also part promise ‑ Ranjana, ami aar asbo na.../Parbo na hotey ami Romeo/Tai duper bela tumi ghumiyo…” No, Dutta did not impute any blame unto Romeo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||I am the bear and I am Polar||Bear with me, will you please. Because if you choose not to, you know what might happen. I might have to do my own thing. Polar things. I am a Polar bear. I do polar things, which means I separate ends, take things apart this way and that way. That is who I am. That is what I do. It is nothing I can help, I am a consequence of who I am, Polar; and I do polarity. And I do what comes from doing polarity. I stretch it, I pull it till things come apart, this way or that, upper jaw or lower jaw. Can you not see that from the accompanying representation of who I am? At my very best? Things pulled apart? Upper jaw or lower jaw? And can you not see everything or anything between does not exist, as in it has been gulped down the abyss of my limitless hunger? Well. Now you know. Now you know what polarity means because you know polars, or polar bears. Grrrrrrr! Here I come, prepare yourselves, get ready for what I am about to do to you. You are about to taste polarity. You are about to be driven into being a being of this side or that side, you are about to be pulled apart, yanked if yanking is what it would require. I will tell you, in Shakespearean mien, pardon my pomposity, what differences mean and how fundamental and essential differences are. There is this side. There is that side. There is a separation in between. I occupy that separation, I am the Czar of Fractured Things, I break the world into this and that and I create spaces between them, and that space is my empire. I shall sift and separate. I shall be the arbiter of good and bad, acceptable and unacceptable, kosher and sinful, legitimate and illicit, and I shall bring down upon you the consequences of the scheme as I understand it. And as I want it put forth and effected. I am not the first one. I am, most likely, not the last; in fact I can assure you I am not the last of the breed, of the grammarians of polarisation. We are the breed that decrees upon our collective selves the singular essence of differences and what they should mean and require. It requires a bit of pain and the practice of prejudice and the shedding, quite often, of blood but it is an essential thing. Polarity. Polarisation. If we are not polarised, how are we to know one from another? Good from Bad. Pious from Evil? Ours from Theirs? How are we to decide what or who is with us, and who and what is not? We need distinctions. We need differences. We need the dialectic that will prevent us from cosying into the comfort of Oneness, that asinine thing that never got anyone anywhere. Oneness! Folks brag of it as if it were the greatest virtue. But consider how unthinking such bragging is. Oneness. Where would we ever have gotten with Oneness? We would have been a village, a global sprawl of a village. Satisfied. No longer ambitious. Like frogs in a well, croaking oneness and believing that croaking to be the beginning and end of things. Where would we have gotten with Oneness? Nowhere. Where are here because we tore at things, at each other, at each other’s possessions — territory, riches, palaces, provinces of people, women. We came at each other like poles come to poles, with polarity, polarised. That is how some of us became better and other lesser: that is how the world is, better and less. That is the polarity for us here — coursing, convulsing between who would be better and who would prove the other lesser. We did not arrive here from embrace, we arrived here from the emboss of the better upon the lesser, from polarity, whose consequence is polarisation. Polarisation, the word. Where might it come from? Understand, that it comes from bearing fangs, and fangs that tear, from this pole to that. That is why polar. And that is why polarity. Oh, but whatever do I wear Please, I warn thee be ware And get not beyond care Please know, I am a bear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||Catfights over crowns||Beauty with brains — this is the mantra that beauty pageants across the world have repeated ad nauseam to counter allegations of objectifying women. But the organizers of the Mrs Sri Lanka event may need to tweak this to ‘beauty with brawns’. The latest winner of the title, Pushpika de Silva, will vouch for this. Minutes after she was declared Mrs Sri Lanka, the former holder of the title, Caroline Jurie, yanked the crown off Ms de Silva’s head, accusing her of being a divorcee, and thus ineligible for the title. Happily, things were set straight later with the title being returned to the rightful owner — who put out a statement saying she is separated — and Ms Jurie was arrested. Around the same time in Papua New Guinea, another beauty queen was being stripped of her title because she uploaded a video of herself dancing rather provocatively. Over the years, a variety of gratuitous reasons have been cited to snatch away titles from winners of pageants — these range from hidden marriages and secret pregnancies to leaked nude photographs. One winner of Miss Universe became crownless for being too busy with her school to keep up with the rigorous travel schedule she was required to comply with. The reasons speak for themselves. For years, pageants barred women who had abortions, and in certain cases, they still mandate that entrants be single and childless. These policies do not reflect a healthy attitude towards personal choice and liberty of women contestants. Rather, they perpetuate societal reservations regarding women’s agency. Beauty pageants serve as a reminder that notions of beauty of the body are to be restricted by the measuring tape and the judge’s assessment and approval of their physical appeal. The evolution of pageantry swimsuit contests from a one-piece bathing suit, to a two-piece bathing suit, to a bikini is a perfect example of how society continues to expose and objectify women’s bodies. The woman’s body is the focal point rather than her identity, skills and intelligence. Yet, pageants, if conceived imaginatively, can also serve as a symbol of empowerment. In the 1910s, women’s rights activists staged elaborate pageants depicting powerful women throughout history and highlighting the various traits and careers women could aspire to by having participants wear white sashes emblazoned with words such as “Writer” and “Courage”. Suffrage pageants helped popularize the presence of women in the public sphere and made women more comfortable thinking of themselves as agents of change. In recent times, pageants have provided visibility to marginalized communities, including transgender men and women or people of colour. Instead of being critical of these events, perhaps there is a case for using their potential and popularity to challenge and, ultimately, purge deeply entrenched biases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||Shah, the oracle, is sure about Bengal polls; but is he?||When the oracle speaks, there is little room for doubt. In the corridors of power in New Delhi, the only thing on the mind of each and every leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party is West Bengal. Party leaders are obsessed with this eastern state even though assembly elections have taken place in four other places. Many of them have even been heard repeatedly trying to speak in broken Bengali. Talk to anyone in the BJP office and they seem certain of wresting the state when the votes are counted on May 2. The confidence — overconfidence? — has been instilled by none other than the home minister, Amit Shah. The buzz in party corridors is that Shah is absolutely sure of winning Bengal. “When Amitbhai is sure then everybody feels there is no room for any doubt,” one BJP leader revealed. This leader, however, conceded that Shah had exuded similar certainty during the 2015 Bihar polls that the BJP lost badly when the results came in. Some old-timers in the BJP feel that Shah was only trying to demoralize the BJP’s opponent by claiming that the party would win more than 200 seats in Bengal. They fear that a Bihar-like outcome could be awaiting the over-excited party on May 2. Only time will tell if the oracle got it right. Revenge is a dish best served cold. They say that the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, is a believer of this ideology. This was evident when Rajkumar Singh, the lone member of legislative assembly from Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party, joined the Janata Dal (United). Earlier, many top LJP functionaries had joined Kumar’s party. Senior politicians in the state point out that the chief minister is still nursing the humiliating wounds of the JD(U) being relegated to the third place in the Bihar assembly elections last year and holds Paswan responsible for it. He had openly opposed Kumar and put up National Democratic Alliance rebels as candidates in constituencies where the JD(U) was contesting to hurt its poll prospects. Is Kumar satisfied now? A senior JD(U) leader suggested that the game is not over — after all, the LJP has six Lok Sabha members. Both the Congress and the BJP deployed leaders from Karnataka in large numbers in neighbouring Kerala for the just-concluded assembly polls there. There was nothing wrong with the idea since proximity to each other’s politics could well make these leaders better equipped to handle the situation on the ground during campaigns. But there was something else that perplexed observers. The question that did the rounds in Karnataka was about how the BJP government led by BS Yediyurappa operated for over three weeks when quite a number of its ministers criss-crossed between the two neighbouring states. The joke in Congress circles is that at least Yediyurappa did not have to hold his cabinet meeting in Kerala. Politicians keep fanning the fire of caste in Bihar to bake their bread. They are one of the reasons behind the state’s inability to shed the ignominiously divisive system. Five people were shot dead in Madhubani district on the day of Holi —  they were Rajputs, an influential caste known for its muscle power. The accused were from diverse castes. But several political parties termed it a caste war and tried to prove it. One political party sent a delegation of Rajput leaders to the village where the murders took place; they left no stone unturned to give it the desired colour. A former governor from another party from the same caste rushed there to meet the victims. The Opposition went hammer and tongs at the ruling combine to assert that the killings were part of a caste war. Many Rajput legislators from the ruling parties, too, started portraying the incident in a similar light. It seemed that caste friction would boil over. But the Bihar police arrested some of the top accused in the incident and averted all the attempts to revive the spectre of caste conflict looming over the state. The men in khaki made it clear that enmity over fish cultivation had resulted in the crime. The defection of the Tamulpur candidate of the Bodoland People’s Front, Rangja Khungur Basumatary, to the BJP just days before the third phase of assembly elections was one of the biggest developments of the recently-concluded polls in Assam because of its unprecedented and bizarre nature. This raised a lot of questions about the candidate, the parties involved, the poll process and the legality of such a move. But it was particularly hard for the voters with BPF chief, Hagrama Mohilary, campaigning in Tamulpur seeking votes for the nangal (plough), the BPF’s symbol. The party felt that since there was little time for course correction it was better to seek votes for the party. More so when the Election Commission turned down its plea to put off the polls owing to the defection. The pre-poll defection has fuelled fears within the Opposition rank about this practice becoming a norm in the future, leading to losing polls even before votes are cast. They feel it is a good case study for the EC to come up with a preventive mechanism. Optimism is an appreciable quality. But ‘Metro Man’, E Sreedharan, who contested on a BJP ticket from Palakkad in the Kerala assembly polls, renting an office and residence in the city is something quite unusual, especially with three weeks to go for the counting on May 2. The technocrat who audaciously declared that the BJP’s fortunes changed for the better with his entry is sure of winning. His party is not that confident since he is pitted against a popular Congress youth leader, Shafi Parambil. The question on even BJP supporters’ lips is what would he do with the properties if he loses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
11-04-2021||Opinion||Noose tightens||Democracy dies in darkness. One of the European Union's most fragile democracies, Poland, now faces the spectre of the night that falls when public service media have become propaganda organs for a ruling party while private, independent media are suffocated. In the end, light is cast no more on the failings and abuses of those in power, because there are no more torches to shine that light. Hungary – which is no longer a democracy – has almost reached that twilight moment, with the extinction of its last major independent radio station. Poland is still a long way from dusk, but the threat is real. In the World Press Freedom index, the country has sunk from 18th in 2015, ahead of Britain and France, to 62nd last year. (Hungary is down at 89th.). If you only watched Polish state television news over the last fortnight, you would have no idea that Poland is currently among the countries doing worst with Covid. According to Bloomberg's Covid resilience ranking,  Poland has fallen to 50th place among the world's 53 largest economies, with only Brazil, the Czech Republic and Mexico doing worse. But switch on the official news and, after brief mention of the latest Covid figures, there are long items about how the government is speeding up the vaccination campaign, with the help of the wonderful army, and how terrible the opposition's record was on public health when it was in power. In other 'news', you learn how brilliant Poland's relations are with the US, especially in defence; how much money the government is pumping into the railways and local government; how Christians are being persecuted all over the world; and how a grave was recently uncovered showing more victims of wartime German occupation. The propaganda is more extreme, but also more skilful, than that on Polish state television in the last decade of communist rule. Only when you turn to the independent TVN24 news do you see footage of long queues of ambulances waiting outside hospitals, because there are no more intensive care beds, and hear doctors explaining how terrible the public health situation really is. TVN24 is not BBC-impartial, but it does serious journalism and gives you the other side of the story. The same 'two realities' experience can be had switching from state to private radio, or from government-supporting papers to independent or opposition ones. Such a hyperpolarised public sphere is already bad enough, as we see in the US but now the ruling Law and Justice party has launched a systematic attack on independent media. The methods are straight out of Viktor Orbán's Hungarian playbook. Public sector advertising  and subscriptions are withdrawn from independent media. All sorts of regulatory chicanery are used against them.Billions of public money are pumped into state  television and radio. A 'pandemic' tax is proposed on advertising revenue. A projected law on the 're-Polonisation' of media would target foreign owners of the biggest independent outlets. A state-owned petrol company, Orlen, whose boss is a Law and Justice party crony, buys both a major press distributor, Ruch, and the largest network of regional newspapers, Polska Press. The most critical papers are bombarded with lawsuits. Gazeta Wyborcza counts more than 60 lawsuits, including one from the justice minister in person. And, as European legal authorities have repeatedly determined, the independence of Polish courts has been so far eroded thatyou can no longer rely on a fair trial. This is that old Hungarian speciality, salami tactics. With every slice, the next one becomes slightly easier for the butcher to take. Polish media and civil society are resisting strongly, but they need a little help from their friends. The United States matters enormously here. The Law and Justice government and president Andrzej Duda make much of their special relationship with Washington. But they were strong supporters of Donald Trump, who in return gave Duda electoral assistance last summer. The administration of Joe Biden owes them no favours, and  it has an agenda strong on democracy and human rights. As well as standing up for TVN, which is owned by the American Discovery company, Washington should now highlight independent media as the frontline of defending democracy in Poland. Britain counts for less than it once did in Warsaw, because of Brexit, but along with other liberal democracies, such as Canada and Australia, it can help turn the spotlight on this issue. Germany is of the first importance, and a German-Swiss group, Ringier Axel Springer, owns one of the most important Polish online platforms, Onet.pl, the tabloid Fakt and a leading weekly, Newsweek Polska. The Polish government tries to intimidate Berlin by constantly bringing up the Nazi past, but the proper lesson from that past is not 'Germany must be particularly reticent on these issues'. It is 'precisely because of that terrible past, Germany should be the first to speak up for freedom and human rights in Poland'. Most important, and most problematic, is the EU. One of the most depressing discoveries of the last few years is that the EU, which spends so much time talking about democracy, is pathetically ineffective when it comes to defending democracy inside its own member states. Now it is going to hand out many more billions of Euros to those states, both from the post-Covid recovery fund (nearly €60 billion to Poland by the end of 2023) and from the Union's new seven-year budget (more than €100 billion to Poland). These huge sums will go directly to the populist nationalist governments in Warsaw and Budapest, with only minimal conditions attached. Most of those great investments trumpeted on state television news are done with the help of EU money. At the very least, the EU should make it crystal clear that, under single market rules, foreign media owners may on no account be discriminated against. It should distribute a significant chunk of the new money directly through local government – as suggested by the mayors of Warsaw and Budapest. And it should create a substantial EU fund for the defence of media freedom across the continent. Last week, the leadership of Poland's Law and Justice party began talks with Viktor Orbán of Hungary and Matteo Salvini of Italy about forming a new populist nationalist political grouping in the EU. It is not just democracy in Poland that is at stake here; it is democracy in Europe as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
11-04-2021||Opinion||Brand ambassador||Sir — The editorial, “Bristled beauties” (April 10), was amusing and informative. It reminded me of something that I once saw on a visit to the United States of America. At a mall in Detroit, Michigan, I stumbled upon a wax for mustaches and beards. Lo and behold, the brand was named after Veerappan, one of the most notorious poachers of south India. There he was, one of India’s most infamous brigands, in all his hirsute glory on the lid of the company Lush Cosmetics’ round jar of Moustache Wax. Our ‘bristled beauties’ may need a similar product to stay in style.

H.N. Ramakrishna,
Bangalore Sir — It is hard to believe that the United States of America is not sending India a message by carrying out naval exercises in Indian waters close to the Lakshadweep Islands. More so, since the US has confirmed that such exercises will continue. It is clear that America has violated international conventions. In view of this, India definitely needs to rethink its ties with the US. We may be on the friendliest of terms with America, but that is in the interests of both countries and not just India. This is one reason why India needs to keep its relations with Russia on an even keel. That is one way of restricting America’s bullying tendencies. One cannot help but recall the Soviet Union’s help during the Bangladesh war when the US tried to intimidate India by sending Task Force 74 of the Seventh Fleet to the Bay of Bengal. America needs to understand that our relationship with it should be on a par. New Delhi needs to send out an appropriate message.Melville X. D’Souza,
Mumbai Sir — April 11 to 14 has been declared as ‘Vaccine Utsav’. This is indeed a great step to encourage people to get vaccinated. But the question is, are the authorities really ready to vaccinate people? With reports of three women being inoculated with the rabies vaccine instead of the one for coronavirus, the seriousness and the efficiency of the authorities are under question. State governments are also complaining of not having enough doses of the life saving shot. We cannot expect two companies to produce all the vaccines needed to inoculate the world’s second largest population and cater to the demand to send vaccines to other countries as well. The second wave of the virus has hit India hard. Vaccination is the only way out.

Kavya Shah,
Ujjain Sir — It is not surprising that the former Bollywood starlet and Hindutva hardliner, Payal Rohatgi, made some outrageous observations about Raja Rammohan Roy, the man who ushered in the Bengal Renaissance. Rohatgi said: “No he was a chamcha to Britishers who used him to defame the Sati tradition. Sati tradition was not compulsory but was introduced to prevent the prostitution of Hindu wives at the hands of Mughal invaders. It was the woman’s choice. #FeministsofIndia Sati was not regressive…” Indeed we should thank Rohatgi for reminding us of the regressive, misogynist mindset of the powers that are trying to conquer Bengal — the land of enlightened humanitarians like Roy. If this is the mindset of Hindutvavadis, it is no wonder that the incidents in Unnao, Hathras and Budaun are signatures of a state helmed by the Bharatiya Janata Party. It also makes sense then that BJP leaders marched on the streets of Jammu with the tricolour in hand to defend the accused in the spine-chilling Kathua gangrape and murder case and anti-Romeo squads are being promised by Yogi Adityanath to save the women of Bengal. One hopes the women of Bengal would rise to the occasion and vote wisely by resisting the forces that wish to erase Bengal’s unique inclusive history.

Kajal Chatterjee,
Calcutta Sir — Each gaffe made by the BJP is an indication to the people of Bengal to use their precious vote well.

Sohini Sarkar,
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-44
