12-04-2021||Opinion||Head first: Mental healthcare in India||The health of human beings is influenced by both mental and physiological well-being. And yet, this crucial tenet is often ignored in the larger public discourse. The weightage accorded to treating physical illness far exceeds that given to mental ailments. The National Mental Health Survey of India 2015-16 had revealed that nearly 150 million Indians need urgent mental healthcare support, with fewer than 30 million seeking such interventions. The imbalance between the two forms of ill-health has only been exacerbated by the pandemic. Studies from when the pandemic began had already indicated that people who have recovered from Covid-19 are at an increased risk of mood and anxiety disorders in the first three months after infection. Those fears have been consolidated further by the findings of a new study published in The Lancet which says that one in three Covid-19 survivors received a neurological or psychiatric diagnosis within six months of being infected with the coronavirus. For 13 per cent of the patients whose health records were examined, this was their first recorded neurological or psychiatric diagnosis. There is thus a strong case for recognizing the severe mental toll that serious physical illnesses — Covid-19 and otherwise — take not just on the patients but also on their families and caregivers. The burden is intensified when there are financial worries, especially since healthcare in India is unaffordable for many. Tackling the problem will be challenging. The mental healthcare network in India is over-stretched; the country has less than one psychiatrist for every 1,00,000 patients. Moreover, Indian society endorses a culture of shame around mental illness; the fear of public stigma discourages patients and their families from seeking help. While India’s Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provides citizens with the right to mental healthcare, it does not deal adequately with the question of stigma and social exclusion. The solution lies not just in sensitizing the public regarding the importance of recognizing and treating mental illness. The government — it has spent a paltry 0.05 per cent of its health budget annually on mental health over the last few years — must realize that investing properly in mental healthcare would benefit the economy. Mental health correlates positively with economic growth; the World Health Organization estimates that the loss to the Indian economy caused by a mental health crisis would be more than $1 trillion between 2012 and 2030. If the suffering of citizens does not spur the State on to act, might the fear of an economic fallout do the trick?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Romeo at risk: Yogi in Bengal||The message conveyed by electoral campaigns in India has undergone a sea change. Yogi Adityanath’s election speeches in West Bengal illustrate this best. As it is, campaign speeches, especially those of certain leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, contain almost as many implicit threats as promises. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, one of the party’s star campaigners, seems to believe that threats are promises. In one of his electoral speeches in Bengal, he flaunted the fact that posters of alleged ‘rioters’ were put up and their property confiscated after protests in UP against the citizenship laws. Since he was condemning the West Bengal chief minister’s so-called ‘appeasement’ politics that presumably allowed cow slaughter and cow smuggling to continue — Bengal has no law against cow slaughter — the purpose of polarizing two communities was perfectly clear. It seems that Mr Adityanath would like to do to Bengal what he has done in UP at the cost of democracy, equality and the law. In Mr Adityanath’s vision, religious discrimination meets gender oppression. Not only did he harp on the increase in Bengal of ‘love jihad’ against which UP now has a law — Parliament found the phenomenon non-existent — but he also promised an ‘anti-Romeo’ squad to ‘protect’ women like the one in UP. Predictably, young people and activists in Bengal are loudly critical of the threat to women’s autonomy, interference in relationships, encouragement to the forces of male domination and the invitation to harassment. These go to the heart of Mr Adityanath’s governance. Members of the anti-Romeo squad were accused of harassing couples, molesting women, even a child in one case, of extortion and, reportedly, a murder. The law against love jihad is being used against men of the minority community in inter-community unions even when the woman is a consenting adult. That UP ranked first in the country in crimes against women in 2019 according to the National Crime Records Bureau shows that the measures ‘promised’ by Mr Adityanath open up the primrose way to discrimination and crime, whether for agents of the State or for non-State actors under their patronage. Should his electoral promises be fulfilled, women and particular communities and castes — UP has an impressive record of crimes against Dalits — would become the favourite targets of oppression in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Faith breached: Love jihad laws||A lot has been written about the impact of the anti-conversion ordinances — the love jihad laws in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. This analysis focuses on the right to choose, the right to love and that of religion. Apart from the impact of State sanctioned violence on and the incarceration of couples, the implications of these laws for the social and civic status of Muslims needs to be considered. A recent empirical study of litigations on inter-faith marriages dispels the myth that there is a ‘Muslim conspiracy’ or ‘love jihad’. The study establishes that in “as many as 7 out of 10 cases”, the parents [of inter-faith couples] intervene illegitimately. The law, then, is a clear manifestation of vigilante mobilization that the historian, Charu Gupta, describes as “the campaigns [which] construct an image of the Muslim male as aggressive, and broadcast a series of stereotypes and repetitive motifs, creating a common ‘enemy’ — the Other. The luring of Hindu women by Muslim men is stated to demonstrate the ‘lack of character’ of the sexually charged, lustful Muslim men, violating the pure body of Hindu women.” In an opinion piece on the proposed laws, the political scientist, Christophe Jaffrelot, observed that “such a law would illustrate the transition from a de facto to a de jure Hindu Rashtra, something already evident from the Citizenship Amendment Act (2019).” These laws downgrade ‘the less than equal’ civic and social status of Muslim citizens. The legal scholar, Farrah Ahmed, has argued in the context of CAA that discriminatory laws demean a group of citizens, thereby constituting a ‘subordinating speech act’. She alludes to the racist ‘Jim Crow’ laws whose “implications for [Blacks’ social] status were impossible to miss”. Juxtaposed with “Articles 14, 15, 16 and 17 and the preambular commitment to ‘equality of status’”, giving “effect to an anti-subordination principle”, these laws are grossly unconstitutional. The two requirements for subordination are fulfilled in the case of the love jihad laws. First, the lawmaker has the power to subordinate. The US Commission on International Religious Freedom in its 2020 annual report flagged the fact that 10 states already have stringent anti-conversion laws “that can be interpreted as prohibiting consensual conversions”. It also took note of recently passed laws in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Jharkhand that mete out greater punishments and stricter restrictions. The report argues that “… Empowered by anti-conversion laws and often with the police’s complicity, Hindutva groups also conduct campaigns of harassment, social exclusion, and violence against Christians, Muslims, and other religious minorities across the country.” The arrest of Muslim men on the frivolous charge of engaging in ‘love jihad’ shows that the decision-making authority possesses sufficient power to lower the social standing of individuals belonging to religious minorities. The second condition of the subordination test is also fulfilled through a State narrative and a campaign by vigilantes to vilify Muslims. There is no evidence to justify the necessity of this law apart from such narratives. A Kafkaesque legal regime unjustly and disproportionately burdens interfaith couples with procedural and substantive obligations while putting them under the risk of criminalization on account of their religious identity. The ordinance’s impositions of disabilities on inter-faith couples are ‘contrary to the basic concept of our system that legal burdens should bear some relationship to individual responsibility or wrongdoing’. This denudation of a Constitutionally-guaranteed equal status should alert the citizenry about the Indian State’s ongoing transformation from a secular democracy to an ethno-majoritarian autocracy. As the debate on the legality of these laws continues, this testing time makes it incumbent on the people to re-affirm their faith in a secular democracy based on equal moral membership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Elections through young eyes||‘This is your first time. There’s still a lot to know.’ As a first-time voter, about to experience the reality of the electoral set-up, this sentiment questions every bit of knowledge I’ve managed to accrue over my formative years. The last six years of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has made me question several aspects of the present Indian reality. As a student, I would like to voice some of my opinions and concerns. Over the last two years, the raising of the collective voice against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the violence at Jamia drew immense support. We’ve also seen the State machinery’s crackdown against student voices in the crudest ways possible — it’s been over six months since Umar Khalid found himself behind bars. I don’t expect the history books to hold these incidents 20 years from now. The assembly election in West Bengal is expected to go down to the wire but that really isn’t the point. Bengal stands as one of the states to have prevented the BJP from winning power — but at what cost? Under the garb of progressiveness, Bengal’s student community has suffered the scourges of corruption, repression and thuggery. Privilege and apathy have prevented people here from acknowledging these problems and acting upon them. A study recently stated that India is now an elected autocracy. The Bharatiya Janata Party is offering Bengal ‘Ashol Poriborton’. On the other hand, only ‘Khela hobe’ seems to define the manifesto for the Trinamul Congress. We need to identify the lesser evil. But the lesser-evil leitmotif needs to be examined when it challenges the basic idea of the Constitution and of India as a nation. At a time when hypocrisy and centrism seek to govern middle-class sentiments, the lesser evil rhetoric can do nothing but enable repression and discrimination. The police brutality meted out to the student community and the oppressive State machinery that has  tried to gag the youth have been met with defiance. Defiance of State-sponsored oppression has always been the clarion call for change. This is what would make me speak, think and probe before casting my vote in the days to come. Is it fascism versus corruption this election season in Bengal then? This question has been rendered redundant for a large cross-section of the population. None of the contestants in Bengal’s electoral fray has been able to solve the challenges that confront education. The Central government has been in a relentless pursuit to demonize knowledge, alter syllabi, reduce research grants, cut educational expenditure and introduce ‘cow science’ into the curriculum. We have seen students being assaulted and incarcerated. The need of the hour is to educate and mobilize the people. The emancipation of communities cannot be achieved with the help of flimsy pamphlets. The student-voter identifies with the trends of the time and does not cower to point an accusing finger. The Left alliance has fielded young, dynamic candidates, citizens whom other students can look up to. The seduction of the powers that be cannot be challenged unless there are dynamic young agents who are ready to face the heat of the battle. The student-voter will relate to the parody of a popular song. He/she will relate to an imaginative meme. It is the student-voter who will herald change. When it comes to a choice between fascism and corruption, the student-voter does not have himself cocooned in nostalgia. He/she chooses to think and act in a dynamic manner —  walking into the booth to exercise a right not to choose a lesser evil but to take a stand. Binaries don’t bother the student-voter: the sight of students, minorities and the working class being subjugated and exploited does. I wish to make good use of the spine when it comes to casting my vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
12-04-2021||Opinion||Familiar template||Against the backdrop of the Ganges in high tide at a riverside dhaba in Diamond Harbour, three Muslim residents were taking in the cool, strong wind and chatting about politics. I butted in to ask about voting preferences: one was loyal to the Trinamul Congress while the second supported the Mahajot; after Cyclone Amphan, his faith in the TMC was shaken and he wanted to back ‘Bhaijaan’ — the cleric, Abbas Siddiqui — of the Indian Secular Front. The third, Alauddin, kept munching jhalmuri and said nonchalantly that after due deliberation he had decided to vote for Narendra Modi who was the only individual who could save the country from the mess it was in and make India’s name known across the world. He was serious, his decision based on the desire to participate in the new big show in town and countryside. These Bengal residents, in the South 24 Parganas at least, did not show the alarm one may expect from a community in the eye of the BJP storm. Asked about vote division, they just smiled vaguely. The BJP, so far in their perception, was akin to a huge sound and light show that also offered money and short-term election employment and had a big star of the jatra called Narendra Modi. Naturally, the story varied elsewhere, such as in the complete Muslim consolidation for the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, after a vicious BJP campaign in Nandigram, but local subplots also reveal layers of this epic battle. There are multiple contradictions that emerge in the telling of these Bengal elections: on the one hand, there are cries of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, both as a protest slogan and a Hindutva clarion call in the hinterland, but in Kalighat, the epicentre of the Hindu faith in Calcutta, most pundits and shopkeepers declared themselves loyal to Didi. The BJP’s dramatic landfall in West Bengal has certainly upturned pre-conceived notions about the state. The novelty factor apart, there are actually familiar templates used by India’s pre-eminent party at work here. First, the cadre of the sangh parivar and the BJP work on new territories with a missionary zeal as elections per se are not an end but a means. Towards that goal, they use shock and awe that basically boils down to Modi, money, media (management), Muslim (profiling) and caste mobilization with a social engineering map in hand. As the BJP did in Uttar Pradesh, the template involves giving priority to non-dominant sections of society, be they Dalit, other backward classes or scheduled tribes. In its own perverse way, it’s the only radical thing happening to the social fabric of Bengal. The blitzkrieg is an expensive undertaking. One must follow the money to fully understand the scale of the onslaught ever since Modi swept the Hindi belt in the 2014 general election. That was India’s most expensive election, eclipsed only by the 2019 general election — according to annual audit reports filed with the Election Commission of India. Since then, the BJP has become the richest party in the nation’s history, monopolizing political finance often through untraceable means such as electoral bonds (On March 26, the Supreme Court refused to stay the release of fresh electoral bonds ahead of assembly polls in four states and a Union territory). Money talks as it did when the BJP managed to form a government in Madhya Pradesh in 2020 after a section of the ruling Congress defected just as in the preceding year members of the ruling Janata Dal (Secular) and the Congress had crossed over in Karnataka. Electoral victory is, therefore, not necessary for eventual triumph. There is always on the table an offer to members of rival political parties, something that’s lured many members of the TMC in the pre-election season. Bengal’s is arguably the first election that takes place with the calculation that a narrow win may not ensure a five-year term for Mamata Banerjee. Unless the BJP is utterly defeated as it was in the Delhi elections a year ago, post-poll defections would have to be factored in. There are also traditional reasons for the groundswell of support for the national party. With the Bengal Opposition decimated in the 2016 assembly and 2018 panchayat polls, the BJP has filled a vacuum even as anti-incumbency grew in areas devastated by Cyclone Amphan that cut a path through TMC strongholds in May last year. People are divided between wanting change and still adoring Didi but not necessarily her party. In this flux, the BJP has been able to create a great hype that projects it as a possible winner. After all, in close state elections, people are more inclined to vote against ruling parties if they believe the opposing side can win the seat or the state. That would particularly apply to Bengal with its culture of political violence. No party understands the power of narratives as the BJP does, the reason why it has set up IT cells for each seat and made their controversial national IT cell chief the co-in-charge for West Bengal. That individual has been called out several times by fact-checking sites, but clearly the strategy is to create emotion and stoke communal prejudice, facts notwithstanding. After all, research on new media shows that sensational, divisive, fake news spreads faster than dull, factual news. Indeed, the BJP’s blundering journey in its search for historical Bengali icons was full of comic errors and apparent haste, but in the final reckoning does not seem to have damaged the reputation of the prime minister. He is being seen as a powerful figure among voters in town and countryside, and the idea of direct cash transfer, true or false, has appeal among the poor. Bengal is one of the states from which the largest numbers of migrants pour into other parts of India. They, too, were part of the suffering phalanx of humanity that made the reverse migration a year ago. If the BJP does well, it would suggest that Modi is soaring above the problems his decisions created in the earthly realm. We must then conclude that his image has somehow been disconnected from the dramatically announced but spectacularly bad calls such as demonetization on November 8, 2016 and the national lockdown (with four hours’ notice) on March 24, 2020. If Mamata Banerjee holds it together, then a realignment of Opposition forces could begin. But structurally, the TMC is a crowd around a leader, who emerged fighting one entrenched force and having vanquished old demons now wages battle against another arch-enemy. Whatever the outcome, she is the only woman chief minister in India, and unique for having fought so fiercely against both the Left and the Right. Bengal is a special place that’s given exceptional ideas to India. If it cannot thwart the BJP as a Tamil Nadu can, it would be because great ideas have not been matched by great transformations on the ground either in terms of incomes or subaltern caste assertion. There has, in hindsight, not been the empowering social change that the Dravidian movement brought about in Tamil Nadu followed by wealth generation through industrial growth and welfare schemes. Only a very small section of society can, therefore, relate to the idea of the Bengali identity being exceptional and immune to outsiders, while many are now discovering the room to negotiate with the political class through multiple caste assertions. The game is indeed afoot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
