13-04-2021||Opinion||Pandemic added to the woes of the poor, dragged middle class into poverty ||The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the global economy hard, increasing poverty in practically every country, reducing employment and pulling people down from middle-income brackets into low-income groups, sometimes to the brink of poverty. Alongside, the inequality gulf, already a yawning chasm, has also widened. Some countries have been hit harder than others, of course, and India is one of them. A report released by the Washington-based Pew Research Center on 18 March 2021 and Oxfam’s 2021 inequality report released earlier this year shine a light on India’s economic travails as does this year’s Global Hunger Index rankings. Before we get to these, some context is necessary. So, let us look at some of the projected macroeconomic figures to get a sense of the scale of the crisis. Estimates put the drop in global economic output at around 4.5 per cent in 2020. While the International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated a 4.4 per cent contraction, in the early days, the World Bank had put the number at 5.2 per cent. The global unemployment figures show the problem from a starker, and more human, perspective. According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), 114 million jobs were lost in 2020 compared to 2019. Apart from outright job losses, working hours were curtailed for many. In total, there was an 8.8 per cent reduction in working hours, the equivalent of 255 million full-time jobs, assuming a 48-hour working week (see https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@dgreports/@dcomm/documents/briefingnote/wcms_767028.pdf). Obviously, this had a big impact on global poverty. The World Bank says that the pandemic caused an increase in “extreme poverty” in 2020, for the first time in 20 years. In an assessment in October 2020, it said that between 88 million and 115 million more people would be pushed into extreme poverty, defined as living on less than $1.90 (roughly Rs 138), by 2021. Had the pandemic not happened, the World Bank expected a 7.9 per cent reduction in extreme poverty in 2020 (see https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2020/10/07/covid-19-to-add-as-many-as-150-million-extreme-poor-by-2021). The UNDP says the burden of poverty will fall, or actually is already falling, disproportionately on middle-income countries which had high loads of poverty before the pandemic, especially in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. While citing the IMF and ILO figures for poverty and unemployment, the UNDP also says that more than 265 million people will face acute food insecurity globally. It also says that there will be a 60 per cent decline in earnings for workers in the informal sector, while half the world is trying to survive without “any form of social protection” (see https://feature.undp.org/covid-and-poverty/). The India story We all know intuitively that the pandemic has been bad news for a lot of people in India and throughout the world, but these numbers help us to imagine the enormity of the crisis. Let’s move to Indian the situation, in which the pandemic exacerbated poor economic outcomes already existing – in the language of the pandemic, “pre-existing conditions”. The National Statistical Office (NSO) estimated that the contraction of the Indian economy in the 2020-21 financial year would be of the magnitude of 8 per cent, despite the fact that technically it emerged from a recession in the third quarter (October to December), showing 0.4 per cent GDP growth. The economy is projected to be back in negative territory in the fourth quarter. Despite much waffling about a V-shaped recovery and “green shoots”, there is little point in speculating about what will happen in the impending financial year, especially given the fact that India seems to be in the grip of a second wave of infections that has hit states that are key to an economic recovery – Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra, for example. Restrictions on public mobility have already been announced by some of these states. The unemployment and poverty data can help us, as with the global situation, understand the situation in terms of human costs. According to data compiled by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate in February 2021 was 6.9 per cent, which is an improvement over February 2020, before the lockdown, when it was 7.8 per cent. But in between, it has been a rollercoaster. The unemployment rate peaked in April 2020 at 23.50 per cent. The situation started improving in June, by when the easing of the lockdown had begun. The unemployment rate fell to 10.30 per cent that month, reaching its lowest point in November at 6.50 per cent, in between it has been up and down, but below 10 per cent. Contribution of MGNRGA Much of the credit for shoring up the employment figures must go to the programme run under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which was allocated Rs. 61,500 crore in the 2020 Budget after being derided by the ruling party. But increased demand for work caused by the pandemic-induced recession prompted the Centre to increase the allocation by Rs. 40,000 crore. Chhattisgarh (107 per cent of target), West Bengal (105 per cent), and Assam and Bihar (104 per cent) have utilized the scheme maximally. But this in itself tells us a story. MGNREGA programmes usually pay less than minimum wages and draw only those who cannot get paid work even in the informal sector. It is an indicator of economic distress, not prosperity. The unemployment figures, thus, don’t necessarily mean that the situation is getting better. For comparison, the budgetary allocation for MGNREGA programmes in 2021-22 is Rs. 73,000 crore, a reduction of about a third. The allocation was Rs. 61,400 crore in 2018-19 and Rs. 60,000 crore in 2019-20. These figures are being cited to point to the extraordinary role played by MGNREGA to alleviate extreme distress. We need to take a quick look at the situation that existed when the Covid-19 pandemic devastated the economy and a multitude of lives. The GDP growth rate has been falling for some time now. In 2016-17, it was 8.26 per cent, a 0.26 per cent increase over the last year. Since then it has been falling -- 7.04 per cent in 2017-18; 6.12 per cent in 2018-19; and 4.18 in 2019-20, a precipitous decline. The unemployment figures were stable between 2016-17 and 2019-20, falling from 5.51 per cent to 5.36 per cent, though in the aftermath of demonetization there had been a substantial spike in unemployment (see https://www.cmie.com/kommon/bin/sr.php?kall=warticle&dt=2019-01-08%2009:28:37&msec=666). The shrinking middle class In other words, the Indian economy wasn’t doing too well, but the pandemic made matters worse. It is in this context that we need to look at the Pew Research report. It says, first, that the Indian middle class has shrunk by 32 million in 2020, which accounts for 60 per cent of the global contraction of the middle-income group, defined as those who earn $10.01-20 (roughly Rs. 725-1,450) a day. This means that the number of people in the middle class will have fallen to two-thirds of the pre-pandemic projection of 99 million people. At the same time, the number of poor people, defined as those earning $2 or less (roughly Rs 145 or less) a day has increased by 75 million, again accounting for 60 per cent of the global rise in poverty. The total number of poor people is expected to clock in at 134 million, more than double the pre-pandemic estimate of 59 million, at a poverty rate of 9.7 per cent, as against the January 2020 forecast of 4.3 per cent. This also means that those in the low-income tier, earning $2.01-10 (roughly Rs. 145-725) a day will fall from the expected 1.20 billion to 1.16 billion. It should be a sobering thought for those inclined to push the rhetoric of the ‘India Shining’ variety and trumpet the rise of India’s affluent middle class that over 95 per cent of India’s population consists of people who are either in a low-income trap or are poor. We shall return to this point. India’s growth figures, including a —9.6 per cent growth rate for India according to the World Bank’s estimate revised in January this year, are in contrast to the situation in China, which was the only major economy to record positive growth in 2020 at 2.3 per cent. The number of people dropping out of the middle-class category there was 10 million and the poverty scenario remained unchanged. Additionally, in China there are more people in the middle-income and upper-middle-income categories than those in the lower-income categories and the poor combined (see https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2021/03/18/in-the-pandemic-indias-middle-class-shrinks-and-poverty-spreads-while-china-sees-smaller-changes/). There are other metrics, but we shall not belabour the point. Hunger index: still serious Then, of course, there is the Global Hunger Index (GHI). This year, it placed India at 94 on a list of 107. This is despite the fact that India’s score on the index has been improving continuously from 38.9 in 2000, through 37.5 and 29.3 in 2006 and 2012, to 27.12 in 2020. Other countries have improved faster, however. On the GHI severity scale, below 9.9 counts as low, 10-19.9 as moderate, 20-34.9 as serious, 35-49.9 as alarming, and above 50 as extremely alarming. So, India has improved over this century from alarming to serious, but is not likely to break into the moderate category anytime soon. Of concern, to citizens will be the fact that low-income countries – in Africa, South America and Asia, including Sri Lanka (64, in the moderate bracket), Nepal (73, moderate), Bangladesh (75, serious but just about, with a score of 20.4) and Pakistan (88, with a score of 24.6) – outperform India in providing nutrition to their people. Rich vs poor This is at one level inexplicable, though not surprising, given that it has been known for a decades that India has been behind even countries in sub-Saharan Africa on key indices like child malnutrition rates. This brings us inescapably to Oxfam’s report, The Inequality Virus — Global Report 2021. It begins with the finding that globally it took just nine months for ‘the fortunes of the top 1,000 billionaires to return to their pre-pandemic highs, while for the world’s poorest, recovery could take more than a decade’ and that the increase in the wealth of the 10 richest people in the world is more than enough to prevent anyone from falling into poverty because of the virus and provide vaccines for everyone on the planet (see https://d1ns4ht6ytuzzo.cloudfront.net/oxfamdata/oxfamdatapublic/2021-01/The%20Inequality%20Virus%20-%20Global%20Report%20%282021%29-3.pdf?N03OMRi1S_PWAiXig7D34AiDJ6ibPSOP). Among these 10 richest are Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Elon Musk of Tesla and an assortment of entrepreneurs mostly in the IT and IT-enabled sectors. The pandemic has made, and will make over the coming years, a deeply unequal world even more unequal. The report says that a survey of economists found that 87 per cent of respondents felt that the pandemic would create an increase or major increase in income inequalities in their countries. In India, too, the pandemic has delivered a bonanza to the rich. We’ve already seen what it is doing to the poor. The Oxfam report says Mukesh Ambani doubled his wealth between March and October 2020, his total fortune reaching $78.3 billion. In the process, Ambani jumped from the 21st spot in the global list of billionaires to sixth place. Gautam Adani, too, has made a killing. His group’s six listed companies added $79 billion to their market value in their past year. Adani is now India’s second-richest person in India with a net worth of $56 billion, having added $50 billion to his fortune in the past year, $5billion more than Ambani has done (https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/the-growing-wealth-and-power-of-gautam-adani-2398716). These examples serve mainly to highlight the extreme impoverishment of hundreds of thousands of people in the country. The point is whether the government is doing or has done enough to meet this emergency. Clearly, it hasn’t. From the early days of the pandemic, economists have advocated putting money into people’s pockets through direcst cash transfers to alleviate hardship and get the economy going. These appeals have not been heeded. The problem from a larger political economy vantage is that the Indian state is neither interested in redistributing wealth downwards, nor in strengthening a dilapidated welfare infrastructure. (Suhit K. Sen is a freelance journalist and an independent historian)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Shamed: CISF kills 4 in Bengal||Bengal has a long and chequered history of political violence. The death of four voters at the hands of the Central Industrial Security Force and the ugly politics that has been unleashed in the aftermath of the tragedy have set yet another grim milestone in this respect. Did the protectors turn predators? The answer is unclear. The security forces claim that they fired in self-defence after being attacked by an irate mob. But this account — the version that has been presented to the Election Commission — has been challenged. Villagers assert that an unprovoked assault on a 15-year-old boy by a security personnel led to a spontaneous protest that was met with bullets. Is the CISF’s expertise in crowd management reliable? Established protocol makes it clear that firing can be an option as the last resort. The administrative failure to stop a crowd from gathering, the absence of a lathi-charge or the use of tear gas to disperse the crowd, the disappearance of the state police from the site and the deputation of a solitary quick response team deepen suspicions of severe procedural lapses. Heads must roll for this. But will it? Fairness and accountability are not exactly in abundance these days. Equally nauseating are the shockingly intemperate comments made by leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party in response to the tragedy. The state president, Dilip Ghosh, has warned of the repetition of such bloodletting in Bengal. It is pertinent to mention that Mr Ghosh — he is no stranger to controversy — would be one of the chief ministerial aspirants if the BJP were to wrest power from the Trinamul Congress. Hopefully, this blatantly intimidating remark will get the EC’s attention. But then, Mr Ghosh may have merely been emulating his boss. The Union home minister, while alleging that the TMC was politicizing the killings, showed his hand when he said that Mamata Banerjee’s party ignored one of the deceased because he did not belong to its vote bank. This macabre ritual of first failing to stop blood from being shed and then attempting to milk the loss of citizens’ lives for a barely concealed political agenda is a blot on elections, supposedly the largest festival of democracy. Blood must not be shed in Bengal for the remaining phases of the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Yet again: US police shoots 20-year-old black man in Minneapolis||Sir — The suffering of black people in the United States of America never seems to end. The most recent incident occurred in Minneapolis where a police officer reportedly shot a 20-year-old black man, who later died. The family of the victim, Daunte Wright, said that he was shot by the cop before getting back into his car, driving away and crashing some time later. This tragedy becomes even more marked given the fact that Minneapolis is where the former policeman, Derek Chauvin, is on trial for the killing of George Floyd, whose murder sparked a massive protest, in the US as well as in other countries, highlighting police atrocities against the black community. However, even though the protests gained support in the international arena, not much seems to have changed as far as the treatment of black Americans by the police is concerned. Systemic racism is not a problem that will be easily solved in a nation that was built on the foundations of slavery and slave labour. Arijit Sen,Calcutta Sir — The name of Daunte Wright has now been added to the long list of names of black people in the US who have lost their lives owing to police brutality. Apart from George Floyd, other victims of such discrimination include Breonna Taylor, Tamir Rice and Elijah McClain. Some of the slain were children when they were killed. The US has had a black president, and now has a black vice-president. Representation at the highest levels of government, however, does not guarantee affirmative action on the ground. Unless the administration takes concrete steps to reduce the suffering of black people and protect them from discrimination, nothing will change. Saumya Mitra,Calcutta Masked truth Sir — It was horrifying to read that a mattress-making factory in Maharashtra was discovered to have been stuffing its products with discarded face masks instead of cotton or other material. Piles of masks were also found on the factory premises. These actions are outrageous at a time when the Covid-19 spike in the state and the country has been alarming. The culprits must be penalized. Shreya Pillai,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Festive fun: Modi's 'Tika Utsav'||India is fortunate in having a prime minister who can only see the brightest side. In a discussion with chief ministers regarding the alarming rise in Covid-19 infections, he announced a ‘Tika Utsav’ between April 11 and 14 as a boost to vaccinations. States are expected to inoculate the maximum number of people during the shortest time in this festival. Narendra Modi believes in ‘changing the atmosphere’, so that vaccinations against a damaging, often deadly, virus can become festive for four days, framed by the birth anniversaries of Jyotiba Phule and B.R. Ambedkar at either end. While discussing the surge in infections, Mr Modi felt, no doubt, that a celebratory feel with a couple of icons thrown in — the relevance is mysterious — would energize people into vaccinating and being vaccinated so as to win the ‘war’ against the virus. Such cheer would have jarred less had there not been a shortage of vaccines. A ‘Tika Utsav’ without adequate tikas is a bit over-the-top even for the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government. Maharashtra, Punjab, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are among the states declaring serious shortages; many states are shutting down vaccination centres or closing them early. Last week, some of these feared their stocks would run out in two days. The chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, for example, said he was eager to comply with the prime minister’s programme, but for that his state would need 25 lakh doses. But the Union health minister has declared there are enough stocks and has forbidden “fear-mongering”. Maharashtra has been heartily rebuked for mismanaging vaccinations. But as buying and distributing vaccines are solely in the Centre’s grip, no one else is responsible if vaccination numbers begin falling just when the second wave hits a rising gradient. Reportedly, other vaccines are awaiting the government’s approval to come in, while the country’s two vaccine manufacturers are asking for finances to increase their production. The Centre’s lack of planning is too blatant to miss. So the ‘Tika Utsav’ serves multiple purposes. It allows Mr Modi to ignore frightening realities and act cheerful, so that issues of incompetence and accountability are drowned by cymbals and gongs on one side and rebukes on the other. Plus the failure of the utsav can be laid at the states’ door — party poopers, all of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Star power: Celebrities and Bengal polls||Prior to becoming the Ukrainian president in 2019, Volodymyr Zelenskiy was a sitcom star with his only political experience being playing a high school history teacher in the 2015 political satire, Servant of the People, who is propelled to the highest office of Ukraine after his rant against government corruption goes viral. The upcoming West Bengal election is largely riding on celebrity quotient. Both the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party are now flooded with actors, singers, directors, former cricketers and well-known footballers. Even the Left fielded an actor in one constituency. The wall between glamour and politics is thin. Cricket being extremely popular, a cricketer-turned-politician is not an alien concept in the subcontinent. While Ronald Reagan and Arnold Schwarzenegger are often cited as instances of film stars turning into politicians, the former Guatemalan president, Jimmy Morales, and the former Philippine president, Joseph Estrada, are also notable examples in this regard. Bollywood’s tryst with Indian politics is not a recent phenomenon either. Celluloid and Dravidian politics have been inseparable — five out of seven Tamil Nadu chief ministers from Dravidian parties so far have been from Tamil cinema. According to P. Eric Louw of the University of Queensland, the gap between politics and entertainment has narrowed. Celebrities are in the public gaze for years and that can influence voting behaviour. A new political entrant celebrity might be seen to invigorate politics with new ideas. Critical theorists such as Douglas Kellner of the University of California, however, have employed the concept of the ‘media spectacle’ to suggest that the emphasis on celebrity replaces the complexities of policy with symbolic gestures. Some celebrities, of course, take refuge in electoral politics in the declining stages of their career. But Amitabh Bachchan illustrates that sometimes a star’s stint in politics may be surprisingly short-lived, even if it has a triumphant beginning such as defeating a political stalwart like Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna from Allahabad. Given that star candidates have been fielded in truly challenging seats in the Bengal elections, the objective might be to recreate Bachchan-Bahuguna moments. But not every star is the same, social structures differ, and every election is unique. A century-old history depicts that the 1920 presidential campaign of Warren Harding in the United States of America was endorsed by film stars like Al Jolson, Lillian Russell, Douglas Fairbanks and Mary Pickford. In 1960, John F. Kennedy received the support of members such as Sammy Davis Junior and Dean Martin. How, then, do celebrities influence elections? Unfortunately, the academic literature on celebrity politics and celebrity endorsement is often superficial and anecdotal. The most conspicuous example of celebrity endorsement in recent history is that of Oprah Winfrey, one of the world’s most well-known faces, endorsing Barack Obama prior to the 2008 US Democratic Presidential Primary. Based on some methodological derivation, C. Garthwaite and T. Moore from the University of Maryland estimated that the endorsement was responsible for 1,015,559 votes for Obama. An Indian example may be traced back to the 1996 Tamil Nadu elections when, in a televised message, Superstar Rajinikanth said: “Even god cannot save Tamil Nadu if Jayalalithaa is re-elected to power.” Many believe that one-liner sealed Jayalalithaa’s fate in that election. However, not every celebrity is eager to take active part in politics. During a 1990 Senate election in his home state of North Carolina, Michael Jordan, a superstar by then, refused to endorse Democrat Harvey Gantt, an African American, against the incumbent Republican, Jesse Helms, known to be a notorious racist. “Republicans buy sneakers, too,” Jordan is known to have famously said. For the time being, many celebrities might be believing that only politicians of their preferred party are buyers of sneakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Pitching for Ahmedabad||On December 10, 2020, the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s media release announced the itinerary of England’s tour to India which featured a total of 12 matches. Seven were to be held in “the newly built Sardar Patel Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad.” On March 7, the Indian Premier League fixtures said that the “World’s Largest Cricket Stadium — Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad” would host eight league matches, three play-offs and the final. That’s a total of 12 games, more than any other venue — just in case anyone doubted the location of the new headquarters of Indian cricket. Given that India will be hosting the 2023 ICC World Cup, where else could its finals be held but in Ahmedabad? Perhaps even the semi-finals. That’s not a snide dig but an informed punt. That power in Indian cricket rests today with the BCCI secretary, Jay Shah, the son of the home minister, Amit Shah, is not a new phenomenon. Both Jagmohan Dalmiya and N. Srinivasan occupied that post en route to their colourful presidencies. Yet, never before in the BCCI’s past has the expression of that power become both political and parochial. Parochial in how the biggest games on the Indian cricket calendar are being corralled into a single venue in Ahmedabad. In the past, the lollipops were evenly distributed with the biggest kid getting the largest. Today, that kid owns the entire box. The expression of power becomes political because Indian cricket is being marinated in the ideology of the ruling regime, in this case, the Bharatiya Janata Party. In the past, when engaged with cricket, politicians left their ideologies at the door in clubby, cross-party agreement. The presence of politicians in the BCCI is a decades-old phenomenon, its lengthy list spanning across a range of dispensations: N.K.P. Salve, Madhavrao Scindia, Manohar Joshi, Sharad Pawar, Arun Jaitley, even Anurag Thakur. Before their ascension to national office, both Modi and Amit Shah were presidents of the Gujarat Cricket Association. The politicians worked alongside businessmen, lawyers and a myriad cricket administrators and stayed away from the day-to-day cricket business. They were in it for various reasons. Because cricket’s public platform magnified their identity beyond the political stage. Because they loved the power of office and wanted to own another fiefdom. Because they may have even loved the game as kids. Each of those, some of those, or all of those. To career cricketer administrators, the presence of politicians in the mix became movers, shakers, and red-tape cutters. The politicians in the Board protected the interests of the Board; as a united front to nix the sports development code, which sought greater transparency and accountability in sports administration. Or get land at subsidized prices to build infrastructure. Or hurdle over messy diplomatic tripwires and host three World Cups across South Asia. But the presence of politicians didn’t involve transferring or transmitting their political ideologies through Indian cricket. The divergent party lines conformed to a larger cricketing role as protectors of the BCCI’s rich, insular turf. The turf may have always been ready for a takeover, but with Indian cricket owning the game’s riches and the public mindspace, the time is ripest now. Cricket is merely one of the many engines in the BJP’s dream of cultural expansion. Everyone on the BCCI payroll — players, former and current, officials, broadcasters — seems to have fallen in with the party line and has been herded under the umbrella of uncheerful nationalism. Today, it must be noted that the post of president in the GCA lies vacant; the highest ranked official is Vice-President Dhanraj Nathwani. To be the GCA president means standing in the boots worn by Modi and Amit Shah, an act so subversive that it is not to be contemplated. The new head of the BCCI’s anti-corruption unit is a former Gujarat DCP, Shabir H.S. Khandwawala, appointed sans due application process or interviews. He is 70, outside the maximum age limit for BCCI office-bearers, stated in the new but obviously malleable BCCI constitution. Indian cricket today is playing second fiddle to the political ideology in power because none of its faithful will speak for it. The messy exchange between Wasim Jaffer, the most prolific batsman in Indian domestic cricket, and the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand was ignored by top BCCI officials: Jaffer’s former teammate and president, Sourav Ganguly, the secretary, Jay Shah, and the treasurer, Arun Dhumal (the brother of Anurag Thakur). In the past, BCCI presidents, regardless of their political beliefs, brought rogue state officials to task to demonstrate their control. In order to push the Lodha reforms into mothballed irrelevance, the BCCI’s cross-party grandees first edged out its professional management. What they now have is the ruling regime’s iron fist. Jay Shah, a semi-conductor of his father’s authority, has become Indian cricket’s front-line commander over and above the player-president, Ganguly. Checkmate. The president of India travelled to Ahmedabad to inaugurate a stadium named after his constitutional subordinate, the incumbent prime minister. Seats in the lower tier most visible on television are coloured orange, the BJP’s party colour. During its day-night Test debut, the orange wall made the sighting of the pink ball difficult in natural light for fielders, but who cares. It must be mentioned here that the only stadium bigger in the world than the Narendra Modi Stadium is the Rungrado 1st of May Stadium in Pyongyang, North Korea. It’s enough to kill irony with a sniggering fit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
13-04-2021||Opinion||Black hole sun||The British film director, David Lean, liked to repeat a vaudeville entertainer’s precept he had internalized in his youth: never pop out of the same hole twice. While this might be sound advice for clowns, jugglers, magicians and cabaret performers, it is not a rule that history has ever felt obliged to follow. Or, perhaps, we should say there are only so many holes available to history, from which it tends to cannon up a limited variation of projectiles. The trick history has, though, is in the infinite new combinations of what it launches at us at any given moment. On the one hand, we could be forgiven for thinking we’ve seen it all before. Murderous despots, Arturo Ui-types with funny facial hair, who develop a sinister hold over large populations? Yes, seen those. Cunningly effective megalomaniacs feeding off the weak, corrupt politicians ranged against them? Yup, seen that too. The rise of a cancerous ideology which inexorably eats into the body of a society? Yes, tick. All this at a time of economic disaster, leading to further devastation? Nothing new, seen that. All of the above combined with a relentlessly deadly global pandemic? Hmm, wait, perhaps not that often, but there must surely have been some broadly comparable moment, one will just have to look. On the other hand, observing history is sometimes like watching an entirely predictable train crash unfold in slow motion. Going through my previous writings for this page, I just came across a column looking at the deep cultural failures and cop-outs of the Left Front that had been ruling West Bengal for 28 years at that point. Written in November 2005, a paragraph goes: “As a result, Bengal is not gurgling beatifically in the lap of some great secular and progressive era as the Comrades would have us believe, it is a simmering pressure-chamber in which the forces of the religious right and forces of the most ruthless of capitalisms are waiting to pick on the carcass of the CPI(M)’s legacy. What will follow once this Baam-Phront goes will likely be horrible and devastating.” Another passage, this time from the election diary carried in this paper almost exactly 10 years ago, relaying a conversation with one of Bengal’s most perceptive political scientists: “Whether CPM comes back or, most likely, TMC takes over, the power management, the favour management, the bribery management, will all have to be different... Think not of the formations we see today: one street-fighting party, the CPM, ceding power to another one, the TMC — the only one who could challenge it, precisely because it’s a spawn of the ‘politics’ perfected by the Left Front over three decades. Think instead of what happens two years hence, when the two different gangs of thieves start falling out internally. The Red gang because they’ve lost power and are under huge tectonic pressure, the Green gang because their ineptitude and venality in power is by now utterly exposed, the cracks inherent in their foundation now widening. Think also of the Congress sharks and BJP hyenas circling, smelling blood... Think of what kind of shopping mall Shonar Bangla will have become by then.” The “two years hence” was off by a few years but not too many. The ‘Red gang’ imploded quicker than anyone predicted, helped along by the TMC’s programme of what one can now call ‘CPM-mukta Bangla’. All the beseeching from observers that the TMC should water democracy and not do to the Left what the Left had done to all opposition in the state fell on ears deafened by vengeful blood. By 2014, those busy looking only at Bengal were ambushed by what history threw up from other holes; the venality and ineptitude of West Bengal’s new rulers was exposed early enough, but it was dwarfed by the towering venality and ideology-driven incompetence of the newly installed RSS-BJP regime in Delhi. In fact, rapidly, every mistake and misdemeanour at the state level was magnified monumentally by the rulers at the Centre. If a man was hounded by the police in Calcutta for a cartoon of the chief minister, the bigger mob just bought over most of the country’s media and targeted their media critics in job-lots. If the unofficial hafta level was increased in Bengal, the bigger guys just put in the opaque electoral bonds and tweaked the whole banking system and income-tax mechanisms. If the space for dissent was squeezed at the village and district levels by the local regime, the national regime just sent in the re-programmed investigative agencies to arrest dissenting activists across the country. Of course, the Trinamul Congress has managed to do some positive things in this state over 10 years, but it has done them under the twin shadows of its own default mode of anti-democratic belligerence and the monstrous nationwide hegemonic project unleashed by the RSS-BJP. As a result we find ourselves in a thicket of thorny questions: is ‘Subaltern Hindutva’ a real thing? If so, will Subaltern Mamatatva be able to fight it off? What particular hell would a hung assembly unleash upon the state? What would a Mamata in Opposition do, especially if she felt the election had been stolen from her? What revenge would Amit Shah extract from a Bengal that had refused to succumb to his charms? These and many other questions aside, anyone in Bengal who believes in the founding principles of the Republic, anyone who still retains faith in genuine secularism, social justice, environmental common sense and the rule of law now finds themselves hoping that the TMC staves off the massive, multi-spectrum assault from the sangh parivar. A perhaps far-fetched secondary hope is that if Mamata Banerjee does manage to retain power, she and her party will have learnt some lessons and will do things radically differently from the playbook of the people they are fighting against. As for the other possibility, here is a foolhardy prediction: if the RSS-BJP do manage to capture West Bengal in these elections, they will come to regret it bitterly, and not too far in the future. History will continue to flummox us with the mix of the familiar and the unforeseen, but this is the one state in the Union which has the ability to turn into a black hole, with a gravitational pull strong enough to suck power away all the way from Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-43
