14-04-2021||Opinion||Save them:  Goa losing forest cover||Sir — No amount of awareness campaigns seems to suffice when it comes to willing the authorities to act in favour of the environment. It was recently revealed that in the last 10 years, Goa’s forest department approved 99.3 per cent of all applications for the felling of trees. Some reforestation drives had taken place, but there are no data on the survival of the trees. Only two years ago, Goa was known to have 60 per cent forest cover — it ranked fifth in the country in this regard. It is likely that the authorities have now sacrificed Goa’s greenery for monetary profit. This must be stopped at once. Gargi Chaudhury, Mumbai Sir — The shooting of four unarmed people in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar by Central Industrial Security Force personnel guarding a polling booth reminds one of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in the pre-Independence era (“Shamed”, April 13). According to reports, a 15-year-old boy was beaten at the village market, without provocation, by a jawan of the Central forces. This appears to have triggered protests against the jawans, leading to the shots being fired. These armed personnel, who are supposed to be trained in industrial and airport security, could have easily controlled the situation by using batons to disperse the crowd or firing shots into the air. But they reportedly shot at the upper bodies of the people in the mob, resulting in this untoward incident. The administration, which is under the direct command of the Election Commission, took to the usual tact of blaming the crowd — it levelled charges against the mob of trying to snatch away the guns from the CISF personnel. Had the crowd attacked the guards, why is there still no evidence of any injury caused to them? With four more rounds of elections still left, the EC should not waste time in discouraging security personnel from using firearms and promote the use of other modes of mob control in order to prevent any further loss of life. Hira Lal De,Hooghly Sir — One would think that the CISF personnel are trained to defuse difficult situations without resorting to opening fire. But the incident in Cooch Behar proves they are not. The perception that the EC and the Central forces deployed in the state are not as politically neutral as they should be does not seem too far from reality any more, and this erodes their institutional credibility. The EC is supposed to ensure a level playing field for all parties and apply rules uniformly. But many of its decisions going in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party make it look like an arm of the ruling regime — this makes one wonder, could the EC have scheduled the polling in eight phases at the BJP’s behest in order to suit its campaign plan? The task of safeguarding democracy is better served if the EC acts in a non-partisan way. M.K. Gandhi had taught that the means should be as fair as the end. But if what the BJP has been doing in Bengal is anything to go by, then its end of wresting power from the Trinamul Congress would seem to justify whatever means it adopts, be it communal polarization, misuse of institutions, splurging on canvassing or perhaps even unleashing violence. It would thus be an inversion of truth to think that the BJP adheres to Gandhian philosophy.G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — As if the death of four people were not bad enough, leaders of the BJP are now issuing threats of similar violence. Will the EC act against these leaders?Anjana Gupta,Howrah Sir — It is criminal to not follow Covid-19 protocols in a public space given the spike in cases across the country (“Metro commuters flout mask mandate”, April 12). The government as well as the local administration have been creating awareness about the situation and requesting people to wear masks. But if people take such alerts lightly and ignore them, they are putting themselves in harm’s way. The second surge of the pandemic is proving to be deadlier than the first. One cannot be lax in one’s approach any more; norms must be followed strictly.  Bal Govind, Noida||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
14-04-2021||Opinion||Hidden killers: Non-communicable diseases||Losing sight of the bigger picture is easy when a crisis presents itself. While India’s population and health infrastructure are groaning under the weight of the highly contagious coronavirus, an equally grim truth has surfaced: around two out of three deaths in India occur on account of non-communicable diseases. A study by the Thought Arbitrage Research Institute found that at least 10 per cent of the population across 21 states suffers from an NCD. The figures indicate the scale of the crisis: since the 1990s, illnesses such as diabetes, digestive ailments and hypertension have claimed more lives in India than infectious diseases have, with Odisha, Tripura and Assam topping the list. There are, of course, several contributors to the problem, including an ageing population, rapid urbanization sans modernized hygiene systems, urban congestion on account of migration as well as climate change. The study also revealed a few unexpected findings. Last year, a report had found that adult obesity in India is on the rise, with the number of obese Indians shooting up from 25.2 million in 2012 to 34.3 million in 2016. The public health discourse tends to attribute the cause of lifestyle diseases to faulty consumption patterns found mainly in urban areas, where access to food is not always an immediate hurdle. And yet, the prevalence of NCDs in rural India is only marginally less than in cities. Data show that between 1990 and 2016, the death rate across age groups in rural areas increased by 131 per cent for diabetes and 55 per cent for ischaemic heart disease. Clearly, older hypotheses concerning the rural-urban health index need to be reviewed. Combating NCDs requires reforms at various levels, from adequately taxing the consumption of packaged food to encouraging such lifestyle choices as the use of cycles and the adoption of healthy diets. The medical response to NCDs has also been inadequate; there is a paucity of disease surveillance systems and poor access to medicines, diagnostic services and insurance. While the Ayushman Bharat Yojana covers in-hospital secondary and tertiary care, there are no clearly-outlined mechanisms for paying for chronic outpatient care and medication, which comprise the bulk of the out-of-pocket expenses for NCD treatment. There is an urgent need for awareness initiatives — for instance, teaching obese citizens about eating healthy food and supporting local cuisines — that are to be bolstered by trained personnel, basic drug supply chains and efficient facilities. Private players can be roped in to strengthen these efforts. The only way to stop diseases that kill silently is to train an unrelenting light on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Opinion||Right over all: Freedom to choose religion||It is deeply heartening when the Supreme Court speaks firmly in support of Constitutional rights. While dismissing a public interest litigation against superstition, black magic and religious conversion by threats, deception and gifts, the Supreme Court reportedly said it did not understand why a person over 18 should not be free to choose his religion; the word “propagate” in the Constitution with regard to religion was there for a reason. What was most reassuring about the Supreme Court’s ruling was its reportedly critical approach to the petition, which the three-judge bench found “very harmful”. The contents of the petition presented by Ashwini Upadhyay of the Bharatiya Janata Party laid bare his party’s agenda: this is not the first attempt to target minority faiths by implying that they practise deceit to get people to convert. The hullabaloo around love jihad springs from this as well, and the fact that Uttar Pradesh now has a law against it although Parliament can offer no proof of its existence indicates the Hindutva forces’ determination. The petition said that members of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are particularly vulnerable to conversions by the ‘carrot-and-stick’ method or black magic. Apart from violating certain Constitutional freedoms — ironically, freedom of religion was mentioned too — the practice also goes against the secular spirit, according to the petition. The inversion of logic is typical, but the Supreme Court reportedly delivered a sharp rebuke to Mr Upadhyay’s lawyer because the writ petition was based on Article 32, providing the freedom to approach the Supreme Court against the violation of fundamental rights. While withdrawing the petition — the court mentioned the “heavy cost” it would impose — the lawyer requested permission to make a representation to the government and the Law Commission on the issue. The Supreme Court refused. It tellingly termed the petition a “publicity interest litigation”. There can be little doubt that conversion is the focus of an agenda to erase religious freedoms and destroy ideals of tolerance. The petition raised the feasibility of a committee to implement a Central law against religious conversion with a penalty of imprisonment from three to 10 years. The repeated efforts to make conversion look wrong — ghar wapsi was one form — comprise a kind of publicity intended to demonstrate that there is no choice but one religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Opinion||Lessons from Singhu border||The farmers’ movement is now entering a new phase. While the government is trying to tire out the protesters and push the protest out of the media’s glare, the farmers are gearing up to make the protest more inclusive. They are now talking about the agrarian crisis and the need for a minimum support price in all states. It is no longer going to be about the protection of mandi and MSP in Punjab and Haryana alone. Committees have been formed to reach out to farmers in other states as well as to gather information about state-specific problems related to agriculture, apart from addressing the common problems of debt, lack of infrastructure, the absence of assured returns, high cost on inputs and middlemen, among others. The movement is no longer about gaining subsistence living but about the agrarian crisis afflicting small and medium farmers. The participation of the youth and women has made a difference to the way the movement is being envisaged as one beyond immediate interests and more about the future of the younger generation. It is now willing to debate the very corporate model of development. The protest leadership is also transitioning. After being led by Jats and Sikhs, panchayats at various places in Punjab and Haryana are reaching out to Dalits to join the protests. Punjab has the largest Dalit population in India. Panchayats and khaps, in order to include Dalits, are discussing caste-based discrimination. They are also deliberating on the issue of prejudice against Muslims and introspecting where they went wrong by supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party and by consenting to the communal violence in Muzaffarnagar. Farmers invited Muslim leaders to address the protests and there was a kind of performance that was akin to ‘truth and reconciliation’. These are explosive changes in the otherwise conservative rural hinterlands that are combining the intricate cultural issues ‘internal’ to the rural community with the ‘external’ economic assault on the sovereignty of the agrarian economy. Farmers have perceived the complex inter-relationship between the need to bring about internal social change and to defend themselves against an external assault. In fact, the second phase of the farmers’ protest is no longer about the kisan but about insaan. There is also the possibility of a second phase of the anti-CAA protests after the pandemic subsides, given that the Union home minister has referred to the formulation of the rules and its implementation after the current round of assembly elections. The anti-CAA protests must observe the developments and changes brought about by the farm protests to understand how the moral universe is built in order to reach out to a larger number of social groups cutting across cultural differences. It is in building solidarities, and not in making appeals to the State and invoking the Constitution, that resistance can meet with success. The anti-CAA protests, too, began by making the right moves. It was led by women. There were declarations that this was to be a protest to save democracy and the Constitution. It began to spread beyond Shaheen Bagh to other cities and smaller towns in North India. However, the anti-CAA protest, unlike the farmers’ movement, seems to have reduced itself to an agitation by and for Muslims. Further, it got stuck in its agenda with its appeal to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The second phase of the anti-CAA mobilization, if it is to be started after the pandemic, needs to move into more universal registers and focus on appealing to the larger sections of the Hindu population that remain indifferent. A CSDS survey revealed that a majority of the respondents from Hindu society support the CAA. Herein lies the confidence of the current regime in pushing for these changes. The question that the anti-CAA protesters must address is the need to create the kind of moral valency that the farm protest has generated. They need to ask themselves what kind of symbolic representation would allow them to gain the support of the larger society beyond the Muslim community. Significantly, the CSDS survey had also found that most Hindu respondents supported a plural India — not a theocratic Hindu rashtra. But when it came to the CAA, they responded differently. This only shows that the social imaginary and the moral signification of being a Muslim ought to be resignified. The anti-CAA movement needs to address the points on which majoritarian mobilization is based. In an interview in The Caravan, a rioter who took part in the Delhi riots said that he regrets taking part in the violence but ‘Muslims cannot be trusted and they will consolidate and organize attacks on Hindus and we need to be vigilant.’ This intangible anxiety is driving the consent for the violence against and the marginalization of Muslims. It is this inexplicable anxiety of a majority community against a numerical minority that is making compassion towards Muslims difficult. No amount of violence seems to convince the majority that a Muslim can be a victim of unfair violence. Muslim mobilization in India, as part of the anti-CAA protest or otherwise, has to create narratives to quell this anxiety that is not based on evidence. If farmers can gain support as annadaatas, there is no reason why a larger solidarity cannot be built for Muslims with a narrative that is willing to engage the common Hindu and not just the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
14-04-2021||Opinion||Failing brakes||The elections in West Bengal are being considered by many to be a decisive fight to stem the swelling tide of right-wing populism in India embodied in the ideology of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mamata Banerjee is fighting a hard battle for survival. Not that Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress is a paragon of liberal democracy, but her political position has been stridently opposed to the majoritarianism of the BJP. This majoritarianism is marked by the stifling of dissent and a systematic attack on the independence of the essential institutions of democracy such as the media, the judiciary, law enforcement agencies, the bureaucracy and autonomous universities. Populism is not new in India. Left and right-wing varieties have raised their heads from time to time. For instance, Indian politics during Indira Gandhi’s time had been discernibly left-wing populist in nature, characterized by a suspicion of big business and foreign investments. Vote-bank considerations allowed the formation of coalitions of the disadvantaged and marginalized people who were promised certain economic resources from the State. There were concerns about economic inequality and environmental degradation. Religion was left alone by the State to form an important component of the nation’s cultural plurality and diversity. Nationalism was tempered with an acceptance of cultural openness and plurality. The elite, in this brand of left-wing populism, comprised a wide-ranging set of opinion-makers. They were intellectuals of different hues, but most of them with left-of-centre leanings. During the earlier Nehruvian era, the State relied on the intellectual elite to construct the economic template for facilitating nation-building. With Indira Gandhi, there was a shift from the Nehruvian consensus to a more left-wing populism that culminated in the disastrous Emergency that severely threatened and strained the fabric of democracy and freedom. The first three decades after Independence, despite the left-of-centre policies pursued by the State, did not achieve expected results in economic growth and poverty reduction. Much later, with the advent of neo-liberal globalization, there was an opening up of the economy to world markets and capital. The decade of the 1990s did not change the deep structural problems. While poverty and unemployment remained, economic inequality grew to massive proportions. New economic opportunities were scarce and limited to the narrow middle class. Liberal democracy, despite witnessing electoral changes in government, remained weak. The quality of people in politics deteriorated. There was a gradual erosion of independent institutions, accompanied by a rise in corruption and weak governance. The decade of the 1990s, however, saw the growing strength of India’s business class who, by that time, had become more confident and realized the benefits of cooperating with international capital. International capital, on the other hand, saw the potential of opening up a large new market in the subcontinent. The State, in the new global order, found its control over national policies like tax rates, capital flows, money supply and public investments becoming weaker and uncertain in terms of their impact. This crisis of sovereignty, the emergence of a more powerful business class with strong ties to global capital and the continuation of economic uncertainties and deprivations paved the way for a serious challenge to the older elite. A realization also dawned on the poor and middle classes that left-wing populism was unable to deliver on the promises made. The concept of liberal democracy gradually began to be contested and an alternative political narrative inevitably emerged. Global capitalism needs room to grow through new markets, strategic investments, expansion of debt and productivity-enhancing new technologies. There are limits to penetrating international markets and raising debt. New technologies have become the mainstay of expansion. However, the expectation is that with the advent of new technologies like artificial intelligence and robotics, employment opportunities will shrink phenomenally. The project of a worldwide consolidation of capitalism has been stalled and confronted with hurdles which no international institution can solve, simply because there is no global government. The crisis of incomplete globalization has thrown up winners and losers in large numbers, with a pervasive anxiety about economic stability in the near future. India has to confront its own set of problems. However, in this context, imperfect liberal democracy as well as left-wing populism began to be perceived by many as useless and impotent. The alternative narrative to replace liberal democracy centred on national culture and not the national economy. It was spun around a homogenous cultural identity, debunking diversity as a hurdle to development. Simple solutions were attractively packaged for all, characterizing a golden age from a perfect past. This narrative required two features to sustain it and gather momentum. First, the leader had to appear as strong and decisive, one who knew what the solutions were and could articulate them with clarity. Second, the leader had to be able to identify a clear and unambiguous set of enemies of the nation. They were the immigrants from the past, a religious minority, socially deprived categories like Dalits and adivasis. The public gaze, from the poorest up to the white-collar workers, had to be distracted from dwelling on complex economic issues. Liberal democracy, even in its weakest and most distorted form, exhibits varying amounts of certain essential traits. While democracy implies some process of collective self-determination, liberalism requires the guarantee of individual liberties and rights. Any guarantee of these freedoms requires, in turn, a bill of rights or a Constitution, but more so, a set of well-functioning, independent institutions that protect these freedoms from powerful political intrusions. Right-wing populism warrants that elections remain in place while chipping away at the independence of the essential liberal institutions of democracy. Hence, liberal democracy soon becomes an illiberal democracy, but elections continue to be part of the political process. Then, at a later stage, the electoral process is assaulted through misinformation, lies and the brute force of the State to demean it. Gradually, the illiberal democracy transforms into an illiberal dictatorship. India is currently going through this process of change. A good indicator of this is not only how institutions of the judiciary, enforcement agencies, elections, the media and academia have all been weakened and compromised, but also the fact that on almost every index of social well-being, economic performance, political freedoms and environmental safety, India’s rank in the world community has slid considerably in the recent past. Little wonder that the nation has been described as only “partly free” or, according to another study, an “elected autocracy”. A democratically elected government has promised to work to make India free of political opposition. It is in this process that the acquiring of elected representatives of the people, both before and after elections, is now the accepted norm, and individual freedoms are assaulted on a daily basis — what we wear and eat, who we might marry, where we might live and, above all, who we have to fear and obey. The BJP government’s economic policies are also markedly right-wing as revealed by its closeness to big business and its disdain for the well-being of farmers, workers and minorities, evident in new laws recently enacted without any debate in Parliament. The results of the elections in Bengal will reveal whether we accelerate on this road to a one-party State, or we slow down a bit on this journey towards an Opposition-free democracy where dissent is dangerous, and even humour can land one in prison. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-42
