15-04-2021||Opinion||In chains: Pedagogy on a leash||Autonomy is turning out to be a cuss word in this democracy. The elected regime in power has, on several occasions, made its displeasure known towards autonomy by acting against the advocates of independent thought. Now — the irony must not be missed — ‘autonomous’ institutions are turning against the principle as well. The independence of the Indian Institutes of Management is sanctified by law. Now consider the provisions of the proposed draft code at IIM Calcutta, which seek to regulate the conduct of faculty members. Red flags have been raised against the criticism of the government or the institution, participation in protests that hurt “public order” or “decency”; there are curbs on approaching the media, seeking redressal in courts as well as signing petitions. The formulation of the draconian code may have an immediate context: the faculty had approached the government to complain against the director and the board that saw the dismissal of the former. But that is not the full story. The service rules of IIM Bangalore reportedly include the provision on criticism of the institution while teachers of IIM Ahmedabad are expected to be ‘politically neutral’. The crux of the matter, clearly, is about putting institutions and, in the process, critical thinking and pedagogy on a leash. IIM Calcutta’s draft, as has been rightly pointed out by teachers, is in violation of several stipulations. The Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, the guidelines government personnel and bureaucrats are expected to adhere to, cannot be applied to teachers. There is legal precedent for this: some years ago, India’s highest court had upheld this distinction. The order was a heartening recognition of the special role that educators occupy in society. Teachers and faculty cannot be seen as inculcators of vocational skills. They germinate unbiased thought, encourage critical examination of realities by their wards, and serve as a bulwark to protect the tradition of creating and disseminating knowledge. A university or, for that matter, an IIM, remains the very embodiment of the assurance of such freedoms in the academic domain. It is now abundantly clear that academic institutions can no longer take their autonomy for granted: not just the government but even the University Grants Commission seems to be exceeding its brief in some cases. The whittling down of the agency of teachers and the institutions they serve comes at a time when India’s National Education Policy has recognized that excellence in academics is predicated upon the ability to think freely. New India never ceases to puzzle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||Beat the heat: Global warming||Sir — A joint study conducted by researchers from India and Brazil has found that one of the reasons for the deadly heatwaves in India — this leads to several deaths every year — is the rise in temperature in the Arctic region as a result of global warming. Given the alarming rate at which the Arctic is warming, this is a serious concern. Yet, several countries continue to downplay the far-reaching implications of global warming. India must reach out to other nations and encourage them to take collective measures to mitigate the situation. Sneha Chaudhury,Calcutta Swift action Sir — Mud-slinging has now become common in election campaigns, but things can quickly spiral out of control when political leaders incite their supporters to indulge in questionable acts (“CEC exits with 24-hour gag on Mamata”, April 13). In this regard, the decision of the Election Commission to ban the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, from campaigning for 24 hours may have been necessary. But this also raises some questions. The EC swiftly imposed a gag order on Banerjee when she stepped out of line — she allegedly told people from the minority community not to divide their votes and asked women to gherao Central force personnel who intimidate them — but when it comes to the leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, such alacrity is missing. Several BJP leaders are guilty of inflammatory speeches, but they are rarely held accountable for their actions. In fact, Bengal’s BJP chief, Dilip Ghosh, had stated that unless people behave, more incidents like the violence that erupted in the fourth phase of polling in Cooch Behar — four people were shot by Central Industrial Security Force personnel — are likely to happen in the upcoming phases. So far, the EC has only sent Ghosh a show-cause notice. The EC must be more proactive in its approach towards curbing inappropriate behaviour during elections. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The death of five people, including the four who were shot by CISF personnel in Sitalkuchi, during the fourth phase of polling in Bengal last Saturday was unfortunate. Undoubtedly, it will be an uphill task for the EC to ensure that peace prevails in the state over the next three weeks. The decision of the EC to debar politicians from entering the trouble-torn Cooch Behar district for 72 hours following the incident was taken to help defuse the tense situation. Similarly, the EC wasted no time in imposing a gag order on Mamata Banerjee for 24 hours because of her inappropriate comments after the incident. Now it must take strict action against Dilip Ghosh for his hateful remarks regarding the firing at Sitalkuchi. The EC also rightly banned Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours — the BJP leader allegedly remarked that not four but eight people should have been shot by the CISF. Leaders of both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP must exercise restraint in their words and deeds. Khokan Das,Calcutta Need for change Sir — The Federation of All India Medical Association recently wrote to the prime minister, Narendra Modi, expressing concerns about the prevailing ‘VIP culture’ in government hospitals amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The association pointed out that there are separate VIP counters at several government hospitals run by the Centre that offer Covid testing only to politicians and ministers. In contrast, doctors themselves have to stand in queues to get tested. The doctors also alleged that many politicians call them at their residence for treatment; this further reduces the medical manpower available at government hospitals, which is already stretched thin. This behaviour is shameful. The prime minister must take note of the matter and address the concerns of the doctors immediately. N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Sir — That political leaders are being offered special treatment at hospitals at a time when common citizens are dying of Covid-19 on account of inadequate medical resources is unfortunate. This must be stopped. Riya Pal,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||All’s fair for the Election Commission||When the task of an institution is to ensure free and fair elections, it has to take hard decisions. One such decision, presumably, was the Election Commission’s 24-hour ban on campaigning imposed on the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. According to the EC, Ms Banerjee violated the model code of conduct by asking the minority community in a campaign speech not to divide their votes; she also repeatedly raised doubts about the impartiality of the Central Armed Police Forces. The EC penalized Ms Banerjee for her ‘insinuating’ and ‘provocative’ remarks that could seriously disturb the election process. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders accused her of ‘polarizing’ communities. The EC must have caught the nuances of this definition of polarization, but perhaps it is not always as sensitive to complaints from all parties or to worries regarding electronic voting machines and their security. Threatening remarks made by the West Bengal BJP chief to artists joining politics are permissible — a small example — as is the derision in the rudest terms and tones directed at the West Bengal chief minister by BJP leaders, even their tallest. By the same logic, the EC must believe that Yogi Adityanath’s frankly divisive campaign speeches are part of the model code. Its impartial role in the Sitalkuchi killings by the Central Industrial Security Force was communicated for the most part by silence. Contrasted with its eager dutifulness after the death of a BJP leader in the same district earlier, the EC’s absence there after the CISF killed four voters, CCTVs disappeared and BJP-conducted social media sites put up fake videos in the CISF’s defence is rather striking. But it is an impartial institution: it banned the BJP leader, Rahul Sinha, for threatening remarks and gave notice to the state BJP chief for saying that there will be more Sitalkuchis if others act like the ‘naughty boys’ killed by the CISF. Another leader, who talked of Bengal becoming mini-Pakistan if the Trinamul Congress won, was not mentioned. Is Mr Sinha’s ban meant to balance the chief minister’s? That is a funny sense of proportion. Perhaps the EC, like the party in power at the Centre, seriously believes that people are fools. Free and fair polls in parliamentary democracy are predicated on respect for the voters. It is their government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||Something is rotten in the schools||My work email inbox often looks like a marketplace where I am exhorted to buy goods or services — supposedly for the betterment of my school. One look at the kind of mail that I receive will convince you of the rot that is setting in in our schools today. I have selected two emails to demonstrate this. “Dear Sir/Madam, Amid Covid-19 we are giving a Flat [sic] 50% discount with a nominal sponsorship of 30k+GST for the above benefits. Please do let me know if you are interested in this.” This is part of an offer made by a “global, educational magazine” after announcing that our school had been placed among “The 10 Best International Schools in India, 2021”. The seven “benefits” that were listed all boiled down to publicity for the school in India and abroad. “We hope you will allow us to serve your organisation and maximise visibility on a global platform,” continued the representative of the said magazine in her email to me. You may well wonder what is so ‘rotten’ about this offer. The explanation is simple. Our school has just introduced its international programmes. To be precise, the International General Certificate of Secondary Education programme was introduced last year, and the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme in 2018. One wonders how on earth we can be adjudged ‘One of the 10 Best International Schools in India!’ Far from feeling elated, I felt insulted that those offering the wonderful “benefits” perceive school authorities to be dim-witted, conceited or corrupt, or all three combined. Another common business strategy is for organizations to hold glittering ceremonies where awards are presented in various categories to institutions and individuals. The event is customarily held in a five-star hotel and to entice people to fill up the nomination forms, the names of those who would grace the occasion are cited in advance. They are usually VVIPs from the ministry of education, with a ‘celebrity’ thrown in for good measure. I quote from an email: “This side [sic] Madhu [name changed]. We had this conversation the other day [false]. Kindly fill up the form free of charge. Last day today.” Invariably, the “last day” is generously extended and a reminder is sent daily — for weeks on end. It is abundantly clear that the hunger for publicity of certain schools — upcoming or otherwise — is being cannily exploited by the business world. The truth is that this rot has been setting in for a while. Schools have been steadily corporatized and are now almost entirely market-driven. Many believe, however, that there is nothing wrong in regarding a school as a business and education as a product to be bought and sold. Nonetheless, it upsets many to see schools being marketed like five-star hotels or brands of detergent. The reputation of an educational institution is built over the years as a result of the way it has been run, the way it has attended to the holistic development of every student and the sincerity with which it has carried out its pastoral duties. The well-rounded alumni of such schools contribute in turn to the reputation of their alma mater through their achievements. No matter how much a school projects itself through paid publicity, it is an established truth that no institution can buy a solid reputation: it has to be backed by genuine credentials. Here I hasten to say that some ‘reputed’ institutions run on momentum and the magic of the ‘old school tie’. Only insiders know how rotten some of these institutions have become in many ways, besides the abandonment of ethics, which have taken a back seat anyway in a commercialized world. The brand continues to yield returns and the ‘old school tie’ undeniably is handy when it comes to building careers and doing business. The second email from my inbox indicating the rot reads: “Sir/Madam, do you know that we can reduce cheating in exams by 95%? The options offered are live proctoring, auto proctoring, recorded proctoring. It is extremely difficult to cheat in an online proctored exam due to the advancements in online proctoring software.” It is indeed a sorry state of affairs that we need artificial intelligence to detect cheating. Academic dishonesty is widespread among students and is, shamefully, aided and abetted by adults. A lack of educational understanding in the way students should be assessed has encouraged plagiarism, which has become an all-pervasive practice. I have a strong feeling that this, too, has stemmed from the same origin: the commodification of education. Our consumer society is steeped in materialism; all that parents and schools are interested in is getting their children to obtain dazzling board examination results, never mind the means. The irony is that when students reproduce answers that have been prepared by others or turn in ‘cut and paste’ jobs, they are rewarded with excellent marks. The concept of plagiarism is non-existent in our learning system. So, when it comes to tests and exams, ‘invigilation’ becomes a heavy-duty job for teachers while sophisticated technology provides efficient policing. Rampant cheating would not happen if we overhauled the assessment system. The need of the hour is to shed cynicism and make a concerted effort to inculcate values in our students. Condemning children is unfair and futile while policing does not touch the root of the problem. Plagiarists and cheats, it is hoped, will eventually find reason to regret their lack of knowledge while schools will realize that ostentatious publicity will not get them far. The money spent can be much better utilized in improving the school itself. In the ongoing elections, those candidates who have relied only on self-projection and publicity instead of serving the people are unlikely to win. Let us hope that politicians who hoodwink people are taught a lesson. But the rot in politics is too deeply entrenched; we must focus instead on stopping the rot in our schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
15-04-2021||Opinion||On borrowed wings||The intra-democratic debate about Joe Biden’s presidency, so far, pits a growing camp of Biden enthusiasts who are harking back to liberalism’s golden age — comparing the new president’s free-spending ambitions to Franklin Roosevelt’s and Lyndon Johnson’s — against a shrinking cadre of leftists who insist that Biden is still just another neoliberal centrist, another Bill Clinton or Barack Obama. Here’s a somewhat different, more provoking, way of thinking: we should regard Bidenism, in its current outline, as an attempt to build on Donald Trump’s half-formed, never-finished policy agenda, in the way that elements of Jimmy Carter’s programme found their fullest expression in Ronald Reagan’s presidency. I’m borrowing this idea from the Bloomberg opinion columnist, Karl W. Smith, who recently called Biden’s economic proposals “the coherent manifestation of MAGAism in the same way that Reaganism was a coherent manifestation of Carter-era deregulation”. But the analogy rests on more than just regulatory policy: much of what we remember as the Reagan agenda was anticipated in Carter-era policies and debates. For instance, the Reagan military build-up really began under Carter after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan: it was Carter’s CIA that armed the mujahideen, and Carter who fatefully involved the United States of America in the Persian Gulf. In addition to pushing through the deregulation of major industries, Carter nominated Paul Volcker, the crucial figure in the Reagan-era crackdown on inflation, to be chairman of the Federal Reserve, and feuded bitterly with his party’s left wing. Even supply-side economics, associated decisively with the right after the Reagan era, initially had Democratic partisans and Republican opponents. Basically you could say that in the late 1970s there was an opportunity for a politician who could credibly promise to restore US strength abroad while whipping inflation and unleashing dynamism at home. That leader could have been a Democrat had the Carter presidency turned out differently, had Carter managed his own coalition more effectively, made better policy choices, enjoyed better luck. Instead Reagan took the opportunity and ran with it, creating a multi-decade realignment. In a similar way, you might say that in the middle of the 2010s there was an opportunity for a politician to promise a kind of American rebuilding effort — a turn against globalization and overseas nation-building, in which deficit hawkishness would be discarded, industrial policy would make a comeback and there would be redistribution from the new economy’s winners to the American worker and working-class families. That opportunity was the basis of Trump’s 2016 campaign and, at times, his presidential agenda tried to seize the chance: in his support for a loose-money, full-employment monetary policy; in his tax bill’s child tax credit expansion and its stealth tax increases (via caps on the home-mortgage and state-and-local-tax deductions) on the blue-state professional class; in his trade protectionism; and in his attempts to draw down US commitments in Afghanistan and Syria. But like Carter before him, Trump couldn’t make it work. His congressional party preferred its old agenda of business tax cuts and Obamacare repeal, he preferred bigotry and bluster to policymaking of any kind, and instead of consolidating a new majority, he ended up defeated. So now comes Biden, in a sense, to simply scoop up elements of Trumpian populism and try the trick himself. He’s entrenching protectionism in trade policy and arguably broadening the last administration’s China hawkishness. He’s trying to do the trillion-dollar infrastructure plan that Steve Bannon promised but the Trump administration never delivered. And he’s taking the Senate GOP’s inchoate ideas on family policy and outbidding them with new child spending. Because he’s a Democrat, there’s no anti-tax pledge to fall afoul of, so he can do all this while promising explicitly to raise taxes on the rich. But he’s also ditched the deficit anxieties of past Democratic administrations, he’s got a full-employment Federal Reserve behind him and, following Trump’s lead, he’s just going to run up deficits until inflation finally bites. You can tell that these moves are well-suited to the political moment because the Republicans don’t know how to counter them. They’re stuck betwixt and between, unable to fully revert to their pre-Trump positioning as deficit hawks (who would believe them anymore?) and unsure how to counter Biden when he just seems to be making good on Trump’s promises. So you get Republican attacks on the infrastructure proposal for including too much non-infrastructure spending or conservative attacks on the family benefit for undermining work incentives. These are detail-oriented critiques, and sometimes reasonable ones — but they effectively concede a lot of ground to Biden’s general vision instead of setting up a sharp ideological contrast. Are there any limitations on this fulfil-Trump’s-promises approach? The immediate one is in immigration policy, where Biden’s coalition won’t permit him to co-opt Trump’s hawkishness or even revert to the policies of the Obama era. So it’s the Biden White House that’s caught between approaches, trying to deliver both a humanitarian welcome and enough border security to keep the flow of migrants manageable. The Biden bet seems to be that you can have a version of economic nationalism without its usual anti-immigration component — that protectionism via tariffs and industrial policy can go together with a looser immigration policy. If unemployment rates get low enough, this might be right. But a plausible liberal nationalism still probably requires a sense of basic order and stability at the border, which is eluding the Biden team for now. Then the longer-term issue with Bidenism as Trumpism 2.0 is that since the Democratic Party increasingly represents the winners of globalization, from wealthy suburbanites to Wall Street and Silicon Valley elites, a politics that requires these interests to sacrifice for the sake of redistribution will eventually create fissures inside its coalition. Yes, Biden can probably get a modest corporate tax hike and a higher tax rate on the highest earners. But his party’s eagerness to restore the state and local tax breaks that Trump curbed tells you something important about where power lies in liberal politics, and how little appetite there is among Democrats for tax increases that really bite the upper middle class. So just as Trumpism depended on deficit spending to avoid any conflict with his party’s donors and anti-tax activists, Bidenism depends on deficit spending to avoid having to soak his professional-class constituents. That such spending is possible, that inflation is just a rumour, is the crucial precondition for both men’s styles of populism. But whether Biden can simply expand upon his predecessor’s agenda without putting his own coalition to the test — well, that depends on just how long we stay in an era of money for nothing, and populism for free. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
