16-04-2021||Opinion||Follow the rules: Kumbh Mela amid Covid surge||Sir — It is a shame that while a number of people blamed the Tablighi Jamaat held last year for the spread of the coronavirus, not many are being equally vociferous about the Kumbh Mela gatherings. The fact that the devotees participating in the event are being blithely unmindful about preventive protocol is not surprising. What is perplexing is the logic behind the government’s decision to allow a congregation of this scale at a time when the pandemic is at its worst in the country. Surely the educated political class did not think that such a show of blind faith would help alleviate the situation. The only answer, then, is that the Centre could not afford to disappoint the religious majority, especially when the assembly polls in Bengal are not yet over. The number of infections has certainly spiked during the Kumbh Mela gatherings — over 1,000 people have tested positive in just 48 hours in Haridwar. But the authorities have said that there are no plans of cutting the festival short. This, along with the crowded rallies that are taking place in various parts of Bengal without any precautions, might prove to be disastrous beyond measure for the country. Who, then, will take responsibility for the lives lost? People throwing caution to the wind should remember that no amount of clanging pots and pans this time is going to make up for the deaths of medical professionals who have sacrificed their lives. Jahnabi Mitra,Hooghly Sir — The leniency shown by the government towards the organization of the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar has resulted in the violation of all preventive rules. This is a matter of serious concern. The congregation of devotees as well as the akhadas revealed their callous attitude towards the pandemic during the shahi snaan. The devotees have been requested time and again to adhere to safety norms. But owing to their carelessness, India has now recorded the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world. Had the government imposed preventive measures with the same strictness it had shown during the first wave of the pandemic, the situation would not have spiralled out of control. Owing to a sudden spike in active cases, the idea of another lockdown is now looming large. This has naturally triggered panic among migrant workers, leading them to leave their workplaces. It is likely that another job crisis will emerge in many sectors. This is not a good sign for the economy, which has already been tumbling downwards over the last few years. To mitigate the situation, the government should speed up the vaccination drive and conduct routine check-ups. Otherwise, it will face a heavy challenge, and the common people will have to have to face the music. Sandeep Rawat,Chandigarh Sir — It is a matter of grave concern that, on the one hand, the number of Covid-19 cases continues to surge and claim lives, while, on the other, political rallies and religious gatherings like the Kumbh Mela are being permitted. The prime minister is advising the people to save lives by wearing masks and observing physical distancing. But scenes from his public meetings do not reflect adherence to his words. Holding elections and capturing power seem to be a greater priority than saving lives. Perhaps after this spell of elections is over, the administration will come up with more stringent measures — even a lockdown may follow. Winning the seat of power should not turn into a predatory affair. Nitesh Mandwariya,Neemuch, Madhya Pradesh Sir — The surge of new Covid-19 cases in India — Tamil Nadu, too, has noted a spike — is disturbing. This increase has undoubtedly been caused by the violation of preventive norms by the common man and, more particularly, by political leaders who are bringing lakhs of people to attend their election rallies, without care for any protocols. Now, lakhs of devotees are attending the Kumbh Mela and other religious festivals, flouting all norms. At the Kumbh Mela, over 100 pilgrims and 20 seers tested positive for Covid-19 within a day. Television channels showed devotees disregarding social distancing norms and not wearing masks. Fortunately, the Indian Premier League has debarred spectators this year. Otherwise it would have led to a catastrophe. When will people learn to follow rules for the safety of their own country? N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — It is disappointing that the Kumbh Mela was allowed to take place. Now the entire country will suffer from the spike of cases that the congregation will cause. Mallika Gupta,New Delhi  Step forward Sir — For a comedian, caricature is a daily tool of the trade. But a joke can soon turn sour if such comedy leads to stereotyping. This was the case with the character, Apu, a supermarket clerk of Indian descent in The Simpsons. Voiced by Hank Zakaria, Apu’s mannerisms and accent, although iconic, had become infamous for contributing to a narrow, racist view of Indian-Americans. But Zakaria has now apologized for his part in perpetuating the stereotype. This step taken by the white voice actor — he admitted to having learnt about racism through conversations and seminars — could help create a more equal society. Joyeeni Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
16-04-2021||Opinion||Speed up Covid vaccination||An unprecedented crisis requires unconventional strategies to contain it. India is reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 with the country registering two lakh daily new cases recently. The pace of infections, unless it is arrested, threatens to overwhelm India’s uneven health infrastructure, ushering in a massive crisis. The recommendation by an expert panel to expedite the approval of vaccines that have met prescribed regulatory stipulations in the United States of America, Europe, the United Kingdom, Japan as well as those drugs that are part of the World Health Organization’s emergency use inventory needs to be seen in the light of the deteriorating situation. The fast-tracking of drugs, in theory, comes with its own advantage. It would hopefully infuse fresh momentum into India’s inoculation endeavour that is, at present, not covering enough ground. It has been reported that less than 8 per cent of Indian citizens have received a single shot; the US and the UK have managed to vaccinate almost 50 per cent of their populations. Worryingly, several vaccination centres are suffering shortfalls even though the prime minister has declared open India’s Tika Utsav. The fast-track approval would also ease some of the pressure on the supply of the two drugs — Covishield and Covaxin — that are being used at the moment. The challenge, however, does not end with expediting drug approval. One of the risks of fast-tracking new drugs is the relative paucity of ‘bridging trials’ — the collection of data pertaining to safety and immunogenicity is likely to remain skeletal. The Union health ministry has directed only the first 100 beneficiaries to be assessed for seven days before the new drugs are rolled out. The Centre must also ensure that foreign vaccine manufacturers remain enthusiastic about making their products available commercially at the earliest. Pricing and other relevant aspects would need to be smoothened. Till these prickly issues are sorted out and the drugs actually make it to the domestic market — Sputnik, the Russian vaccine, is likely to be available only in May — India must adhere to the basic protocols of pandemic management. This would involve ramping up testing and tracing mechanisms, increasing hospital beds and related medical infrastructure and — this is most important — make India’s apathetic citizens comply with the regulations. India cannot afford to be complacent at this dark hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Opinion||Jump right in: Restriction for namaz at Nizamuddin Markaz||India has become bizarre. The Delhi High Court rejected the submission of the Centre and the Delhi police that only 20 people be allowed to enter the mosque at Nizamuddin Markaz for prayers during Ramadan from a police-verified list of 200. The court reportedly said that there cannot be a fixed list of devotees since no other place of worship has it. Prayers will be offered according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority protocols for Covid-19 control, with correct distancing inside the mosque. But all devotees can enter when their turn comes. Here it is bizarre that the Centre and the police persist in keeping a particular memory alive: the premises hosted the Tablighi Jamaat meeting last year and its members were arrested for deliberately and negligently spreading the Covid-19 virus. The accusations were dismissed in court and the media were severely admonished for making scapegoats of the participants who belonged to the minority community. By keeping the premises out of bounds and then going to court about prayers in the mosque there, the Centre and the police are trying to invest the site with negative associations, although their basis has proved to be non-existent. That the Delhi High Court reportedly said that nobody can take away the building could not be without a reason. The real bizarreness, though, lies in the contrast with the huge press of devotees at the Kumbh Mela. The Centre’s concern for limiting worship in order to control the virus is invisible here, so the majority religion’s sacred event has become one of the main causes of the frightening rise in the number of infections. No imposition of order on entry assumes that testing will be difficult and social distancing impossible. Do Bharatiya Janata Party leaders believe, along with the worshippers, that the Ganga will save the bathers from Covid, or are they allowing the devotees free scope only for votes — let the virus take who it may? Whatever their beliefs about the cow, they must know that Covid does not pick and choose faiths. So, over one thousand people tested positive in 48 hours at the mela. This is possibly just the tip of the iceberg in what is now a superspreader event. But inequality of treatment is now open and unashamed; infections are secondary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Opinion||The past is present||A dear friend claims that she once had two unfailing landmarks on Fern Road, between Ballygunge Terrace and Kasba bridge: one turn past an istiriwala and the next past a brown-and-white cow. They worked splendidly, till one day, mysteriously, the landmarks disappeared, never to return again. Maybe, in this city of disappearing landmarks, this was not so mysterious after all. Better known and, one would imagine, less mobile landmarks such as the Parama statue at the Science City crossing or the cannon at the centre of New Market had just disappeared one day. Not to mention entire heritage buildings. They have a habit of disappearing without a trace from the city. In such circumstances, I am proud to report that I have a personal landmark that has stood by me for years. It does not stand, really. It flies. It is a red flag bearing the CPI(M) symbol. When I saw it first, more than a decade ago, it was stuck into a shed at the corner of a lane that leads to an apartment block in south Calcutta where my uncle lives. This is one of the new residential areas that have come up off the E.M. Bypass, towards Santoshpur. The neighbourhood has not been planned much and the construction seems haphazard. Moreover, the buildings look very much like each other. They are generally three- or four-storeyed apartment blocks built along one side of a canal in what can be called the contemporary Calcutta style for three- or four-storeyed apartment blocks. Because the buildings look so similar, it is easy to miss the right turn to arrive at the right one. So I used to look out for the red flag with the sickle, the hammer and the star. I am no supporter of the CPI(M), nor was ever. But its flag became the tool for me to negotiate my way to my uncle’s house. I was told the shed from which it was flying was a CPI(M) party office once. In 2011, Bengal changed hands. With a new party in power, I wondered what would happen to the flag in that corner. To my surprise, it remained, though no one seemed to be around to protect it. The shed looked lonely, the flag looked forlorn, but it was there, and I reached my uncle’s house without any problem. Since more buildings were coming up every day, the locality was becoming more confusing and the flag was becoming more important for me. I would stress more about missing the right turn, and be relieved on finding the flag again, a little more faded every time, but stoutly there. Then one day, three or four years ago, after the Trinamul Congress had won its second term, I was overjoyed to see a bright new red flag having replaced the old, worn-out one. By that time the flag had become less a party symbol for me and more like an old acquaintance who, you were afraid, would not be there the next time. It was also that ever-fixed mark in a city where architecture is anarchic and ugly and aggressive, swallowing up every bit of free land or water that is available — and is inevitably a reflection of the changing politics. It was reassuring to see an innocuous bit of red not only not removed, but replenished when much else in the city was being coloured white and blue. The shed, however, was brought down later and, at the initiative of local residents, a Shiva temple was built in its place. I was astounded to see that the red flag was still there, flying now from the temple wall, almost shining like a beacon and showing me the way. I do not know who is tolerating whom more: the Marxist flag or the Hindu temple. But tolerance it is. Now that Bengal is voting again, one wonders what is going to happen to the state. I hope the flag stays on, because the past, whatever it was, should not be undone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
16-04-2021||Opinion||Open secret||In so adversarial a relationship, there is no sphere of activity left untouched by the impact of India-Pakistan frictions. The recent U-turn by the government of Pakistan on the import of sugar and cotton yarn from India is the obvious example. Trade contestations, however, go back to the founding moments of both countries. Much like the issue of river waters, Kashmir and other territorial issues represented by accession disputes and divergent ideological moorings, trade, too, has been a minefield. In the late 1940s, amidst the powerful dramas of the Kashmir war, the Partition massacres and disputes over water sharing, numerous tensions over bilateral trade were also seething just below the surface. These erupted into the open in September 1949 when the United Kingdom sharply devalued the pound. Many of its major trading partners and former colonies, including India, followed suit immediately. Curiously, or so it appeared to many in India, Pakistan did not. A major distortion in the exchange rate followed. Raw jute from East Pakistan imported by jute mills in India became much more expensive. Pakistan’s gamble was that it could get additional profits from higher jute prices that India would have to pay. Things did not work out in quite this way, and exports to India fell precipitously along with trade turnover as a whole, with potentially disastrous results for Pakistan’s — especially East Pakistan’s — economy. However, a quite unrelated factor intervened, almost providentially, to Pakistan’s advantage. The Korean war broke out in June 1950. Jute was suddenly in huge demand, and Pakistan was able to diversify its markets and also make huge profits. The gamble to not devalue had, in effect, paid off because of an unrelated geopolitical event. Perhaps the first but by no means the only time that luck, rather than the right judgment call, had worked in Pakistan’s favour. Within Pakistan, the handling of the devaluation crisis was viewed with satisfaction: cheaper imports marked the beginning of Pakistan’s industrialization process. Moreover, it showed Pakistan exercising its economic sovereignty in not following India into devaluation. But most of all, it demonstrated that trade would never be absent in India-Pakistan contestations. For the next half century, trade remained subject to all the vagaries of the India-Pakistan ecosystem restricted by quotas, lists and controls. In Pakistan, limiting trade with India was seen as an essential aspect of cementing its economic sovereignty. The 1965 and 1971 wars led to a nine-year-long trade suspension. The emergence of Bangladesh meant that economic complementarities between India and Pakistan reduced; by the late 1970s, the two economies had drifted apart. There were efforts to expand trade volumes, but the odds were against any substantive increase. What changed in the 1990s was the new mantra of globalization and the growth spurt the Indian economy began on. As the 50th anniversary of the emergence of sovereign India and Pakistan approached, economic engagement seemed to offer a platform that could help reduce, if not resolve, the enduring political divides. This was certainly the sentiment that was prevalent in India and, to a great extent, there was substantial support for this across party lines. Soon after joining the World Trade Organization, India extended ‘most favoured nation’ treatment to Pakistan — a routine step in international trade at the time, but a significant moment in the evolution of India’s Pakistan policy. In Pakistan, feelings were more mixed. Some saw the emergent potential of India with its economy opening up. Yet, resistance was fierce, with concerns that larger imports from India would damage Pakistan’s industry and agriculture. Others felt that forward movement on trade unaccompanied by substantial progress on ‘resolving Kashmir’ was a betrayal of Pakistan’s founding principles. Finally, there was a revanchist and ideological position that objected to considering India a ‘most favoured’ nation quite irrespective of the international context in which this technical term was used. This three-toned alloy of resistance has remained in place for the past quarter-century. It endured in spite of the emergence of the South Asian Free Trade Area agreement, which Pakistan chose not to fully accept. The reluctance to bite the bullet of MFN notwithstanding, trade between India and Pakistan did increase substantially in the first two decades of this century, although it remained far below potential. About eight to nine years ago, there appeared a brief moment when it seemed that Pakistan would finally agree to fully normalize trade with India by treating it the same as other trading partners. This was through the euphemism of ‘non-discriminatory market access’ — MFN treatment without using the ‘most favoured’ word! Meanwhile, two new grounds of resistance to normalizing trade with India had appeared. The first of these was the growing trade imbalance — Indian exports to Pakistan were six or seven times larger than its imports. For most Pakistanis, this was unfair and reflected market access issues and barriers that their exports faced in India. In this view, in spite of the strong optics that made up the unilateral grant of MFN by India to Pakistan, the fact remained that Indian exports to Pakistan were growing much faster than Indian imports. The second objection was a more general one, and greatly influenced by the strength of the then prevalent globalization discourse. Pakistan’s market and its geopolitical location offering access to Afghanistan, Iran and Central Asia was, in this view, the prize that India sought. In the late 2000s, there was also a real push from the United States of America for the liberalization of India-Pakistan trade and opening up a South Asian market for Afghanistan using Pakistan as transit. The joke at one stage was that the US government had more people working on India-Pakistan trade than the governments of India and Pakistan had, put together. The view gained ground in Pakistan that the ‘wily Indians’ with a western concert to back them were extracting something very valuable, the importance of which ‘simple Pakistan’ was unable to gauge. Highly inflated estimates of the potential of India-Pakistan trade if restrictions were removed added to these concerns. Therefore, for Pakistan to ‘give’ on trade without getting something in return was seen as naïve, and the question became a larger one of the concessions that Pakistan must seek. These new perceptions entered and strengthened the old alloy of resistance further. In the recent U-turn with regard to the import of sugar and cotton yarn from India, it is possible to see the imprint of these old debates. Nevertheless, the situation has changed a great deal. Pakistan banned all trade with India post August 2019 as a response to the legislative changes in Jammu and Kashmir. India, after the Pulwama terrorist attack, had withdrawn the 1996 MFN treatment given to Pakistan. Yet, there are differences from the trade stoppage of the 1960s and 1970s. Formal channels of trade are now supplemented by others. In spite of the ban, trade through third countries continues and even grows. This ‘open secret’ reveals much of India-Pakistan relations. What it also suggests is that the current setback notwithstanding, with incremental improvement in political atmospherics, the trade agenda will resurface again in some time. The author is a former high commissioner to Pakistan and is currently Director General, Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-41
