17-04-2021||Opinion||Cradle Tales||Nothing succeeds like success. The saying may be banal, but its manifestations are exciting. The coolest thing on the block nowadays is birthplace spotting, since aggressive viruses can hardly be called cool. It is best to look away from such transient unpleasantnesses and find instead that visionary gleam, those glimpses of unearthly glory, that a Western poet had once longed for. He had mourned their passing, but they have not passed in 21st-century India. They are manifested in the building of the Ram temple underway after it was established by faith and other means that Ram, the hero of an epic for some and a deity for others, was born at that exact spot in Ayodhya. With the determination of the right place was also established the enormous potential for success in birthplace spotting. If Ram is given his cradle, can Hanuman be far behind? Hanuman has been worshipped through the ages as the ideal devotee; the numberless bhakts peopling India today would naturally wish to visit his birthplace at a new pilgrimage site. It is a little awkward that the birthplaces of figures from mythology and the epics are not always easy to pinpoint in soil and stone. As a result, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are at loggerheads over Hanuman’s correct birthplace: each state is claiming that the site lies within its territory. Karnataka has thrown two sites into the fray, actually. But the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which manages the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple among others in Andhra Pradesh — which is not a Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state, by the way — formed an eight-member committee of experts that will, presumably, analyse and organize the “mythological, astrological and scientific” evidence regarding proof of Hanuman’s birthplace. The committee boasts various professors and vice-chancellors of Sanskrit and Vedic universities, a senior scientist from the Indian Space Research Organization and a senior archaeologist. The wonder represented by this unique blend of faith and science surpasses comment. Karnataka, however, cut to the chase as soon as the TTD formed its panel. The state is planning a multi-crore religious tourism project for the spot it first identified near Hampi as Hanuman’s birthplace. Hanuman Janmasthala will thus become a pilgrimage site, although the second site being claimed at Gokarna will also have a temple, an image and all the paraphernalia of a pilgrimage by next Ram Navami. Not fair to believers of course, torn between two, nay, three, possible birthplaces, but who would give up the revenue coming in from religious tourism? Nothing, as was noticed earlier, succeeds like success. Andhra Pradesh might appear to be giving back the BJP a lesson in faith-harvesting in its own coin, but its conflation of faith and science is harmful, cynical and self-serving. With all these birthplaces popping up, the mothers who gave birth might have been expected to figure somewhere. Jesus’s mother has her own space. But this is India after all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Opinion||Fight on: Mamata's silent protest against EC ban||Sir — It was quite heartening to see the West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, sit in silent protest by herself against the 24-hour campaigning ban imposed on her by the Election Commission. While her comments that prompted the ban have been widely discussed, it must also be remembered that she has been targeted in the vilest of language by the top leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Her resolve to prevent the saffronization of Bengal in the face of misogynistic bullying by the ruling party at the Centre is commendable. The next couple of weeks will be crucial for preserving Bengal’s free, inclusive fabric. One hopes the state will vote wisely. Darshana Gupta,Calcutta Damage control Sir — Alarmingly, Delhi has surpassed Mumbai to become the Indian city that is worst hit by Covid-19. In the light of this, the weekend curfew in the national capital announced by the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, is a sensible decision (“Delhi weekend curfew”, April 16). In an effort to check the frightening surge in cases — the city recorded 17,282 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, which is the highest single-day surge in the capital since the pandemic started — Delhi will be under weekend curfew till April 30, pending further orders. However, will this be enough to reverse the damage done as a result of weeks of carelessness, both on the part of citizens and on the part of political leaders? The foremost leaders of the land — the prime minister and the Union home minister — have been setting a terrible example for people all over the country by encouraging crowded Bharatiya Janata Party rallies in poll-bound states. No Covid-19 protocols are followed at these rallies; Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have also kept tellingly mum on the huge surge in cases in the gatherings at the Kumbh Mela. If these are the precedents being set by the two most powerful leaders in the country, it stands to reason that the coronavirus will spread like wildfire all over India, including — perhaps especially in — the national capital. Aarti Nair,Delhi Sir — Delhi has now overtaken Mumbai in the daily Covid-19 infection tally by a significant margin. Doctors and others in the medical fraternity are reportedly perplexed by the massive surge in cases, with many opining that new, more infectious mutations of the virus may have emerged. Given the steady rise in cases over the past few weeks when no one was paying proper attention, it was only a matter of time before the surge hit Delhi, which had already been groaning under the weight of cases during the first wave of the pandemic. It is heartening that the weekend curfew has been imposed and the government has taken other measures to break the chain of transmission. For instance, there will be no in-house dining in restaurants and cinema halls will be allowed to operate at only 30 per cent capacity. However, these measures should have ideally been taken a while ago. Instead, life in the capital and in other parts of the country was allowed to resume as though the pandemic had ended. This complacence was perhaps fuelled in part by the vaccine roll-out. With strict compliance, Delhi can still manage to overcome this latest hurdle, but the government and citizens should have been far more careful. Aranya Mitra,Calcutta Record maker Sir — It is a matter of pride for Indian cricket fans that the captain of the men’s cricket team, Virat Kohli, has been named the ‘one-day international cricketer of the 2010s’ in the 2021 edition of the prestigious Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack. This is a stupendous achievement for Kohli, but his fans and lovers of the game will not be surprised. After all, Kohli, who is considered to be one of the best captains that Indian cricket has produced till date, has had an enviable record of playing in the past decade. There is no dearth of extraordinary performances if one looks at his career. Kohli has already made a name for himself as a cricketing legend. This new development bears testimony to that. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Opinion||Fast friends: Amartya Sen and Mahbub ul Haq||Even I can understand a simply written new book on economics which explains why gross domestic product is no longer the best way to measure how well a country is doing since it does not take into account other relevant factors, such as the environmental damage caused by a dam, for instance, or unpaid house work by women. But GDP: The World’s Most Powerful Formula and Why It Must Now Change by Ehsan Masood, a science journalist and senior editor at the journal, Nature, in London, also tells of the close friendship between Amartya Sen and the late Pakistani economist, Mahbub ul Haq. They first met as undergraduates at Cambridge in 1953 and collaborated in America in 1989 on the possible alternative concept of a “Human Development Index”. Haq, born in Gurdaspur in 1934, was lucky to escape across the border into Pakistan during Partition. When Haq died prematurely in 1998, Sen delivered an emotional eulogy, calling his old friend “one of the most distinguished — and humane — practitioners of applied economics in the contemporary world”. Masood, who was born in London to parents who moved from India to Pakistan in the 1940s before later settling in the United Kingdom, has dedicated his book to Haq. He should certainly submit his work for the 2021 Financial Times and McKinsey & Company’s Business Book of the Year Award. Incidentally, I have been asked by the FT to encourage Indian publishers to submit books for this premier prize, which welcomes all entries. Previous winners include Liaquat Ahamed’s Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World (2009); Raghuram Rajan’s Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy (2010); and Poor Economics: A Radical Rethinking of the Way to Fight Global Poverty, by (then Nobel Laureates to be), Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo (2011). Trundling along Jonathan Glancey knows his way around Calcutta. As a journalist who has written about design and architecture for The Independent and The Guardian, he has often got into arguments with prickly Indians about the need to preserve the country’s dilapidated but beautiful heritage buildings. His father, Clifford George Alexander Glancey, was born in Calcutta in 1912 and came to England at 21, the same age at which Jonathan began discovering India through train travel. In 2011, he wrote Nagaland: A Journey to India’s Forgotten Frontier. His latest lavishly illustrated book is about the evocative logos used by the numerous railway companies in America — Logomotive: Railroad Graphics and the American Dream — which he has co-authored with designer Ian Logan. Today, there are few cross-country passenger trains in the US but in the old days, people enjoyed the romance of travelling in the Orange Blossom Special or the Burlington Zephyrus. Freight trains remain and can be more than a mile in length. Jonathan is mindful that Shashi Tharoor has accused the British of building the railways to facilitate getting loot out of India. But he points out there are Brits who have a passion for the steam locomotives of yesteryear. Jonathan recalls riding the footplate of a WP-class Pacific steam locomotive from Delhi to Chandigarh. And I remember Sir Mark Tully once telling me that if he didn’t get covered in soot on the footplate, “we would want our money back”. Mark now laments: “I am in Delhi, very frustrated, because I have not been allowed to get on a train for over a year and there is no sign of a change in that situation.” First class Ian Jack was, in his time, regarded as the best writer on India. Jonathan Glancey says that it was Ian, when he was editor of the Independent on Sunday, who sent him off to India to write about train travel. I got Ian to talk of the romance of the railways. “There’s really no comparison between the railways of India and the USA,” says Ian. “Outside the commuter belts of the big cities and the line that links New York to Boston and Washington, passenger trains in America have become the reserve of prosperous old people, eccentrics and tourists. Famous lines and handsome stations have been abandoned; the onboard food isn’t great; fares are expensive and booking a journey can be troublesome. In India... trains are still a vivid part of rural and urban life. More and more people use them, even though the upper middle class has abandoned them in favour of domestic flights. My most recent journey was Mumbai to Delhi via the Western Ghats and Gwalior. The vegetarian dinner was warm, plentiful — second and third servings if you wanted them — and delicious, and I woke up trundling across the misty fields of UP. If you can spare the time, they remain the best way to go.” Sharp tongue India does not have the equivalent of Sir Alan Duncan which is perhaps just as well. He is very rude about parliamentary colleagues in his just published, In the Thick of It: The Private Diaries of a Minister. He calls Boris Johnson, “a buffoon, an international stain on our reputation, a selfish, ill-disciplined, shambolic, shameless clot”, while Priti Patel is dismissed as “a nothing person, a complete and utter nightmare, the Wicked Witch of Witham (her Essex constituency)”. Footnote Prince Philip’s funeral today will see his coffin transported inside Windsor Castle not on a traditional gun carriage but in a converted Land Rover he designed himself. Jaguar Land Rover, which Ratan Tata bought in 2008 for $2.3 billion, drew attention to the Indian connection: “The Duke devoted his life to public service and made a significant contribution to UK manufacturing, engineering and design.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
17-04-2021||Opinion||New formula||Over the last few years, a lot of media commentary has diagnosed the main political battle raging across India to be one between a secular and a Hindu majoritarian idea of India. In reality, that contestation has long been over. The hegemony of Hindutva in the political and cultural domain is clear from the fact that no recent electoral opponent of the Bharatiya Janata Party — from the Congress to the Aam Aadmi Party to the Trinamul Congress — has dared to launch a frontal attack on the ideas of Hindu nationalism. The political and ideological battle set to define India over the next decade seems to be a different one — one between a federal and a unitarian idea of India. The Bengal election might well be seen in retrospect as its most powerful curtain raiser. In the midst of the Bengal elections, Mamata Banerjee wrote a strongly-worded letter to 15 Opposition parties, calling for a “united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and the Constitution”. The letter listed evidence of the BJP’s designs to establish a “one party authoritarian rule in India”. This included the recent move of downgrading the powers of Delhi’s state government, the misuse of investigative agencies against Opposition politicians, and the withholding of funds towards non-BJP governments. Absent in the letter was any mention of communalism, secularism or Hindu nationalism. The omission is curious because the BJP’s assault on federalism is deeply linked to the ‘one-nation’ ideology of Hindu nationalism. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has long been an opponent of federalism since the days when M.S. Golwalkar opposed the linguistic reorganization of states, claiming that it would hurt national unity. However, Opposition parties (with the exception of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Kashmir-based parties) are loath to make the federal autonomy argument in terms of opposition to Hindutva lest it gives fuel to the communal polarization strategy of the BJP. Even on the campaign trail, while Mamata Banerjee has been defensive on the issue of Hindu majoritarianism, loudly proclaiming her Hindu identity to blunt the BJP’s attacks, she has been belligerent on the state-Centre divide. In fact, she has sought to make the defence of ‘Bengali identity’ and ‘Bengali pride’ in the face of an authoritarian Centre the fulcrum of her campaign. This strategy has been replicated in the other poll-bound states as well. In Assam, the Congress and the AJP-Raijor Dal regional front have framed the election in terms of protection of ‘Assamese identity’ threatened by a BJP that imposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on Assam. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK has portrayed the AIADMK as a supplicant of the ‘Hindi-Hindu’ BJP, focusing on Tamil nationalism to drive its support. While regional identities have been skilfully used in recent years by Opposition parties to neutralize the BJP’s appeal — in Delhi, Jharkhand and Bihar — these elections still represent a qualitative change, where the state-Centre tussle has progressed to the forefront of electoral competition. This renewed salience of the state-Centre divide in Indian politics, perhaps at its strongest since the early 1970s, is only likely to intensify in the years to come — for two reasons. First, the increasingly naked authoritarianism of the BJP. When the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014, it combined its strategy of repression with the co-option of regional elites. The role of regional parties such as the BJD, TRS and YSRCP in the construction of the authoritarian structure in India is often under-appreciated. The BJD, TRS and YSRCP supported the government on all contentious bills, including the RTI (amendment) bill, the triple talaq bill, the UAPA amendment bill, the Jammu and Kashmir reorganisation bill, and (with the exception of the TRS) the citizenship amendment bill. In exchange for their support in Parliament, the BJP has maintained a cordial relationship with these parties. However, as the next prized frontier of the BJP’s electoral machine shifts to Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, it won’t be surprising if the hardball tactics of investigative agencies and an over-intrusive governor are unleashed in these states. It must be remembered that the National Democratic Alliance is now just nine short of a majority in the Rajya Sabha, and victory in Bengal might inch them closer still. The ruthlessness with which the BJP clipped the powers of the state government in Delhi, in contravention of an express Supreme Court judgment, provides enough evidence that neither constitutional propriety nor past instances of support (the AAP had supported the J&K reorganization bill) would be enough to deter the BJP. India’s federal power structure was greatly strengthened in the 1990s, not out of conviction of the two main national parties — the Congress and the BJP — but as a result of a grudging accommodation of new political realities. No government at the Centre could function without alliances with regional parties that gave the latter enormous leverage with the Centre. The situation has now been completely reversed, with regional parties having few negotiating cards to play against the most powerful Central government since the time of Indira Gandhi. In proportion to its growing power, the centralization drive of the BJP has accelerated in virtually every domain — finance, law and order, education, health and agriculture. Second, state parties and leaders have been left with little ammunition to build their political support and, therefore, might find in regional pride an increasingly attractive mobilizing mechanism. The increased financial devolution since the 1990s ensured that many chief ministers had the funds to carve out political constituencies based on welfare spending. This financial room, already constricted by the fiscal centralization brought by the GST, has all but disappeared with the fiscal crisis brought on by the pandemic. Matters have been made worse by the aggressive centralization of welfare schemes under the Modi regime with voters more likely to attribute credit to Modi for welfare schemes implemented by state governments. If the leaders of the government of Maharashtra are taking regular pot-shots at the Centre, most recently over the ‘favouring’ of vaccine distribution towards BJP-ruled states, it’s also because they are struggling to implement a positive welfare agenda. It might be recalled here that one of the main reasons fuelling the anti-Congress, anti-Centre politics among regional parties in the 1970s was not just the authoritarian intervention of Indira Gandhi in non-Congress states but also her use of discretionary funds of welfare programs to favour Congress-ruled states. “The distributive politics (of welfare) under Indira Gandhi was intended to cause the opposition parties who formed state governments to fail both to meet popular expectations and repeat electoral victories,” wrote Chanchal Sharma and Wilfried Swenden in their book, Understanding Contemporary Indian Federalism. It wouldn’t be surprising if leaders like Naveen Patnaik, K. Chandrashekar Rao and Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy become less certain of their welfare-based political constituencies and become even more strident in their emphasis on Odia, Telangana and Andhra pride in the next round of state elections. Conversely, the BJP might double down on its welfare centralization and authoritarian tactics to make up for its weak organization in these states, as it has already done in others. The long-term threat for the BJP is if most of these state parties come together in an umbrella coalition to face the Modi government in 2024, as Mamata Banerjee called for in her letter. One of the reasons the BJP could command a substantial Lok Sabha majority with a 38 per cent vote share was the fragmentation of the national Opposition, which was at about the same level as 2014, even if there was relatively more Opposition unity in some states such as Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. This possibility of an anti-BJP umbrella coalition will depend on two factors. One, the performance of the BJP in these state elections, as any electoral weakness shown by the BJP will precipitate more calls for Opposition unity. And, two, the ability and willingness of the Congress to form a nucleus of a broad anti-BJP front. The growing enthusiasm of the Congress to cede space to regional parties, showcased both in its grand alliances in Bengal and Assam, is an interesting pointer in this regard. Whether such a broad anti-coalition materializes or not, what is clear is that the most potent resistance to the BJP’s authoritarianism is made not in terms of secularism or even civil liberties, but in terms of regional pride. This will likely be the metaphor grounding the next major battle over the ‘idea of India’. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
