18-04-2021||Opinion||But are masks not a bad thing?||That’s what they would say in olden times. Be who you are, don’t wear a mask. Masked folks are tricky folks, they are not what they appear to be. Is that not so? Or am I wrong? Are your olden times younger that my olden times? Could well be. Did they not say this in your olden times? What they said in my olden times? Could well be. Kya karen? That’s time. It passes and it often tricks us into believing it has not passed. Just look at folks who would want to appear — and aver — they are younger than the time they have passed here. On this planet. Among us. Since they were born. They do all sorts of things to appear what they are no longer, to cheat time, to, you know, well, delude themselves. They paint their hair, for instance, hai naa? Not a problem; we paint more things than our hair. We paint walls, we paint furniture, we paint grilles and balustrades, we paint pavements and medians, we paint things. We too are things, we paint. We paint ourselves too. Here. There. Not everywhere. But just a few less places than everywhere. The most crafty mask is the mask that does not show. You wear a mask but nobody can tell you are wearing a mask. You tell people I am your messiah, you are in fact only messing with them. But they believe you’re a messiah when what you are deliberately and consciously doing is messing. That sort of mask. Bhai kamaal hai. Where did you order this one? Hain? Tell us naa, we also want. We too want to mess about and be called Messiah, who wouldn’t? Why is it you don’t wear a mask, though? You got the best jab in the world, hai naa? Don’t lie, jhooth boley kauwwa kaatey. Which one, go on, tell us, the jab that nobody else got, right? The jab of all jabs, the jab you told nobody you were getting, the greater jab. That’s why you don’t wear a mask, and roam and mingle free. Right? Well, whatever. But you do wear a mask, the mask that takes some doing to wear, the mask that is not easy to convince the others with. I mean you kiss our HolyBook and all, having just arrived from desecrating it in careful and uncaring ways, and you think we should believe your kissing to be a genuine thing. And you proclaim we are a realm ruled by the will of the people and then you do this and you do that that throttle the will of the people when the will of the people strays from consonance with what you will. That sort of mask. You told us everything should be transparent and then you go and arrange things so that no questions get answered. Not by you at any rate. You think yourself not answerable. You wear the mask of being so. You say all that you do you do for the people. And then we learn, every other day, that those people you do things for are a handful of people who, in turn, probably do things for you. That sort of mask you wear, don’t you? And now that we are being told we need to wear two masks, one strapped on top of another, and both preferably, of certain descriptions and ability, He (or is it She) only knows what levels of deception and receipt you will be able to subject us to. One mask that we cannot see is bad enough, and now we look at the prospect of two that we cannot see. And yet you do not mask mask, you see. We can all see. You remain a peril to us, masked. You remain peril to us double masked. You remain a peril to us not masked. At least wear a mask, the prescribed one. The rest... those who will see will see, and what will be done will be done. Go on, mask up. They tell us in your mane you bask But is it a fair question to ask When it is our duty and our task Why on earth do you not wear a mask?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
18-04-2021||Opinion||Body of crime||Slavery is alive and kicking; some of its forms are so banal that they ask to be taken for granted. That invests with irony the title of a recent report, My Body is My Own, published by the United Nations Population Fund from a survey of women’s power in developing countries to make decisions regarding their bodies. The findings, called “alarming”, show that of the 57 countries surveyed, 45 per cent of women and girls cannot decide on contraception, healthcare and whether or not to have sex with their partners. That is overall. The regions differ — in central and south Asia, less than 50 per cent of women have agency over their bodies, although in other parts of the same continent 76 per cent women are empowered in this sphere. India falls in the less-than-50 per cent category according to its location, although it is not one of the 57 countries surveyed. Pakistan, Nepal and the Maldives among India’s neighbours, though, are on the list. The systematic violations of women’s autonomy in India today, added to inherited practices of oppression, may prompt speculation whether south Asia would have scored worse had India been included. The UNFPA study looked at the laws of each country to see how far they supported or hindered women’s control of their bodies. Those in India who believe that a rape survivor should marry her rapist would find kinship with 20 countries where the law allows such marriages to free the rapist from legal proceedings. This reduces women into ‘shamed’ objects to be ‘redeemed’ by marriage, and suggests that marriage to the survivor is the rapist’s penalty. The notion of justice here completely bypasses the woman, who is not perceived as an equal citizen, whatever policies may say. According to the report, women enjoy in reality only 75 per cent of the rights enjoyed by men — in India that could be an optimistic estimate. India would be at par with the 43 countries that have no laws against marital rape. This follows from the lack of women’s power to decide on sex, a lack meant to demolish at its source their sense of wholeness as human beings. Societies which refuse to acknowledge marital rape perpetuate gender violence by calling marriage sacred. The report makes other points too, such as the restrictions on women’s movements outside the home in 30 countries. The pandemic has intensified violations. None of it is new, even if the figures are huge, indicating that hundreds of millions of women and girls do not own their bodies. The point is that not only has very little changed in women’s lives, but in many spheres and regions things seem to have grown worse. That may be because of better reporting and greater numbers, but it does not alter the persistence of violence and inequality. What is so addictive, so advantageous, about keeping women ‘in their place’?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||Late reaction||Sir — There is little point in bolting the stable doors after the horse has escaped. This is the proverb that comes to mind on hearing the prime minister’s request that the rest of the events at the Kumbh Mela be undertaken symbolically. Given the lakhs of people who have congregated there, even curtailing the event will achieve little as these people will go back across the country, many of them bearing the infection. The government does not have the wherewithal to test every person at the mela. How does it intend to stop them from spreading Covid-19 across India?  S. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — The heat of the crisis in the Indian healthcare system is so intense that one can feel it even on the microblogging platform, Twitter. Celebrities, influencers and ordinary users alike are tagging and tweeting to ask for help amidst a surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. Many want help finding oxygen supply and hospital beds, others are in search of ambulance services, few are even asking for remdesivir, tocilizumab and doxycycline; others still are sending out requests for plasma donors. Heart-wrenching photographs have also surfaced of distressed patients sharing beds, long queues of ambulances in front of hospitals and those of hearses at the crematorium. Ironically, alongside these are ignorant tweets boasting of crowds at political jamborees and religious congregations. It is good that people are taking advantage of digital technology. But this is also a convenient cop-out where rather than asking for accountability or actually helping out on the ground, people tweet up a storm. Hearteningly, a few Good Samaritans like Sonu Sood crop up occasionally. But they cannot cater to the scale of the crisis in the country. Every SOS on social media regarding Covid-19 bears testimony to a doomed and failing healthcare system. Each cry for help is also a chink in the armour of India’s commander-in-chief’s deafening silence. What is to blame for the pandemonium of the pandemic — our complacency or administrative oversight?Satabdi Dutta, Burdwan Sir — It is encouraging that the usually toxic microblogging platform, Twitter, is coming to use for once and helping the right kind of support reach people in need at the right time. But tweeting is not enough; much more needs to be done to overcome the pandemic. While celebrities and influencers must be praised for their promptness in asking for help, they should not stop at this. Contributing financially to the beleaguered healthcare system is one way to help. The other way is to spread awareness. Besides the vaccine, only precautions and safety practices like always wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing can break the chain of transmission.Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — Bollywood plays a crucial role in India’s patriarchal attitude towards women. Its portrayal of women goes a long way in propagating age-old customs that need to be done away with. In Hindi films, women have for long been portrayed as damsels in distress or homemakers. If in the 1968 movie, Brahmachari, a man teaches a woman how to dress and behave in order to please a man, in the 1995 film, Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge, the woman is portrayed only in relation to the men in her life, either as a daughter or as a love interest; in both cases she is subject to societal norms. This shows how little Bollywood has changed over time. Although now films are being made with strong women characters, these are few and far between. Given its wide reach, Bollywood is by far the best tool to change India’s backward mentality towards women. It needs to move forward and promote gender equality in India.  Lyzander Edgar Sohkhlet, Laitumkhrah, Shillong||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||When Gadkari speaks his mind on Covid surge||Nitin Gadkari is known to be the rare bold minister in the Narendra Modi-led government. Recently, however, he appeared to have gone a little too far. Speaking at the inauguration of a private Covid-19 care centre in his constituency, Nagpur, Gadkari sought to ring the alarm bells. “The [Covid] situation is very serious and no one knows how long it will last... What will happen in the next 15 days to one month it’s difficult to tell,” he said. He stressed on the need for long-term arrangements to battle the pandemic. In February itself, the Bharatiya Janata Party had credited the prime minister for having defeated the coronavirus, and here Gadkari was conjuring a grim picture. Whispers in party corridors have it that Gadkari should have reposed faith in the leadership of the prime minister and expressed confidence that the coronavirus will once again be defeated. It is no secret within the party that Gadkari had nursed prime-ministerial ambitions in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. People close to him had hoped he would be more acceptable to allies than Modi if the BJP failed to get a majority on its own. Party leaders, however, are wondering why Gadkari was resorting to such digressions now when all such hopes stand shattered. The recent state polls in Kerala seem to have taught the rabble-rouser, PC George, and his little-known political party, Kerala Janapaksham (Secular), that he would not find a place in either the Left Democratic Front or the Congress-led United Democratic Front. The leader, notorious for his sharp tongue and fast-changing political opinions, is a new advocate of the ‘Hindu rashtra’. Strange as it might sound, the Christian leader who is seeking re-election to the assembly has openly called for India to be made a ‘Hindu rashtra’ and declared that it was demonetization that derailed a plan by certain groups to make India an Islamic republic by 2030. For the record, it is the same George who held a train siege protest in Kochi against demonetization. Changing fortunes bring changing priorities, it seems. As Covid-19 went on a rampage in Bihar and infections spiralled, the people of the state wondered why the government was not taking tough measures to tame those who were running amok without masks, social distancing or proper sanitization. It seemed as if nobody in the hallowed posts of power was bothered about controlling the situation, even though several among the leaders were contracting the deadly virus. But one thing surprised everybody. All the prominent political parties — ruling or Opposition — shut down their state headquarters. The Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, was the first one to do so. The Janata Dal (United), the party led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, and its partner, the BJP, swiftly followed by locking their gates to visitors and party workers. The headquarters of the three parties are on the same road in Patna. A snacks vendor whose income depends on visitors to these offices was sitting idle. “These politicians are united when it comes to saving their own lives. They are not worried about what I will earn or how I will eat.” The Congress followed suit a few days later, although prior to the closure, senior leaders were boasting that “we did not close our offices even during the Spanish Flu pandemic that came 100 years ago.” Not many biography releases turn heads the way Dipok Kumar Barthakur: Right Turn in Assam did this week in Guwahati. It not only sheds light on the life and times of the Guwahati-based social activist and incumbent vice-chairman of the State Innovation & Transformation Aayog — the state version of Niti Aayog — but also reveals the quiet growth of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in Assam through its development initiatives. Although the BJP won the state elections for the first time in 2016, the seeds were sown as far back in the Sixties by people like Barthakur, who is in his eighties now. The presence of the newly-appointed RSS general secretary, Dattatreya Hosabale, the chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal, and the North-East Democratic Alliance convenor, Himanta Biswa Sarma — along with a video message by the BJP national president, JP Nadda, paying glowing tributes — was testimony to the importance of Barthakur. He has reportedly been associated with the RSS since the early Sixties. Besides being a successful businessman, Barthakur is credited with setting up schools, hospitals and Vivekananda Kendras along with the growth of the RSS in the Northeast. To Hosabale, who has known Barthakur since the Assam agitation days, Barthakur is a nation-institution builder and if one had to turn to the “right man” in Assam, it had to be Barthakur — “100 per cent Assamese, 200 per cent Indian”. Sarma, a cabinet minister, dwelt on Barthakur’s active and unsung role during the Assam agitation. For Sarma, Barthakur spread rashtrabad while being committed to jatiyatabad, something the biography, authored by the senior journalist, Wasbir Hussain, throws light on. “He was among the movers and shakers of the sangh parivar in the northeast,” Hussain said. The new chief election commissioner, Sushil Chandra, assumed office from home, this week, as he is recovering from Covid. Not just Chandra, but the secretary-general, Umesh Sinha, too, is reportedly in hospital for virus-related health complications. A senior official said that “half his colleagues” are down, but not out, as they have continued to supervise polls to five legislative assemblies while working from home. Truckloads of liquor bottles are being smuggled into dry Bihar daily; some of them are getting caught. The mafia involved is hiding the contraband in oil tankers, trucks loaded with cattle fodder, bricks, or foodgrains. Only a small percentage of the liquor being smuggled is reportedly getting apprehended. The police and excise officials are becoming disillusioned. “We thought the growing cases of Covid-19 will cast its shadow on liquor smuggling and it will dwindle to give us some respite. But it is not happening. It seems liquor is stronger than coronavirus,” confided a senior police official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||Enduring images||Five images have remained with me from the five years I spent in West Bengal — 2004 to 2009. ‘Indelible’ is a hackneyed word, a cliché. And one must not use stale words to describe or recall experiences that are fresh in one’s memory. But that is exactly what these five images are: indelibly, permanently imprinted on my mind. They are all about daughters of Bengal. I have recounted them to myself and to others on different occasions and if the reader has heard them earlier, I may be forgiven. The first is from Nimtala. Yes, that is right. It is from the site of Calcutta’s famous crematorium. And it comes in the shape of an inland letter that I received in Raj Bhavan one day during the height of the Nandigram crisis. The arrangement was that all letters addressed to me by name would be brought to me unopened and I would open them myself. This was to ensure that letters that are critical and worse will not be kept away from me by my considerate staff. The hand-written letter on that specimen of blue postal stationery was in high-class Bangla, and written in a beautiful hand. But the contents were anything but beautiful. Howling imprecations at me for having said and done whatever I did in the matter of that crisis, it prayed not for my early departure from Bengal but my early demise, no less. And the writer signed off as Kamana Biswas, that is, Wish plus Faith. It was only after I pondered over the letter for several minutes that I realized the significance of her obviously fake ‘name’ and her meaningful address. It was a total delight to receive that letter. An unforgettable delight. It gives a lesson to anyone and everyone who thinks he or she is saying and doing profound things. It certainly made me laugh in those tense times. Kamana Biswas is our future in Satire in general and Black Humour in particular. The second is from Calcutta. Tuberculosis is a national scourge. West Bengal, from the time Dr B.C. Roy was chief minister, has been battling it determinedly. At the instance of doctors engaged in this important work, I went to a centre where patients, all of them very poor, were being treated. A young mother, in her 30s, with her young, teenaged daughter was seated in the small foyer. You are getting the treatment you need, right? I asked. Nodding her head, she said yes. I then turned to the doctor present for some elucidation. They told me the case was serious as the patient was pregnant. I looked with concern at the woman. No, no, the doctors continued. Not her... the daughter... it is the girl who is pregnant. There was nothing more I could say or ask. It would have been indelicate to ask their names, and I did not. But they seemed like they could have been Fatima and Abida. And the one yet to be born? If a girl, perhaps, then Meher, which means grace, and if a boy, Enayat, which means roughly the same. But name apart, a healthy child who does not make its too-early-a-mother weaker than she is. The two and the one yet to come must, with the help of medical science, be our future in health. The third image is from the time of Cyclone Aila, in May 2009. Ripping through the state and neighbouring Bangladesh at 110 kilometres per hour, it left over 300 dead and a million, at least, homeless. Meteorological foretelling helped, else the loss to human life would have been far greater. I was in Darjeeling then and venturing out to the affected areas later that day saw a middle-aged Gorkha woman of amazing dignity sitting beside her devastated home like a statue to human endurance. Not a word was exchanged but not a thought left un-shared. Parbatidevi, she may have been, daughter of the mountains, resolved to put together the debris of her life. The next day, in South 24 Parganas, another badly mauled area, I saw a mother and child in a relief centre. I should put the M and C in capitals. Michelangelo could have sculpted them. She was in a frayed sari with a faded red border, head covered, with her infant-child stretched out on her lap. Her eyes were open wide, the child’s as well. They were as mute and yet as eloquent as the Pietà with this difference that the Child here breathed, and with hope. The fourth image is from Murshidabad. Having heard of the hard conditions in which bidi workers lived and worked, it was my duty to see things for myself. Visiting a family engaged in that occupation, I spoke to the pride of the house, a daughter, no more than twelve years of age, I think. I do not remember her name, but let me call her Onnora, for it was a name similar to that. In Bangla, mixed with Hindustani, I asked if she went to school. With an instant smile, she said, yes, I do. Can I, I asked, please see her school books? She opened a wooden box and brought one out, wrapped in brown paper, and gave it to me. Opening the cover page I was taken aback. It was an abridged and adapted version — in English — of the Constitution of India. (Now it just so happens that I am writing this on April 14, which is Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary. And so in my mind I am dedicating this narration to him.) “Do you know this book, Onnora?” “Yes, I do.” “Vah! Can you tell me what the first page — the Preamble — says?” “Yes.” “Tell me...” Onnora took a couple of steps back and, standing bolt upright, began reciting it. “We the people of India having solemnly resolved...” I horripilated in awe, pride and faith. May Onnora become President of India one day, I prayed within myself. The fifth image is from Purba Medinipur. During the height of the Nandigram crisis, while touring that area, I stopped, without notice, at a hamlet called Muradpur. It consisted of not more than ten houses, around a pond. It seemed incredibly beautiful, like a scene from Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s Pather Panchali or a shot from Satyajit Ray’s great film of that great novel. The occupants of each mud dwelling asked me to come in and spend some time with them. They asked for nothing, expected nothing. The men all seemed to have gone out to work. Only the village’s womenfolk, children and some very old villagers were to be seen. Some of the women offered me food, some a little place to sit on. One asked me to step into her dwelling, which I did, remaining at the threshold so as not to disturb anything or anybody. She quietly went in and returned with a plate adorned with some flowers and a ready-to-be-lit lamp. I did not ask for and so do not know her name, but to my mind she was Kalyani, welcoming me with an impromptu arati. As she poured some drops of precious oil on the wick that she had hurriedly but carefully improvised, all of Bengal’s grace stood before me. For me Kalyani is the future of political maryada. All these women are voting in West Bengal. Irrespective of who they are voting for, they are voting for a future which must include in it harmless irreverence, faith in science and in the law, grace and, above all, maryada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
18-04-2021||Opinion||We are who we vote for||While most of the world continues to grapple with yesterday’s problem — Covid-19 — New Zealand just took a step into the future. While India, Brazil, the US and the UK mulled token fights, double mutants and vaccine pause and play, the Jacinda Ardern-led Labour government announced a slew of anti-smoking measures that could well raise a non-smoking generation and make the country smoke-free by 2025. Don’t tell Nitish Kumar, but Ardern plans to increase the legal age of smoking, ban sale of cigarette and tobacco products for those born after 2004, ban filter tips on cigarettes and perhaps restrict nicotine content. “Business as usual without a tobacco control programme won't get us there. We need a new approach,” said associate minister of health Ayesha Verrall, who is also a qualified physician and an expert in international health. Last October, when many countries were barely out of lockdown mode, Ardern contested and won election by an “outright majority”. It seemed people had appreciated her firm but kind handling of the Christchurch mosque shootings, and thereafter, the pandemic outbreak. Worldwide, thus far, there have been 140 million coronavirus cases and close to 3 million coronavirus deaths. New Zealand with its 49.2 lakh population has reported 26 deaths so far, and 2,591 confirmed cases. That is not to say that Ardern has no critics, needs no advice. As it has been continuously reported, the country’s vaccination programme is like the moa bird that could be found there once ‑ flightless. 1,35,585 doses administered; 30,194 people fully vaccinated, which works out to 0.62 per cent of the population. Arden’s argument so far, however, has been that the general rule does not apply here as “New Zealand is so different. Our people aren’t dying”, she has also spoken of New Zealand waiting for its turn while others in more urgent need continued to vaccinate.  The opposition National Party has been asking for a review of the immunisation strategy, warned of the “unacceptable risk” at the border, experts have questioned Ardern’s “altruism”. Only last week it was announced that the Black Caps, the New Zealand cricket team, set to play in England in June will get their shots. So also will the athletes who will be leaving for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled thus far in July-August this year. The government in the meantime announced that it will donate vaccines for 8,00,000 people in the Pacific region...||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-40
