19-04-2021||Opinion||Just the law: Gauhati HC sets aside tribunal decision||The power to impose a law does not mean a free-for-all. The Gauhati High Court put aside a foreigners tribunal’s decision for the first time; earlier decisions had been referred back to the FT. The Barpeta FT had declared Haider Ali a foreigner for failing to establish links with ‘all’ his relatives on the voters’ list. The high court reportedly declared that he was an Indian citizen since he was able to establish his relationship with his grandfather and father whose names were on voters’ lists preceding March 1971, the cut-off date for the National Register of Citizens. The high court’s remarks pointed to arbitrariness and opacity in the FTs’ dealings. One, the fact that Mr Ali did not establish his relationship with other relatives on the voters’ list did not subtract from the credibility or substance of the documents he produced to show his connection with his father and grandfather. Two, no explanation is given to persons who are declared non-citizens and no examination made of the investigation against them. Presumably, they cannot defend their citizenship without knowing why they lost it. Three, as the people have to prove they are citizens, they must be given every opportunity for proof, even if additional documents are produced after the written statement. This judgment is expected to provide great support to those trying to prove their citizenship before the tribunals. The Gauhati High Court addressed another form of arbitrariness when upholding the bail order of Akhil Gogoi, an activist arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in 2019. The National Investigation Agency special court, not finding convincing reasons in the NIA’s chargesheet to detain Mr Gogoi, had given him bail. The UAPA is a law against terror, but its ambiguous wording allows the administration to use it for other reasons, most often against dissent. The high court reportedly pronounced that civil disturbances do not come under the UAPA’s purview, even when there is arson or violence, as long as there is no intention to disturb the country’s unity, integrity, security and sovereignty. Detention becomes the punishment, since the UAPA makes bail difficult. The high court’s decision resonates far beyond Mr Gogoi’s case at a time when the reigning dispensation is being accused of repeatedly misusing the UAPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Burning country: forest fires and more||India is burning in more ways than one. The singeing death toll from a pandemic that refuses to abate, the subterranean fire of polarization — these are perhaps some of the metaphorical flames. But some other fires are real and as devastating. Several major forest fires have broken out in India since the beginning of this year, including in Madhya Pradesh, Odisha — home to Asia’s second-largest biosphere reserve — and Telangana. The latter has already recorded over 15,000 forest fires since the start of summer this year, a sharp increase over last summer’s count. The Uttarakhand wildfires that began over six months ago are still destroying large tracts of forests and have taken eight lives. Wildfires are not uncommon. In fact, they are an important part of maintaining the ecological balance in certain forested habitats. However, this naturally-occurring event has reached alarming proportions on account of catalysts. One of these is climate change, which is responsible for the scarce rainfall and prolonged dry spells in the Himalayan region, rendering the forest floor tinder-dry. Human interference and encroachment — agricultural practices such as stubble burning, the deliberate lighting of fires to drive animals away or clear land — play a significant role as well. These practices do not just endanger biodiversity; they also contribute to forest fires not being recognized as natural hazards by the National Disaster Management Authority. The trust deficit between local communities and state forest administrations leads to the refusal to enlist the help of the former in dousing forest flames. Unfortunately, India does not seem to have learnt a lesson from international precedents. The lack of modern fire-fighting equipment, manpower and other resources have weakened rapid response mechanisms. Meanwhile, the State continues to pursue ecologically damaging policy: Uttarakhand has approved the contentious Laldhang-Chillarkhal road that will run through the only wildlife corridor in the state. Environmental protection is not a priority for either the Centre or the states. Matters are unlikely to improve unless public opinion is mobilized to demand political accountability for the negligence of the environment and its worrying implications — forest fires being one — on future generations. Children need to be drafted into this engagement: they can make a difference against the prevalent apathy as green ambassadors. Preserving forests is equivalent to protecting national wealth. The indifference of nationalist governments towards such plunder is shocking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||An election like no other||Five of Bengal’s eight-phase polling for its 294-member assembly are over. For the first time in decades, I watched the run-up to these polarized elections from the confines of our home. When it was my turn to vote (in the fourth phase), I hadn’t heard a single campaign speech and no candidate had come calling. In the past, we used to receive voter slips from all political parties; this year, only one arrived. On April 10, armed with the poll slip and voter card, we reached the new clubhouse of a stadium that was our election centre. The arrangements were impeccable and every Covid-protocol was followed. Circles for social distancing, hand sanitizer, temperature check, gloves for the hand that would touch the EVM. And, most importantly, large dispensers for the gloves to be shed while leaving. It took me all of two minutes to cast my vote. The rooms had been allocated according to voter slip numbers, so there was no crowding and no queue either. Everyone, from security personnel to polling officials, was wearing a face mask. Some party agents in the little booths did have theirs under the chin, but they were socially distanced in more ways than one. The only non-sanitized spot was the part of the table where the finger was inked. Our delight over such a smooth electoral process came on a day replete with reports of violence, firing, long queues and flouting of Covid norms elsewhere. Thank god for small mercies. In another first, I also witnessed polling in our home when two octogenarian members were allowed to cast their votes. A group of seven, comprising a presiding officer, two polling officials, two gun-toting security men in fatigues and two party agents, arrived. The more menacing-looking of the two armed men entered the room along with the presiding officer and polling officials. The party agents remained outside and the other guard manned the gate. Any passerby would have imagined that Operation Poll Star was under way. A cardboard screen was set up on the dining table to ensure secrecy of the “postal ballot” once the presiding officer had checked the voter slip and EPIC of the electorate duo. The voters (in turn) placed their ballot paper behind the cardboard partition, ticked against the candidate of their choice and folded it into four. One polling official recorded the procedure on his mobile phone. The ballot was then ceremoniously inserted into an envelope and sealed with red wax. This was put into another envelope and the same sealing wax applied. Secrecy ensured, it went into the presiding officer’s sling bag. The only regret the veteran voters voiced was that their fingers had not been inked. We consoled them with Covid wisdom. Nonagenarian R.C. Ganguly, a retired IAS officer, however, like many others aged over 80, opted to go to the booth and vote on April 17. “A poll panel personnel came to ask if I would like to vote at home. I declined the offer,” he said. And he is firm about signing. “The only time I put my fingerprint was when I drew my first salary,” he added. Sage advice for those who unquestioningly put their fingerprints on polling day although they can reap the fruits of literacy. With three election phases still pending, we have grown accustomed to the whirring of helicopters overhead. Nearly a dozen of them, the smart grey air force ones included, dot the airport tarmac. They ferry the powers that be at a time the country is reeling under a resurgent pandemic. If only the Election Commission, so prompt to ‘ground’ some leaders, had banned all rallies for flouting Covid norms, instead of issuing futile warnings just a few days ago, we would have been a less threatened species today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Bold move||Sir — It takes courage to suspend rallies in a poll-bound state that is the focus of all political attention at present. Rahul Gandhi must be lauded for doing the right thing. He is the only politician who has put the health of the people above personal political gains. The massive political rallies across West Bengal are spreading the virus like wildfire, but this does not seem to bother those out to grab power. Abhik Chaki, North 24 Parganas Sir — With Covid-19 cases on the rise in the country, board exams are either being postponed or cancelled. This is taking a huge toll on the minds of students, who are worried about their future. We lost our zeal to study right from March 2020 and have not got it back yet. The way we had to comprehend our lessons through the irksome online classes with lots of technical glitches and distractions, it became doubly hard to prepare for our board exams. To make matters worse, the boards are being cancelled time and again. This is making students even more anxious and leaving them unable to focus on their studies. Without board exams it will not be possible to judge students properly. Moreover, how will those passing Class XII be chosen by the right colleges? How will competitive examinations like JEE, NEET — these have been cancelled or postponed — and so on be conducted unless the pandemic can be controlled? It has to be admitted that offline exams will be risky too. Any decision has to be taken with utmost care, toeing a fine line between safety precautions and students’ future. We have to get through this; the sooner concrete plans are put in place, the better. Shreyasee Dutta,Howrah Sir — The education system should be recalibrated keeping in mind the changed situation. The constant dithering is playing havoc with the mental health of students who have been living in uncertainty for over a year now. The pandemic shows no signs of going anywhere; if anything it is only strengthening its hold. People refuse to be careful no matter what the repercussions for the country and the health of its people. The government is not showing adequate progress in either controlling the pandemic, bolstering the healthcare system or, for that matter, protecting the environment. As such, it should be taken for granted that pandemics will be the norm, not the exception. Aparajita Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Sharper scissors||If last year was grim for the film and entertainment industry, this year does not promise much cheer. A proactive virus matched by an equally proactive government have put the sector in a double bind.  The reappearance of Covid-19 in a more virulent form, once again, threatens both news media and cinema business, the latter even more.  And, then, the government of the day has been serving up one regulatory strike after another. After announcing a three-tier regulatory framework for digital content in February that would affect the over-the-top streaming video industry, earlier this month it scrapped the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal, which has been in existence as a statutory body since 1983. This functioned as a court of appeal for film-makers unhappy with cuts imposed by the Central Board of Film Certification and gave them negotiating space without having to initiate a legal process.  Before either of these, January brought a preview of what censorship by grievance might look like via the controversy over the web show, Tandav. The OTT industry got its first taste of trouble in November last year when a gazette notification brought all streaming platforms under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting. But first, the virus front. Newspaper delivery bans are usually restricted to group housing, and journalists can work online more easily than cine workers can. But when an actor tests positive, so do many members of the film’s crew, 45 in the case of a star like Akshay Kumar shooting for Ram Setu. There were health and safety officers on the sets of most productions, trying hard to ensure that shooting does not stop, until the Maharashtra government halted all film and television shooting last week. Cinema theatre occupancy will, once again, take a hit. The Telugu film industry, which was better off than its counterparts in other states because it was allowed 100 per cent occupancy in film theatres for a while, now worries about whether the governments in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh would bring back the 50 per cent cap on the occupancy, thus affecting the release of big budget films. The 50 per cent occupancy rule is in force in Kerala. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had permitted the theatres to function at their full capacity from January but reverted to 50 per cent. The Telugu states may also revert to the 50 per cent rule if the rise in numbers continues. Commercially it has already been a disastrous year. An estimated 60 per cent plus of the industry’s revenues were wiped out in 2020 and there were massive job losses in an industry that employs more than half a million people. Meanwhile there is the unsettling caused by the government’s regulatory intent. The scrapping of the FCAT, done by moving an ordinance, is part of a wider move to rationalize tribunals in multiple fields. It deflects appeals from the FCAT in Delhi to high courts in the states. The tribunals reforms (rationalisation and conditions of service) bill, 2021 was introduced in Parliament in February, but it could not be passed. Hence the ordinance to scrap eight appellate tribunals, including the FCAT. Film-makers fear that going to court will be time consuming and affect their films’ release, that fighting a case in court could be expensive, and that the industry will now hesitate to make films on controversial subjects. The other side of the argument is that the tribunal is a quasi-judicial body which functions under the government, while the high court is an independent constitutional body. But there is also much folklore about films, which either failed to get certification or fought multiple cuts by the CBFC before the FCAT and won. Such as Bandit Queen. And, much more recently, Haraamkhor. It’s not just about cuts either, but about getting a revised certification, in case the CBFC chose to give a film an A certificate. If the revising committee of the CBFC did not give a film-maker any joy, he/she could approach the FCAT as Alankrita Shrivastava did for Lipstick Under My Burkha. It still took six months and a bunch of lawyers but the FCAT gives time to the review process, and film-makers now say that they felt heard. In February, when it announced the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, the government sought to kill three birds with one stone. It announced guidelines for social media intermediaries with a time-bound grievance redressal mechanism and a ‘code of ethics’ for digital media, both news and entertainment. Under it, a three-tier grievance redressal mechanism became applicable for OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar. These promise to end the free run that OTT content providers have had so far, without a censor board or a complaints council to rein in sex, violence and nudity on one hand and liberties taken with fictional characters resembling mythological figures on the other, as was the case in Tandav. They also opened the door wide for harassment and censorship via complaints, with elaborate rules spelt out, which put the ministry of information and broadcasting in charge of oversight. So whatever happened to the constitutionally-mandated free speech with reasonable restrictions? Now you have a government ministry seeking to assert itself over constitutional freedoms. The controversy over Tandav, a web show produced by Amazon Prime Video, demonstrated how majoritarian grievance-taking could now become the norm, with producers and film-makers apologizing for their content on one hand and applying for anticipatory bail on the other. The first official complaint came from a BJP MLA, and a Haryana minister also pitched in, asking for a ban.  First information reports were registered against the film-makers in several cities amid charges of provoking communal disharmony and hurting Hindu sentiments. For the future then, self-censorship promises to become the norm in what is now a Rs 8,000-crore industry, going through a surge in viewership and revenues. The Wire, The News Minute and other digital publishers have gone to court against the new rules and the grievance redressal mechanism, calling it a weaponizing of complaints. Will an industry, which has so much at stake commercially, follow suit or choose to play ball? The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
19-04-2021||Opinion||Blind men and their nation||The altercation happened sometime in January. One evening, I was tucking into a snack at a roadside food joint when a well-dressed man — without a mask and with a physique sculpted in a gym — stepped out of the shop next door and sent a globule of spit flying in my direction. Shocked, I shouted at him for the abject inappropriateness of his action, especially it being the time of Covid-19. “There is no Corona. It is gone,” he retorted unapologetically. “In your imagination,” I countered, struggling to contain my bewilderment at his stance. I now often wonder what that man must be thinking given that the virus is back in force in Mumbai. Notwithstanding the generous contribution of spitters, Swachh Bharat and regular intervention by municipal staff working to check the spread of the virus ensured that my suburb stayed a lot cleaner through 2020 and in the first quarter of 2021. Spitting continues in that great Indian tradition of consequences being somebody else’s job to address. The authorities have rightfully faulted citizens for either not using masks or wearing them incorrectly. What we miss noticing is how much the habit of spitting prompts masks to be worn on the chin and such. You just can’t end spitting. Can you? Its obstinacy reminds of the other pandemic we cope with — our mischievous, subversive, narrow-minded politics of brinkmanship, which too cites tradition, cares little for consequence, and expects others to clean up after it. Politics in India shadows the country’s appetite for inflexible habits. Our politics conspires to make us vote with the same thoughtless ease as spitting. Factors like caste, religion, language, regionalism, personality cult — all of them when raked up help reduce politics to a pre-programmed impulse. Identity politics makes political choice easy and seemingly faultless. When you are told that your existence is threatened, anything you do to survive is deemed acceptable. The more a political pitch evokes identity, the sharper the polarization it causes and surer the subsequent reflex action. It is efficient marketing and that is likely why the moneybags haven’t shied off supporting parties with a violent track record. Victory in polls gained, the victor then becomes facilitator for sponsor’s growth. Why should the sponsor complain? The emergent alternative for the identity-pitch has been ‘development’, a favourite with technocrats nursing political ambitions and politicians fancying technocrats. But here, too, nobody wants evolved debate that explores the type of economic development offered, whether it damages the environment, whether it promises an affordable, inclusive way of life, whether the plans tabled are humane, socially just and respect freedom. All that people see in development is money and grandeur. It inspires the same protective reflex, as found in identity politics. Sold as GDP and married to billionaire-mascots, mega projects, stock market index and smart by digital, development condenses complexity into something as easily delivered as projectile in the mouth readied for flight. Right-wing politics was quick to adopt this packaging. To the extent, the simplification (as seen in nationalism, patriotism et al) sometimes bordered on the comical. A classic example is the tendency to administer a free country like a classroom, with a chosen few for self-righteous teachers and corporal punishment to boot. But then what is comical is apparent to only those capable of noticing it. What if — like the virus robbing you of the sense of smell — self-righteousness and the durbar of mirrors robbed you of the capacity for comedy? Of greater worry is how the incessant barrage of such posturing by the right wing has forced its political opponents to retaliate similarly, resulting in caricatured politics all around and betraying how shallow our intellect has become through want of questioning. Sample the widespread machismo and denigration of women found in politicians’ speeches. The right wing, famous for wading into electoral battle like a ruffian and never losing an opportunity to project itself as protecting women (instead of respecting women’s rights), has a treasure trove of such episodes. The Opposition, fighting for its life, periodically serves up its own slippages of the same genre. Kerala recently produced a gem — a left-wing politician warning young women to keep their distance from Rahul Gandhi as he is unmarried. Tamil Nadu and Bengal, both states in the thick of electoral battles, also saw controversies. Across parties, what we see is the ghost of feudalism; minds still clinging to mythology, patriarchy, traditions and gender biases, which the new generation wants to run away from. We may be close to 75 years old as a free democracy but as with spitting, we are ruled by practices reaching out from the past. Blinded by tradition, some don’t see the India in front of them. Much the same way, lost to the denial of the virus, some stay Covid-blind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
