20-04-2021||Opinion||Shifting sands in the Middle East||The Joe Biden administration has initiated an outreach to Iran with the hope of eventually reviving the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action but China is seemingly ahead of the curve. Last month, the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, undertook a week-long, six-nation Middle East tour, which saw him travelling to a diverse set of states, including Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Bahrain. While the signing of the 25-year strategic partnership pact with Iran has garnered a lot of attention, Beijing also unveiled a rather ambitious plan “for achieving security and stability in the Middle East by offering constructive boosts to Palestine-Israel dialogue, resuming the Iran nuclear deal and building a security framework in this region.” This was a virtual declaration, if it was needed, that China has arrived in the Middle East and it intends to stay there for good. Ever since the days of the Barack Obama administration, Washington has been signaling that it wants to move away from the region and focus more on the Indo-Pacific, which is now the centre of gravity of global politics and economics. In the process, it has left its partners and foes in the Middle East equally confused and, so, the attraction for a Chinese presence in the region has been growing, moving beyond the economic to the wider strategic ambit. While Obama shunned America’s traditional allies, Donald Trump courted them, and Biden is still trying to figure out what to do. On the JCPOA, however, the Biden administration is putting all its energies to revive that pact from which Trump pulled the US out in 2018, arguing that it had done nothing from stopping Tehran’s march to nuclear capability, and re-imposing debilitating sanctions on Iran. Biden has been a big votary of the JCPOA. Earlier this month, the parties associated with the pact had an initial meeting in Vienna. With Iran insisting that the United States of America should remove sanctions first and Washington asking Iran to take the first step by restarting its compliance with the pact, the divide between the two sides remains huge. The signing of the strategic cooperation pact with China gives Tehran greater space to manoeuvre vis-à-vis the US as Beijing is expected to not only buy more Iranian oil, seemingly at a heavily discounted rate, but also to invest in Iran. This new Comprehensive Strategic Partnership was first proposed in 2016 and has only now been completed although the details of the pact are still not in the public domain. Moving beyond oil, the aim of the arrangement is to enhance China-Iran strategic ties with military cooperation, joint training and high-end technological cooperation between the defence industries of the two nations. China would like to bring Iran into its Belt and Road Initiative with major investment projects in and around the country. While various reports have talked about a potential $400 billion investment commitment from China, Beijing has been more circumspect, saying that “[the plan] does not include quantitative specific contracts or indicators”. How far this expansive vision of China-Iran strategic partnership gets operationalized on the ground remains to be seen, especially in a context where fears of overdependence on China have been quite explicitly expressed in Iran in the past. For all the rhetoric, Chinese companies have been risk-averse in investing in Iran and have shied away from major investment projects because of American sanctions. For both China and Iran, the first priority is to manage ties with the US. In their outreach to each other, they are also signaling to Washington and if the US manages to improve its ties with Iran, it will have an important bearing on the Sino-Iran partnership as well. At the regional level, China has far greater stakes in the Gulf. For all the talk, Beijing cannot afford to ignore or antagonize regional powers like the UAE or Saudi Arabia. In the Middle East, UAE, Saudi Arabia Iran and Israel are China’s largest trading partners and the fault-lines between the Arab Gulf states and Israel on the one side and Iran on the other have only sharpened in recent years. Even as part of the BRI, Gulf partners are witnessing growing investments from China. During Wang Yi’s recent visit to the region, China also engaged in vaccine diplomacy with the UAE deciding to produce 200 million doses of China’s Sinopharm vaccine. Beijing has kept the doors of defence partnership open with other regional states as well and is in no hurry to put all its eggs in Iran’s basket. During the much talked about Alaska summit in March, China expressed its desire to work with the US in managing the Iranian issue. While some have described the recent Sino-Iran agreement as a “momentous change”, arguing that Beijing had long avoided getting too close to Iran because of US “sensitivities”, but “with fundamental changes in China-US relations in recent months, that era has gone”, it is not readily evident even now that Tehran can become the key issue for Beijing in its engagement with Washington as well as in its regional priorities. As the great power contest takes shape between the US and China, the Sino-Iran deal underscores that the Middle East is fast emerging as an important theatre for competitive jostling. But whether it heralds a new era in Chinese foreign policy or Middle Eastern geopolitics is still far from clear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
20-04-2021||Opinion||Fill the void: Afghanistan||September 11 is a solemn occasion for the United States of America. Tragedy of an unprecedented scale had shaken the US and, along with it, the world on that date nearly 20 years ago. The symbolism of the announcement by the US president, Joe Biden, that his country would complete the withdrawal of almost all American troops from war-ravaged Afghanistan by September 11 this year would thus not be lost. It would, once again, be a solemn occasion. Having spent two trillion dollars and lost over 2,000 men, the US departs from Afghanistan without achieving substantial peace. The policy of withdrawal, ironically, is one of the rare points of convergence between Mr Biden and his predecessor: the Donald Trump administration had agreed that the troops would leave by May. Domestic political compulsions and Mr Biden’s firm belief in minimal commitment of American personnel to Afghanistan may have been instrumental in the decision. The external implications, however, are likely to be substantial. Of immediate concern would be the fate of the current Afghan government. With the US on its way out, the present dispensation would find it difficult to maintain its tenuous grip on the provincial capitals. What is even more ominous is the refusal of the Taliban — the power in ascendancy, once again — to participate in the peace talks scheduled to take place in Turkey. The stakeholders must elicit a positive response from the Taliban; else, more blood would be spilled as the Taliban begin to mop up remnants of the present government to consolidate its hold after the US pull-out. The choices for New Delhi are equally stark. Given the history of fractious ties between New Delhi and the Taliban and Islamabad’s patronage of the regime, India must work out ways of neutralizing possible threats to its borders. But this does not mean that New Delhi should limit its outreach. What it lacks in terms of smooth diplomacy with the Taliban can be compensated, to an extent, by the long history of goodwill that binds the two nations. New Delhi must also engage with Russia and China — both have substantial strategic interests in the region — so as not to find itself in a lonely corner in the western part of the neighbourhood. Above all, the vacuum that is being created with the departure of the US’s military machine must be filled with forces that are not inimical to the peace, prosperity and stability of Afghanistan and its neighbours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
20-04-2021||Opinion||Bitter pill||India is now firmly in the ferocious grip of another Covid wave. Daily new cases, which raced past the previous peak in early April to double in just 11 days, are trending above two lakh by the mid-month; positivity rates are still accelerating. Extrapolating these facts for another fortnight, month or more is scary. But that is exactly what has to be done to respond to this fresh health and economic emergency — assume the worst-case scenarios and plan for them. If the United States of America could see an unbridled two-lakh-plus new cases daily for one and a half months (December-mid-January) and almost six lakh deaths to date, the same is not unimaginable elsewhere, including in India. Daily sights and reports of breakdowns in health facilities, testing capacities unable to cope, shortages in oxygen and drugs, overflowing crematoriums, and migrants’ second flight to safety are scarier and more depressing. There is no point remonstrating over lapses, complacency, and quack beliefs. Neither is there time to hesitate over necessary expenditures for what is a real emergency. Nor fretting about the risks involved. What has to be done must be done. What follows would have to be handled too. It is increasingly apparent that various state and local authorities will soon have no other choice except to shut down activities, places and more to cope with this frightening surge. Public learning from and adjustments to the virus over a year of its existence have evidently failed to restrain, mask, or limit mobility, necessary or otherwise. Vaccination, faltering from poor planning and absent foresight, does not provide quick passage; it is not an immediate solution for the emergency situation the country is facing now. Even the United Kingdom, the earliest to commence vaccination and next to Israel in population coverage (48 per cent and 62 per cent, respectively), had lockdown intervals to check the virus’s spread. Lockdowns of varying intensity and duration were the main recourse in the repeated waves of Covid-19 in other countries too. India is in a far worse state. Meanwhile, the government must get back to the drawing board. On the pandemic front, it is very clear that investments in fresh and/or additional capacity creations last year — hospitals, special Covid facilities, testing laboratories and suchlike — have fallen grossly short for this wildfire spread of Covid-19. Their inadequacy in metropolitan cities, which bore the initial brunt of Covid-19 and where maximum capacities were created, is evident from the widening curbs, curfews and shutdowns therein. So there’s need for rapid emergency upscaling of these in the time gained from lockdowns. This has to be complemented with raising production and capacities for oxygen, drugs, other supplies and vaccines; where possible, imports should be the first choice. Recruitments and skilling of paramedical personnel to address emerging shortages are essential too. There’s also the fresh economic fallout of the pandemic upon business and household incomes to be addressed. Here, it’s important to consider that this is a second, successive income shock in just one year, the first one coming atop a three-year deceleration in aggregate income to 4.2 per cent in the financial year ending March 2020 before Covid arrived. So no, the economy is not on better footing this time round compared to one year ago — the worst downturn of April-June 2020 is past but the damages it inflicted are yet to be reclaimed. The April-June 2021 performance will worsen over the previous quarter (January-March). Prolonged economic hardship and duress can permanently submerge the affected, vulnerable populations and, hence, the country as whole. Insufficient redress is simply unacceptable. While it is good that the government has promptly extended and widened the coverage of existing emergency credit line guarantees and some other measures, these do not address the fresh injuries to employment and incomes. The MGNREGA, which is one channel for such support, is limited to the rural segment. The government has to quickly reach out to urban parts too; after more than a year’s duration of the pandemic, expressing challenges and difficulties of such outreach cannot be an excuse — if solutions haven’t been thought of so far, consumption still has to be supported at the risk of leakages. This especially applies to personal and other services, involving public interaction that are yet to recover from the first-round lockdown effects, which are visible in the uneven economic normalization after reopening six months ago. This brings us to the economics of this all — the additional expenditure requirements. This is no doubt challenging given the adverse state of public finances and debt. Neither is it risk-free. It will inevitably result in more deficit financing and increased public debt. It will also have consequences — market reactions and macroeconomic instability. There will be the temptation from some quarters to embrace debt monetization. This is not advisable given the sky-high debt level (90 per cent of GDP) and the unfortunate context: coincidence of rising domestic inflation because of the pandemic and from outside (accelerating price growth of commodities); increased challenge from divergent growth paths of advanced economies; the powering fiscal stimulation of the US, and the risks arising from unexpected changes in its monetary policy. These pose grave macroeconomic concerns that could snowball with the adoption of this path. The correct, responsible way is for the government to move fast and do everything to gain credibility: prepare and share a believable debt-redemption plan over the medium term; if establishing its commitment requires setting up a separate body for monitoring and evaluation, then do that. And it should be prepared to compromise on medium-term growth prospects in the process. There’s no doubt that the nascent economic recovery that was steadily gaining strength as recently as one month ago will suffer setbacks of unknown magnitude, pulling down tax revenues. Analysts have already started lowering growth forecasts for this year. But the virus is no respecter of predictions. The only course for now is to spend to save lives and mitigate sufferings — even the most resilient abilities can slide into despair with constant, repeated knocks. The economic consequences will have to be faced. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
20-04-2021||Opinion||Warning sign: wholesale price index||The wholesale price index inflation rate has risen to a eight-year high of 7.39 per cent in March 2021, measured on a year-on-year basis, compared to March 2020. This rise has been mainly due to the increasing cost of crude oil, power and metals. The WPI is a weighted average of wholesale prices and is distinct from the consumer price index inflation rate. The latter is a weighted average of prices faced by consumers where food, fuel and other services are important items. In the WPI, services are not included at all. The CPI inflation rate is monitored by the Reserve Bank of India and is used as the appropriate measure for inflation-targeting and policy setting. The current rate of CPI inflation is more than 5 per cent, which is on the high side of the tolerance corridor of 2 to 6 per cent. The WPI and CPI measure different goods with different weights. The CPI includes transport costs and retail mark-ups. While the CPI inflation rate influences the setting of monetary policy stances of the RBI, the WPI inflation is an indicator of base costs in the economy for some important goods that serve as inputs in many industries. For instance, increases in prices of metals do not affect the consumer directly. However, it has an impact on CPI inflation through rising costs of production of manufactured goods that use metals. The rise in WPI inflation will have two important effects going forward. The first is that inflationary expectations will tend to go up. As people begin to get apprehensive about future inflation, they might make their purchases earlier than planned and cause a rise in actual current inflation. The other is the more direct effect on producers and traders. Part of the price rise is passed on to consumers implying that the CPI inflation will be pushed up in the near future. In either case, it is an indication of hardening prices. It is amply clear that the aggregate demand for new goods and services in the economy is sluggish, and might become worse as the Covid-19 situation deteriorates rapidly. The economy might witness another supply-side shock, thereby increasing both costs and unemployment. It should be considered as an early warning signal, although it is not clear at all whether the policymakers are prepared for a fresh round of disruption in the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
20-04-2021||Opinion||No lessons learnt from pandemic||The board outside a private hospital in Nagpur reads: No beds. It’s mid-April and the devastating second wave of Covid-19 has fast engulfed my hometown of Nagpur, nay Maharashtra, with desperate pleas for hospital beds, oxygen, and emergency use medicines getting shriller and shriller. No one knows how long this wave will last and the number of lives it will claim. That’s my town — fearful, precarious and edgy. The situation in most cities across India is no different. The daily log of cases is a horrible two lakh-plus, a third of them from Maharashtra alone. Reports suggest, while it evaded the countryside in the first wave, the virus is now ravaging the villages and people are unable to access medicines or hospitals. The summer of 2021 does not bode well. The only solace is that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government isn’t at least lying about the numbers, although the data from Maharashtra would undergo correction upwards when that exercise happens. But elsewhere, in most states, particularly in the cow belt, things don’t look good. In most districts there’s no Covid hospital or if there’s one, it is without oxygen or Covid specialists. Covid data and ground reality there are poles apart according to most reports. It’s not the numbers alone that are bewildering, what’s also scary is the stupidity and mismanagement at micro and macro levels. Take, for instance, the vaccination drive: in the ‘Tika Utsav’ of four days in the midst of this mess, India actually saw a reduction in vaccines administered, and non-BJP states sparred with the Centre over shortage of vaccines. In rural areas, the vaccine drive is yet to take off. We are witnessing another wave of reverse migration: migrants in big cities desperate to board trains or buses to return home. Lying does not help. Brazening it out either, particularly by the State. You can put up tin sheds to block the view as one state did but can’t douse the reality of pyres burning non-stop in crematoriums. How did we reach here — where the situation got out of our hands? For one, the Centre and the states failed to prepare for the fresh wave in spite of warnings from the scientific fraternity. But, at the root of the problem is the callous, unconscionable behaviour by institutions, the executive, political establishment, the citizens — all of us. For another, the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah juggernaut, good at electioneering, is proving to be a dud when it comes to dealing with financial, health, and societal crises. That rhetorical boast — ‘Apda mein avsar’ — is what it was meant to be, a mere chicanery wrapped in hollow deeds. Good at coining slogans, the Centre is nowhere near imagining and delivering robust policies that could heal or heed in time. For example, was there a need to hold a Kumbh Mela in Haridwar this time around? If the people, the religious heads, and Uttarakhand failed to call it off, the Centre should have stepped in. It didn’t. When the pilgrims return home, in the hinterland and heartlands, we will most definitely see a spurt in Covid-cases, while the state health apparatuses are already overwhelmed by the current caseload. Another issue is that major exams got postponed, rightly so, but elections that could actually become superspreader events, are being continued. By the time results from the five assembly elections come on May 2, India would have lost hundreds of voters and thousands will be sick, to put it bluntly. The pandemic did not unite us or make us any wiser.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
20-04-2021||Opinion||Proud moment||Sir — The Indian weightlifter, Saikhom Mirabai Chanu, recently set a new world record in clean and jerk at the Asian Weightlifting Championships in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Chanu, along with the fencer, Bhavani Devi, and the sailor, Nethra Kumanan, has also qualified for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. This is an extraordinary moment for women in Indian sports. It is time that the sports ministry extended its full support to upcoming female athletes. Swarnali Moitra, Siliguri Sir — The passing of the Tamil actor, Vivekh, at 59 years of age in Chennai on Saturday as a result of a massive cardiac arrest is shocking. Vivekh was a Padma Shri-winning actor and a fine comedian. He is best remembered for his roles in Pudhu Pudhu Arthangal, Kadhal Mannan and Anniyan. But not many know that Vivekh was an accomplished musician as well. He did not have any formal training in music but nurtured his passion over the years, having grown up listening to the tunes of M.S. Viswanathan and Ilaiyaraaja. Vivekh was also known for his philanthropic activities. He was an admirer of Swami Vivekananda and A.P.J Abdul Kalam. Based on Kalam’s advice, Vivekh undertook the mission of planting a billion saplings in Tamil Nadu. He managed to plant over 30 lakh saplings before his demise. A day after taking his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the actor suffered a heart attack. Following the event, the Tamil Nadu health department was forced to clarify that the cardiac arrest may not be linked to the vaccine. Whatever the case may be, he will be sorely missed. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — There is no doubt that Vivekh had made his mark on Tamil cinema. A household name, he stood out for his ability to convey social messages through comedy, thus carving out a unique space for himself. His uproarious dialogues and punch lines, couched in common sense, always got us thinking. Vivekh had wide interests outside cinema like conservation and music. The trees he planted are an indication of the meaningful life he led outside the glitz and glamour of the film industry. In many ways, Vivekh has broadened our horizons and enriched our lives. Tamil cinema will always be indebted to him. G. David Milton, Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Very few comedians can blend social messages with comedy the way Vivekh could. His demise is a great loss for cinema. Rupali Vaidya, Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-39
