21-04-2021||Opinion||A flawed but pragmatic view||Last month, a bench of the Calcutta High Court ordered that “the Sundarban area cannot be utilized or permitted to be accessed except for its preservation, management, protection and custody by and under the control of its custodians in law; and, to extremely limited purpose to which human access could be permitted under controlled conditions that would be imposed by those in custody of that area”. The bench hearing WPA 8514 of 2020, directed that “there shall be no activity whatsoever by human intervention in any part of the three parcels, the Sundarban Biosphere Area, Tiger Reserve [STR] and the Reserve Forest... except to the extent such activity may be permitted by the Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests & Director, Sunderban Biosphere Reserve”. The court order, issued in good faith, is intended to provide as much protection as possible to the Sundarban natural area. However, it is flawed, cannot be implemented, and has the potential to overwhelm the office of the SBR director and breed corruption. It is flawed because the SBR (referred to as Sundarban Biosphere Area in the court order), the Tiger Reserve and the Reserve Forest are not three parcels of land. The SBR encompasses the STR, the Reserve Forest and the human-inhabited area with a current population of about five million. It is spread over an area of 9630 sq km and not 4,000 square kilometres as submitted by the ‘learned’ government advocate. The Sundarbans region, notified by the government of West Bengal through an administrative order (807/2C-6/73) dated March 1, 1973, and the natural area including the STR was declared a Biosphere Reserve on March 29, 1989. Neither the SBR website nor the Compendium  on Indian Biosphere Reserves are difficult to find. The implementation of “no activity whatsoever by human intervention” in the SBR is an impossibility since about 5,705 square kilometres are designated as the ‘transition area’, home to about five million people, practising agriculture, fishing and fishery in the main. Tourism and trade are also significant economic activities. The Calcutta High Court direction dated March 5, 2021, requiring that there be “absolutely no activity of converting any part of Sundarbans from its ‘as is where is’ condition, as obtained now” will come in the way of the socio-economic activities of the residents of the SBR. The livelihoods of such a large population cannot be wished away, particularly in the absence of any mechanism to settle the inhabitants away from the SBR and provide them with livelihoods. The office of the SBR director within the Wildlife Wing of the forest directorate has limited resources for the protection of wildlife and the regulation of human activity and entry into natural areas. Even if the SBR director were to delegate the authority of issuing permission for human activity in the SBR to subordinate senior officials, it would be a humongous task since there are only five office-holders of the rank of divisional forest officer or above. Moreover, it is common knowledge that permit raj breeds corruption. Mangroves undoubtedly need protection. From time to time, mangrove patches outside designated forest areas in the SBR come under assault in spite of being protected everywhere by the Supreme Court judgement of December 11, 1996. In the present case, it appears that the court has been given to understand that mangrove forest land is being converted into fisheries. This is apparent from the observations made by the bench on December 10, 2020: “[t]he writ petitioner complains of illegal activities undertaken to convert forest land into fisheries upon uprooting the mangrove trees”. This is not the case. Information provided to the court prior to or during the hearing on October 21, 2020 appears to be off the mark. Observations made by the bench on that day are thus: “This matter pertains to the pristine mangrove forests in the Sundarbans being destroyed by converting forest land into fisheries upon uprooting the plants.” To begin with, the mangrove forests of the Sundarbans are not pristine; systematic extraction of timber began at least 150 years ago. The first forest working plan was formulated in 1871 to regulate harvesting of sundari (Heritiera fomes). At that time, Richard Temple and Dr S. Schlich had noted that “due to unregulated felling no good quality forest remained”. Secondly, barring three instances since 1947, forest land in the Sundarbans has not been converted. In spite of the flaws, the judgment is pragmatic in that it has put a system in operation for a period of six months, unless modified. It is also timely and has touched upon a crucial aspect of governance of the Sundarbans. It has asked the state government to examine “whether all the areas, to which reference is made in this order, could be brought under one umbrella...”; in effect, a Sundarbans district. This is long overdue and should be on the agenda of the incoming administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||Due place: women as judges||Has the time come at last? According to the Chief Justice of India, the time had come for the appointment of a woman as CJI. He was responding to a plea filed by the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association asking that the Supreme Court intervene to ensure the appointment of more women as judges in high courts. Considering the scale of gender imbalance in the higher judiciary, the plea was a modest one. No woman has been appointed as CJI so far; in 25 high courts today, there are 81 women judges against 1,078 male and there is one woman among 29 judges in the Supreme Court. The CJI’s statement opened up the horizon of possibility. But he also qualified it, adding that according to the chief justices of high courts, women advocates often refused to become judges because of domestic responsibilities, such as the education of their children. In other words, the ‘time’ for a woman CJI may have come, but women did not have the time because of duties at home. Leaving aside the responses from women lawyers that followed, including one declaring that they were more than happy to take up professional duties, the assumption of inequality in the idea of women prioritizing domestic responsibilities over their profession cannot be ignored. It diminishes the achievements of women in every professional field, including the hard work of thousands in the unorganized sector. Besides, as one woman advocate remarked, if this is a reason for women not to become judges, then they should be given institutional support. The structural inequality should be addressed, not taken for granted. Men are appointed even though many refuse in order to continue practising as lawyers, pointed out another. Two facts must be taken into account to address gender imbalance in the judiciary. One, the position of a judge cannot be applied for and two, the collegium that appoints judges is all-male. Without a shift in viewpoint — alertness to assumptions and jettisoning them, to start with — the imbalance will not be corrected. Why should women lawyers have to ask the court to intervene? The judiciary must set an example to society about never devaluing women’s work and achievements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||The fiddler: PM playing to the gallery||Future chroniclers of India may well say that when the country burned, ravaged by the fire of a pandemic, its most popular leader was playing not the fiddle but to the gallery in election rallies. One of the most shocking aspects of the second, crippling wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has been the absence of reassurance from the highest echelons of power. The prime minister has prioritized politics over the lives of the people: Narendra Modi is reported to have addressed as many as 16 rallies in poll-bound Bengal at a time when Bengal and the rest of India were groaning under the weight of a resurgent pandemic. That Mr Modi’s government had been lulled by a drop in India’s caseload cannot be disputed. When the virus reared its ugly head again, both the political leadership and the health administration were caught woefully unprepared to meet the challenge. The paucity of dedicated Covid beds in hospitals — Calcutta is not an exception to this alarming trend — is frightening. It has been reported that had the Centre made adequate funds available for vaccine-makers, the pitifully slow rate of vaccination and the shortage of vaccines could have both been avoided. That is not the end of the government’s long list of lapses. It refused to enforce strict rules to control mass gatherings, stepping in — the ongoing Kumbh is one instance — when the damage had already been done. Unlike the instance of the first wave, the prime minister has desisted from sharing his vacuous wisdom with the nation. The situation is perhaps too grim for cheerleading. Shamefully, the Centre is attempting to conceal its ineptitude with hubris. Meaningful advice by experienced Opposition leaders — be it Manmohan Singh or Rahul Gandhi — is first being dismissed in an intemperate manner and then — wonder of wonders — implemented. Some of Mr Singh’s suggestions — the incentivization of vaccine manufacturers, for instance — have been accepted even though the Union health minister’s response to the former prime minister, now battling Covid-19, left a lot to be desired. Mr Gandhi’s earlier appeal to widen the ambit of vaccination has also met its mark with the Centre opening up the programme for all citizens aged 18 or above. Had this been done earlier, India could have saved many more lives. The scale of the crisis — the nation is at war with a virus — makes it imperative for the Central government to be collaborative in its approach. It is this shared spirit of cooperation that has helped the country stand together during many a crisis in the past — medical, political or economic. It is a pity that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party refuses to learn useful lessons from this history. Bolstering federalism and a conciliatory approach towards the Opposition, some of whose constituents have vast experience in running the country, should be deemed important in these desperate times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||Rite of passage||We are living through a time when the founding ideals of the Indian republic are changing seismically. The cult of the leader overpowering the party at Central and state levels means that India today is a presidential system masquerading as a parliamentary democracy. The unashamed invocation of majoritarian prejudices and minority appeasement means India’s much-vaunted secularism is irrelevant in electoral politics. The profusion of love jihad laws across the country to widespread popular acclaim demonstrates how deeply vindictive society is. It is precisely to contain such changes that Constitutions are written. The founding fathers of the Constitution of India created a comprehensive document to account for and tackle a diversity of possible transgressions. The Constitution unequivocally set India on the path of liberal democracy secured through a parliamentary form of government, a federal structure, fundamental rights for every individual and a secular polity that treats all faiths equally. From the inauguration of the Constitution itself, many celebratory accounts of it have been written. These have both created and, in turn, fed off a lofty international image of India as the shining jewel of the global South, a colony that made it as a liberal democracy. While such accounts, with more than a kernel of truth, may have burnished India’s self-esteem as a new nation on the global stage, over time they have masked a fundamental reality — by and large, the Constitution does not matter in daily life or politics in India. This is not to say that the Constitution is not a powerful symbolic presence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi regularly extols the foresight of B.R. Ambedkar in hard-coding reservation for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in the Constitution; Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee excoriates the prime minister for shredding the secular fabric of the Constitution; a popular song in the lead-up to the Bengal elections ends with a rousing invocation of the Preamble to the Constitution; several lawyers and judges invoke the Constitution regularly in courts of law and in the media. Despite such seeming pervasiveness, the Constitution appears to be singularly failing at its core task of circumscribing the limits of acceptable politics. Often a simple explanation has been offered for this — that the Bharatiya Janata Party and its ideological mentors in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh have systematically denuded the Constitution because they had no part in drafting it. Historians of the RSS and political psychologists may be able to test the soundness of this claim. But there is a more uncomfortable truth that we have steadfastly refused to confront — that the Constitution itself has never seeped into the body politic in a way its drafters envisaged. This vulnerability dates back to the very making of the Constitution itself. While many views have been expressed about the Constituent Assembly, two facts are relatively undisputed — first, the Assembly wasn’t an elected body and, consequently, operated in a different plane from mass politics; second, while most major political leaders were part of the Assembly (with the prominent exception of M.K. Gandhi), their dominant interests lay in the actual securing of freedom and then, after freedom was achieved, in governing the country. The task of drafting the Constitution was left primarily to Ambedkar and the Drafting Committee, a group dominated by lawyers who believed in establishing a liberal democratic order based on an enlightened European modernity. This is why Shankarrao Deo, Gandhian and member of the Constituent Assembly, wistfully remarked that its merits notwithstanding, “the Constitution can hardly be called the ‘child’ of the Indian Revolution.” Although the Constitution contained a lot of promising material to build a modern India, it often appeared abstruse, unable to speak directly to the people. To resolve disputes it chose law and litigation over customary practices and mediation, guaranteed freedoms without recommending concomitant obligations, established a top-down governance structure firmly rejecting local self-government. These were conscious choices aligned with the modernizing mission of the drafters. But they were a continuation of choices that India’s colonial masters had made in the last two centuries, ignoring practices and forms of governance of older provenance. Many of these practices were retrograde and unsuited for incorporation in a democratic nation-state. But a refusal to seriously consider them while drafting the Constitution meant that the process would inevitably someday be seen as inauthentic. The Constitution we gave to ourselves in 1950, distant as it may have been to reality, could have plausibly settled over time. In fact, it still might, as a lot of academic work seems to suggest. But today, 70 years on, the constitutional vision and the political reality of India have frontally collided. Such collisions are not surprising; in fact, it is precisely when these collisions occur that the Constitution as the highest normative expression of sovereignty is expected to get to work and overcome all challenges. But unlike several occasions in the past when the Constitution and its guardians have risen to the challenge of upholding the law in the face of overweening governments, this time it appears that the governments and a majority of the people are on one side and the Constitution on the other. This is a reactionary moment for inchoate political ideas, which have always simmered in the constitutional subterranean, to emerge into the mainstream. Neither will this collision resolve itself quickly nor will its resolution lie in the realm of the law and the courts as the Constitution envisages. The fault lines are so numerous and deep that any resolution lies in the realm of ideas alone. These ideas are an augury of India’s approaching second constitutional moment — one that is truer to a people dismissive of checks and balances, god-fearing and religious, placing community and family over the individual, yet able to take such a reality and devise a constitutional order that works for all. There is some distance to travel before we reach such a moment but we are definitely headed there. Currently, though, we are at a phase in our constitutional life when we are desperate to shake off our Westminster detritus, yet unable to replace it with anything either original or empowering. Instead we have a perpetual state of polarization that promises to take India back in time, rejecting wholesale the modernizing vision of the founding fathers. This is a rite of passage. It is our reactions to these developments that are critical — we can choose to hark back to the avowedly liberal ideals of the original constitutional founding and champion a resurrection. That would be easy to do but would equally be a misjudgment. A challenge to the Constitution cannot be answered by invoking the Constitution itself — that won’t get very far. Alternatively, we can choose a different starting point — the messy and incoherent amalgam of practices that together constitute political life in India. This amalgam has, over the centuries, been shaped by Manu and Ambedkar, Macaulay and Gandhi, Akbar and Krishnadevaraya, Nehru and Modi. This pastiche is our reality — the second coming of the Constitution needs to reflect it honestly, rising above it when it needs to. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
21-04-2021||Opinion||Golden opportunity||Sir — At present, India is reportedly facing a crisis in animal nutrition. In particular, a shortage has cropped up in the availability of pet food. On an average, there is a demand for 30,000 tonnes of pet food in the country, but much of it remains unmet. There is scope for India to take this situation in its stride. Most pet owners cannot afford imported brands of pet food even though they want the best for their pets. With a little investment in this sector, the Indian pet food manufacturing industry could not only meet this demand but also contribute to boosting the country’s economy. Ranjana Guha, Sir — With the steep spike in Covid-19 cases, the fear of another lockdown has sparked worries of another exodus of migrant workers from cities. Many have already started leaving for their native places. Calling for a war-like preparedness to deal with the surging number of Covid cases, several state governments have started imposing night curfews and weekend lockdowns, which have further increased the speculations about a complete lockdown. The plight of migrant workers last year is not hidden from the world — everyone is aware that the sudden lockdown imposed by the Narendra Modi-led government led to a great human tragedy. Workers of the informal sector, which is widely recognized as the ‘backbone’ of the economy, were left stranded on the roads. With no arrangements for transport, they had to travel to their hometowns on foot. A similar situation is arising once again. But the government does not seem to have learned from its earlier missteps. Deprived of even the basic amenities to survive, migrant workers are on the road again. The government still does not have a proper plan to solve these problems caused by the pandemic. Sandeep Rawat, Chandigarh Sir — If there is one class of people that has been affected the most by the pandemic — during the lockdown last year and now again this year — it is the migrant workers. The previous lockdown — a national shutdown with only four hours’ notice — was a disaster for them as they were left stranded, with no livelihood or means to travel home. It was surely hunger that affected them more than the coronavirus. The brief lockdowns recently imposed in Maharashtra, however, have been a little kinder to the migrant labourers, in the sense that they at least got the time to travel back home if they so wished. Migrant workers are mostly daily wage earners and it is difficult for them to survive in the absence of employment. The authorities must be more sympathetic to the migrant class. After all, they are the ones who keep the wheels of the economy turning in cities. Melville X. D’Souza, Mumbai Sir — Amidst another exodus of migrant workers from cities, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, has reassured industries that there will be no complete lockdown this year. This is not surprising. Clearly, the Indian economy would not be able to survive another national lockdown. But rather than convincing heads of industries, the government should make an effort to reach out to the migrant labourers who are scared of a repeat of last year’s horrors. In this regard, the Delhi government has set a good precedent. While announcing a week-long lockdown in Delhi, the chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, has urged migrant workers to stay back. The Centre should follow suit. There should be clear communication between the two sections. If the workers wish to leave, arrangements should be made for their transport. For those who choose to stay, the government should take steps to convey to them that they are a valued part of the economy. Shraddha Joshi, New Delhi Sir — The editorial, “Burning country” (April 19), rightly points out that India does not seem to have learnt any lessons from international precedents of wildfires. It is disturbing to learn that Uttarakhand has witnessed over a thousand incidents of forest fires in six months, and both human and animal lives have been lost. Although forest fires can occur naturally, they are often caused by humans. Climate change has a role to play as well. Weak monsoons can lead to dry soil, making matters worse. Reports suggest that northeastern and central parts of India are most vulnerable to forest fires. But the recurrence of such fires does not seem to bother the government. Inadequate infrastructure and equipment still pose a challenge. Without the concerted efforts of the state governments and the Centre, it would be difficult to tackle the threats to biodiversity that forest fires pose. The government should ensure that help is sought from both international experts as well as local people in order to improve the situation. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
