22-04-2021||Opinion||Time travelling||We exist in time and occupy space and, for the most part, are usually fairly certain of the where and the when of our existence. There may be occasions when we are disorientated and unable to determine with certainty our where- and when-abouts, but these are relatively uncommon events in most lives, and our sense of self is typically quite solidly grounded in both space and time. Of course, neither time nor space is wholly objective, even if science tells us that they are, for how we perceive time and how we relate to space determine how we see ourselves in relation to the world around us. It was Aristotle (384-322 BCE) who, perhaps for the first time, noted how our perception of time was dependent on change and movement. In Book Four, Chapter 11 of his Physics, he writes of how “we apprehend time only when we have marked motion, marking it by ‘before’ and ‘after’; and it is only when we have perceived ‘before’ and ‘after’ in motion that we say that time has elapsed”. Such motion or change may be external — the movement of a body through space — or internal — the perception of change and movement within our minds. “But neither does time exist without change; for when the state of our own minds does not change at all, or we have not noticed its changing, we do not realize that time has elapsed, any more than those who are fabled to sleep among the heroes in Sardinia do when they are awakened; for they connect the earlier ‘now’ with the later and make them one, cutting out the interval because of their failure to notice it. So, just as, if the ‘now’ were not different but one and the same, there would not have been time, so too when its difference escapes our notice the interval does not seem to be time... the non-realization of the existence of time happens to us when we do not distinguish any change... when we perceive and distinguish [such change] we say time has elapsed... It is evident, then, that time is neither movement nor independent of movement.” Virtually everyone I have spoken to during the last year has reported mild to severe distortions in their sense of space and time. For some, this has taken the form of being unable to reconstruct a sequence of events, mixing up the ‘before’ and the ‘after’ of a particular incident or series of incidents; others have spoken of how they confused the ‘here and now’ with the ‘there and then’; and yet others have recounted how their body clocks have been thrown out of kilter by the strangely hallucinatory nature of life during the ongoing pandemic. For some of them, time seems to have speeded up, and months have collapsed into mere days (“...it seems only yesterday that the first lockdown was imposed”), while, for others, time has slowed down so much that each day seems to last forever. This apparently paradoxical response to the passage of time is the subject of a research project conducted by the experimental psychologist, Ruth S. Ogden, of Liverpool John Moores University on The passage of time during the UK Covid-19 lockdown, whose findings are interesting, to say the least. According to Ogden, her “results showed that there was widespread distortion of time during lockdown, with more than 80% of people reporting that time felt like it was passing differently. But lockdown did not distort time in the same way for everyone. Instead, time sped up during lockdown for 40% of people and slowed down for the remaining 40%”. Why this should be so doesn’t seem to be very clear. Ogden suggests that age and “the negative emotions associated with isolation, boredom, sadness and stress may have contributed to a slowing of time” although she warns that “the effect of emotion on [our perception of] time is complex”. One can only surmise how radically different the perception of time must be for a laid-off migrant worker having to somehow return to her or his home hundreds, maybe even thousands, of kilometres away from the place where she or he worked, and that of the house-bound white-collar worker whose job may not be in jeopardy but whose daily rhythms have been rudely disrupted as a result of the pandemic. About six months ago, when I called up a friend in a Birbhum village, he had told me of how several migrant workers of his acquaintance, who had returned home with great difficulty had become “lifeless” and “unwilling to look for work”, or even go out to collect the free rations being distributed to families by the state government. “They no longer believe there is a future,” my friend told me — a comment one has heard repeatedly from a varied assortment of individuals, ranging from students, to neighbours, to well-established friends holding down steady jobs. Hundreds of thousands of young people, whose final school board examinations have been put on hold, with not even tentative rescheduled dates announced, have now joined this chorus. Our perception of time is shaped not only by past events, but also by the reasonable assumptions we make about what is likely to happen in the (more-or-less near) future. About two months back, most of us (myself included) were looking forward to a return to some semblance of pre-pandemic normalcy; now, with the second wave in full flow, that possibility seems to have been snatched away from us. On the one hand, the exponential increase of coronavirus cases is like a speeded-up film where time is ever-accelerating and, on the other, the way in which things remain the same (lockdowns, travel restrictions, closed schools and colleges, the list goes on) seems to have brought time to a standstill. Our vaunted ability to predict and/or control the future seems to have disappeared completely, and all we can do is helplessly observe a time that is both breathtakingly fast and heartbreakingly slow at one and the same moment. The paradox that is Covid-time offers neither hope nor consolation, only a bleak, terrifying future. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
22-04-2021||Opinion||Lashed again: Covid-19||India is currently witnessing a severe replay of the Covid-19 pandemic of 2020; India’s second wave is, arguably, the worst surge around the world. Its whiplash on the country’s economy and society is going to have a telling effect. Studies show that the very rich and the very poor in India remain relatively unaffected by the economic shock induced by the pandemic. The former can absorb such shocks, while the latter are numbed by persistent, chronic poverty: their condition could not be worse than what it already is. The worst hit by the pandemic has been the large middle class accounting for a wide range of incomes, starting from people earning about $10 to $20 per day. Since the pandemic began, India has lost 32 million people in this income range, and the size of the very poor — those earning less than $2 per day per person — has swelled by 75 million. The most important sources of middle class income are wages and salaries, especially in the sprawling informal and rural sectors. The income loss is mostly a result of rising unemployment. According to a CMIE report published in August 2020, unemployment was estimated at 1.8 crore by July 2020 from the time the pandemic broke out. This meant that about 22 per cent of salaried jobs had been lost. Unemployment creates a number of social problems apart from the associated economic distress. Anxiety and stress levels are much higher for an unemployed person. This sense of alienation can create problems, such as enhanced substance abuse, greater domestic violence and more widespread incidents of psychiatric disorders. It can break up families, increase suicide rates, and have an adverse long-term effect on one’s self-esteem and confidence. These complications gnaw away at the roots of social order and stability. India never got over the mammoth economic problems carried over from last year. There was a weak stimulus given to the economy that did not have a discernible effect. The ruling regime seems to be more worried about the country’s geographical neighbours and in controlling India’s farmers and workers. The same script is now being re-enacted with a greater ferocity. It is likely that the blows from the second and third waves would be far more lethal than that of the first one. The economic recovery will be more difficult this time around. Can the middle class — the engine of aspirations and growth in New India — hold its ground? Or would it crumble into the heap of the poor? The answer to these questions would become clearer not too long into the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
22-04-2021||Opinion||Great minds think differently||“If culture, civilisation, administration, and economic prosperity were possible before British rule, they will also be possible after British rule,” declared Subhas Chandra Bose in his two-part book, The Indian Struggle: 1920-1942. There is no doubt that Bose’s contributions were significant to emancipating India from British imperialism. Could this fierce nationalist, who is being appropriated for political mileage nowadays, have been even more instrumental to Indian history had he served as India’s first prime minister? On October 21, 1943, Bose announced the formation of the provisional government of Azad Hind in Japanese-occupied Singapore, anointing himself as head of state, minister for war and foreign affairs, and prime minister. The adoption of the third title by Bose has led many of his admirers to argue that Bose, and not Jawaharlal Nehru, was the first prime minister India ever had. It was Nehru who undertook the first prime ministership of an independent India. But what if he hadn’t? In The Indian Struggle, Bose writes of how independent India would have “a strong Central Government... [how] [t]he state will... unify the whole nation and all methods of propaganda... will have to be utilised...” In a speech delivered in Singapore in 1943, Bose had made his administrative aspirations even clearer by asserting that India would require an “iron dictator” who could rule for at least two decades. Unlike the democratic idealism of Nehru, who had an unflinching faith in constitutional process, Bose, as a benevolent dictator, may have concentrated most of the power in his hands through a mixture of “Fascism and Communism”, with the aim of making India economically self-sufficient, before bedding in the democratic foundations that had been the opening gambit of the Nehruvian quasi-federal model. In The Indian Struggle, Bose imagines a new party for independent India — the Samyavadi-Sangha — which would dominate the political landscape like a colossus, functioning as a “well-organised, disciplined all-India party... the chief instrument for maintaining national unity.” Bose’s Sangha would provide “perfect equality” in terms of political and economic rights, endorse no State religion, thereby allowing “complete religious and cultural freedom”, and strive to eradicate poverty and unemployment by means of “industrialisation and scientific agriculture through state aid”. The Sangha’s tentative manifesto reflects many of the primary features of what is now understood to be Nehruvian socialism and secularism. This raises the obvious question — with similar ideals but different tools, would the Congress have survived in the India of the Sangha? Would Bose have pivoted to free and fair elections by dissolving or disempowering the Sangha, or would he have let the Sangha retain its political leverage while simultaneously allowing other political actors to rise to prominence? India under Bose may not have seen the kind of social suppression that dictatorships are usually associated with. The Indian Struggle confirms Bose’s faith in a secular State where minorities do not become second-class citizens. Bose’s India may also have industrialized faster than it did under Nehru, achieving Bose’s target of a rapid rise in the standard of living and an ‘increase in consumption by leaps and bounds’. However, Bose’s obsession with socialism and concentration of power may have set the wrong precedents for independent India. The image of Bose as omnipotent and omnipresent would have legitimized more authoritarian personalities with less noble intentions to succeed him. When the democratic mechanisms installed by Nehru could not prevent an Emergency proclamation by his daughter, Indira Gandhi, or foresee the rise of political strongmen like Narendra Modi, it is likely that Bose’s benevolent dictatorship would have spawned powerful leaders governing an increasingly weak country. History tells us that a single individual does not usually preside over both revolution and reconstruction with the same success. While Bose certainly had the competence and the conviction to prove an exception to this humbling rule, given the precarious circumstances at the time of Indian independence and his own modus operandi, few would have bet in his favour. Nehru, for all his shortcomings, offered a utopian yet enduring idea of India, one that in its syncretic and democratic roots remains imperfect yet imperative to what India is today. Bose, for all his qualities, would have offered a compelling but chaotic idea of India, one which in its conflict between short-term necessities and long-term ideals would have fundamentally altered what India is today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
22-04-2021||Opinion||Change of guard: Cuba||Cuba’s revolution is history; the revolutionaries, too, are now becoming part of the past. Cuba without a Castro at its helm may have been inconceivable even a few years ago. Yet, the country has now put behind, in an orderly manner, its over six-decade-long tryst with the iconic Castro clan and other members of the ‘historic generation’ who ushered in the revolution in 1959. Fidel Castro had handed over the reins of power to his brother, Raúl; the latter has now been succeeded by Miguel Díaz-Canel as the new chief of Cuba’s communist party. Raúl Castro had anointed Mr Díaz-Canel as president in 2018. Fidel Castro’s larger-than-life image remains imprinted on the Cuban consciousness. Cuba’s progress in education and healthcare — the same cannot be said about its economy though — on Fidel’s watch was commendable. This is not to suggest that Raúl Castro’s legacy is in any way less significant. In fact, the pragmatic younger brother played a crucial role in smoothening Cuba’s relationship with its ideological foe, the United States of America. But he chose not to rock the boat any further. In fact, this cautious approach, coupled with ideological blinkers shared by both siblings, is attributed by some as the chief cause behind the time that Cuba took to wake up to the advantages of an open market. China read the tea leaves right much before the Castros did. Having risen within the hierarchy of the party, Mr Díaz-Canel is not expected to veer Cuba away from its socialist, one-party political system. This is because the principle of a carefully orchestrated continuity lies at the core of the survival of Cuba’s communist regime. But Mr Díaz-Canel would also be leading Cuba through uncharted waters since the external realities in Latin America and, indeed, the world have undergone a sea change. The red tide in the continent that saw the flowering of leftist regimes in a number of countries is on the wane. Cuba’s traditional allies — Venezuela is one example — are in a shambles. The warmth with the US proved to be short-lived, with Donald Trump neutralizing the concessions announced by the Barack Obama administration. The raging pandemic has made Cuba’s economic challenges a lot sharper, with tourism — Cuba’s lifeline — suffering blows. These challenges would test Mr Díaz-Canel’s leadership. Finding a balance between continuity and change — in other words, public reforms — could be one way to steady the ship for the new boss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
22-04-2021||Opinion||Be cautious||Sir — A former children’s commissioner of the United Kingdom, Annie Longfield, has filed a case against TikTok, alleging that the app illegally collects its underage users’ data. TikTok’s handling of personal data has long been a matter of concern. Longfield is of the opinion that the app is breaching the data protection law in the UK and in the European Union. It has been alleged that phone numbers, location and biometric data are being taken without sufficient warning. This is worrying and, if true, threatens the safety of millions of children worldwide. This must be investigated urgently. Surya Sengupta, Calcutta Sir — It is a relief to know that amid a virulent second wave of Covid-19 infections, the Centre has taken the decision to allow the vaccination of all citizens above the age of 18 from May 1 (“All-adult vaccine ploy on day of ingratitude”, April 20). This is a welcome move. However, it is worrying that as of Monday, only 8 per cent of the population had received the first dose of the vaccine while a mere 1 per cent were fully inoculated. Many front-line workers are yet to be vaccinated. At this time, when the pandemic is at its peak, the current vaccination programme to halt the spread of the disease is simply too slow. A strategic programme to vaccinate 60 per cent of the population should be drawn and executed before the end of June. The states and the Centre must work towards creating greater awareness among the people and urge them to get vaccinated as soon as possible. The next step would be to allow the vaccination of people below the age of 18, bringing all citizens within the ambit of the inoculation programme. They, too, are vulnerable to the coronavirus. The government must also ensure that there is no hoarding or black-marketeering of the vaccines. Sravana Ramachandran, Chennai Sir — The decision of the Central government to allow the vaccination of all citizens above the age of 18 comes at a time when the second wave of the coronavirus has led to an unprecedented surge in cases across the country. The Centre was woefully ill-prepared to handle the uptick and now there is an acute shortage of not only oxygen cylinders and hospital beds but also Covid-19 vaccines. The fact of the matter is that it is the inefficiency and indifference of the Centre that has led to this situation. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party thought that it was wise to hold numerous election rallies in poll-bound states in the midst of a pandemic. They also gave permission to organize the Kumbh Mela where thousands gathered flouting Covid-19 norms. The Centre made weak calls for caution only when the surge of infections at the Kumbh garnered outrage. Now, with the situation well and truly out of hand, the government must speed up the inoculation programme and vaccinate all citizens on a war footing. The people of India are now living in fear for their lives and those of their loved ones. Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai Sir — At a time when Covid-19 infections in India are skyrocketing, it is good to know that all adults will be eligible to get vaccinated from next month. The decision was taken by the Centre in a bid to ensure that a maximum number of citizens can be inoculated in a short period of time. The liberalization of the drive will allow states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to procure directly from manufacturers. The private hospitals would have to procure their supplies of the vaccine from the 50 per cent earmarked for entities other than those coming through the Central government channel. It is hoped that India’s vaccination drive will finally pick up. Kanupriya Chouhan, Khachrod, Madhya Pradesh Sir — It was wise of Rahul Gandhi to call off all his election rallies ahead of the sixth, seventh and final phases of voting in the West Bengal assembly elections. Bengal is witnessing a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases. Amid this grave and deteriorating situation, parties across the political spectrum have held jam-packed rallies and road shows, where neither leaders nor supporters wore masks or followed social distancing norms. It is heartening that following Gandhi, the Trinamul Congress has decided to shun mega rallies in West Bengal. On the other hand, instead of cautioning people, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, reportedly said that it is “not right” to link elections with the surge in cases. It is worrying that the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders are yet to grasp the gravity of the situation. The Election Commission, too, has done little to control crowding during campaigning. It is high time that the EC bans all political rallies for the remaining phases of elections in Bengal. With the current advancements in technology, it is possible to remotely campaign for polls. Politicians should put the well-being of people ahead of electoral gains. Shovanlal Chakraborty, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-38
