23-04-2021||Opinion||Thought experiments||The idea of India was once evoked quite often. People felt India as a nation, a civilization, and a democracy had a message for the world. The Nehruvian idea of democracy seemed effervescent and alive. Today, a few decades later, we have to confess that the idea of India is nostalgia, reduced to a lifeless flicker by the Bharatiya Janata Party regime. One cannot even say, ‘India is dead. Long live India’, with confidence in traditional norms because the idea of India has run dry. The literal combination of autocracy, mediocrity and incompetence that the BJP brought to the table has devastated us. Narendra Modi behaves like a Vladimir Putin or a Donald Trump without realizing that they too have destroyed the institutions that sustained their societies. The globalization of autocratic mediocrity is a style that India, Turkey, the United States of America, Brazil and Russia share. Years ago, Winston Churchill defined Soviet Russia as an enigma wrapped in a mystery. Looking at India today, we have to admit we are a cliché wrapped in the repetition of endless promises. Behind post-normal, post-truth, it is clear that India as a modern imagination has run out. Nothing that Amit Shah or Modi will do is going to help. We need new concepts, new forms of thinking, and an exorcism of old ideas. The expert in blinders must be exiled till we review the basic models of our existence. The first sign of crisis, the need for a paradigm change, is the desiccation of language. Our key concepts are deadwood. Words like development, democracy, security make little sense as they turn more ironic or paradoxical and eat into the very institutions that we valued. Our regime uses language to beat up people, forcing many dissenters to confront the fact that the only way to be genuinely Indian is to be anti-national. The idea of India as a civilization and as a vibrant civil society eludes the current regime. Worse, our Opposition and the regime enact a Punch and Judy charade where there is no real debate or options. Freebies have replaced ideas and ideologies have lost any semblance of intelligence. The senility of concepts and their genocidal cost are obvious. Today, it is not a cost-benefit analysis of policy that we need, but an understanding of suffering as imposed by each of these concepts. Development, instead of being inclusive, has marginalized, eliminated and displaced millions of people. The dividing line between refugee and citizen has been blurred. One needs a mourning wall for the languages, species, crafts and human beings that the regime has driven to extinction. Yet it is indifferent to the situation. Its illiteracy or indifference to the suffering of migrants in the informal economy or the travails of protesting farmers is scandalous. Nation-building has become a vacuous exercise as we increasingly rely on political fixers and corporate brokers propped up by the media. The death of keywords is accompanied by the end of trust in institutions. The policy documents we produce, the political games we play, show that this regime is committed to the death of institutions. It has desiccated civil society, emptied the university, emasculated the courts, made party and trade union look banal. The elite seems to play along with this charade. Nobody is publicly articulating this loss. We are playing rhetorical games when institutions have to be seen as acts of trusteeship. We salute a Gandhi on a postcard, welcome him with a tourist’s delight, but Gandhi in a post-truth society has no place in what we call the post-normal. The Covid era emptied out what majoritarianism neglected to destroy. The sad thing is that we have no great narratives or narrators to capture this period. We substitute policy for storytelling with devastating consequences. There is an absence of ethics in every act of assessment. A few decades ago, Ian Hacking, the Canadian historian of science, said that the real task facing contemporary governance was the maintenance and management of memory. The information revolution as an act of abstraction wiped out memory as an embodied narrative. You can store information in a machine, but memory in a human being has to be performatively alive. This regime specializes in the erasure of memory through its truncated, vindictive sense of history, its linear sense of development and community. It has erased memory and caring as imaginations. Otherwise India would not have been autistic about the Covid migration or the farmers’ protest. This is a regime that fetishizes the cow but is presiding over the death of agriculture. Our nation watches indifferently as it sees the living myth of democracy, from Bollywood to agriculture, dying out. The standard institutions like the trade union or the current university, the hypocrisy of a separation of powers, or the emptiness of ideas following sustainability and wellness will not do; they will not survive the Covid crisis and its vectors of indifference. One has to ask which institutions will survive the complexity of the time. A friend pointed out that the satsang and the langar survive crises gloriously. So do the guru-shishya idea of excellence. Modern institutions have been tattered. For example, the university as a giant tutorial college makes little sense. The university had to be two-generational, for students of 18-25 and the adults returning to the university after 45-50. We need a blend of values. We cannot allow corporations to appropriate ecology. Land, sea, livelihood are too sacrosanct for their rapacity. We need to create new experiments to sustain nature. Civil society should create a sense of the seed, of the river, as a mythic imagination. We need new myths because modernity has not been productive with myths. Myths capture a political and empirical truth. India must relearn to be a civilization, abandoning the idiot uniform of the nation. John Maynard Keynes, like a modern Moses, once declared that in the long run we are all dead. A quotable quote, which was elusively obvious. One does not know how to respond. Does one think of the short run? Does one seek closure or wait for the millennium? How does one respond to the violence of our system, which is so pervasive that it has become a creative force? Today, violence is so fratricidal that the marginal, the nomad, the displaced, the migrant, the minority are all refugees. We have become genocidal in our impulses against our own people. We see violence as conspicuous consumption, replay it like a primordial ritual. We have ritualized violence. Before election time, the regime carries out a spate of violence against the minorities. The violence we face is not merely physical. It is abstract. It seeks the rational elimination of populations where riots became a form of exterminism. We idealize violence as an expression and banalize its consequences. India has to find an answer to endemic violence, which cannot be answered by a mere change of regime. The rules of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act represent the logic of the system. Neither theology nor social science even wants to answer the question. We have a regime that looks for a form of sustainable violence to prolong itself. One has no answer to that. Few even want to raise the question. India may not be as crass as the Chinese imprisoning a million Uighur people. But we are not far behind. Our China envy is making us as brutal. We seem to be dying or being brutalized in the short run also. It is not the poverty line and its descriptions we need to be obsessed with. Rather, one needs to be concerned with what was once felicitously described as the Plimsoll line of citizenship. Citizenship is an empty, almost liminally precarious, term. Most Indians have not been regularized into citizens. Most marginals, migrants, workers in the informal economy and people in subsistence economies live below the wellness and welfare of citizenship. The violence that the State subjects them to is virtually left unexplored. It is clear that standard tropes will not work as institutions have decayed and categories are inept. We need a ritual of rethinking, which encompasses civilization and civil society, a ritual where the current states of India also become a metaphor for a global problem. One needs a sense of thought experiments, an exploration of alternatives, a Hari Katha of dissenting imaginations where democracy reinvents itself as a plurality of life worlds and lifestyles. The university has to be home to some of them only to recognize it is no longer the origin of many ideas. Yet one needs its pedagogic power of gossip and diffusion. The ensuing debate has to be brought alive as gossip, dream, drama, myth and debate. Democracy has to discover its hearing aids, its sense of a political sensorium, and its idea of vernacular. India might have to show the world that rethinking civilization and democracy has to be an inclusive and experimental exercise. Otherwise, there will be no relief from the mediocrity of politics as cliché. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Schools with different aims||March brought a surprise for some 650 Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country. A proposal has been floated to convert some JNVs into Sainik Schools in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Considering this proposal, ‘establishing a new school’ can now also mean restructuring a pre-existing one. There is a high possibility that more JNVs may be converted into Sainik Schools as the Union budget of 2021 mentioned that the government aims to establish 100 new Sainik Schools. This proposal has been met with opposition on grounds such as a fee hike and the exclusion of students from rural areas. However, apart from these well-placed concerns, there is a bigger reason that warrants our attention in this matter. The ignorance of the government in appreciating the fundamental difference in the objectives and purposes behind establishing these two different types of schools can lead to a major setback for students from rural India. The idea of Sainik Schools was conceptualized in the 1960s. The vision statement of the Sainik Schools Society unambiguously says that they shall act as feeder institutions to the National Defence Academy and other military academies. Individual aspirations of students are thus expected to be in line with this vision. Unsurprisingly, the Sainik Schools Society, responsible for the management of Sainik Schools, works under the supervision of the ministry of defence. JNVs are managed by the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti. It functions through an executive committee chaired by the minister for education. JNVs came into existence almost three decades after the first Sainik School started. These residential schools were conceptualized with different objectives in mind. While Sainik Schools were meant to create a pool of eligible candidates to join the armed forces, JNVs were supposed to provide quality education to students from rural areas irrespective of the career they aspired to. Accordingly, the fee in JNVs has been kept low to make them affordable for the targeted group. Over the years, an impressive number of students from JNVs have joined IITs and other prestigious educational institutions. They are now proudly serving in the private as well as the public sector. They are entrepreneurs and professionals who are aiding the growth of the nation. They are bureaucrats and armed forces officers contributing to the governance and defence of the country. JNVs continue to provide many students an opportunity to dream big. The difference in the conceptualization of these schools is not limited to the difference in the expected career outcomes. Sainik Schools have traditionally admitted only boys since female candidates are not considered for recruitment at the NDA or other military academies recruiting cadets after Class XII (except for Armed Forces Medical College and Army College of Nursing). JNVs on the other hand are co-educational institutions by design since their inception. JNVs have been instrumental in promoting co-education and educational parity. While Sainik Schools were created specifically to meet a functional requirement of the nation, JNVs were designed to meet the aspirations of the nation. It is important that the government keeps this diversity of purpose in mind before going ahead with the proposed conversion of JNVs into Sainik Schools. A Sainik School cannot serve the objectives of a JNV. Even if a Sainik School is better funded than a JNV, it cannot provide a similar environment to the students. At present there is only one JNV in every district with a few exceptions. In my opinion, we need many more JNVs than we presently have. After all, a strong nation requires a large, talented and well-educated workforce. We must continue to enable our students from rural India to become engineers, doctors, lawyers, accountants, entrepreneurs or whatever they wish to become, and be a part of this workforce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Open secret: electoral bonds||Transparency is not one of the better-known virtues of political parties. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, however, unsettled this notion recently by disclosing the source of the donation to its party through electoral bonds in its 2019-20 contribution report to the Election Commission. Although the Bharatiya Janata Party introduced electoral bonds for the purpose of contributions to political parties in the name of transparency in 2017, the system protects the identity of the donors and receivers. That electoral bonds were brought in through the Finance Act, 2017 was in itself controversial; besides, the earlier limit on a single company’s donation to a political party was also removed. The government’s argument — overriding the Opposition’s objections — was that electoral bonds would ensure that payment was made through banks and would thus eliminate the evil of unaccounted for money. But activists point out that the anonymity prevents voters from knowing who is contributing to which party and how much, thus violating their right to know. Although the Supreme Court dismissed a plea by the Association for Democratic Reforms seeking to stop the sale of electoral bonds before the ongoing assembly elections, it reportedly asked earlier whether there were controls on the end use of the money. It can be misused — to foment violence for example. The Bharatiya Janata Party has been the greatest beneficiary of contributions through electoral bonds, but that is neither here nor there. The central issue is the problematic use to which the opacity of electoral bonds can be put. The JMM has broken through this by declaring the source of the contribution it has received; it is a simple enough matter if political parties wish to do it. To follow the BJP-led government’s initial argument further: since this money is accounted for, its source and amount are the easiest to declare. Why be opaque while paying lip-service to transparency? A comment by the secretary of the JMM is pertinent in this context. According to him, parties such as the BJP may not be disclosing details of donors, but the JMM has nothing to hide. Perhaps other parties would feel compelled to demonstrate to voters that they have nothing to hide either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Muted truth: Press freedom||India’s consistency in performing dismally on a number of key indices pertaining to freedom and democracy is remarkable. It has ranked at an appalling 142nd spot out of 180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index 2021 compiled by Reporters Without Borders. This is the second year in a row that India has ranked 142nd, the implications of which are troubling. For one, the lack of improvement on an index widely seen as a dependable record of how the fourth estate is faring globally indicates that there has been no change in the conditions under which journalists in India have to operate. The muscular attempts by the Bharatiya Janata Party government to compel the media to be compliant or derail robust investigative reporting are no secret; the index makes the picture clearer. Four journalists in India were killed in 2020 for their work; an increasing number of journalists are being imprisoned and charged with sedition —punishable by life imprisonment — for questioning the Narendra Modi government. The traditional methods of intimidation — reducing advertisements to a trickle — are changing too. For instance, there is concern with the new media being corralled through seemingly necessary legislations: the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 has been criticized for being an attempt to regulate news further. Significantly, the coronavirus pandemic has been readily used as a pretext for not just stopping public protests but also preventing journalists — especially in Asian countries, the Middle East and Europe — from accessing sensitive information and reporting in the field. Malaysia, China and Pakistan have been reported as having used the pandemic as an excuse to block press freedoms. A major fallout of the consequent gap created by the absence of fair, investigative reporting during a global health crisis has been the spread of disinformation, which has deepened the distrust towards journalists; 59 per cent of respondents in 28 countries said that scribes deliberately propagate false information. This is unfortunate, but is closely tied to the culture of political intimidation that often leads to media institutions being complicit with the powers that be. Ideally, journalism should function as “the best vaccine against disinformation”. When the presidents of Brazil and Venezuela — the countries ranked 111 and 148 on the index — promoted medically unproven Covid-19 remedies, investigative journalists debunked their false claims. At a time when honest reportage is more important than ever, there is a case for devising an alternative economic model for funding a truly independent media, the sovereignty of which would be hard for powerful men to compromise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
23-04-2021||Opinion||Turn the page||Sir — This year, World Book Day — it is celebrated today — is especially significant, given the long stretches of social isolation forced upon people across the world by the pandemic. It was found that 35 per cent of the global population has been reading more during this period. This is not surprising. In these difficult times, reading can prove to be the only means of respite. However, visiting bookstores or libraries at this hour is hardly an option for most. Readers should thus come together to create an online community where free e-books and audiobooks are made accessible to at least those with access to digital media. Rupa Das, Calcutta Sir — The prime minister, Narendra Modi, has appealed to the states to focus on micro-containment zones and to resort to lockdowns as the very last measure so as to minimize loss of lives and livelihoods (“PM’s goal: Rescue country from lockdown”, April 21). He has also requested the states to assure migrant workers that they will be vaccinated and not lose their jobs. But he has omitted in his address what his government intends to do to ease their situation. Lowering the eligibility for vaccination to the age of 18 from May 1 is a welcome move. However, much hinges on the availability of vaccines and the willingness of people to get vaccinated. The decision to allow manufacturers to set the price of the vaccines for the states and making them available in the open market will introduce the element of profit-making into the production and supply of vaccines. Even as vaccination is ongoing, other measures need to be taken to bring the pandemic under control. Wearing masks and physical distancing would help contain the disease. Existing healthcare facilities are proving to be inadequate at coping with the surge in the number of hospitalized patients. During the trough of infections, the government was busy being triumphalist and did not show the foresight to scale up healthcare facilities in anticipation of a possible resurgence of the disease, even though this was the trend across the world. Hospitals are now stretched thin; the loss of life for want of hospital beds, oxygen and drugs is tragic. Visuals of cremations and burials abound. In Nashik, 22 patients on ventilator support recently lost their lives on account of interruptions in oxygen supply. The coronavirus is not leaving anytime soon. It is spreading faster in India than anywhere else in the world. We are left to combat it by following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, ramping up testing and tracing, quickening the pace of vaccination and improving health facilities. Meanwhile, the government must provide succour to all the impoverished households. G. David Milton, Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — On Tuesday evening, in his address to the nation, the prime minister appealed to state governments to use lockdowns only as a last resort so that economic activities can continue unabated. This is in sharp contrast to his own decision to impose a sudden and strict nationwide lockdown last year, with a notice of just four hours. This brought immense hardship upon the people of the country. Tuesday’s appeal by Narendra Modi is a tacit admission of the grave mistake he made a year back. This year, massive election rallies were allowed to be held, many of which were addressed by the prime minister himself. Moreover, an avoidable event like the Kumbh Mela was also permitted. The Union government continues to make mistakes that help the pandemic spread rapidly. The country and its people deserve much better. D. Bhutia, Guwahati Sir — Narendra Modi is right in saying that a lockdown should be the last resort and the focus should be on micro-containment. Last year’s unexpected lockdown had ruined the nation’s economy and caused inexplicable misery to lakhs of migrant labourers across the country. This time, the prime minister has appealed to the states to safeguard the health of the labourers. He has also urged them to assure workers to remain where they are and get vaccinated. This will go a long way in controlling mass migration and  help reduce the rapid transmission of the disease. It would also enable the workers to remain employed and earn a living. M. Pradyu, Kannur Sir — The recent episode surrounding the cricketer, Heath Streak, is a stark reminder that the scourge of illegal betting and match-fixing continues to poison and taint the gentleman’s game. Now that the International Cricket Council has banned the former Zimbabwe captain for eight years for his misdemeanours in several games in 2017 and 2018 — he was the bowling coach for the Kolkata Knight Riders in the Indian Premier League in 2018 — one must wait for the move by the Board of Control for Cricket in India. It also remains to be seen if the incident will have any impact on the KKR in the current edition of the tournament. Both the Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals were banned from the IPL for two years for alleged betting and fixing activities. Such activities take away the game’s true competitive spirit. Streak has smeared the reputation of the game. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
