24-04-2021||Opinion||Self before nation||In April 2020 — exactly a year ago — I published an essay in the Hindustan Times urging the prime minister to adopt a more consultative approach towards decision-making. “In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic,” I wrote, “the country faces probably its greatest challenge since Partition... This pandemic and its fallout have already led to enormous human suffering, and this will multiply. In this scenario, to restore social trust and to rebuild the economy may be beyond the abilities of one man and his small circle of trusted advisers.” Having outlined the broader problem, I went on to offer, gratuitously I suppose, a series of specific recommendations. So I said: “The prime minister could do worse than consult former finance ministers who have experience in crisis management, even if they owe allegiance to the Congress. Former finance secretaries and governors of the Reserve Bank of India with relevant expertise could be consulted too. The government could actively reach out to scholars... who understand the vulnerabilities of farmers and labourers far better than the economists currently in North Block. And they should consider bringing on board outstanding former health secretaries who, working with the medical fraternity, had helped contain the AIDS crisis, see off the H1N1 scare, and eradicate polio in India.” (https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/shed-partisanship-reach-out-to-the-best-minds-writes-ramachandra-guha/story-Gl9QENGFmNA2Uc8YB9wtOM.html) In writing as I did, I was, as Dr Johnson might have said, placing my faith in Hope over Experience. For in his tenure as prime minister, Narendra Modi had already made visible his contempt for experts, this contempt demonstrated both in theory — as in the remark that he believed in ‘hard work, not Harvard’ — and in practice, as in his going ahead with the catastrophic experiment with demonetization even when the top economists in his own administration had warned against it. He had also shown an unremitting hostility towards politicians of other parties, treating them — again, in word and in deed — with arrogant condescension. In the year since my piece was published, these two character traits have been much in evidence, and so also a third — the desire to build one’s personal brand further and ever further. Two actions in the past few months demonstrate the extraordinary extent of the prime minister’s vanity. These are his decision to emblazon his photograph on every vaccination certification issued, and his consent to having the country’s largest cricket stadium being rechristened the Narendra Modi Stadium, thereby joining the ranks of Mussolini, Hitler, Stalin, Gaddafi and Saddam as someone who has had a sports arena named for himself in his own lifetime. In an earlier column, I wrote that the idea to rename the Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad after Narendra Modi most likely “came from a Gujarati politician with a strong familial interest in Indian cricket administration, who may have sought both to flatter his boss and silence criticisms of his progeny.” (https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/a-prime-minister-and-his-imperial-vanities/cid/1807984) That speculation has been given empirical teeth by an advertisement covering the entire front page of my local newspaper the morning I write this (Thursday, April 22), whereby the chief minister of Karnataka heaps unctuous praise on the prime minister. Dominated by a massive photograph of Modi smiling benignly at the world, the text of the ad conveys the ‘heartfelt thanks from all Bengalureans to Sri Narendra Modi, Honourable Prime Minister of India, for granting approval to Phase-2A & 2B of Namma Metro...’ I later found that the same ad had been issued in English and Hindi newspapers published in New Delhi too (https://www.thenewsminute.com/article/karnataka-govt-publishes-full-page-ads-bengaluru-delhi-newspapers-thanking-pm-147618), presumably because then it would be more likely to be seen directly by its intended audience. The chief minister issuing these ads was seeking both to flatter his boss and silence criticisms of his administration by his own party MLAs, with the chamchagiri being conducted at public expense. Whether ordinary party worker or chief minister of a major state, everyone in the BJP knows the importance of massaging the monumental ego of their Supreme Leader. When, back in April 2020, I urged the prime minister to get the best minds on board to advise his government, the idealism underlying my proposal stemmed from my professional background. As a historian, I had known of several instances when Indian prime ministers had set aside their partisan prejudices and asked Opposition politicians to help them. These included Jawaharlal Nehru’s request to C. Rajagopalachari to lead a peace delegation to the West in the 1960s, at the height of the Cold War; Indira Gandhi’s request to Jayaprakash Narayan to alert the world to the refugee crisis emanating from the Pakistani army’s crackdown on East Bengal in 1971; and P.V. Narasimha Rao’s request to Atal Bihari Vajpayee to lead a Government of India delegation presenting our case for Kashmir to the United Nations in 1994. These instances of bipartisanship were all admirable and significant, and there was another precedent that was more admirable and significant still. This was the constitution of a national government at the time of Independence. Knowing the gravity of the situation that faced them, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel reached out to the most able individuals regardless of party affiliation. Although B.R. Ambedkar had been a bitter critic of the Congress for the past 20 years, he was asked to become law minister. Other major ministries were assigned to S.P. Mookerjee and R.K. Shanmukham Chetty, who had also been political opponents of the Congress. In acting as they did, the first prime minister of India and the first home minister of India set aside pride and prejudice and put the needs of the nation above those of their own party. The safeguarding of our hard-won freedom required Nehru and Patel to set aside the arrogance that comes with power and embrace the humility that patriotism mandates instead. And they did. A year after my plea for bipartisanship was published in the Hindustan Times, its arguments have been echoed in an editorial published earlier this week in The Telegraph. This states: “The scale of the crisis — the nation is at war with a virus — makes it imperative for the Central government to be collaborative in its approach. It is this shared spirit of cooperation that has helped the country stand together during many a crisis in the past — medical, political or economic. It is a pity that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party refuses to learn useful lessons from this history. Bolstering federalism and a conciliatory approach towards the Opposition, some of whose constituents have vast experience in running the country, should be deemed important in these desperate times.” (https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/the-fiddler-pm-playing-to-the-gallery/cid/1813168) Here are some other Indians, possibly good but certainly naïve, placing their faith in Hope over Experience. It is indeed true that in the past a “shared spirit of cooperation” saw the nation through troubled times. But whether this regime is capable of promoting trust and solidarity between citizens and across party lines is another matter altogether. In the year that the nation has been at war with the virus, the personality cult of the prime minister has steadily expanded, while the government’s approach towards the Opposition has become ever more confrontational. Indeed, the spite and venom expressed by Union ministers and BJP parliamentarians towards the chief ministers of Maharashtra and Delhi beggar description. Delhi and Mumbai are our largest and most important cities. One is our political capital, the other is our financial capital. Each is home to tens of millions of Indians. What kind of deshbhakt would want the residents of these cities to suffer merely because they are ruled by parties other than the BJP? If this sort of partisanship were confined to the BJP’s troll army, it would not be so worrying. Tragically, however, it is practised by the most powerful people in the Union government. In the year since the pandemic began, the actions and travel schedule of the home minister of India both strongly suggest that his top priorities are: (a) bringing his party to power in West Bengal; (b) bringing his party back to power in Maharashtra. Neither is at all within the subjects assigned to his ministerial portfolio, yet it seems that they matter more to him than those subjects that are. Meanwhile, the prime minister’s own sense of what he thinks is important is best demonstrated by a statement he made while campaigning in Asansol on April 17, 2021. “Maine aisi sabha pehli baar dekhi hai (I have never seen such big crowds at a rally),” he boasted (see https://twitter.com/ndtv/status/1383419909128933377). Sure, and we have never seen such insensitivity and callousness from an Indian politician either. By April 17, the second wave of the pandemic had already begun to hit us hard. The hospitals were filling up and so were the cremation grounds, and here was our prime minister bragging in public: ‘See how many people have come to hear me speak!’ The pandemic and its successive waves have come on the back of a flailing economy and a fragile social fabric. This may indeed be the gravest crisis the nation has faced since Partition. More than ever before, we need a government that learns to listen, that listens to learn, that can bring itself to act in the interests not of one party or one religion, and most emphatically not in the interests of one Leader alone. On when, and whether, we can get such a government the future of the Republic may rest. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
24-04-2021||Opinion||Overwhelmed||Taking suo motu cognizance of the ‘national health emergency’, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to come up with a feasible plan within 24 hours to address some of the glaring paucities that have been exposed by the lethal second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The apex court’s energy has, however, caused some dismay. This is perhaps because as many as six high courts were examining — critically — some of the shocking instances of administrative failure; India’s highest court is likely to transfer these issues to itself to avoid ‘confusion’. Clarity is, indeed, a virtue. It must be made clear that the government of the day is to be held accountable for its monumental lapses. There is a view that it has got away rather lightly on several occasions in the course of this pandemic. The horrors suffered by India’s migrant workers on account of myopic policy decisions are just one example. There can be no doubts about the scale of the ‘national emergency’. Each passing day, data bear out both its enormity and its cruelties. On Thursday, India logged over three lakh new cases and witnessed over 2,000 deaths: this is yet another grim milestone globally. The human suffering has been amplified by other raging crises. In several states — Gujarat and Haryana are examples — the demand for oxygen has outstripped supply even though an Empowered Group of Officers had raised a red flag last year. Health institutions are running short of not just oxygen but also beds and even life-saving drugs. Laboratories — the first line of response in a medical crisis — have been equally overwhelmed; the delay in diagnosis has added to citizens’ woes. India’s health apparatus is under unprecedented strain. What is shameful is that this crisis was entirely avoidable. The Narendra Modi government had smugly declared victory over the virus instead of preparing for a lethal second wave that was already lashing many other parts of the world. This criminal hubris encouraged non-compliance among the people. Even as the need to curb mass gatherings — religious and political — was ignored, people let down their guard, refusing to wear masks or adhere to other safety protocols. Mr Modi’s government did not pay attention to Bangladesh — a smaller country with finite resources -—which reinforced Covid regulations by combining public awareness campaigns with shaming mechanisms. Equally inexplicable has been the Centre’s refusal to keep the health infrastructure battle-ready and the snail’s pace of the vaccination programme. Did Mr Modi’s government have a robust strategy in place to deal with an unexpected turn of events? Hindsight, of course, offers some advantages. The virus can be expected to return, again and again, with newer mutations and it is to be hoped India will not repeat the mistakes it committed that made the second wave possible. But this government needs to be asked tough questions. If the vanguards of democracy desist from doing so, the powers that be would no longer think it is answerable to the people for their sufferings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
24-04-2021||Opinion||Where perks of getting the jab include free doughnuts and pot||About 30 per cent of the population of the United States of America has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. On April 19, everyone who is 16 years old and over became eligible to take the vaccine as well. Even so, distrust for the vaccine still exists owing to a variety of reasons including conspiracy theories, worries about side effects from the first dose and false information. To encourage as many people to get vaccinated as possible, many businesses started offering fun perks. Krispy Kreme said it will give a person a free doughnut each day for the rest of the year if they show proof of vaccination. In Cleveland, Ohio, a cinema hall offered to give out free popcorn till the end of April to anyone who showed their vaccination card. The Market Garden Brewery is offering the first 2,021 people who show their full vaccine certification beer for just 10 cents. A marijuana dispensary in Michigan is embarking on a programme called ‘Pot for Shots’ where it will give out a free, pre-rolled joint upon seeing proof of the first vaccine dose. In addition to these perks, many small or large companies are offering paid time off and extra pay for employees to go get the vaccine. Chobani, Amtrak, McDonalds and Krogers offered a one-time cash payment to employees to go and get vaccinated. The hope is with these encouragements, more people will trust the shot and also understand that their workplace will help them get it. Early 2020 witnessed a shortage of toilet paper. This year, the shortage is of ketchup packets. As restaurants stopped seated indoor dining, take-away started becoming more popular. As a result, what would have normally been a few bottles of Heinz inside a restaurant now have to reach consumers through the one-time-use small packets of ketchup. The Kraft-Heinz company accounts for 70 per cent of the US ketchup market. It said that it would increase production capacity which would lead to 12 billion ketchup packets being manufactured per year. This would help with the ‘ketchup crisis’. According to the Wall Street Journal, there has already been a 13 per cent rise in ketchup prices since last year. Another equally unexpected pandemic-related shortage is of boba tea or bubble tea — a popular Taiwanese drink in the US consisting of small tapioca balls known as boba. Increased consumer spending has led to a supply chain issue and delays in deliveries. The Boba Guys said on its Instagram page, “This is an industry-wide shortage. Some boba shops are already out. Others will run out in the next few weeks. 99% of boba comes from overseas”. Starbucks has also reported some shortages of cups, syrups and oat milk although it is not a national shortage just yet. Who knew a pair of shoes could upset religious leaders and Conservatives? That is exactly what happened. The chart-topping rapper, Lil Nas X, launched sneakers that reportedly contain a drop of human blood. Lil Nas modelled the shoes on the Nike Air Max 97s (though Nike itself said it had no role to play in this) in collaboration with a New York-based art group, MSCHF. The limited edition sneakers — 666 pairs were manufactured — were priced at $1,018, a reference to the Bible passage, Luke 10:18, that reads: “I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven”. The shoes sold out in under a minute. They also drew intense criticism from religious leaders and evangelical groups. The day after the launch, the rapper released a new music video for the song, “Montero (Call Me by Your Name)” — now topping international charts — where Lil Nas is seen provocatively dancing against a person playing the devil. Subsequently, Nike filed a lawsuit saying people will incorrectly associate the shoes with Nike. The rapper tweeted, “[Y]’all keep streaming call me by your name so i can pay for this damn nike lawsuit [sic].” A 20-year-old black man, Daunte Wright, was fatally shot in Minnesota by a police officer who reportedly meant to use a taser but fired her gun. The senseless shooting immediately sparked protests. Officers trying to control the protesters could be seen firing rubber bullets. Car air fresheners were hung up on the chain security fence outside the Brooklyn Center Police Department. Wright’s mother told reporters that he was pulled over and killed by the police because he had air fresheners hanging on his rear view mirror. Minnesota law says no driver may operate a motor vehicle “with any objects suspended between the driver and the windshield”. The police chief said he was pulled over for expired tabs. The officer who shot Wright was arrested and charged with second-degree manslaughter. In bitter irony, this incident took place during the trial of Derek Chauvin, the white Minneapolis policeman now convicted of murdering George Floyd. Last year witnessed conversations around police brutality against black Americans. The headlines of 2021 have a devastating similarity to those in 2020. The US has been mourning the death of the rapper, Earl Simmons, famously known as DMX. He died of cardiac arrest on April 9 at the age of 50. As a tribute, Efren Andaluz, a local artist based in Queen’s, painted a large mural right by La Estrella Tropical Restaurant in the Bronx. In the past, Andaluz has also painted life-sized mural art depicting Kobe Bryant and his daughter, Gianna, right across the Barclays Center. He has also painted Mac Miller, Anthony Bourdain and other celebrity portraits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
24-04-2021||Opinion||Pure joy||Sir — While excesses are to be frowned upon at a time when the nation is almost collapsing under the weight of the pandemic, it was heartwarming to read about a man in Rajasthan who hired a helicopter to bring his newborn daughter — the first girl child in the family in 35 years — home from his wife’s parents’ place. This is a remarkable step in a state — indeed, a whole nation — that overwhelmingly prefers male children, so much so that female infanticide and foeticide are serious concerns. One hopes that this man’s obvious joy at having had a daughter is seen as an example to follow in our patriarchal country. Ronit Sen,
Calcutta Sir — In a historic verdict, a judge found the former Minneapolis police officer, Derek Chauvin, guilty of murdering an unarmed black American man, George Floyd, in an incident last May that ignited a storm of protests against police brutality and a global outpouring of anger at the racial injustices entrenched in the United States of America (“US can breathe after cop who kneed Floyd to death is convicted of murder”, April 22). Chauvin has been convicted of second-degree and third-degree murder and manslaughter for a nine-minute-long encounter during which he knelt on Floyd’s neck on the roadside until the latter died of asphyxiation. Floyd’s final words, “I can’t breathe”, became the clarion call for a massive wave of street protests across the US. At the time, the then president, Donald Trump, blamed the “radical left” for the protests and threatened to send in the National Guard. On the other hand, Joe Biden, who was the front runner of the presidential race at that time, went to Houston to meet Floyd’s relatives. His words of encouragement gave many Americans hope that if he became president, there would be a real possibility of reform in law enforcement and criminal justice that could curb violence against racial minorities. The Chauvin case has lessons for India, which is no stranger to police excesses and prejudice. Custodial deaths, fake encounters and mob lynchings demonstrate a blatant disregard for the law. The frequent cases of vigilante justice point to the dwindling trust in the judicial system. The police-politician-criminal nexus is taking its toll on the dispensation of justice. Earnest introspection followed by course correction is the need of the hour. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — On an era-defining day for the US, Derek Chauvin was found guilty of the murder of George Floyd. The murder highlighted the simmering racial tensions in the country and triggered mass protests under the Black Lives Matter banner. But the case bears an important takeaway for India. Floyd was killed in May 2020, and was convicted in less than a year. The US’s justice delivery system worked fast. The fact that the last moments of Floyd’s life were caught on camera certainly contributed to the urgency with which the case was treated. But the fact remains that justice was delivered quickly. This is a prerequisite for building the people’s trust in a system. In contrast, the Indian judicial system has a mind-boggling backlog of cases. Another relevant aspect of the trial was the nature of the police response. Floyd was picked up following an allegation that he used a counterfeit $20 note to buy cigarettes. The sequence of events led to Chauvin kneeling on Floyd’s neck for over nine minutes, unmindful of the victim repeatedly saying “I can’t breathe”. The prosecution’s witnesses included a police chief who observed that Chauvin violated protocol. India has often seen custodial deaths and other police excesses. Like in the US, it’s hard to get a conviction of police officials who violate norms. We hope that the Chauvin trial will catalyse some change here too and that rogue police officials will be held accountable. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-37
