25-04-2021||Opinion||Aao bataayen fund ka funda||Farewell. Fly thee well. Naman. Alvida. Gone. Another one. But you too? Must you have? Let us not take names, oh how many names must we take? Men of Gold cut down by men of Tin. Gold holds, tin is tin, eventually it cuts or gets cut. There are differences. Understand differences. Understand too that in this benighted time it is tin cutting down gold. But how many should we count here? That’ll take much time, there’s other more important work to do. I am not in mourning. Far from it. I am only keeping count of the gone, and those who will soon go. I must keep count. That is also the job. I am a responsible man, I see to it that what needs to be done gets done. You wouldn’t know all about what the job entails, you aren’t meant to. In any case, I am not about to tell. I took that oath you may have seen me take, the oath of secrecy. There is a thing about secrets, and that is that they are best kept in dark places. That may well be the reason why they say “dark secret” when they are referring to a secret that is no ordinary secret. I may be wrong, I am never sure; I may be right, I am sure of that even less. But I am telling you about secrets and where they are best kept. In places as dark as my heart. And as cold too. Secrets need cold-chain maintenance so they may remain preserved; else they begin to give, and a secret that has begun to give is no secret at all. You know I always talk sense. May not be good sense, but it is sense. What is a secret that is not preserved as one? But to get back to my cold and dark heart. It is so because it needs to keep secrets. I have, I may inform you, a very large heart as well. And that largeness too has a purpose. That largeness serves the purposes of the size of things that require to be secured in it. In the cold. In the darkness. My heart is such a place. It beats, and it keeps count. One. Two. Three. Four. And so on and on. It is where an elementary sort of arithmetic plays out, and the count is coldly taken. Do not mind, but when one goes, or another, and the count of the gone mounts, so does the count of what has not gone. Understand? No. That is why I say I have commerce in my veins. You need commerce in your veins to understand the algebra of this arithmetic. Here’s how it is. I opened a fund. I said you give to the fund. Because the fund will eventually give to you. How the fund will give to you and when, leave it to me. Give. Then leave it to me. When one of you is gone, there is more for each one of you. Simple. There are fewer to divide the fund amongst. Understood? So it is not such a bad thing you are being reduced, going under or evaporating. Rejoice! The fewer you are, the more the allocation of the fund to each. You can see the fund, there, that fat sporran. The more you give the more it shall fatten. And the more that goes, the greater your unit share. You see the sporran leaking from the bottom? Hush!! It’s a secret not everyone can be told. That’s the thing about secrets. The fund is giving to another fund, a secret fund. Each time one of you goes under, a bit of the fund goes under. And thus, in the process of loss it actually gains. Do not tell anyone, keep it between me and you, that is the surreal secret of this fund — the more we lose, the more we gain. Actually, the more of you that go, the more it serves the national interest, because more is left for the rest. You can see it for yourself, get the arithmetic  right. A sum divided among fewer is always a larger sum, and it is a larger sum that I am forever after. For your sake, in your interest. So go die, perish, let is be one less so the fund can be one more. It’s dripping. It’s all dripping down. Bit by bit. Ting. Ting. Ting. One after another. Gold. And also Gurneys. Thud. Thud. Thud. What’s going under isn’t only you Look, there’s coins more than a fair few Just give me all your money And forget about the rest, honey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Do we owe Pappu an apology?||I have never found the Pappu Can’t Dance Saala number cute. Take away the easy-on-the-eye Imran Khan and the effervescent Genelia D’Souza and what you have essentially is a bully’s number. Pappu has his Gucciwala perfume, light blue angrez eyes and fast car, but hawww, he is a bachelor and he cannot dance. No, to my mind, the fact that the target is the Privileged Other does not blunt the sting of the song. Why make it seem that Pappu’s MBA, his muscles, his popularity, his obviously privileged life, all amount to nothing just because he cannot dance? But it was 2008 when the film, Jaane Tu… Ya Jaane Na ‑ the placeholder for this song ‑ was released. No one was so quick to take offence those days. Narendra Modi was serving his second term as Gujarat chief minister. And the only Amit Indians recognised was Mr Bachchan. The cult of the endearing Pappu was possibly born a year or two before this with a Cadbury’s ad ‑ Pappu paas ho gaya. It showed a middle-aged Pappu celebrating that he had finally passed his school-leaving exams. The other Amit was seen manning the Cadbury kiosk, giving away bar after bar, all on Pappu’s tab. When I watch the ad now, I cannot help but feel a tad sad for Pappu, square peg squeezed into a round hole. Not only does he have to be in sync with a society that cannot imagine he might have a measure of achievement or ambition other than and beyond barahwi pass, but he also has to seem euphoric at having met someone else’s droll standards. Pappu will pick up the tab for all and yet he is infantilised, portrayed as a simpleton. Why? Sometime end-2008, in order to mobilise young voters to cast their votes in the Delhi elections, the Election Commission launched the Pappu Can’t Vote campaign. The idea behind it was to suggest to the young voter that this was his chance to prove that he (or she) was better than Pappu. How so? By exercising the ballot, of course. At the time, the effort was lauded for its creative thinking, but I wonder now if there was some way of doing this without shaming Pappu. Maybe Pappu didn’t want to dance. Maybe his heart was in choreography or singing. Maybe he wanted to be a stand-up comedian. Maybe Pappu didn’t want to pass any exam we know of. Maybe he just wanted to be, without stepping on any toes. And maybe he took the exam when he felt ready for it, and so what if by then he was middle-aged and balding? The A.R. Rahman composed Pappu Can’t song begins with the line — This is the future, maaaan. Now, I never noticed that one before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Be kind||Sir — While we grapple with the coronavirus, we must not forget the plight of other creatures this summer. As temperatures continue to rise outside with little to no sign of respite in the form of summer storms, birds and animals are increasingly at risk of dying from thirst. With many people working from home, it takes the smallest of efforts to help them out. Leaving out small bowls of water and food for birds, feeding local stray animals or allowing them to rest in the shade of our homes can go a long way towards alleviating their troubles. They can also be an oasis for us amidst this chaos. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Sir — The fact that the introduction of spot registration for Covid-19 vaccines increased crowds outside hospitals in Kerala is proof that many people are unable to handle the technology involved in pre-registering for the vaccine on the CoWIN portal. It is unfortunate that Kerala has stopped spot registration because it could not manage crowds and is also short on vaccines. This will allow the virus to spread further and put more pressure on our already beleaguered healthcare system. The country is gasping for medical oxygen and is likely to run out of stocks soon. If nothing is done to check the spread of the virus, more people will lose their lives. At such a time, it is imperative that the government ramps up the vaccination drive. Unfortunately, the Centre is trying to pass the burden of vaccinating the populace on to the states. To make matters worse, the financial pressure on the state exchequer to procure vaccines will be considerably higher than it was on the Centre. Evidently, nothing will deter the Centre from trying to line the pockets of businessmen, not even a fatal pandemic that is leading to mass pyres being lit in places across the country. Sonika Goswami,Serampore, Hooghly Sir — Vaccination against Covid-19 for those aged above 18 years opens up on May 1. But individuals in this age group will have to pay for the vaccination, even at government-run vaccination centres. Those above 45 got their vaccines for free at government-run vaccination centres and will continue to get them for free. This raises questions about claims made by the government and by individual ministers. In her budget speech, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had said she has set aside Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in this financial year’s budget estimate and was committed to increasing this sum if necessary. If those between the ages of 18 and 45 have to pay to get vaccinated, where will this money go? Moreover, the prime minister is routinely offering free vaccines as a poll sop. Does this mean that he values the lives only of those citizens who vote for the Bharatiya Janata Party? The government has failed the people in every way possible. Rishi Thanvi,Jaipur Sir — Vladimir Dementiev, the director of Russian Cultural Centre, Gorky Sadan, who passed away in Calcutta on April 21, was a great friend of India. He also served as the head of the Russian cultural centre in Mumbai. In both cities, he acted as a dynamic cultural ambassador between India and Russia. He revived the two centres with tireless efforts, organizing regular activities focused on arts, culture, literature, music, cinema and the popularization of the Russian language. I had the pleasure of knowing Dementiev closely. Participating in numerous events at the centre in Mumbai — located in a tranquil, tree-lined lane — made me aware of both Russia’s vastness and the depth of its heritage. Sadly, the Russia that its doyens — Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, Gorky and Mayakovsky in literature; Nicholas Roerich and Vasily Vereshchagin in painting; Eisenstein in cinema; and Shostakovich in music, to name a few — represented is no longer familiar to the contemporary Indian. Yet, Russia matters to India. This is why the devoted work of diplomats like Dementiev assumes importance. As I passed by the Russian Cultural Centre the morning after his demise, I saw a veil of sadness over the building. S. Kulkarni, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Amit Shah's valiant trip to save 'Gujarat Model'||After the Election Commission clamped down on campaigning in West Bengal for the ongoing assembly elections, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, rushed to his home state, Gujarat, yesterday. The Covid-19 situation in Gujarat has been particularly bad. Reports of the medical infrastructure crumbling — and leading to large-scale death — have been pouring in from the state where the Bharatiya Janata Party has been in power for over 20 years. The state government has been accused of hiding the death toll figures, with reports from overwhelmed crematoria telling a different tale from the one put forth by the administration. The pathetic state of affairs has exposed the reality of the so-called “Gujarat model” of development. In Delhi’s power corridors, Shah’s rush back home was seen as an effort to bring into play his famed ‘management skills’ in a bid to salvage Narendra Modi’s “Gujarat model”. In BJP corridors, however, the whisper among party leaders was that Shah is more concerned about protecting the Gujarat chief minister, Vijay Rupani, who has been facing flak. It is widely believed that Rupani is Shah’s man. “Vijay Rupani is Amitbhai’s rubber stamp,” one BJP leader remarked. The president of the Karnataka Congress, DK Shivakumar, has always been known for his daredevilry in politics. He seldom shies away from taking chances that usually pay off. But him slipping into personal protective equipment and venturing into a Covid-19 ward at a government hospital in his Kanakapura constituency was something even his diehard fans never expected. Most of his party leaders had no idea about his visit to the Covid-19 ward to meet and check on patients and the facilities. As some Congress leaders said, few would dare to replicate Shivakumar’s feat. It is not enough to know that one is winning; one also has to create a perception to this effect to ward off any attacks by the rival camp. This is exactly what the Congress seems to be doing in Assam — getting its candidates and those of its allies, the All India United Democratic Front and the Bodoland People’s Front, to spend time together ahead of the counting of votes on May 2. Although taking a break with family and friends after exhaustive electioneering is the norm, this time the three parties decided to keep their candidates together so that they could get to know one another — know their allies and thwart any perceived bid by the ruling BJP to influence their candidates in case the recently concluded and keenly fought three-phase assembly polls in the state throw up a hung verdict. The Congress had first flown out AIUDF and BPF candidates to Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, respectively. They have since returned. The Congress then got its candidates to spend time in a resort near Guwahati, ‘swimming, playing volleyball and strategizing’ — exuding the confidence of a winner. This has caused the May 2 verdict to become a topic of discussion among officials, political analysts and those in the exit poll business. The pollsters are revisiting and reassessing their forecasts, once again reaching out to political watchers and journalists to get their results right or come as close as possible to the eventual outcome. “We are winning but creating a perception also helps, like minimizing the influence of the ruling party on the official machinery. We have succeeded [at] what the BJP has mastered since 2014. Creating perception even where they have no chance,” said a senior Congress leader when asked why a hype was created about winning when the party is already sure about winning. For most, however, the suspense over the results will continue till May 2. The Youth Congress president, BV Srinivas, who earned a robust reputation for his commitment towards helping people in distress during the harsh lockdown last year, has lived up to expectations yet again after the second wave of Covid-19 hit India hard. Srinivas set up a monitoring system and launched a Youth Congress helpline on Twitter. He and the Youth Congress team helped patients get admission in hospitals, and also delivered oxygen cylinders and life-saving medicines to people’s doorsteps. Social media might be flooded with thousands of requests for help from all over the country, but it also has stories of help reaching the needy in time. Although this dedication has earned Srinivas the image of a do-gooder, he responds humbly to praise by asserting that the “Rahul Gandhi team” was responsible for the work, not just him as an individual. While many politicians and activists have done a great job during the pandemic, Srinivas is probably the only person who has succeeded in creating a national network for timely assistance in almost every state. He is using the party’s resources, but he has shown exceptional leadership and commitment towards the people. This model of politics is rare today as few young leaders choose to rise through social service and struggle. Srinivas has impressed senior leaders and is destined to play a bigger role in the future. The news that the former Union minister, KV Thomas, who has also been a working president of the Kerala Congress, became a ‘minister’, that too when the Left Democratic Front is still in power, came as a surprise. The once-sulking Congress veteran, who was allegedly gearing up to quit the party upon being sidelined, was back in the news with his pictures splashed across the Malayalam media. Only that Thomas was made a minister in a Malayalam movie, Oru Flashback Story. Wearing the typical snow-white shirt and mundu, Thomas is playing the role of a culture minister. Denied a ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the just-concluded assembly elections, Thomas could still become a minister, albeit in a movie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Kumbh vs Corona||The government’s willingness to hold the Kumbh Mela in the middle of the worst health emergency in a hundred years and its unwillingness to curtail it despite a tsunami of second wave Covid infections raise an interesting question. Is Narendra Modi a rational actor on his own terms? Rational, here, doesn’t mean ‘secular’ or ‘progressive’. The question is simply this: if we allow for Modi’s majoritarianism, are his policy choices based on good information and best practice? Do they try to maximize the greatest good of the greatest number, once the welfare of minorities is subtracted? The Kumbh Mela raises this question starkly because by the end of 2020, when the akharas began to lobby for an off-year Kumbh, its potential as a superspreader event was obvious. But Modi’s Central government and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government in Uttarakhand chose to facilitate an unrestricted gathering of hundreds of thousands of people, risking a public health catastrophe that could endanger the lives of Hindus all over the country, because the virus, in its morbidly Nehruvian way, refuses to discriminate between Hindus and Muslims. Why did the prime minister choose to do this? Modi is widely seen as a modernizer. Modi’s major policy initiatives, whether you agree with them or not — demonetization, the goods and services tax, the farm bills, digitization — invoke rational goals. But justifying the Kumbh Mela in terms of rational public health policy is impossible. Uttarakhand’s chief minister, Tirath Singh Rawat, didn’t try. He declared that the “flow and blessings of Ma Ganga will ensure coronavirus doesn’t spread”. Modi waited for days to pass and for lakhs of people to gather and bathe and then, after a week of spiking Covid infections, he prayerfully petitioned Avdheshanand Giri of the Juna Akhara, and asked that the mela be scaled down on account of the pandemic. Why would the prime minister of India place himself in this supplicant position? The obvious answer is the right one: Modi thinks it is reasonable in a broadly Hindu country to defer to the core beliefs of Hindus. Hostile critics might call it pandering, but Modi’s position on the Kumbh Mela is consistent with, say, his position on the Ram Mandir. If millions of Hindus believe that Ram was born in Ayodhya, this belief is a fact. Reality must reshape itself to correspond to this juggernaut belief. In the early months of his prime ministership, Modi addressed a conference of doctors in Mumbai and invoked the surgical genius of ancient India where an elephant’s head was grafted on to a human body to produce Ganesha. He could have invoked Sushruta, a historically-documented visionary, who pioneered plastic surgery, but he chose to inspire a gathering of trained doctors by citing a flagrantly impossible bit of folklore. He did this because it is important for majoritarians to teach civil society groups, especially groups of professionals, that modernity and science must defer to bedrock civilizational beliefs, that these beliefs can, indeed must, be respectably aired in scientific gatherings. In the 2019 session of the Indian Science Congress, a paper cited the hundred sons of Dhritarashtra as proof of stem cell research in ancient India. So when akhara astrologers read their charts and declared that the alignment of the stars mandated that the Kumbh Mela be held in the eleventh year of the usual twelve-year cycle, Modi acquiesced, despite the pandemic. Given his political beliefs, he had no choice. How could this elemental gathering of Hindus and holy men be thwarted by second-order public health considerations? What sort of Hindu rashtra would pause a civilizational rite of purification for fear of an invisible speck? Secularists, being cynics, see Modi as a modern authoritarian who uses religion instrumentally. They are wrong. They are confusing Modi with V.D. Savarkar. Savarkar was an atheist intellectual who tricked out an ethnic nationalism in Hindu motley. Modi, closer to the ground than Savarkar was, defers to sadhus in saffron motley because he senses in them a Hindu authenticity that he, a professional politician, lacks. This is not to argue that the sadhus and sadhvis in the BJP and outside it are a threat to Modi’s pre-eminence. It is to suggest that Modi believes that Hindu consolidation in India needs a vanguard of monks. The reason Adityanath is the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh is that a renouncing monk in saffron can normalize majoritarianism and introduce it into public conversation in a way that no trousered bigot can. If you look at the way the BJP has used Adityanath as a majoritarian mascot and provocateur in assembly elections in states as remote from UP as Kerala, it is apparent that his function is to say the hitherto unsayable. It is a function that various sadhvis and sants have consistently performed in the BJP, from praising Godse to contrasting Ramzade and H******de. Liberals in South Asia tend to be parochially focused on the politics of their own nations; majoritarian politicians have a more cosmopolitan awareness of like-minded communalists in their neighbourhood. The explicitly anti-Muslim 969, a monk-led organization in Myanmar, routinely networks with the Bodu Bala Sena, the self-styled ‘Army of Buddhist Power’ in Sri Lanka. The Organization for the Protection of Race, Religion, and Belief in Myanmar, popularly known as Ma-Ba-Tha (the abbreviation of its Burmese name), began in 2013 as a campaign to pass what were collectively known as the Race and Religion Protection Laws. In a little over two years, these laws were approved by the legislature and signed into law by the president. Myanmar’s success in purging a Muslim minority and the role of its Buddhist clergy in this ‘cleansing’ have not gone unnoticed this side of the border. Hinduism lacks an organized clergy; it has nothing equivalent to the Buddhist sangha. But men and women dressed in the colour of renunciation have always had a certain cachet, never more so than now. Unlike deracinated liberals, Modi sees the power and political potential of this saffron cadre and, as the elevation of Adityanath illustrates, he has moved to co-opt it. Five years ago, a journalist suggested to me that if Modi ever failed he would be replaced by someone further to the right of him, more bearded, and more visibly Hindu than him. He had Baba Ramdev in mind and while he was mistaken in that particular, Adityanath’s career suggests that he was right about the general direction of travel. But Adityanath shouldn’t get his hopes up. If Modi is to be replaced in office, he intends to be replaced by a world-renouncing avatar of himself. During the general elections in 2019, Modi was pictured meditating in a cave in Kedarnath, swathed in saffron. If there was a criticism to be made of the art direction, it was that his hair and beard were too smartly trimmed for the Himalayan ascetic look. That has been remedied now. The prime minister has grown his hair and beard out and were he to rig himself out in saffron again, his fleecy magnificence would make UP’s chief minister seem shorn in comparison. I can see that happening as the prime minister decides, in the face of a tanking economy and a surging virus, to get back to Hindu basics. Not in Baba Ramdev’s outré breechclout style, of course; the prime minister is too couture-conscious for that. I imagine he will take a leaf out of Sadhguru’s dress code: the Oriental Sage (in orange) look. I can see the group photograph now: Narendra Modi, stern in saffron in the middle, flanked by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and Sadhguru on his left and Baba Ramdev and Yogi Adityanath on his right. The caption writes itself: Swami & Friends. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
25-04-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Perfectly at home||Slim, lightish-skinned and caring — the woman in numerous Indian advertisements is everything a mother-in-law or a doting father could wish for. The mother-in-law is overcome with amazement when her little grandson’s filthy tee shines like new after his mother uses the even newer washing powder, while a meal the younger woman cooks with ready-made spices under her disapproving eyes has a similar effect — it turns out to be just like ‘mummy’s cooking’. The young, still unmarried working woman does make financial decisions — usually to insure her parents’ health or her father’s future after his retirement. And when she is married, and is being looked after by an endearingly bumbling young husband, it turns out that she is pregnant and must direct her spouse to make practical arrangements for home supplies. They are all efficient, smart, attractive, but most of them are selling domestic or beauty products. This is one of the findings of a study of 1,000 most viewed advertisements on television and YouTube in 2019, conducted by Unicef and the Geena Davis Institute. The aim of the study was to identify and analyse destructive gender stereotypes. It seemed a positive feature that on screen, women as characters, as dominant presences and speakers matched or even surpassed men. But analysis showed that this was not a mark of empowerment; rather, it subtly — sometimes not so subtly — deepened the stereotypes encouraged by a biased society. In these advertisements, it is the quality of women’s representation that is different: they are most often beautiful, sometimes scantily dressed, for example, and therefore sexualized in comparison to men in advertisements. Lighter skin or a particular body shape, too, indicates society’s preferences. Women are seldom shown as decision-makers outside the home, just as men are seldom shown as efficient homemakers. It might be added, however, that men in advertisements, too, are stereotyped, objectified in a different way. Society views wealth and power as ‘sexy’ in a man — never mind his looks — which may partly account for the sharp difference in the representation of genders. The purpose of the Unicef study, however, is of great import. Children’s exposure to visual media make advertisements — shown repeatedly — a source of unconsciously absorbed models and ideas. Even homemakers look glamorous on screen — although not like the bejewelled ladies who go to sleep in zari-bordered silk saris in TV serials — and young girls are sweet, brisk and dazzling. Body-shaming, depression, anorexia are some of the more extreme effects of such unrealistic projections on younger people, especially because of the ‘family’ or relationship narratives built into many of the advertisements. The rarity of empowering role models, too, indirectly circumscribes the woman’s field of activity, while emphasizing the importance of physical attractiveness. These are reflections of deeply-rooted prejudices in society. The Unicef report points out what should be put right, although changing the attitude of advertisers would also depend on changes in society’s perceptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
