26-04-2021||Opinion||Skewed focus: EU on artificial intelligence||Trust is imperative; this is the principle underlying the new regulations unveiled by the European Union to govern the use of artificial intelligence. Trust can only stem from transparency. Therefore, according to the draft rules, companies providing AI services and those using these would have to be able to explain exactly how the AI is making decisions, be open to risk assessments, and ensure human oversight in how these systems are created and used. This is a lofty aim; experts claim that as AI systems get more complex and feed on more data, it may be impossible to put a finger on why the machine is making a particular decision. Regulations to control AI — an ecosystem with no set definition yet either in law or in the industry — will thus have to be fluid and evolve with the times. More important, a one-size-fits-all approach cannot be used to govern a system that feeds on data from across the world and performs a vast range of functions, from making self-driving cars work to taking hiring and lending decisions in banks and scoring examinations. The draft rules not only set limits around using AI in these fields, but they also place checks and balances on “high-risk” applications of AI by law enforcement and courts to safeguard people’s fundamental rights. While some uses like live facial recognition in public places may be banned altogether, there are several exemptions in the name of national security that leave room for encroachments on privacy and fundamental rights. It is dangerous that while governments demand accountability from tech firms, they keep loopholes open to mine data and exploit the invasive reach of AI. The world was looking towards the EU — its General Data Protection Regulation in 2018 has become the framework for similar legislations worldwide — for a way forward when it comes to regulating AI. While its emphasis on transparency is significant, the burden of accountability is placed on those developing AI. Moreover, the draft skirts around issues of racial and gender bias that have plagued new technologies since their inception. These prejudices can make the use of AI in the interest of “national security” antithetical to democratic principles. In India, where regulations of the internet and its services tend to be overarching and weigh in favour of State control, such imbalances can mean the difference between democracy and a surveillance State. Transformative technology like AI should not be stifled by undue restrictions. It is citizens’ interests and not the State that must be at the centre of legislation regulating AI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion|| Look away: Nawaz criticizes celebs flaunting vacations||Sir — The actor, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, has rightly criticized celebrities for flaunting their vacations amidst a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic that has brought India to its knees. While none can deny the importance of taking a break, there is no need to publicize this. Media houses, too, should be ashamed of focusing on such issues while the country runs out of space at hospitals and crematoriums. Arjun Bisht,Gurgaon Blinded by bias Sir — Women are under-represented in most areas of life; the judiciary is no different. This was recently brought to the attention of the apex court by the Supreme Court Women Lawyers Association, which requested the court to consider more women as judges in high courts. The petition noted that there are many qualified and experienced women lawyers who deserve to be appointed to the bench, and sought a provision or a ratio to be considered for their elevation to such posts. In the last 70 years, only eight women have been appointed to the Supreme Court, out of a total of 247 judges. It has only one woman judge now. Women are poorly represented in other legal positions too. There are only 17 women designated as senior counsels in the Supreme Court against 403 men. The judiciary needs gender sensitization to deal with crimes against women. The traditional symbol of justice as the blindfolded goddess holding the scales would be meaningless in the absence of women judges. The newly appointed Chief Justice of India has the responsibility to change the situation; he can do so through the collegium that selects judges for the higher courts. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Too far Sir — The alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, made worse by the shortage of essentials such as oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and vaccines, tells a grim tale of how unprepared the country was to tackle the second wave (“Overwhelmed”, April 24). The authorities either chose to ignore it or were callous about it. Still, the Supreme Court’s intervention in all cases pertaining to Covid-19 at this stage seems to be unwarranted. Several high courts were dealing with the situation appropriately, issuing directives to the Central and state governments to overcome the precarious situation at the earliest. Last year, the Supreme Court failed to give justice to millions of migrant workers by dismissing a petition which asked that the Centre identify and provide food and shelter to these labourers. It also accepted the claims of the executive too willingly; it could have done more. No democracy can function without an independent judiciary. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion||Mask off: Election Commission||The Election Commission has an onerous responsibility. The Calcutta High Court underlined this fact while the second wave of the pandemic is raging during elections in West Bengal. The importance of the EC’s function was not recalled in a positive context. Reportedly, the high court expressed its disapproval with one aspect of the EC’s role in Bengal in strong terms, saying that it was not satisfied with the material on record that the EC and its officers in the state were doing enough to implement the commission’s circulars. The court was hearing petitions that Covid-19 protocols were being flouted in election campaigns which would lead to a huge rise in infections. That such apprehensions are tragically realistic is being proved by the rising graphs of sickness and death. Campaigns, rallies, even voting sites, have become dangerous because masks are not being worn or worn properly, while physical distancing is honoured more in the breach than the observance. The Calcutta High Court reportedly found that the EC’s affidavit was ‘unable to update’ the court on what has been done to enforce Covid-19 guidelines in campaigns and poll booths, and asked it to file a shorter one. Circulars and meetings are not enough to discharge the EC’s onerous responsibility, according to the court. It was scathing in declaring that it was sure circulars were not mere advisories to be wrapped up by the political parties or those engaged in political propaganda or the public. Most important, the court reminded the EC of its accountability to the Representation of the People Act as well as to the people, who needed to trust the institution that the exercise of democracy would be upheld with the necessary health safeguards even during the challenge posed by the pandemic. At a time when the EC is being seen increasingly as being driven by other than neutral interests, the Calcutta High Court’s remarks show up its present inadequacy as the guardian of democracy. Allowing a long, eight-phase election in a state, any state, in the middle of a pandemic, with no bar or restraint on election rallies, can scarcely be perceived as being in the people’s interest. The Calcutta High Court has brought up just one part of the EC’s onerous role. But the remarks may bring to mind the other parts as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion||Some old lies: Afghanistan||“If they go, we’ll all have to go. That’s the reality of it,” said a British source about President Joe Biden’s announcement that the last American troops will be out of Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. (What possessed him to choose that date?) Once they are all gone, the Taliban will take back power in Afghanistan, probably within months, certainly within a few years. They will close girls’ schools again, ban music, hang people with the wrong haircuts and so on. Twenty years of being chased around the hills by gunships has probably not moderated their views. And when journalists asked Biden the inevitable question — doesn’t he feel any responsibility for Afghan human rights, and especially women’s rights? — he said, “Zero responsibility. The responsibility I have is to protect America’s self-interests and not to put our women and men in harm’s way to try to solve every single problem in the world by the use of force.” Finally, a senior American politician using words as if they mean something. But it didn’t last. Soon enough a ‘senior official’ was talking twaddle on Biden’s behalf: “We went to Afghanistan to deliver justice to those who attacked us on September 11th and to disrupt terrorists seeking to use Afghanistan as a safe haven...” Ridiculous. ‘Justice’ could have been delivered by a single assassin or one mass bombing raid on the camp of Osama bin Laden, al Qaida’s leader, tucked away deep in the Afghan hills. The invasion was show business. The 9/11 attacks were plotted by al Qaida members in Germany, and all 19 hijackers were Arabs, not Afghans. They were trained in Afghanistan because bin Laden was given refuge there by the Taliban, an Islamist regime, when the US forced Islamist-ruled Sudan to expel him. But it would have been madness for bin Laden to tell the Taliban what he was planning. Some of the brighter people in the US intelligence services would have known that. But President George W. Bush needed to invade somewhere to discharge American rage about the attack (which he failed to prevent), and where else but Afghanistan? A stealthy assassination or a bombing raid wouldn’t do the job. As it happened, the invasion of Afghanistan was so easy that it didn’t provide enough catharsis for vengeance-seeking Americans, so Bush ended up adding an invasion of Iraq to the list as well. Saddam Hussein certainly had nothing to do with 9/11 (or with the Taliban or bin Laden, for that matter), but a spectacular invasion plus Hussein’s capture and execution gave Americans ‘closure’. That psychodrama was actually played out by 2004, but by then American troops were mired hip-deep in both countries, and it has taken all this time to get them out again. And now on to Ukraine, which Russia is allegedly getting ready to invade: daily reports of the Russian military build-up, and veiled hints that the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, is the new Hitler abound. You know, ‘Today Ukraine, tomorrow the world!” After all, he’s a proven aggressor: Georgia, Crimea, eastern Ukraine. Stupid as it seems, it was Georgia that started the war with Russia in 2008, hoping to seize South Ossetia and seal the tunnel under the Caucasus range. Crimea was settled by Russians after its previous rulers, Turkic-speaking Muslims whose business model was slave-raiding in Russia, were conquered in 1783. It remained Russian until Nikita Khrushchev gave it to Ukraine on a whim in 1954. Putin took it back non-violently 60 years later with warm support from the mainly Russian population, although that was certainly illegal. So is Russia’s support for Russian-speaking rebels in two eastern provinces of Ukraine, which is just like Ronald Reagan’s military backing for ‘Contra’ rebels against the Nicaraguan government in the 1980s. Putin is definitely a naughty boy, but a big-time invader of important places? This is just the media stirring things up, with some help from the politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
26-04-2021||Opinion||Forests bathed in blood||After the recent Maoist attack on security forces in Bijapur, Chhattisgarh, in which 22 jawans were killed, Sonia Gandhi paid homage to the martyrs and Rahul Gandhi alleged it to be a “poorly designed and incompetently executed operation”. Law and order is a state subject. Central forces deployed in a state work under the command of the state government. Or is that not the case in Chhattisgarh? If it was indeed a “poorly designed and incompetently executed” operation, we need some more answers from the ‘high command’. The Naxal movement started in 1967 when the Congress was in power in West Bengal. The movement was brutally terminated by the then chief minister, Siddhartha Shankar Ray, by 1972. However, the Maoists started their movement in Andhra Pradesh soon after, and spread wings in Madhya Pradesh. Indira Gandhi was back in power in 1980 and had asked the then Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Arjun Singh, whether he would like to follow the ‘Ray model’. Indira Gandhi had apparently agreed to the suggestion that Singh work on a special ‘Bastar development plan’ with a promise of a moratorium on big industry and mining that was expected to dissuade the tribals from the Maoists. Ramchandra Singh Deo, Chhattisgarh’s first finance minister, was given the responsibility to formulate the plan. Unfortunately, by the time the plan was ready, Indira Gandhi was assassinated and Singh had been sent to Punjab as governor. In the early 1990s, when the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in Madhya Pradesh, it started a ‘Jan Jagran Abhiyan (People’s Awareness Programme)’ with help from local leaders of the Communist Party of India and the Congress to finish the Maoists. The brutalities inflicted by the police-led Jan Jagran forced large numbers of tribal people to join the Maoists for the first time. The same Jan Jagran policy, now renamed Salwa Judum, was followed by the BJP after coming to power in Chhattisgarh in 2003. This time, the leadership was given to a Congress leader called Mahendra Karma. The Salwa Judum killed many and was later declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. As per numerous intelligence reports, the Salwa Judum increased the power of the Maoists manyfold. And, as in the 1990s, it was not possible for anyone to remain non-partisan because of the Salwa Judum’s violence. Many more tribals joined the Maoist movement. Mahendra Karma lost his life along with other state Congress leaders in a retaliatory Maoist attack in 2013. A Congress government in Andhra Pradesh had tried to start a dialogue with the Maoists in 2004 but it failed. We need to learn from those mistakes. There was another attempt at dialogue in 2010 but the Maoists alleged that their emissary was killed by the then Congress government at the Centre. So in 2018, when the Congress manifesto promised ‘a policy and serious efforts for solving Maoists problem through talks’ there was hope. The BJP manifesto continued to talk about ‘Naxal-mukt’ Chhattisgarh. So when the chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, says on numerous occasions that he will talk ‘only to victims and not Maoists’, there are speculations about the policy being changed. The mediators sent by the state government to secure the release of the abducted commando told the media that it appears as if the Maoists want to talk. But Baghel insists that talks would only be possible if the Maoists reject violence and impose no conditions. This is a policy that has often been followed by governments and it has never worked. If the State makes the handover of weapons a precondition for talks, they will never take place. The handover of weapons should be the final objective of talks, not a precondition. Recently, I visited Raipur University where I had learned my first lessons on Maoism many years ago and one of my professors told me this story. He said, “My brother-in-law was posted in Bijapur (where the recent attack took place). To please him, I got him a ‘free’ transfer out of Bastar but to my surprise he bribed his way back to Bijapur. The reason my brother-in-law gave was that there is more money to be made while serving in Bastar. If Rs 100 is allocated to Bastar, Rs 30 goes to the Maoists which run their movement, Rs 30 goes to the party in power, and officers like him distribute Rs 30 amongst themselves. Bastar is a cash cow for all.” The Maoists have been successful in Chhattisgarh because they are able to hide in the forest. They cannot win a direct battle with government forces. In plains areas like West Bengal, a Congress government finished them in just five years. Whereas in Bastar, they have been able to sustain themselves for more than 40 years. The Congress manifesto in 2018, promising to solve the Maoist problem, had generated enthusiasm. But does that promise of talks still hold? Or has Congress gone back to the Ray and Salwa Judum models? This question needs an urgent answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
26-04-2021||Opinion||Something’s rotten||I had not planned to write this article. In fact, I was due to write another on the havoc wreaked by the pandemic on our already fragile education system. That problem will not go away. I have, therefore, shelved it for something more immediate. What changed my mind was Bengal’s interminable election, especially the events at Sitalkuchi. I will not discuss the actual killings or the roles of the security forces and the Election Commission. One should not comment lightly on such matters amidst a fog of cross-charges and disinformation. But some related issues concern all citizens. One assumes that whatever their deeper calculations, all political parties would express formal grief at deaths by police firing. Astonishingly, the Bharatiya Janata Party set up a virtual chorus of exultation, not only justifying the deaths but guaranteeing more such incidents and even complaining why so few people were killed. This accords with the aggressive macho tenor of the party’s campaign against India’s only woman chief minister, backed by a promise to cleanse Bengal of crime if they come to power. Their state president hopes to accomplish this feat in a week. No one can dispute that Bengal is bedevilled by political violence (not so much of other kinds). To rectify this in seven days would demand an excess of police action at which the imagination recoils: mass arrests, overflowing prisons, almost certainly deaths, perhaps staged police ‘encounters’. Even at that dire level of State-sponsored violence, seven months would not suffice — as it has not in BJP-ruled states held up as models. Years after their initial spate of suppression, of encounter killings and unsparing vigilantism, the world wakes up virtually every week to new reports of horrific violence and misrule in those parts. The reason is not far to seek. Such rapid-fire cleansing is not possible within the ambit of the law. It requires law-keepers to operate massively outside the law, aided if not supplanted by vigilante groups bound by no law at all. The earlier lawlessness gives way to a more pervasive anarchy, now underwritten by the government. The law itself is weaponized to this end, and new laws passed defying natural justice and our democratic Constitution. Bengal’s last-phase voters must ask themselves if this is indeed what they want. There is more. BJP members consistently suggest that the paramilitary action in Sitalkuchi and various decisions of the Election Commission bear out their own agenda, as though they had planned it themselves. It would be misguided to indict the Commission on the basis of such loose talk. What concerns us is that the BJP should be at such pains to persuade us of their complicity. There is also the matter of the chief minister’s intercepted phone call. As the mischief she was allegedly planning did not occur, she can at most be charged with a thought-crime. But we may well ask how the BJP obtained the recording. The party’s fondness for invading citizens’ privacy is amply testified, including dormant projects like the Social Media Surveillance Hub. We may wish to know how their current escapade accords with the law. We are contemplating a regime that erases the line between law and lawlessness. So what’s new about that, we may ask. For four decades and more, governance in Bengal has straddled that porous border. Countless citizens negotiate it daily under the current regime. Does it matter if, dropping the denial mode, we openly legitimize or even legalize wrongdoing under cover of the public good? One might argue that it matters immensely, for it robs us of both moral and legal protection against such iniquity. The malfeasance that seeks some cover or subterfuge shows a nagging insecurity, a lurking sense of wrongdoing. To enthrone it openly celebrates it as a model or an ideal. To work our way back to a humane and democratic order becomes that much the harder. You can reclaim a derelict house occupied by squatters. If you pull down the house, there is nothing left to reclaim. Contrary to belief, authoritarian and even totalitarian rule seldom arrives through military coup or armed revolution. It commonly proceeds by gradual, unsuspected steps from a familiar structure of misrule: we cannot tell when we cross the watershed. Bengal today may be at that decisive moment. We may be crossing another watershed too. Elections in Bengal have been increasingly fragmented: seven instalments in 2019, eight this year. This is supposedly to control political violence, but may be counter-productive. To hold public interest, each phase must outbid the last in rhetoric and, alarmingly, in disorder: the contenders grow ever more strident and reckless. Has a state election ever attained such nationwide hype? The ‘All-India’ Trinamul Congress hardly exists outside Bengal: one understands their stake in the turf battle. But why should the party commanding the Union and several states be so desperate to add this one to the tally? We have lost count of the prime minister’s campaign trips. The Union home minister is virtually camping in the state. Why are two of India’s astutest and busiest men engaged in this apparently grotesque overkill? What are they planning for our state? On seven years’ evidence, it cannot be unmixed concern for the well-being of Bengal. The immediate outcome is rather the opposite. Political violence has arguably exceeded the appalling level of the 2018 panchayat elections, the adversaries being now more evenly matched. The threats and profanities are by no means one-sided: a TMC stalwart has bested their own record by offering to chop off the hands of Opposition voters. This menace will not abate after the elections. And more frightening by far, a new poison of communalism is corroding the state in accord with electoral algorithms. There is a story of a little girl watching Hamlet. Half-way through, she remarked: “I don’t know how it’ll end, but it can’t end well.” That child’s comment has a sombre relevance to Bengal’s current predicament. I am overcome with fear: for myself, my state, and my country. The author is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-36
