27-04-2021||Opinion||Green lantern: Biden's eco policies||New beginnings that hold out promise for a better future are important during the bleakest of hours. The pledge for such a beginning was made by the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, who brought his country back to the Paris climate accord in January. Now, Mr Biden, whose presidency was expected to offer a fillip to the fight against climate change, has promised to cut the US’s greenhouse gas emissions by half by 2030 as part of the Paris pact — a target that more than doubles the US’s prior commitment under the pact in 2015. The path to achieving this bold agenda will not be without challenges. A razor-thin majority in the Senate for the Democrats limits the possibility of Mr Biden implementing sweeping reforms to curb carbon emissions — Republicans from fossil-fuel states in the US oppose policies they consider detrimental to industry in their home states. Moreover, the investment needed to green the US economy will be humongous, with one estimate placing it at over $2.5 trillion: a gap that will likely need to be filled by private capital. Nevertheless, the step taken by the Biden administration would hold out hope for emulation by other nations, thereby building global momentum against climate inertia. The mere expression of intent is, of course, not enough; in order to return to credible climate leadership, the action taken by the US needs to be empowering in broader ways. For one, it is important for Mr Biden to take on a collaborative role with other heads of state to remove the bottlenecks that continue to plague climate talks; these include prolonged — fruitless? — negotiations, the constant postponement of critical, but divisive, issues that hold the key to the planet’s survival, and the stubborn unwillingness of richer nations to greater concessions and cuts. The US should lead the way by extending meaningful assistance to developing economies by transferring funds and technology, two prickly issues that have bedevilled climate negotiations. The newly-announced ‘Agenda 2030’ climate initiative between India and the US, which aims to “mobilise investments and enable green collaborations”, is a step in the right direction in this context. Squabbling nations must remember that climate collaborations could foster greater bilateral cooperation. By turning climate talks into a means of fostering global partnerships, influential nations — the top emitters in the world — could build valuable bridges to facilitate cultural, social and economic exchange alongside mitigating climate disaster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||New dawn: Diversity in Oscars 2021||Sir — The 93rd Academy Awards, which was held on Sunday, has been lauded as the most diverse in terms of nominations in its long history. With an unprecedented inclusion of women and people of colour, and the award for direction going to Chloé Zhao, a woman of colour, the Oscars, it is hoped, has paved the way for inclusivity in entertainment. Hopefully, other award shows will now follow suit. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta End of an era Sir — The passing of Sankha Ghosh at the age of 89 to Covid-19 marks the end of a generation of Bengali poets who captured the cadences of the land and the language in all its colloquialism (“In death too, a quiet message from Ghosh”, April 22). Born in Chandpur, now in Bangladesh, Ghosh was a quintessential academic. He was not only a poet but also a critic and a storyteller. The birth of the little magazine, Krittibas, in 1953 ushered in a new wave of modernism in Bengali literature. Meant as a platform for upcoming poets, it nurtured writers such as Sankha Ghosh, Shakti Chattopadhyay, Sunil Gangopadhyay and Binoy Majumdar, who forged a new identity for contemporary Bengali poetry. These poets sought a deeper engagement with middle-class preoccupations such as employment, politics, ambition, idealism and love. In collections such as Dinguli Raatguli, Murkho Boro, Samajik Noy, Mukh Dheke Jay Bigyapone and Babarer Prarthana, Ghosh broke out with his experiments in meter and theme, writing on communal violence, capitalism and the process of ageing. There are also numerous instances of the dedicated political humanism of Ghosh. He protested against the 2002 Gujarat riots and the violence in Nandigram in 2007, wrote against the  Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the murders of public intellectuals. Ghosh, like many of his contemporaries, was unflinching in his criticisms of society. He will be missed. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Sankha Ghosh was one of the most revered poets of his time who stood out for voicing his concerns on various social and political issues. He spoke against intolerance and strove to give a voice to the common people. His poems will continue to move people across generations. Rudra Dasgupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||Steep price: Covid-19 vaccines||It is said that India’s ruling regime is working tirelessly to realize its dream of ‘one nation, one party’. Strangely, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government does not seem to be equally enthusiastic about ‘one nation, one price’ for the coronavirus vaccines. The newly-minted vaccination policy announced by the Centre has led to such speculation. The Narendra Modi government has said that from May 1, the Centre would only procure 50 per cent of the doses, permitting vaccine manufacturers to sell the remaining batches of medicine to state governments and private hospitals at variable prices. The results are there for all to see. Covaxin, the indigenous drug, is set to be available at Rs 1,200 per dose in private hospitals; Covishield — the AstraZeneca drug that is being produced by Serum Institute of India — would, reportedly, be sold at Rs 400 per dose for state governments and Rs 600 per vial for private hospitals. Apparently, the pricing is sensitive to investment requirements, which, in turn, would be critical to augment manufacturing capacities at a time when India is being severely lashed by the second wave of the pandemic. Of course, the BJP’s pledges on the vaccine have been characteristically dodgy. During the assembly elections in Bihar, the party had promised to vaccinate the people of the state free of cost, a pledge that has rung hollow; yet, the party has also made similar noises in poll-bound Bengal. The Centre’s vaccination policy is riddled with similar inconsistencies. Unlike recipients aged 45 and above, those above 18 years but below 45 — the constituency for which vaccination will now be available from May — would not be able to receive free doses in government hospitals. The differential pricing of doses is likely to replicate such segmentation. Those with lower purchasing power and, arguably, at greater risk of contracting and spreading the virus on account of several socio-economic constraints, are unlikely to have greater access to the medicine. The other concern lies with the absence of a mechanism of retail price capping. Hence, the possibility of price fluctuations cannot be ruled out. Several states have promised to vaccinate their citizens for free but there is concern whether they would have sufficient amounts of doses at their disposal. The incongruities in the vaccine pricing strategy seem to mirror the ineptitude and ad-hocism that have mired this government’s attempts to tame Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||Missing link: Green issues and Bengal polls||About a decade back when the world was just waking up to the threat of climate change and people’s action to protect greenery was being put forward as a possible prescription, I had a chance to speak to Sunderlal Bahuguna of Chipko movement fame, the landmark global movement had stopped the felling of trees in the Himalayas during the 1950s. My obvious first question to the frail figure was how could he manage to turn the opposition against felling trees in the Himalayas into a mass movement at a time when nobody had even heard about climate change or for that matter afforestation? “It was simple; I could make them understand that if the trees were cut randomly as planned by the contractors, their lives would be in complete disarray,” responded the octogenarian. The discussion seems relevant at a time when West Bengal is in the midst of one of its fiercest electoral battles and environmentalists are complaining that green issues find no space in the manifestos of political parties. The green lobby is as much to blame for this as political leaders. What Bahuguna did almost seven decades back, most green activists are not able to do in the 2020s: linking the wider developmental discourse and people with the critical environmental issues. As a result, issues like air pollution or river encroachment have remained broadly insulated from the heat and fire of elections. This in spite of the recently released State of India’s Environment report by Down to Earth, which draws from Niti Aayog data to underline the critical linkage (or, the lack of it) between performances in environmental and developmental sectors. In the run up to the West Bengal assembly elections, the prime minister said that there was no development in the state under the Mamata Banerjee-led government, and that the Bharatiya Janata Party, if it comes to power, will build Sonar Bangla (read, will provide the highest form of development). But where does Modi’s India stand on ‘development’? According to its own calculation, Modi mastered a meagre 61.92 out of 100 in sustainable development goals in 2020; globally ranked at 117, a slide down of two spots within a year. Banerjee incidentally scored around the same marks (60 out of 100) in 2020, but managed to register an improvement of a few points among Indian states compared to 2019. The paradox is that while India managed to do reasonably well in some important environmental sectors like ‘clean water and sanitation’, ‘clean energy’ and even moderately on ‘climate action’; these achievements are not reflected in the most important developmental indicators like minimizing poverty and hunger where Modi scored below par. In contrast, Banerjee’s Bengal might have done poorly in some of the environment indicators, but actually performed better when it comes to reducing poverty and hunger. Even states like Gujarat and Maharashtra fared poorly compared to West Bengal when it comes to these key development indicators. The disparity vindicates not only the need to look at environmental issues in adjunct to developmental agendas, which are closer to common people’s understanding and hence response, but also at the mindset of the average Indian politician when it comes to the environment. The former Union environment minister, Jairam Ramesh, once said that Indian politicians across the spectrum consider environmental agendas as a deterrent to development. This is exactly why the Union environment minister takes pride in clearing record proposals in a day, or the government keeps on allowing hydroelectric projects in Uttarakhand in spite of repeated disasters. Indira Gandhi, during the 1972 Stockholm environment summit, asked, “[a]re not poverty and need the greatest polluters?” and then added “... how can we speak to those who live in villages and in slums about keeping the oceans, the rivers and the air clean, when their own lives are contaminated at the source?” One may debate Gandhi’s point of view; but there is no denying she brought environmental agendas at the core of the developmental discourse. Unfortunately both politicians and green activists largely failed to read this clue in the last five decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||What lies beneath: Mineral mining in India||India produces 95 metallic, non-metallic, fuel, atomic and minor minerals. The share of mining in India’s GDP is 2.6 per cent but its contribution to the economy is greater as it provides the material foundation for other sectors. India has a detailed set of mining-related laws and rules for minerals exploration, extraction and incidental activities. As per the Constitution, the development of minerals is within the legislative jurisdiction of states as well as the Union. But the shared competence over minerals has often been a subject of contention rather than cooperation. The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act is the main legislation governing the minerals sector in India. Notable amendments were made to the Act in 2015 which changed the minerals concession system from a ‘first-come-first-serve’ basis to competitive auction and included the District Mineral Foundation. In March 2021, the MMDR bill, 2021 was passed in Parliament through a voice vote despite demands for the bill to be referred to a Select Committee. The bill aimed at increasing and expediting exploration and auction of minerals and coal. It enables the Centre to intervene in matters such as mineral auctions, end use, utilization of funds and so on. As per the existing Act, state governments have the power to notify an area for the granting of mining lease. This lease is granted through competitive bidding. The 2021 amendment curtails the power of the states by adding a proviso that where a state government has not notified the area within a stipulated time the Centre can notify the area for the granting of mining lease. The stipulated time is going to be fixed by the Centre as well. The overall scheme of mining regulation, whereby states are the owners and, therefore, the granters of a lease, stands changed with the Centre empowered to auction mines in states. Another domain where the Central government has expanded its reach is the DMF. When the DMF was included in the MMDR Act, it was hailed as a historic move to ensure decentralization and address social sustainability in the mining sector. The DMF is a non-profit trust to “work for the interest and benefit of persons, and areas affected by mining-related operations” in any affected district. Under the Act, any DMF is to be constituted, established, and assigned functions only by the state government. The 2021 amendment provides that “the Central Government may give directions regarding composition and utilisation of fund by the District Mineral Foundation.” The whole premise of the DMF was decentralized decision-making: the new provision attempts to reverse that. The gap between ownership and control over minerals has been at the core of many discussions on resource federalism in India. Irrespective of the concession regime in place, states have always demanded greater autonomy in decision-making related to minerals. Since minerals comprise a major share in the revenue of resource-rich states, they want to defend their fiscal powers with respect to minerals. Granting of lease and licence for mining and prospecting is a prerogative of states, albeit as per the rules laid down by the Centre. The MMDR 2021 amendment has stretched the Centre’s powers by allowing it to auction mines when the states have not notified and auctioned a mine within the period specified by the Centre. Taxation on mineral rights is a subject within state jurisdiction. However, the scope of the Central law (MMDR Act) is so expansive that it leaves little room for states to levy any additional charge on minerals. Even the royalty rates — the primary mineral revenue accruing to states — are determined and notified by the Centre. The DMF’s large corpus of Rs 41,650 crore has attracted interest from every level of the government. The DMF was introduced for specific local purposes and beneficiaries but its fund has also faced centralization partly due to instances of inaction and misuse in states. The issues of under-utilization and misuse must be addressed by correcting procedural lapses, not by transferring the power to the Centre. The 2021 amendment facilitates the Centre’s hold on the important and strategic mining industry but also the mineral resources and wealth of states. There are pros and cons of centralized and decentralized governance in mining. Central oversight or guidance can be instrumental in addressing some of the problems associated with decentralization, such as vested interests, corruption, inadequate capacity, information flows and so on. A decentralized governance of natural resources, including minerals, ensures that those affected by mining and those dependent on mining for employment or revenue are involved in the decision-making and revenue stream around minerals. It also gives the local governments an opportunity to voice concerns that are local or regional in nature. However, the potential of either strategy has seldom been utilized optimally. This is not the first time that Centre-state issues are emerging in mineral regulation. This shall not be the last time either. There have been several such amendments, ordinances and rules in the past and the sector has often been a fertile ground for contention for resource federalism. Since the issue is unlikely to be settled or buried in the near future, it is imperative that the amendments do not exacerbate the conflict between the Centre and the states but help resolve the limitations in the jurisdiction of each and give effect to cooperative federalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
27-04-2021||Opinion||The convalescent||There’s been no escaping pishi and bhaipo ever since the election war drums began to roll in Bengal. To her countless admirers, pishi — not so much bhaipo — remains one of the few surviving sentinels guarding the citadel of a pluralist Bengal. Those at Bengal’s doors — pishi’s detractors — think otherwise: the pair, they allege, represents nepotism and corruption that they would get rid of with a few lusty blows of their (majoritarian) broom. The depravity of politics — Bengal’s politics is not an exception — is such that it often forces viewers to turn their gaze elsewhere: towards, say, a far more luminous pishi-bhaipo pairing. Leela Majumdar, a cousin of Sukumar Ray, was Satyajit Ray’s pishi. Among the many accomplishments of this illustrious aunt-nephew was the resuscitation of Sandesh, the children’s magazine that has continued to enchant readers across generations. Yet, April is a rather cruel month to reminisce about this peerless pishi and her inimitable bhaipo. Ray died this month in 1992; Majumdar, too, passed away in April, fifteen years after her nephew’s death. The sombre timber of our times — a time of disease and death — perhaps makes it imperative for us to turn the pages of two short stories written by Majumdar and Ray, respectively, that offer insights into themes that remain strikingly contemporary. “Pilkhana” — one of the short stories that make up Majumdar’s magical Shob Bhuture — features an eleven-year-old child who, much like Covid-afflicted Indians, has been shut out from her loved ones on account of a contagious illness. Confined to a dingy room in an ancient, crumbling mansion, even as Durga Puja is being celebrated outside, the child discovers companionship, fortitude and, ultimately, liberation in Haider — a spectral mahout — and his herd of ghostly pachyderms. Sadananda, the protagonist of Ray’s short story, “Sadanander Khude Jagat”, is lonely and unwell too. He is bullied by his friends for the joy he takes in phenomena that others find unremarkable — such as the slow, teasing flight of the seed of shimul, or the lives and antics of ants. He also suffers periodic bouts of fever as well as visitations from a grim physician bearing bitter medicine. Yet, Sadananda and that nameless child in “Pilkhana” manage to endure their sickly, joyless lives. And that is because these gifted children — in other words, their creators — turn their illnesses into an emancipatory experience that helps them to reflect on, from an early age, the vagaries, cruelties, injustices but also kindness that make the world simultaneously revolting and alluring. Sadananda, for instance, learns that his mother has blood on her hands: she swatted one of his ant friends to death without thinking much about her deed. The child prisoner of Majumdar’s story is taught about the importance of empathy by those gentle ghosts with trunks. Literature, of course, has its share of ailing and infirm children. In Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Story of a Mother”, Death sneaks up to snatch a child away from a mother who, sleepless for days after caring for the infant, closes her eyes for a wee second; Our Mutual Friend, Charles Dickens’s last finished novel, captures poignantly the searing vignettes of life in a hospital full of sick and dying children. Interestingly, in spite of the improvements in paediatric care and the falling infant mortality rates around the world, illness continues to be a dominant literary theme: at least one-third of submissions by young writers for the Branford Boase Award, which recognizes precocious literary talent, had, in one particular year, an ill child as a protagonist. Even though ailing children have been central to literary plots, they have seldom been armed, as is the case with Sadananda, with agency. This element of agency — an ability to ponder their own lives and those of others — is what makes the fictive children of Ray and Majumdar speak to us in this dark hour. In his book, The Courage to Exist: A Philosophy of Life and Death in the Age of Coronavirus, the philosopher, Ramin Jahanbegloo, has underscored the importance of listening to and contemplating what these voices — old and young, real and imagined, within and without — have to say to the human collective. And they offer a lot to think about. For the list of sordid spectacles that embellish New India is long and as inscrutable as the mounting evidence of the body politic of the nation writhing in an excruciating agony that it shares with the corporeal bodies of its citizens. There is an elected government which, having sleepwalked through the first wave of a pandemic, now finds itself drowning in the second on account of criminal lapses. There are the government’s defenders, impeccable but graceless men, women and institutions, unmoved by the sight of innumerable funeral pyres, their light, ironically, the harbinger of the gathering darkness. There is ceaseless tragic news: of the burden of disease and death getting heavier with each passing day; of a country heaving and gasping together, as if in a feeble nod to an eerie orchestra, for oxygen; of a newspaper in Rajkot devoting nearly seven pages of its twenty-page edition to obituaries, respecting those who breathe no longer. Can there be Forgiveness after such Knowledge? Did Ray and Majumdar answer this question? Perhaps. The ants that make up Sadananda’s tiny world raise the banner of disaffection, inflicting a blow — a bite — that makes their young patron’s oppressor beat a hasty retreat. Majumdar makes the phantom elephants shed their gentility too; with a bit of a push, they tear down the walls of that dreadful penitentiary, freeing the child. Do Bengal and India care enough about these clues of deliverance? uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-35
