28-04-2021||Opinion||By the people: India's Good Samaritans in the Covid fight||Myopia, complacency and apathy on the part of an elected government have brought India to its knees against a deadly contagion. Hearteningly, the aam aadmi — India’s faceless, forever besieged, but unfailingly generous fraternity — has stood up to be counted at a time when the Centre has committed monumental follies. Ceaseless grim tidings of the pain of bereavement, acute shortages in oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, the implosion of a nation and its healthcare system have been accompanied by snippets of unprecedented acts of kindness. Not all of India’s Good Samaritans are, unlike the Centre, blessed with infinite funds and resources. Yet, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh did not hesitate to donate Rs 2 lakh — he had saved the sum for his daughter’s wedding — so that oxygen — all of India is gasping for it — can be bought for Covid-19 patients. Another elderly, infirm man from Kerala — a beedi-roller by profession — donated his life’s savings so that people can receive vaccines. Meanwhile, an unsung army of citizens continues to wage an unending battle — organizing hospital beds, arranging food and medical supplies, and providing comfort, with social media amplifying their efforts. These and many other acts of unadulterated altruism must be recognized in this hour of grief and helplessness. For they renew hope not just in humanity’s ability to remain empathetic as a species but also in the ability of Indians to rise above the divisions — the politicians can certainly claim credit for creating these chasms — during a mortal crisis. Ordinary Indians have redeemed the nation even though they have been failed by the very government that they elected to serve them. This spirit of sacrifice and cooperation needs to be emulated by politicians. It is doubtful whether Narendra Modi’s government would be receptive to the idea. Any suggestion of cooperation with political opponents is usually met with scorn by this regime. But the Opposition seems to be making the right noises. Sonia Gandhi and H.D. Deve Gowda, two of India’s senior-most leaders, have underscored the need for building consensus across the political spectrum. Such a collaboration, if it were to come to pass, would certainly augment India’s abilities to unitedly defend itself against an invisible speck. But is the Centre — it has fattened itself on delusion and hubris — ready to eat crow and join in?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||Left unsaid: Modi's address on Covid situation||Sir — As rightly stated by the prime minister, Narendra Modi, in the radio address, the resurgence of the pandemic has shaken the country. But what he has left unsaid, too, is worth stating — the country’s political leadership has failed to do the right thing at the right time to contain the disease. Political leaders, especially those belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party, made light of the pandemic and declared prematurely that it had been conquered, discounting the possibility of further surges. Modi himself remarked that he was elated at the sight of large crowds at his election rallies in Bengal. While the new variants of the virus may have contributed to the rapid spread of the disease, strict observance of preventive protocol by the leaders and the general citizenry would have averted the exponential increase in cases. The Madras High Court has held the Election Commission singularly responsible for the second Covid wave and denounced it for not giving due importance to public health and stopping huge poll rallies. The prospect of an alarming increase in cases and casualties in the weeks to come is frightening. Hospitals are already overwhelmed and there is a shortage in oxygen supply. Patients in intensive care are dying in hundreds. As the death toll rises, cremation sites are running out of space. It is some comfort that foreign countries have extended support, including the supply of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and raw materials for vaccines. It is now imperative that we break the chain of transmission and improve health facilities. As for blanket lockdowns and curbs, their impact on the underprivileged population has to be borne in mind. The government should not take any unilateral measure without providing for their subsistence. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The front-page report on the latest Mann ki Baat address revealed volumes about the prime minister’s priorities. In his 4,732-words long speech, he mentioned the word, ‘oxygen’, only once. This, when the nation is reeling from the lack of oxygen. His decision to allow the pharmaceutical companies to set prices for the vaccines could lead to a disaster. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam  Play fair Sir — The Indian Premier League has been a great distraction from the pandemic, but is this what India truly needs at the moment? Several sportspersons have recently spoken up about this. After Adam Gilchrist questioned the necessity of holding the IPL at such a time, India’s premier marksman, Abhinav Bindra, has now expressed concern and encouraged the stakeholders to take responsible steps towards alleviating this crisis. Since it is unlikely that the games will be stopped, the IPL organizers would do well to donate the major part of the profits to Covid relief funds. Shamik Gupta,Calcutta Time for change Sir — Several private companies — especially ones in IT — have switched to alternative-working options, including staggered working hours and work-from-home system for almost all its employees owing to the coronavirus outbreak and the restrictions imposed in different states. This has been a welcome move since the pandemic is affecting public health and safety. This option should be further explored not only for times of crisis but also to combat air pollution and everyday traffic, which are common problems in an urban ecosystem. A people-friendly policy should now be framed to offer the work-from-home option even at government offices. Several government departments now use online programmes, such as eOffice, rather than actual paperwork. The government would thus go a long way to improve the productivity and efficiency of its employees if it successfully implemented a work-from-home strategy for all. Varun Dambal,Bangalore Sir — Even as the pandemic is raging and a part of the population has the privilege of working from home, several government sectors — bankers, for instance — are having to commute to work regularly. This becomes particularly risky since most people on public transport still refuse to adhere to safety protocols. Will the government think of a solution? Sweta Dasgupta,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||All quiet on Covid-19 second wave||Silence is desirable, silencing is best. The present Indian government has always loved this principle and now, as the country tries to fight a second wave of Covid-19 infections without enough oxygen, medicines, hospital beds and vaccines, silencing is the Narendra Modi-led government’s chief strategy. It has ordered Twitter to remove tweets critical of its handling of the crisis under the Information Technology Act, 2000 which blocks public access to information that would harm the integrity and sovereignty of India. Even at this hour of calamity, Mr Modi’s government is using the law to stifle critical questions and is busy identifying, by implication, the Bharatiya Janata Party with the country. Its ire against social media platforms is ironic; the BJP employs them systematically for attack and propaganda. A further irony is the revival of Mr Modi’s own tweet of seven years ago, where he could not bear the nation’s suffering and said that India needed a strong government. His strong government is now overseeing the nation suffering ungovernably. A strong government manifests its strength in many ways, including silencing. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, who had claimed there was no shortage of oxygen in his state when numerous hospitals are being forced to turn away Covid patients or discharge them for lack of oxygen supplies, has now ordered that any hospital that declares or complains of shortage will be penalized. Hiding the truth is all important, and it must be done with strident lies, derision and blame, often directed at the Opposition. In the Delhi High Court, where the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government charged the Centre with inaction regarding the uninterrupted and adequate supply of oxygen, the solicitor-general, Tushar Mehta, said that it should try not to be a cry-baby. The contempt and condescension in this expression may be the Centre’s way of expressing strength without action; remaining unperturbed amid the countrywide suffering, terror and largely preventable grief and loss may be its way of teaching the nation to be strong in adversity. No cry-babies allowed. And if that does not work, there are always prisons. The journalist, Siddique Kappan, suffering from Covid-19 after being arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act when travelling to Hathras, was discovered chained to his hospital bed. A strong government chooses its actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||The Chinese card in Afghanistan||The parallels with the early 1990s in Afghanistan are obvious. They’re also lazy and mask a more complex challenge for India and the world. With the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, announcing the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan by September 11 and Nato declaring that it will follow suit, some things are clear. The Taliban is almost certain to escalate violence against the democratically-elected government in Kabul, and it’s entirely possible that its assaults would help the militant group grab power. That cannot be good news for many in Afghanistan — especially its women and non-Pashtun communities. It’s also a particularly worrying scenario for India, which has for the most part steadfastly refused to engage in dialogue with the Taliban, a group that has long relied on financial and logistical support from Pakistan’s military. But while the situation bears close similarities to Afghanistan 30 years ago, there’s one key difference that could help or hurt New Delhi: the role of China. The withdrawal of the Soviet Union from Afghanistan in 1989 left the government of Mohammad Najibullah vulnerable in Kabul. A civil war ensued, the government collapsed in 1992, and in the chaos that followed, the Taliban emerged as the most powerful player, taking Kabul. The militant group was virulently opposed to India, Iran and Russia. And even though the group emerged from the mujahideen that the US helped create in Afghanistan, relations between the Taliban and Washington plummeted through the 1990s, especially after the militants gave shelter to Osama bin Laden. Pakistan emerged as the nation with the most influence in Afghanistan, since it held the Taliban’s puppet — and purse — strings. Three decades later, Russia and Iran have also built ties with the Taliban, and it’s unclear whether the government of President Ashraf Ghani is destined to collapse the way Najibullah’s did. But the biggest difference lies in the surprising player that today wields the greatest clout in Afghanistan, even if it does so quietly. In fact, China is the only nation that commands influence over all the factions battling for the future of Afghanistan. Beijing is now the largest foreign investor there, making it a critical partner for the Ghani government as it tries to build an economy amid a never-ending war. That includes a $3 billion lease for a giant copper mine in Aynak, some 32 miles southeast of Kabul. China had originally omitted Afghanistan from its Belt and Road Initiative, a grand network of railroads, ports and highways connecting Southeast Asia and South Asia to Europe and Africa. But it has since pivoted, with plans now for branches that will extend out from the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, the marquee project of the BRI, into Afghanistan. At the same time, China has been cementing its relations with the Taliban and its friends like the Haqqani network. It has hosted Taliban leaders, including in 2019, when it helped broker a deal between the militant group and America. Like the Afghan government, the Taliban needs investments, infrastructure and jobs in the parts of the country it controls. China offers them these in return for a working relationship in which the Taliban ignores Beijing’s human rights abuses against its Muslim Uighur minority in Xinjiang. China’s growing interest in Afghanistan can also be gleaned from its intelligence operations in that country. Last December, Afghan officials intercepted a Chinese spy ring that was coordinating with the Haqqani network to track and target Uighur separatists in Afghanistan. Crucially, Beijing’s influence isn’t restricted to the key players within Afghanistan. It is also the principal economic benefactor of both Pakistan and Iran, Afghanistan’s two largest neighbours. China has been by far the biggest foreign investor in Pakistan for a while. And earlier this year, it announced a $400 million investment in Iran, while also continuing to purchase Tehran’s oil despite US sanctions. That clout will prove useful in Afghanistan too. Neither Islamabad nor Tehran can afford to upset Beijing, which can count on them to use their contacts and influence to put pressure on the Taliban and other militias to stay in line. In effect, China — unlike the Soviet Union in the 1980s and the US since 2001 — might not need a large physical presence in Afghanistan to wield similar influence because unlike those other powers, it isn’t seen as the enemy by any major player in the country. Intuitively, a longer Chinese shadow over Afghanistan isn’t great for India. But look carefully and you’ll find key areas where the interests of New Delhi and Beijing align. Like India, China wants Afghanistan to serve as a gateway to the landlocked Central Asian republics. Like India, China too will not want a civil war or terrorism in Afghanistan, as that will disrupt its economic operations there and call into question its BRI projects in that country. In 2018, India and China had taken baby steps towards cooperating
on Afghanistan, jointly training officials from that country. Subsequent border tensions brought that partnership to a screeching halt. It’s in India’s interests to revive that dialogue. For four decades, Afghanistan has been a proxy theatre for brutal global and regional power struggles with America, Russia, Pakistan, Iran, China and India all jostling for control. Now there’s an opportunity for Afghanistan to bring the two bitter rivals together. New Delhi and Beijing must seize the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
28-04-2021||Opinion||Breaking the thermometer||It’s best to state this simply: Narendra Modi needs to go. Amit Shah needs to go. Ajay Mohan Bisht aka Yogi Adityanath needs to go. The bunch of integrity-free incompetents Mr Modi has gathered around him as his ministers all need to go. In order for the country to launch the mammoth operation of recovery and repair needed for our survival, the departure of these people from positions of power needs to happen immediately — tomorrow is too late, yesterday would have been better. When Mr Modi took oath as prime minister in May 2014, he did so adorned with the many different capes and scarves of hope draped on him by various worshippers and admirers. Waving away the sceptics and objectors who had old-fashioned attachments to secularism, human rights and economic justice, the believers revelled in the proud strutting of their messiah. Remember the proclamations of the core followers and the newly converted, many coming from the man himself. Modi doesn’t eat or let anyone eat (he’s not corrupt and doesn’t allow anyone else to be corrupt). He may drive over some pesky minorities but he’ll steer us to genuine progress. Human rights and ecological protections are barriers to ease of doing business and turning India into an economic powerhouse; real human rights will be experienced by the millions he raises out of poverty. In the first days of Modi-rule, you constantly heard gushing praise: he may not be educated but he’s got a phenomenal ability to grasp things; whatever you say, boss, but Gujarati efficiency is something else; his stamina is just amazing; he hardly sleeps and that’s put a fire under the seats of the bureaucrats — the babus are now punctual, the files are moving so fast; here is a man with a vision and focus; look how warmly and directly he connects with world figures; he can deal with Pakistan and China from a position of strength; they recognize they can’t mess with him like they could with the weaklings previously in charge. Over seven years, even as Mr Modi has preened in name-embroidered suits and plumed headgear, the virtually projected garments have fallen off him, one by one. Even as his ‘brand expansion’ has grown to mind-boggling levels, his promises have crashed and burned. Under this regime, corruption has been rocketed into another dimension, so much so that the word itself becomes inadequate to describe the massive network of interlocking institutional lying and criminal law-bending. Over seven years, lunatic servility to oligarchic interests along with other monumental cock-ups has played havoc with our economy. Under Mr Modi’s leadership, we have been made a laughing stock by Pakistan with the famed Balakot bombing raid on a clump of trees and the capture of our pilot; and we have been repeatedly humiliated by China. And, now, finally, despite having had a year to shore up the basic defences against the biggest natural calamity faced by independent India, we are on our knees, physically and mentally. The full roster of this regime’s intentional and unintentional misgovernance will become horrific lore in the annals of history. In any democracy worth the name, just one of these two botch-ups — the demonetization fiasco and the floundering response to Chinese aggression and the ensuing cover-up — would have led to the fall of a government. That this did not happen is due to a much greater malfeasance. If Mr Modi and Mr Shah have had efficiency, stamina and detailed focus towards anything, it is in the deliberate and relentless hollowing out of democracy itself. It is now beyond doubt that the messiah and his chief acolyte came to power in 2014 with one aim and one aim only: to turn India into an autocratic Hindu rashtra, bolstering and, in turn, bolstered by few big business houses. For the imperatives of international optics and internal misdirection, this was to be executed while maintaining the fake image of a functioning democracy. In a stadium owned by a dictator you may have the ritual of a game between two teams, but in reality only the dictator’s team can win. Mr Modi and Mr Shah have worked towards a hostile takeover of the stadium of Indian Democracy from the day they assumed power in 2014. To aid in this project, you had the obsessive attention to image-management via the co-opting of large sections of the media, then you had robbery in broad daylight in the shape of the electoral bonds, and then you had the unprecedented, brazen weaponization of the investigative agencies in the open service of the ruling party. All this was crowned by the mysteriously consistent reluctance of the Supreme Court in checking various actions of the Union Government or its agencies. The deliberate spreading of distrust and hatred among people of different religions, the banana republic hijacking and the lockdown of Kashmir, the grotesque NRC/CAA ‘laws’, the Ayodhya Ram Mandir ‘judgment’, the Bhima-Koregaon arrests, which many convincingly argue are mala fide, were all dependent on this creeping, toxic fungus-like encompassing of the institutions of the State. What the fungus was not expecting was a deadly attack from a virus. I read somewhere that the recent blocking of critical Twitter accounts by the government means that it realizes it has failed to discharge its duties. To which one could say that this government never intended to discharge what millions of us regard as its duties. It simply took the pandemic as an extremely useful tool gifted to it by the gods, a tool it could use to further its agenda — to stifle dissent, to topple Opposition state governments, to ‘win’ elections. Now, when things are spiralling tragically out of control, the government’s main concern — yet again — seems to be about managing perceptions. The French have a saying, ‘Breaking the thermometer to bring down the fever.’ We are where we are today because of this trail of broken thermometers. And because of this, if nothing else, Mr Modi and Mr Shah need to go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
