29-04-2021||Opinion||Helping hands: Global support for India's second wave||One good deed creates another. India had reached out a helping hand to the international community during the Covid-19 pandemic on numerous occasions with as many as 150 nations benefiting from New Delhi’s outreach with Covid vaccines and other medical supplies. The world, in a reciprocal gesture, has now reached out to India as it is being battered by a second wave of the virus. Australia has promised to send a retinue of non-invasive ventilators, as has Singapore. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates have decided to pitch in to mitigate the unprecedented crisis in oxygen in this country. The United Kingdom has pledged to send vital medical equipment while the United States of America — after, allegedly, a bit of dithering — has responded by promising emergency medical care units, oxygen supplies, vaccine-related items and therapeutics. France and Russia are among the other nations in this list of donors. The international assistance reiterates two different kinds of reality. India’s diplomatic leverage — this is reassuring — remains considerable; it is the smoothness of New Delhi’s bilateral ties that has helped this kind of support to materialize. But India’s cry for help also bares another, less edifying, aspect: the country continues to be far from self-sufficient when it comes to managing a crisis of this scale. This sobering fact should be reason enough to direct public attention towards something else. Narendra Modi had assured India that his government was viewing the pandemic as an opportunity to augment atmanirbharta. India’s present dependence on donors — it is unlikely to be a balm on national aspirations for a seat on the international high table — provides ample evidence of the distance that separates the country from self-reliance. It is quite clear that the window of opportunity that had been gained when Covid cases were tapering has not been utilized by Mr Modi’s administration to shore up the local economy, affiliated services and the administration so that they could be prepared to meet this grim challenge. Being vocal for local is not enough; it requires meaningful support, investment and capacity building, none of which has taken place yet. In fact, atmanirbharta, while being a laudable idea, could be an anachronistic ideal. In an increasingly interconnected global economy, it is difficult to insulate the indigenous industries from their dependence on global suppliers. India’s request to the US to expedite the supply of raw material for the AstraZeneca vaccine is a case in point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Unfair decision: India's vaccination policy||Sir — Given the shortages in the availability of vaccines, the advice of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to get oneself inoculated makes little sense (“Steep price”, April 27). The changes made in the Centre’s Covid-19 vaccination policy to widen the coverage by including citizens aged below 45 and above 18 years within its ambit will, in effect, worsen the inequality among states as well as different economic groups. The policy, along with deregulating the prices of the vaccines, puts the onus of getting vaccinated on the individual. This will place additional pressure on the people as well as the states which are already ill-equipped to handle the situation. The Modi government has, time and again, reiterated that it wants to move towards ‘one nation, one tax’ and similar centralizing measures. In this context, one must ask, why is it that the country cannot have a centralized vaccination policy for all its citizens? The Union government appears to have washed its hands off its responsibilities at this time of grave crisis. The Centre’s liberalization of vaccine sales and deregulation of prices, without augmenting supply, indicates that it did not think this through. The Central government had a year to prepare and strengthen its healthcare services in the event of a second wave of coronavirus infections. It has failed to deliver on every possible aspect. The steep pricing of the vaccines — Covaxin has been priced at Rs 600 for state hospitals and Rs 1,200 for private hospitals — will only increase inequity in the vaccination programme. It is a tragedy that the citizens of India, a country deemed to be one of the largest producers and exporters of vaccines in the world, are facing this immense fiasco in the midst of a pandemic. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is unfortunate that we did not learn any lessons from the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic that swept through the nation last year. In the past few weeks, thousands of lives were lost as a result of government apathy and a general disregard for Covid-19 protocols among the masses. It was hoped that the government would ensure that the vaccination drive, which will involve inoculating millions of people, goes as seamlessly as possible. At the very least, the Centre must try to keep the vaccine prices as low as possible. Inequity in pricing will result in many forgoing the vaccination. The prices that are currently being set for people under the age of 45 and above 18 are simply too high for many to afford. The government must step up at this hour of need and do all it can to provide basic healthcare to the millions in need. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — There is no doubt that India’s new vaccine pricing policy is blatantly discriminatory. The scheme goes against the policy of free and universal vaccination pursued by India for decades. The differential pricing among the Centre, states and private enterprises is arbitrary and is likely to leave large sections of the people, especially those belonging to the underprivileged sections of the population, out of vaccine coverage. The declaration of Bharat Biotech that it will supply Covaxin to the Centre at Rs 150, at Rs 600 to the states and at Rs 1,200 to private hospitals is alarming. There is no justification for the pricing of the same product to be so starkly varied among the three. There is also a shifting of responsibility by the Centre to the states without giving the latter the necessary agency and wherewithal to discharge that responsibility. It is particularly insensitive to make the state governments, which are in a dire financial condition, pay a higher price for the vaccine. Strangely enough, at this time, the Bharatiya Janata Party thought that it was fit to promise free vaccines while campaigning in poll-bound Bengal. The same promise was earlier made in Bihar during the assembly elections last year, which, unsurprisingly, remains unfulfilled. It is unfortunate that the Centre continues to make false promises in the midst of a calamity. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The Centre has botched up the Covid-19 care infrastructure and the vaccination drive beyond repair. The citizens of India have been left to fend for themselves and their loved ones. Kiran Singh,New Delhi Desperate times Sir — As India reels under a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, reports have emerged that wealthy Indians who are able to afford exorbitant airfare or private jets are fleeing the country to places with lower rates of infection. With India’s healthcare infrastructure collapsing, people are not just struggling for basic healthcare, but are also scrambling to find space to cremate the dead. These are certainly desperate times for all, but this surge, once again, draws attention to the stark inequalities present in Indian society. The privileged may have the option of leaving the country at this time, but most are forced to helplessly watch as their loved ones suffer and die. The government must be held accountable for its lapses. Abhra Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Up in arms: EC and Covid surge||The acute tragedy caused by the second wave of Covid-19 infections was reflected in the admonition of the Madras High Court to the Election Commission. The court held the EC ‘singularly’ responsible for the present calamity. The Calcutta High Court had told the EC earlier that its job was not confined to issuing circulars and holding meetings; it had to ensure the implementation of its guidelines during elections held in a pandemic. The Madras High Court’s criticism assumes that, as an independent, Constitutional body, the EC was tasked with ensuring people’s health — for citizens must survive, the high court reportedly said, in order to enjoy the rights guaranteed by democracy. Allowing campaign rallies to continue unchecked demonstrated its irresponsibility: the court said that its officers could be booked for murder. Safe polling during a pandemic can be done — the last presidential elections in the United States of America demonstrated that. The EC is expected to remain unaffected by any pressure except the need to secure the citizens’ health: only that can make elections free and fair. The effects of the Covid tragedy were painfully visible; the high court reportedly asked if the EC were on another planet. The plan of an eight-phased election in one state was questionable in any case; anyone could have predicted the disastrous rise in infections there. Accusations of the EC’s compliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s wishes may be baseless, but it is more than a little strange that it is the BJP that has sprung to the EC’s defence after the Madras High Court’s remarks. The BJP president, J.P. Nadda, said that people in an institution, any institution, should keep in mind the dignity of sentences and words. Is the government an institution? Or is it just the judiciary? Perhaps Mr Nadda would like to clarify the matter by claiming myopia as the right of all BJP leaders? Anything is possible. That was borne out by the West Bengal BJP spokesperson, Samik Bhattacharya, who declared that the Madras High Court’s remarks had ‘tainted’ the judiciary and were proof of a ‘conspiracy’ with the ruling party in Bengal that should be investigated. Is it healthy for the EC to have such passionate defenders among politicians who are willing to invoke malicious fantasies to uphold its honour?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Mukti Bahini: A force for freedom||The Mukti Bahini played a key role in the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. However, its role tends to be overshadowed by the much bigger contribution of the Indian armed forces in the final stages of the war that changed the geopolitics and geography of the subcontinent, thanks to the visionary leadership of the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, and the outstanding military leadership of General (later Field Marshal) Sam Manekshaw and the other two service chiefs and commanders at various levels. Beginning as the Mukti Fauj, the Mukti Bahini was born soon after the crackdown by the Pakistan army on March 25, 1971. It gradually grew into a large organization of armed and trained men owing allegiance to the provisional government of Bangladesh. The terror let loose by the Pakistan army motivated many young people to join the Mukti Bahini. By the end of April, the number of volunteers rose to nearly 2.5 lakhs. The Mukti Bahini was organized in two distinct groups — the Niyomito Bahini (regular army) and the Gano Bahini (the people’s army). The Niyomito Bahini had under it the Swadhin Bangla Regiment and the Mukti Fauj (sector troops). The Gano Bahini was subdivided into three parts — Suicide Squads, Scorpion Squads and Toofan Bahini (storm troops). The Swadhin Bangla Regiment was the backbone of the Mukti Bahini, comprising personnel belonging to regular army regiments, the East Bengal Regiment and the East Pakistan Rifles. By September, the number of battalions went up to eight, with recruits taken from the guerrilla cadre of the Gano Bahini. By the end of November, the eight EBR battalions were fully prepared to take to the field in both offensive and defensive roles. EBR and EPR personnel, who could not be absorbed into the regular army battalions, were grouped under units in the Mukti Fauj. A total of 45 companies (nearly 9,600 men) were trained and equipped with small arms like rifles and carbines. More firepower was added with the induction of 80 deserters from Pakistan artillery units equipped with weapons like howitzers and 105 mm guns. The eight battalions of the EBR and the artillery batteries virtually added a division strength, which was divided into three brigades named ‘Z’, ‘K’ and ‘S’ forces after their respective commanders, Major Ziaur Rahman, Major Khaled Musharraf and Major Shafiullah. A 500-strong Mukti Bahini Naval Force was also raised with the help of the Bengali personnel who had deserted the Pakistan navy. By October end, the Mukti Bahini Air Force also came into existence with a Dakota aircraft, two helicopters and an Otter aircraft. The Mukti Fauj  was divided into 11 operational sectors, most of them along the periphery of the Indo-Bangladesh border. Each sector was allotted, on an average, 2,000-3,000 sector troops and 6,000-7,000 guerrillas of the Gano Bahini. The operational policies were formulated by India’s Eastern Command and the headquarters of Bangladesh Forces and their implementation was entrusted to the sector commanders. Inputs from the Border Security Force and the intelligence sources, headed by R.N. Kao, made the task of the military commanders easier. Although the Mukti Fauj and the EBR battalions fought pitched battles with the Pakistan army, it was the Gano Bahini branch of the Mukti Bahini consisting of guerrillas that inflicted the greatest damage deep inside East Bengal. It was this guerrilla force that kept the Pakistan army on tenterhooks. The total strength of the Mukti Bahini by the end of November 1971 was roughly 70,000, a little over two full divisions of regular soldiers and 50,000 irregulars and guerrillas trained by India. There was also the Mujib Bahini, another independent force of 10,000, made up of students owing allegiance to the student wing of the Awami League. This was a highly motivated force loyal to the ideology of secularism, socialism and democracy propagated by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The Mujib Bahini often clashed with the Mukti Bahini, but by the end of October, Kao and D.P. Dhar, trusted aides of Indira Gandhi, managed to iron out the differences between the Bahinis. From May to November, the Mukti Bahini operated independently deep inside East Pakistan, destroying hundreds of bridges, railway network, factories, tea gardens and many other installations and infrastructure. It became a ‘force multiplier’ for the Indian army once war was officially declared on December 3. At a time when India and Bangladesh are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War, the contributions and sacrifices of Mukti Bahini soldiers should not be forgotten even as we pay rich tributes to the gallant personnel of India’s defence forces as well as to the brilliant political and military leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
29-04-2021||Opinion||Looking back||The long-drawn assembly election in West Bengal is finally drawing to a close. Following the eighth round of voting on April 29, there will be a bout of patient waiting, not to mention feverish speculation, until counting day on May 2 when the country will know if this bitterly contested election has resulted in a verdict for continuity or change. Although the campaigning for the final two rounds of voting were marred by the understandable preoccupation with the Covid-19 pandemic, it would be fair to say that the overall debate went beyond the immediate and the verdict was centred on the electorate’s collective judgment on the past and future of the state. Additionally, despite the odd carping over the lengthy timetable, it is fair to assert that West Bengal has witnessed the most free and fair election in recent decades. Until the conclusion of the seventh round, there were no reports of booth capturing and mass scale fraud voting. The deployment of Central forces in the booth premises — though never inside the polling booths — appears to have acted as a deterrent to those political activists who practise what is euphemistically called ‘booth domination.’ Even where a political party failed to deploy an agent inside the booth, there were no serious allegations of partisan behaviour by the poll officials. There were, however, a few allegations of ‘public voting’ in the case of postal ballots of a section of government employees, although in statistical terms their numbers were minuscule. In hindsight, and despite the criticisms of having inordinately extended the poll process, it would seem the Election Commission did a commendable job bringing order to the election process in a state where the unfortunate link between democracy and violence had been entrenched over a span of five decades. It would, however, be premature to suggest that the relatively smooth conduct of the 2021 assembly election in West Bengal signals a significant change in the political culture. While it is true that the sanctity of the secret ballot was upheld by the administrative and policing arrangements of the ECI, the campaigning process was not so wholesome. The tendency of political activists — occasionally aided by a partisan police force — to prevent opponents from spreading their message in areas regarded as strongholds was very marked. This ranged from preventing publicity material from being displayed to threatening and often physically assaulting supporters of rival parties. Interestingly, the absence of a level playing field was most marked in Calcutta and in some of its adjoining seats in South 24 Parganas. This culture of menacing politics has resulted in a lot of pent-up feelings and these are likely to surface after the results are announced on May 2. Regardless of which side wins, the state is almost certain to witness a bout of post-poll violence which could spiral out of control in some localities. The administration would be well advised to take pre-emptive steps. For the moment, however, the attention of the administration and the media is, quite understandably, focused on the explosion of the Covid-19 pandemic all over the country, not least in West Bengal. While the concern is legitimate, as are the fears that political gatherings could turn out to be super-spreader events, the manner in which it is playing out is also aimed at influencing the course of the polls in the final two rounds of polling, especially in Calcutta. There was, to begin with, a concerted attempt to pin the responsibility for the second wave of Covid-19 on the ECI and, by implication, the Central government. The ruling All India Trinamul Congress spared no effort to mobilize opinion to ensure that the polling in the final three phases be contracted into one phase. More than public health, the idea was to ensure that the Central forces would be inordinately stretched on the ground and unable to control each and every polling booth. This would create the necessary space for the more rough and ready election management strategies to be put into play. It is significant that the pressure of the entire liberal ecosystem of India was applied on the ECI to accommodate the opponents of the eight-phase poll. Using Covid-19 as a ploy, the ECI was subjected to intense attacks and its integrity repeatedly questioned. It is reassuring that the three Election Commissioners stood their ground and handled Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s repeated invocation of violence with considerable equanimity. An associated feature of the pressure to truncate the original schedule was the sustained pressure on middle class voters in Calcutta and urban centres in Asansol and Durgapur to abstain from voting because of the Covid-19 scare. The argument was repeatedly proffered in the media that human lives were more important than politics, and that the elections were an unnecessary intrusion in the more serious business of fighting the pandemic. The argument had two sub-texts. First, that the business of political change was unnecessary to safeguard public health — an argument that conveyed the subtle message that the continuation of the Mamata Banerjee government was justified because — as one article in a Bengali daily newspaper put it — nothing had happened in the past decade to ‘unsettle the equilibrium’. Secondly, the appeal to disregard the elections was aimed at the middle classes which were responsive to appeals for a larger economic regeneration of West Bengal. It was assumed that a low middle class turnout would tilt the scales in urban areas in favour of an incumbent whose support base was from the slums and among minority voters — sections that are traditionally inclined to vote in large numbers. In view of the anecdotal evidence that suggested a significantly big turnout for the Bharatiya Janata Party in rural Bengal, the Covid-19 threat was aimed at providing a counterweight in urban Bengal. As elections go, the assembly election of 2021 in West Bengal was extremely stretched. For all practical purposes, the campaign can be said to have started immediately after the Lok Sabha election of 2019 when it became clear that the AITC government faced a serious challenge from the BJP. Without the benefit of hindsight, it is hazardous to be sure which side has finally prevailed. However, in the end the battle was reduced to two alternative visions of Bengal — one which stressed cultural Bengaliness but without any meaningful economic agenda for the future, and an alternative that was grounded in linking the exasperation over prolonged economic stagnation with aspirational India (blended with nostalgia over past glory). As a participant in the campaign, including as a candidate, my personal observation is that the chief minister made herself very vulnerable by not focusing on her 10-year record in office and her plan for the next five years. She allowed immediate concerns — her foot injury, her anger over the styles of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, and her rage at the ECI and the Central forces — to cloud a larger narrative. On their part, the BJP’s two main campaigners did not deviate from combining a searing critique of Banerjee’s governance record with concrete promises that would accrue both immediately and in the long run. In terms of publicity, the AITC outdid the BJP by a generous distance but the Mamata-centric ‘daughter of Bengal’ wasn’t accompanied by a campaign rhetoric that bolstered rootedness, responsibility and sobriety. The chief minister seemed disoriented and this was in sharp contrast with the grandeur of Modi and the combativeness of Shah. The AITC campaign had organizational depth, but the BJP led the way in spontaneity and enthusiasm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-34
