30-04-2021||Opinion||Covid: Second blow to Indian economy||In a recent report on the state of the economy, the Reserve Bank of India pointed out a number of early signs of economic recovery from the damages inflicted by the pandemic last year. These green shoots indicated the possibility of a healthy recovery. Indeed, this was the expectation of most international organizations like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Most predictions about India’s growth rate for the current year were pegged at around 12 per cent. The usual caveats were added in the RBI’s report: not having a significant second wave, pushing the vaccination drive, and ramping up preparedness in health infrastructure. These would ensure that the economic recovery would be firm and stable. However, by the time the report was in the public domain, India had been caught in the midst of an unanticipated second wave of infections and a nightmarish strain on health facilities. The Centre was caught napping, revealing that nothing had been done since the lockdown of 2020 to improve India’s readiness to fight the inevitable second wave. It is now patently evident that the next two quarters will be very difficult for the economy. It appears that this time round there will not be complete lockdowns of all non-essential economic activities. However, a large part of the services economy will be disrupted. The second wave has also created a terrifying fear that will affect consumers and producers for some time to come. This fear will engender a shortage-psychosis, starting from hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, vaccines and even food. This, in turn, will generate strong inflationary pressures as hoarding and panic-buying begin. A slowdown in output will occur too, although not perhaps as acute as the one in 2020. However, the return of confidence will take much longer this time. Little wonder then that beginning with the World Bank and the IMF most organizations are now scaling down India’s growth rate projections for 2021-22. Standard and Poor’s now has a long-term credit rating of ‘BBB’ for India — just one notch above junk. According to S&P, India’s economy has already lost 10 per cent of national income in terms of a long-term production deficit compared to its pre-pandemic level. The RBI’s caveats have come too little too late as the economy stares at supply disruptions, labour shortages and demand shrinkages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Think again: Mizoram forest fire||Sir — Yet another forest fire has broken out — this time in Mizoram. The wildfire has affected at least eight forest areas, and threatens to spread to nearby settlements. As usual, hashtags have begun to circulate on social media, urging people to ‘pray for Mizoram’. While hashtags help to bring such news to the forefront, people must understand that merely praying for a crisis to subside is of little practical help. Offering aid by volunteering or donating money to help alleviate the plight of the affected is the only way one can make a difference. Sheetal Jaiswal,Calcutta Noble deeds Sir — An elderly, physically challenged man in Kerala, who lives on pension for the differently abled and small earnings from rolling beedis, recently donated two lakh rupees from his savings bank account that had a total of Rs 2,00,850 to the chief minister’s disaster relief fund to help the state government provide free Covid-19 vaccines to the needy (“Life savings: Rs 200, 850. Donated: Rs 2 lakh”, April 25). He further expressed the desire to remain anonymous, in contrast to many financially stable people who do not miss a chance to beat the drums about their donations or the political class which makes a big deal about every government dole. The bank official who attended the donor was naturally surprised when the man requested him to transfer the money immediately so that he could sleep peacefully and asked him not to reveal his name. The chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, has lauded this unnamed donor. He also praised Subaida, a poor woman running a tea shop, who donated Rs 5,000 and Rs 5,510 on two separate occasions for the same cause. Swami Vivekananda regretted the fact that the concept of selfless charity was disappearing from India and great men were becoming fewer by the day. In election speeches, we hear political leaders of all hues quoting Swami Vivekananda unabashedly for political gain. They would do well to take a lesson from him: “Never vaunt of your gifts to the poor or expect their gratitude, but rather be grateful to them for giving you the occasion of practising charity to them.” Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — India is indeed a country of great contrasts. On the one hand, we see top political leaders abandoning their responsibility, gesticulating in front of huge gatherings, beseeching their votes on promises of showering bonanza. All the while, the citizens are suffering from a deadly pandemic. It brings to mind the story of the Roman emperor who played the fiddle while his kingdom was burning. The contrast lies in the story of the self-effacing philanthrope who gave away his life’s savings to ensure the safety of his countrymen. Unlike the political leaders, the man with meagre resources knew his duty. Such stories make us justly proud of the legacy of the likes of the Buddha — the prince who renounced all worldly aspirations and devoted his life seeking salvation for humanity. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Flawed design: Central Vista ||In the middle of India’s worst-ever health crisis, with hospitals in the country reeling under an acute shortage of medical oxygen and beds and with the death toll climbing steadily, the Narendra Modi government has, in an astounding feat, still found the time to focus on the redevelopment of the ambitious Central Vista project. Such is the dedication of the Centre to get the job done that the project has even been termed an ‘essential service’ because, as the Central Public Works Department informed the Delhi Police, the initiative is “of time bound nature”. This zeal would be admirable if the classification of the project as an ‘essential service’ were not so puzzling. Essential services are those functions that are absolutely necessary for the welfare of citizens even during a pandemic: these include healthcare, food, fire and police protection, clean water, basic sanitation, gas and electricity, and banking. Does the Central Vista project fulfil any of these conditions pertaining to public service? Its categorization as such a service during a deadly second wave of Covid-19 defies logic. But then reason has not been the hallmark of Mr Modi’s whimsical reign. Leaders of the Opposition have been critical of the initiative, terming it yet another instance of the government’s ‘misplaced priorities’. Their reservations cannot be brushed away; a sum of Rs 20,000 crore has been sunk into the project to upgrade the area that houses, among other edifices, the Parliament complex. It is perfectly reasonable to argue that the funds should have been used to plug the gaping holes that plague India’s healthcare services. There are other, equally relevant, questions. The infection rate in the national capital is rising rapidly — Delhi reported 25,986 new cases on Wednesday. The CPWD’s request to the police to permit the ferrying of “workers to and fro from their labour camp”, thereby raising the chances of the spread of infection, is yet another manifestation of the government’s lack of empathy for public welfare. This myopia, of course, can only be the sign of the hubris of an elected regime that seems unable — unwilling? — to care for greater public good. History has borne witness to such folly. Totalitarian regimes around the world have reposed their faith in this kind of towering symbolism in order to deify themselves and conceal their administrative ineptitude. India is now dotted with symbols of the government’s monumental lapses, the Central Vista Project and the Statue of Unity being two examples. The real concern lies with the moral turpitude of this government. No amount of public suffering or criticism — India’s courts have held the governments at the Centre and some states accountable — seems to make a difference to the powers that be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Reach out: Afghanistan||As the Joe Biden administration has announced the withdrawal of American troops on the ground in Afghanistan and proposed a new peace process framework, there are ominous signs that New Delhi may be losing the most in this high-stakes diplomacy. A summit to articulate the future of the Afghan peace process is to be held in Istanbul and New Delhi must get ready to accept some hard realities and act accordingly. Remaining a mute spectator will not serve New Delhi’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy. In spite of New Delhi’s stated aversion to the Taliban and its diabolical process of capturing power, New Delhi must recognize that the Taliban is here to stay and may well return to power should the United States of America pull out troops from Afghanistan in the near future. Based on the situation at ground zero, the best thing for New Delhi is to press the accelerator in terms of a diplomatic outreach to the Taliban, providing full recognition to the insurgent group without any qualms. While the advocates of idealism and liberal order may raise a hue and cry over reaching out to a terrorist group, New Delhi needs to adopt realism vis-à-vis its Afghan policy. An outreach to the Taliban has a number of advantages. First, it will help India decouple the group from its ideological masters in Rawalpindi which is of immense strategic value. Given the fact that both India and Pakistan have decided to extend olive branches to each other in recent times, the Pakistani military establishment will not raise objections to new outreach by its arch-nemesis, India. Second, New Delhi needs to be prepared for all eventualities. Avinash Paliwal, in his wonderful book, My Enemy’s Enemy, had written at length on how external (financial and military) help allowed mujahideen fighters to topple the Soviet military machine from their country. Since the Taliban is the product of the mujahideen, India cannot rule out foreign interference in Afghanistan in the new scheme of things. Exercise caution Third, the Taliban considers Saudi Arabia to be its religious godfather. At a time when the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, has signalled a shift towards a more moderate, inclusive version of Islam, New Delhi must play a surreptitious role in allowing its promotion on a large scale as this will help root out extremism in India. The latter must try and persuade the Taliban to adopt a moderate version of Islam, prioritizing women’s empowerment, promoting the principles of liberal democracy and so on. While this may appear to undermine India’s secularist credentials, it must be noted that geopolitics trumps religion according to Henry Kissinger. Finally, New Delhi would require the support of both the Afghan national army and the Taliban in eliminating the menace of the Islamic State. The road ahead, however, is very difficult. Pakistan, in spite of its platitudes about wanting peaceful relations with India, has already set the restoration of statehood for Kashmir as the prerequisite for resumption of dialogue with India. India cannot lower its guard; if history is anything to go by, then trusting Pakistan has not always yielded good results. New Delhi needs to be cautious and on its toes while negotiating with the military establishment because it still calls the shots in Afghanistan. If Pakistan continues on a trajectory of animosity towards India, then it will not desist from activating its covert contacts in jihadist groups like the Haqqani network to upset the peace process. But as the former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, eloquently said: “You can change your friends, not neighbours.” India thus needs to move cautiously, keeping its interests foremost. It also needs to galvanize support for its new policy, which will result in a win-win situation for all stakeholders in the Afghan peace process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||George Floyd verdict: Justice triumphs, at last||Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. A former defence lawyer celebrating these three verdicts shows how extremely unjust, unreasonable and unlawful the actions of the police officer, Derek Chauvin, were when he arrested and then murdered George Perry Floyd in broad daylight, in plain view, and on camera on the streets of Minneapolis, Minnesota on May 25, 2020. As I began my legal career many years ago, representing indigent defendants in Minnesota, I saw how racist many police officers were. I saw a pattern of abuse of power. And I saw how this abuse steadily stripped my mostly black clients of hope, faith in the justice system and the prospect of having anything resembling a normal life. Driving-while-black cases were part of my daily workload. Rogue cops would even lie in wait for some clients, stopping them on flimsy pretexts, and always padding up charges with an ‘obstructing legal process’ to scare them. Clients could barely hang on to hard-to-come-by jobs if they wanted to go to trial instead of pleading to a lesser charge that either started their criminal record or added to their criminal record. Going to trial meant repeatedly showing up for court dates. And there was always the chance that the judge would punish you for going to trial and give you the stiffest sentence recommended by the prosecutor if you were found guilty. The system quickly corroded my soul and I became disenchanted with the lofty notions of justice that I had once held. I had also had enough of the jangle of keys in jails, the smell of the human cages, and the lunch trays — sad and gray or brown, mute witnesses to those who came and went through those bars as well as to the many who would be back. I did not want more clients offering to share their lunch with me while I spoke to them about their case in a cage. Most people go through life having to never encounter the criminal justice system or know what it is like to be incarcerated or to be in a family where you are forever hustling for money to pay for someone’s bail or lawyer. The system is a murky mire — even a quicksand — for young black men. For George Floyd, like so many others, it was an early grave. I am so proud of my friend and brother, Keith Ellison, who stepped up to the plate, dug in his heels, and did the best possible job he ever could realizing that this was a now-or-never moment in his life. It’s as if he had been preparing for this moment his whole life. There could not be a more perfect murder at the hands of a police officer, there could not be a better documented murder at the hands of a police officer, to expose systemic racism. Seeing Derek Chauvin being handcuffed and then swiftly led away to jail marks a turning point in America that begins in Minnesota. Minnesota lost one of its best sons, the former vice-president, Walter Mondale, recently. Jane Mayer’s remembrance in The New Yorker highlights how he spoke the hard truth and how that cost him the election. Mondale was also the first man to choose a woman as a running mate in his bid for president of the United States of America. Now, we have for the first time in the history of the US — from Minnesota — a jury that spoke the hard truth to begin the process of setting things right. A Minnesota jury is the first to find a white police officer guilty of murdering a black man with impunity. This accountability gives us a ray of hope that justice is perhaps still attainable. If this moment is not grasped and appropriate reforms not undertaken to prevent police brutality and racially-motivated murders, America may be headed for the worst unrest it has ever seen. The author is a former public defender in Minnesota||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
30-04-2021||Opinion||Shared suffering||Every Indian that I follow on Twitter has been tweeting about the Covid-19 crisis in recent weeks. All we can see on our timelines are tweets asking for oxygen supply, for information regarding hospital beds, retweeted messages for friends and strangers alike and much more — all related to the pandemic. We saw the chilling report by BBC’s Yogita Limaye from Delhi in which we could feel the helplessness of coronavirus patients as well as of their families. Those visuals of people breathing their last breath or family members pleading to get hospital beds were extremely distressing. Another report showed how a Muslim cemetery in Delhi is running out of space; it is receiving 35-40 bodies every day as opposed to 8-10 bodies before the second wave hit India. Reports also show how crematoriums are facing the same situation as they, too, have been overwhelmed. News from across the border is horrendous. One cannot help but feel as if this is one of the greatest global catastrophes to have hit the world. As the situation in India kept getting bleaker and bleaker, Pakistanis expressed solidarity with their Indian brethren. From trending hashtags like #IndiaNeedsOxygen and #PakistanStandsWithIndia, Pakistanis have sent their prayers across the border. Last Saturday, Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted his support for India in its fight against the coronavirus. Pakistan’s foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, tweeted that Pakistan has officially offered relief and support to India. It shows that even if the ties between the two countries may not be ideal, when it comes to humanity, everything else is set aside as it should be. We saw some heartwarming stories as well during the current crisis. Ashish K. Singh, an Indian journalist, recently tweeted whether any of his friends in Pakistan could “pay an obeisance at Data Darbaar” for him, his wife and his friends suffering from coronavirus. Data Darbaar, located in Lahore, is the largest Sufi shrine in South Asia. The same day, some journalists in Pakistan got it done. One of the Pakistani journalists, Ghulam Abbas Shah, arranged prayers for Ashish and his family not just at Lahore’s Data Darbaar but also at the Abdullah Shah Ghazi shrine in Karachi and Baba Farid Ganjshakar’s shrine in Pakpattan. Such gestures show that despite the tensions and animosity between the two neighbours, the people of these countries will always rise to the occasion, helping each other out when the time comes. It gives one hope that we can rise above politics when it matters. The solidarity between the people of India and Pakistan at this moment of grave crisis is quite amazing. At a time when India is facing a deadly second wave of the coronavirus, Pakistan is facing its third Covid-19 wave. This wave is turning out to be quite lethal. Things in Pakistan are not as bad as they are in India but if we don’t control the situation now, matters will get to a point where we will also run out of hospital beds and oxygen. The government has warned of this on several occasions. It is unfortunate that many people still refuse to follow SOPs like wearing a mask. We may need stricter lockdowns or complete lockdowns in cities with high positivity rates. On Wednesday, Pakistan reported 201 deaths, the highest since the pandemic broke in the country last year. The positivity rate was above 10 per cent. Army troops have been deployed in 16 cities where the positivity rate has reached dangerous levels to ensure the enforcement of coronavirus SOPs. The situation in Pakistan is getting worse. Examinations, too, have been cancelled given the rise in the cases. The vaccination drive in the country is slow. Only about one per cent of the country’s population has been vaccinated so far. According to a report by Afshan Subohi in the newspaper, Dawn, if Pakistan continues its vaccination drive at this rate, “it will take more than three years to cover 20 [per cent] of the country’s population”. While the government’s vaccination drive is slow due to procurement issues, even the private sector has not been able to purchase enough vaccines. I am one of the lucky ones who were able to get the vaccine earlier this month. I got my second jab just this week. While some of us have been fully vaccinated, it will take a couple of years before 60-70 per cent of the country’s adult population is vaccinated. Two years is a long time. We have already spent a year battling the pandemic and things are not looking good even now. Our economy has already suffered a lot, many people have lost their jobs, the healthcare system will collapse if cases keep increasing at this rate. This pandemic has taken the lives of our loved ones or of people we know. If we don’t speed up our vaccination process, the country will suffer even more. What is happening in India makes it even more pertinent for us to realize that this virus can lead to unimaginable consequences. One of the key reasons why the former US president, Donald Trump, lost the elections last year was because of his government’s mishandling of the coronavirus. In India, too, the Narendra Modi government has gravely mishandled the pandemic. At a time when coronavirus cases were increasing with each passing hour in India, the visuals of Amit Shah and others campaigning in West Bengal made one wonder whether politics is so ruthless a business that it does not care about saving human lives. People must hold their public representatives accountable for such shameless disregard for human life. After all, they were elected to protect the lives of their peoples. On another note, reports indicate a thaw is expected soon between India and Pakistan. Fahd Husain in Dawn recently wrote an interesting report on India-Pakistan relations. As per Husain’s information from Pakistan’s official quarters, “India approached Pakistan in December 2020 with an offer to reduce tension and offered backchannel talks on all outstanding issues, including Jammu and Kashmir, and Pakistan reciprocated favourably”. So it seems that a backchannel dialogue between the two nuclear neighbours has indeed started, which is what led to the ceasefire agreement on the Line of Control back in February. Rumours of cricket diplomacy are also doing the rounds — only time and circumstances will tell whether anything would materialize or not but this is a good beginning. War should never be an option for either side. If there is one thing that the coronavirus pandemic has taught us, that is the world needs to invest more heavily in the healthcare sector. We need to understand that hostilities between India and Pakistan will only lead to more bloodshed. Peace should not remain elusive. In fact, it should be sought. We hope and pray that India comes out of this health emergency soon. And we hope and pray that Pakistan does not have to witness anything similar. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
