01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab governor says farm laws don't address farmers' stagnating income problem||The Budget session of the Punjab Assembly began on a stormy note with opposition Akali Dal and AAP raising slogans during the address by the Governor, who said the new central farm laws do not address the problem of farmers' "stagnating incomes".The Governor’s address customarily reflects the stand of the state government. In Punjab, the Congress government has backed the farmers’ agitation against the three new laws.But the Shiromani Akali Dal, criticised Governor V P Singh Badnore for not sending for the President’s consideration the Bills passed by the state Assembly last year to "counter" the laws.SAD members led by Bikram Singh Majithia came to the well of the House, shouted slogans and hurled papers in the air as the Governor began his address. They continued raising slogans during the almost 20-minute-long speech of the Governor.Aam Aadmi Party members also shouted slogans against the state government for its alleged failure in keeping its poll promises.Addressing the House, the Punjab Governor said, "My government is fully alive to the concerns of the farmers in the State as they are the pivot of the state's economy. We will not let the farmers and the farm workers suffer in any manner."Badnore said the Asssembly members are aware of the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“Thereafter, the agitation against three new farm laws enacted by the Government of India led to quite an unprecedented situation in the state,” said Badnore.The Governor said though the pandemic is presently under control, the farmers' agitation and its resultant effect on the farming communities is causing a "lot of anxiety" among the common man.Badnore said farmers feel that the new legislations enacted by the Centre do not address their concerns of "stagnating incomes" as a result of saturating productivity."They apprehend that these laws would disrupt the time-tested agriculture marketing systems established under the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961. There are also apprehensions about the dismantling of the government procurement of foodgrain at the minimum support price (MSP)," said Badnore.The Governor said his government had taken these concerns of farmers seriously. The House passed three amendment legislations to mitigate the anticipated adverse impact of the Central laws, he said."These legislations are pending for the Presidential assent under Article 254 of the Constitution," he said."My government strongly feels that the enactment of these three central laws is against the principles of cooperative federalism as agriculture is a state subject under entry 14 of List II of Schedule 7 of the Constitution," he said."The state chief minister has time and again urged the prime minister to reconsider these laws, concede to the demand of farmers and withdraw these new central legislations," said Badnore.On Covid-19, the governor stated that the pandemic has been contained but this should not be a reason to be complacent."My government shall continue to exercise due care and caution to prevent the resurgence of this virus in near future," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-governor-says-farm-laws-don-t-address-farmers-stagnating-income-problem-101614610003369.html
01-03-2021||India||Not afraid of coronavirus, won't take jabs: Farmer leaders in vulnerable age group||Protesting farmer leaders in the vulnerable age group Monday said they are not afraid of coronavirus and won't take vaccine jabs, even as the second phase of vaccination drive got underway to inoculate senior citizens and those above 45 with underlying medical conditions.However, they also said they will not stop any farmer camping at several Delhi borders from getting vaccinated as it is an individual choice.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over three months, demanding a repeal of the three agri reform laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The 80-year-old armer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, a senior member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the agitation, said he will not go to vaccination centres to receive the jabs."I don't need vaccine jabs. We have killed corona. Farmers’ immunity level is strong because they work hard on their fields. Farmers are not afraid of coronavirus,” Rajewal told PTI.Another senior leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan (75) said the fear of contracting the disease is "not enough" to distract them from their fight."There is no corona for farmers. I will not get vaccine shots, but we will not ask anyone to not get the shot," said the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), which is leading the protest at Delhi's Tikri border.However, Dharmendra Malik, the media in-charge of Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait who is leading the protest at the Ghazipur border, said if the local administration makes arrangements for protesting farmers, Tikait will not have any problem getting vaccinated.The 70-year-old Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said he will not receive the vaccine shot."We are not afraid of coronavirus. Thousands of farmers are staging sit-in protests at Delhi borders, but not a single case of coronavirus has been detected there," Sandhu said.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the AIIMS here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated.“Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19," he tweeted."I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free!" Modi said.The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began on Monday in the country.In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi.On Monday, the drive began to give jabs to persons aged 60 and above, and those in 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-afraid-of-coronavirus-won-t-take-jabs-farmer-leaders-in-vulnerable-age-group-101614602073483.html
01-03-2021||India||Modi govt worked for farmers unlike farm leaders who paid lip service: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda counted Central schemes launched for farmers and said that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government did a lot for the farmers, the community leaders only paid lip service to their cause. Nadda’s statement came after the inauguration of BJP’s offices in the Kashi and Prayag Raj regions, on Sunday, taking the party's district offices in the state to 53, out of these, 51 were built in the year 2019.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government did a lot of work in the interest of farmers and launched several schemes for them, while the farmer leaders did only lip service. They did nothing for the farmers; while PM Modi gave honor to the farmers and worked to bring them into mainstream,” Nadda said before naming PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, PM Kisan Bima Yojana soil health card etc among initiatives taken for the farmers’ welfare.“When BJP leader and parliamentarian from Kashi, Narendra Modi, became the Prime Minister in 2014, he expressed a desire that you people have to expand the party. Our party organisation used to run from two rooms. Now, the party has expanded and the BJP formed the government on its own by winning maximum seats. Therefore, the party should have its offices in every district of the country and there should be arrangements for party workers to function,” said Nadda, explaining the party’s expansion drive.Nadda said the party's target was to build 700 party offices in the country, out of which, 400 have been built. He said out of the 80 BJP offices to be built in UP, 53 BJP have been built and the remaining 27 will be built by 2021. These offices, Nadda said, will be a medium for the party workers to inculcate quality values.Nadda said that the party office was equipped with all digital facilities, including e-library, conference hall, and video conferencing hall, however, it was only a hardware, which needed the software of party workers to gather new information and impart new vision and direction to the society, while working for the party’s development.Also Read: Kashi BJP gets hi-tech office, Nadda calls it 'medium' for best quality valuesHe claimed that since the BJP was working to carry the country forward, therefore, those with the opportunity to work in the BJP were lucky.“In India, all the national parties became regional parties. All political parties, including Indian National Congress, became the parties of families. But this is the BJP that turned into a family. That is why this is a matter of great fortune to work in the BJP,” Nadda said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and several ministers of his cabinet were present in the inauguration ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-worked-for-farmers-unlike-farmer-leaders-who-paid-lip-service-nadda-101614578678617.html
01-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Traffic remains diverted due to farmers' protest at Delhi borders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi bordersSeveral borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. Read MoreRecord global food prices benefit Indian farmers, but stoke inflation fearsGlobal food prices rose for an eighth consecutive month in January to their highest level since July 2014. Read MoreIndia kicks off 2nd phase of Covid-19 vaccination; Co-Win registration from 9amIndia has begun inoculating its elderly citizens against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the second phase of the world’s largest vaccination drive on Monday. Read MoreFrom 1st Covid-19 patient, a call to dispel stigmaWhen Rohit Dutta landed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport on February 25, all he was looking forward to was his 12-year-old son’s birthday party in three days. Read More'All the moaning and groaning has got to stop': Viv Richards says India have pushed England out of 'comfort zone'Former West Indies captain Viv Richards has weighed in on the debate surrounding the pitch on which the third Test match. Read MoreGolden Globes 2021 live: Emma Corrin wins Best Actress Drama for playing Princess Diana on The CrownThe Golden Globes 2021 awards will be handed out under pandemic conditions on Monday. Read MoreGolden Globes 2021: The glam was back at the award show, albeit at a distanceGlam was back for the Golden Globes virtual, bicoastal awards night Sunday as nominees Zoomed in from around the world and, for Leslie Odom Jr. Read More'Are you terrorists?': Kejriwal blames BJP for Red Fort chaos, backs farm stirDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal visited Uttar Pradesh's Meerut on February 28. The Aam Aadmi Party chief addressed a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat'. A.A.P. is setting its sights on Uttar Pradesh ahead of 2022 elections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-traffic-remains-diverted-due-to-farmers-protest-at-delhi-borders-and-all-the-latest-news-101614566137959.html
01-03-2021||NA||Highlights: Representatives of Dalit Panchayats pledge to support farm stir||Farmers’ unions representatives protesting at Delhi’s borders for more than three months have shown no signs of withdrawing their agitation. The protests which have entered its 93rd day on Sunday continue as no new dates for discussions between the government and farmers’ unions have been declared.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union will travel to the southern states of Telangana and Karnataka to garner support for the repeal of the farm laws. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 at Delhi’s borders.Follow LIVE updates here:Follow all the updates here:Didn't call for any milk price hike, says Samyukta Kisan MorchaThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha clarified on Sunday that it did not put out any call for boycotting milk sales between March 1-5 by farmers or hiking of the price later on. This comes after 'khap panchayat' (community council) in Haryana's Hisar urged dairy farmers to sell milk at ₹100 per litre to government cooperative societies in protest against the farm laws and increased fuel prices.Representatives of Dalit Panchayats pledge to support farmers' agitationRepresentatives of numerous Dalit Panchayats on Sunday came together to pledge their support to the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's three new farm laws. The representatives added that they and the farmers would unitedly fight against the laws till they are withdrawn.Centre waived 8 crore loan of industrialists in the last few years: KejriwalOver the last few years, the Centre waived 8 crore loan of industrialists. I ask centre, why you can't you do the same for farmers. They can do it but they don't want, Kejriwal said in Meerut.Our farmers can be anything but not traitors: Kejriwal"These protesting farmers have faced water cannons. Such atrocities were not meted out during the British rule. And now, false cases are being slapped on protesters. The entire Red Fort episode was managed by Centre, they misguided the farmers who did not know Delhi roads, " said Kejriwal."Our farmers can be anything but not traitors. They have faced sedition charges, it's like they are traitors. One son of the country is defending country's borders, the other is at the border of Delhi," he also said.Centre cheated the farmers: Kejriwal"Before polls, BJP said it will implement Swaminathan report. The BJP won election with huge mandate, but within three years of winning the polls, they filed an affidavit in Supreme Court saying won't be able to pay MSP. This is how they have cheated the farmers," says Arcing Kejriwal attacking the central government.Farm laws are like death warrants for farmers: Kejriwal"The three "farm laws are like death warrants for farmers, it's the mater of life and death for them," says Kejriwal. "These laws will give the crop to a few of Modi's friends. The farmers will become a slave in his own fields. That's why they are fighting for their right; it's a do-or-die situation for them," he also said.Every party and government has cheated farmers: KejriwalEvery party and government has cheated these farmers. Farmers have been demanding the right price for his crop for the last 70 years. Every party's manifesto promises to offer right price for the produce, but none of them fulfilled those promises," said Kejriwal. "If that would have been the case, no farmer would have committed suicide," he added."Farmers want laon waiver; parties make promises but after elections, they say there's no money," he also said.3.5 lakh farmers have committed suicide in last 25 yearsEven after 3 months of protests, 'Centre has done nothing': KejriwalToday, the farmers of our country is unhappy. It's been more than 90 days that they have been protesting near Delhi along with her family. Nobody likes to protest in these conditions, says Kejriwal in Meerut Kisan Mahapanchayat"More than 250 farmers have died in these 3 months, but the Centre has done nothing," he also said.Kejriwal to address 'Kisan Mahapanchayat'AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal to address 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Meerut shortly.Tejashwi Yadav says govt has not spoken on the plight of farmersकरो युवाओं के मान की बातबेरोजगारों के #JobKiBaatजवानों और किसानों के हित की बातजनतंत्र में जन, जन की ज़रूरतों, परेशानियों, #JobKiBaat एवं #KisanKiBaat की बात ही नहीं हो रही। बात हो रही है तो बस असल मुद्दों और जन सरोकारों से ध्यान भटकाने वाले सत्ताधीशों के मन की बात।The RJD leader without taking the name of the Prime Minister, said that government needs to speak of welfare of youth and farmers.Kisan Ekta Morcha asks farmers to continue protests95 days of Farmers Protest, still the situation stands inconclusive. PM; so busy, No Time To Meet The Protesting FarmersFight for the Right#3MonthsOfDelhiProtestKisan Ekta Morcha says farmers should continue their protests and said that the Prime Minister should make time to meet protesting farmers' unions.Khap leader from Shamli expresses support for Kejriwal's rallyहम @ArvindKejriwal जी का धन्यवाद करते है जिन्होंने किसान आंदोलन में बिजली-पानी देकर किसानों की मदद की है।हम मेरठ में होने वाली किसान महापंचायत में भी बढ़ चढ़ कर हिस्सा लेंगे- मुख्य चौ. धर्मवीर, निर्वाल खाप, शामली pic.twitter.com/d2dqBSTSHnA Khap leader from UP expressed his support for the Kisan rally while extending his gratitude towards Delhi CM Kejriwal for providing electricity and clean water to agitating farmers at Delhi's borders.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi issues fresh challenge to the Prime Ministerहिम्मत है तो करो-#KisanKiBaat #JobKiBaatCongress MP from Wayanad dared the PM to address farmers issues and the rising rate of unemployment hours ahead of Prime Minister's monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat.BKU Ekta Ugrahan says govt not paying attention to plight of farmersIts been 95 days our farmers are protesting for their rights. PM of the country don't care about its own citizens! Shame!#3MonthsOfDelhiProtest pic.twitter.com/1UPPkMxvP7The farmer union said that Prime Minister is not caring for the farmers' agitation.AAP to conduct Mahapanchayat in UPमेरठ की ऐतिहासिक धरती पर आम आदमी पार्टी की होगी किसान महापंचायत-दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal किसानों के हक़ में आवाज़ बुलंद करेंगे।तारीख - 28 फरवरीशहर - मेरठ, उत्तर प्रदेश pic.twitter.com/R7gJgSVQEJDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to extend his support to agitating farmers, to hold Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-live-feb-28-2021-mahapanchayat-rakesh-tikait-kejriwal-bku-delhi-border-pm-modi-narendra-tomar-rahul-gandhi-bku-101614476080053.html
01-03-2021||India||Not afraid of coronavirus, won't take jabs: Farmer leaders in vulnerable age group||Protesting farmer leaders in the vulnerable age group Monday said they are not afraid of coronavirus and won't take vaccine jabs, even as the second phase of vaccination drive got underway to inoculate senior citizens and those above 45 with underlying medical conditions.However, they also said they will not stop any farmer camping at several Delhi borders from getting vaccinated as it is an individual choice.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over three months, demanding a repeal of the three agri reform laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The 80-year-old armer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, a senior member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the agitation, said he will not go to vaccination centres to receive the jabs."I don't need vaccine jabs. We have killed corona. Farmers’ immunity level is strong because they work hard on their fields. Farmers are not afraid of coronavirus,” Rajewal told PTI.Another senior leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan (75) said the fear of contracting the disease is "not enough" to distract them from their fight."There is no corona for farmers. I will not get vaccine shots, but we will not ask anyone to not get the shot," said the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), which is leading the protest at Delhi's Tikri border.However, Dharmendra Malik, the media in-charge of Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait who is leading the protest at the Ghazipur border, said if the local administration makes arrangements for protesting farmers, Tikait will not have any problem getting vaccinated.The 70-year-old Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said he will not receive the vaccine shot."We are not afraid of coronavirus. Thousands of farmers are staging sit-in protests at Delhi borders, but not a single case of coronavirus has been detected there," Sandhu said.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the AIIMS here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated.“Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19," he tweeted."I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free!" Modi said.The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began on Monday in the country.In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi.On Monday, the drive began to give jabs to persons aged 60 and above, and those in 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-afraid-of-coronavirus-won-t-take-jabs-farmer-leaders-in-vulnerable-age-group-101614602073483.html
