08-03-2021||Delhi||Entry, exit at Delhi metro stations between Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on green line shut||The entry and exit at several Delhi metro stations, near the Tikri border where farmers have been protesting against farm laws, on the green line was closed on Monday. “Security Update Entry/exit gates of stations from Tikri Kalan to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh on green line are closed,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a tweet.While there was no reason cited by the DMRC, it may be noted that on the occasion of International Women’s Day, women farmers, students and activists turned up in huge numbers at the Tikri border near Delhi to extend their support to agitators who have been at the site for over 100 days now.According to news agency PTI, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers take centre stage, who are a “big but unrecognised” part of the farming community.Kavita Kurugranthy, who is also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told PTI that to mark women’s day, they will take the stage and address the farmers too. “And there will be a small march at Singhu border, the details for which will be shared later. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites,” she told PTI.The demonstrators want a repeal of the three laws enacted by the government in September last year to facilitate free farm trade. The farmers, however, say that the legislation will hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. Multiple rounds of talks between the central leadership and farmers have failed to break the deadlock as the government has ruled a complete roll back and offered to make amendments but farmers are adamant on their demand.Meanwhile, farm union leader Rakesh Tikait is holding kisan panchayats in several states across the nation. He will be in Madhya Pradesh on Monday where farmers have warned that they will intensify their agitation if the Bharatiya Kisan Union BKU national leader is arrested in connection with a previous case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/entry-exit-at-delhi-metro-stations-between-tikri-kalan-to-brigadier-hoshiar-singh-on-green-line-shut-101615185486456.html
08-03-2021||India||Women protesters join ongoing stir demanding repeal of 'black laws'||Thousands of women farmers, students and activists are gathering at Tikri border near Delhi where a protest has been going on against the Centre's three farm laws. These women will take part in the protest on International Women's Day on Monday."We urge the central government to roll back the three black laws," said a woman protester who reached Tikri border on Monday morning. The women protesters will be present at other border points too - Ghazipur and Singhu.International Women's Day (IWD) celebrates the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. It also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity.“To celebrate Women's Day, the stage will be managed by women, and the speakers too will be women. And there will be a small march at Singhu border. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites,” farmer leader Kavita Kurugranthy, also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told news agency PTI on Sunday.The SKM said it expects 15,000 women protesters at Tikri and 4,000 at Singhu on Monday.The farmers have been protesting near Delhi demanding withdrawal of the laws passed in September. The agitation, launched on November 26 last year, has completed 100 days but the farmers have vowed to continue "as long as it takes" for the Centre to listen to their demands.The government has promised to put these laws on hold for 18 months, and have also held 11 rounds of talks with the farmers but no breakthrough has been achieved. The farmers have said they won't ened their protest until the laws are withdrawn.The government on its past has times and again said that these laws are histric and will benefit the small farmers. One of the key changes these laws offer is freedom to farmers to sell their produce other than notified marketplaxces (mandis). The protesters say this will end the minimum support price (MSP) system, thereby putting them at the mercy of big corporate houses.The Centre has assured that the MSP will continue, but the farmers want a legal guarantee on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-women-s-day-women-protesters-join-ongoing-stir-demanding-repeal-of-black-laws-101615179795592.html
