15-03-2021||India||Rajnath Singh urges for dialogue between government, protesting farmers||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday urged dialogue between the protesting farmers and the Centre while addressing a meeting of BJP office-bearers, during which he also invoked the border clashes with China and the construction of the Ram temple.Making an appeal to farmers upset over the new agri-marketing laws, the senior BJP leader said any problem can be resolved through talks."The BJP resolve is to double the farmers’ income, and in no case the MSP will end,” he said, referring to the apprehension among farmers camping at Delhi’s borders for months now.“We are all from farmers' families and we are ready for amendments and solutions, whatever is needed in the interest of agriculture," Singh said at the inaugural meeting of the Uttar Pradesh BJP executive committee.He highlighted the role of grassroots workers in the Bharatiya Janata Party and said this was the only party which has not seen a split so far.“This is not a crowd of workers aiming to gain power but a lively party which has a political vision,” he said.He referred to the recently begun construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, after the historic verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute."People used to say that whenever elections come, BJP leaders speak about construction of the Ram temple,” he said, referring to the foundation laying ceremony last year.“It is a coincidence that when the structure fell in Ayodhya, there was a BJP government in UP, and Kalyan Singh was the chief minister. And when the foundation stone for construction of the Ram temple was laid, there was a BJP government in UP, and Yogi ji was the chief minister," Singh said alluding to the demolition of the Babri mosque, and the more recent development.On the face-off with China in Ladakh last year, the minister said, "Our Army jawans displayed courage and valour with patience. We don’t wish to attack anyone but will not tolerate the grabbing of our land."He said no power on earth can stop India from becoming a global superpower.Singh claimed that in the 2022 UP Assembly elections the BJP will get more seats than its 2017 tally.Addressing party workers, he said they cannot complain of any injustice to them by the party, though there can be “delays”Giving his own example, Singh said he did not make any demands from the party and just kept working. "We are lucky that we got an opportunity to become BJP worker," he added."Credibility is the biggest capital in politics,” he said, giving the example of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Be it the abrogation of Article 370, triple talaq or bhoomi pujan for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, there has been no doubt over our credibility. We do not indulge in politics of caste or religion, but that of humanity," he said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-urges-for-dialogue-between-government-protesting-farmers-101615808267969.html
15-03-2021||Viral||Grammys 2021: YouTuber Lilly Singh wears ‘I stand with farmers’ mask, posts pics||YouTube star Lilly Singh showed her solidarity with the farmers' protest in India by wearing a mask with the words "I stand with farmers" written on it at the Grammy Award ceremony. Taking to Instagram, she shared pictures of herself in the mask along with a caption explaining why she chose the event to wear it.“I know red carpet/award show pictures always get the most coverage, so here you go media. Feel free to run with it,” Singh wrote while sharing the pictures. Her post is complete with two hashtags #IStandWithFarmers and #Grammys.A post shared by Lilly Singh (@lilly)Lilly Singh has over 9.6 million followers on Instagram. Within two hours of being shared, the post has collected over 88,000 likes.This, however, isn’t Singh’s first post related to the ongoing farmers’ protest in India. On multiple occasions, she has replied to people showing their support for the protest through social media posts. Just like her response to a solidarity tweet by singer Rihanna.Yes! Thank you so much @rihanna. This is a humanity issue! #IStandWithFarmers and this narrative is TIRED. ❤️ https://t.co/H0h5EM7mNWSince November 2020, the farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are camping at Delhi’s borders demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws passed by the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/grammys-2021-youtuber-lilly-singh-wears-i-stand-with-farmers-mask-posts-pics-101615786008179.html
15-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ghazipur border reopens for traffic after 48 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Ghazipur border reopens for traffic after 48 daysVehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad through Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was restored after Sunday midnight, as the police opened one carriageway that had remained closed for the past 48 days due to the farmers’ protest and the violence that took place during their tractor rally on Republic Day. Read moreDelhi’s air quality in poor category; likely to remain so till March 17Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 201. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 209. Read moreIndia’s inoculation drive now second largest in worldWith 1.26 million doses of vaccines administered on average every day in the last week, India’s inoculation drive is now the world’s second largest – both in terms of daily doses being administered as well as total jabs administered – and is now behind only the US, which is administering 2.5 million doses a day. Read moreRain likely over western Himalayan region till March 18: IMDWidespread rain or snow is likely over the western Himalayan region from today till Thursday [March 18], according to India Meteorological Department. Read more‘Made a promise’: CM Kejriwal flags off work on sewer lines in Kirari, MundkaDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday flagged off work on a sewer project slated to cover 114 unauthorised colonies and six villages across Kirari and Mundka assembly constituencies in the northwestern periphery of the Capital. Read more'Had a special chat with AB de Villiers before this game': Kohli reveals ABD's advice, explains Anushka's roleJust when the noise regarding Virat Kohli's form was beginning to grow loud, The India captain silenced his detractors with a timely half-century. Kohli notched up his 26th T20I fifty on Sunday during the second match against England, and did what he does best – successfully shepherding a chase for India that helped the home team to level the series after the crushing defeat on Friday. Read moreGovinda says Bollywood conspired against him, reveals he's lost ₹16 crore: 'Apne bhi paraaye ho jaate hain'Actor Govinda has said that a conspiracy has been hatched against him by certain sections of the film industry. He said that he has been deliberately sidelined, which has resulted in financial losses for him. Read moreDid you know birthday girl Alia Bhatt has Kashmiri, Gujarati, German roots?There is no disputing the fact that among the young crop of actors, Alia Bhatt stands tall. At 28, she already boasts of having featured in some of the most memorable films of her generation. Read moreGrammy Awards 2021: From Billie Eilish to Kanye West, a complete list of winnersThe 63rd Annual Grammy Awards were delayed owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The annual show shifted from its original January 31 broadcast to March 14. The ceremony honours musical artists, compositions and albums across 84 categories. Read moreWatch: Falcon & Winter Soldier: Kari Skogland on Marvel's 'politically charged' show||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ghazipur-border-reopens-for-traffic-after-48-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101615776300116.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Ghazipur border reopens for traffic movement, tweet Delhi Traffic Police||Delhi’s Ghazipur border, closed due to farmers’ protests against the Centre’s agricultural legislation, reopened on Monday for traffic movement for commuters coming to and from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, the police said. “Traffic Alert. Gazipur Border, Delhi to Gazipur is open for traffic movement,” they tweeted.“In view of prevailing law and order situation at the Ghazipur border and considering public convenience, the carriageway of NH-24 going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi has been opened after consultation with police officials of Ghaziabad district, Uttar Pradesh,” the police were quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Traffic AlertGazipur Border, Delhi to Gazipur is open for traffic movement.COVID PRECAUTIONS :WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENEApart from reopening briefly on a few days, traffic on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed fully or partially as agitators have been demonstrating at the sites since late November last year against the three farm laws.As the UP border was closed, commuters were advised by the Delhi Police to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi-Noida Chilla border, however, was open for commute on both carriageways. The entry and exit points between the national capital and neighbouring Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continued to remain closed.Farmers have been protesting at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu for more than 100 days now. While the farmers are demanding a repeal of the new agricultural legislation, the government has ruled out the complete rollback and has offered to make amendments. The protesters, however, have vowed to continue camping at the borders till the laws are taken back. Several rounds of talks between the central leadership and farmers' union leaders have failed to break the deadlock over the legislation.As the matter reached the Supreme Court, it has put on hold the implementation of the three laws that were cleared during the Monsoon Session last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghazipur-border-reopens-for-traffic-movement-tweets-delhi-police-101615776062667.html
15-03-2021||Delhi||Don’t build permanent structures at protest site: SKM||The farmers’ collective Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday called on farmers to stop constructing permanent structures at sites where they were protesting the Centre’s farm laws.The protesters had been building shelters using bamboo, tin, plywood and even bricks at the Tikri and Singhu borders over the last two weeks to beat the summer heat and rain.On Saturday, Kundli police had registered two FIRs against farmers for constructing brick and mortar houses and digging borewell along the highway at Kundli on the complaint of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).“On March 12, 32 Punjab farmer unions decided that protesters should not get into building any permanent structures at the protest sites. This decision was taken against the backdrop of some such structures coming up at Singhu border,” said SKM leader Darshan Pal on Sunday.At many of these structures, protesters had installed air conditioners, refrigerators, fans and coolers.“The building material was crowd-sourced from villages or bought from nearby stores,” said Kishan Pal Singh, 47, a farmer from Jind in Haryana. “We have seen people questioning us on social media for using fans and coolers. It is sad that they are more concerned about this than the deaths of 200 farmers in the agitation.”Anil Malik, 41, leader of Kisan Social Army that has been volunteering at the Tikri protest site, said farmers had no idea how long the 109 days old agitation would continue.“If it had been a matter of 10-20 days, we could have stayed on the roads. We have elderly protesters and many are at risk of heat stroke. Plus, there is the rain,” said Malik who is from Chakhi Dadri in Haryana. “If our leaders have asked us not to build any structure, we will respect that. But they have to suggest alternatives.”SKM’s media coordinator Harinder Singh said that they would come up with temporary arrangements. “We are thinking of having more tents or temporary bamboo structures as trolleys are not suitable for these weather conditions,” said Singh.Farmers at the protest sites said along with the heat, the dust and mosquito menace added to the woes of staying in the open.Through the protest’s trilingual weekly Trolley Times, volunteers and youth activists at Tikri border had also given the call for architects and designers to submit eco-friendly low-cost summer houses for farmers sitting at the protest spot last month.Suchetna Singh, 26, an architect who hails from Ludhiana and has been in Delhi for two years, was among those who volunteered to design these low-cost structures for the farmers. “We had to keep in mind that these structures could be disassembled and taken back to the villages if needed. Many farmers had already made their own structures using their knowledge and experience and those who were still building one came to us and asked for inputs on if we could make it easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-build-permanent-structures-at-protest-site-skm-101615747370016.html
