21-03-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi likely to address 'kisan panchayat' in 5 eastern UP districts after Holi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is likely to address 'kisan panchayat' in five eastern Uttar Pradesh districts after Holi, taking the fight against the Centre's new farm laws to the home turf of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.Priyanka Gandhi is likely to begin her programme in eastern Uttar Pradesh next month with a visit to the famous Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi, state party spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI on Sunday."Five rallies are proposed in Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Gorakhpur, Mirzapur and Allahabad," he said.Singh said the party general secretary's visit will enthuse cadres ahead of the panchayat election and the 2022 assembly polls."The party will be contesting the panchayat elections and will put up a good show at the grassroots level," he claimed.Priyanka Gandhi has so far addressed 'kisan panchayat' (farmers' meet) in western Uttar Pradesh against the Centre's farm laws.Addressing a 'kisan panchayat' in Saharanpur on February 10, Priyanka Gandhi had attacked the Centre and said the if voted to power, the Congress would scrap the farm laws.She had also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of "insulting" farmers protesting against the laws."These three laws were drafted in such a way that government 'mandis' will eventually close down, farmers will not get MSP (minimum support price) for their crops and there will be hoarding," she had said.Singh said the party has been staging agitation highlighting the plight of the common pople in the state."UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu was arrested for raising issues concerning people. A large number of Congress workers were sent to jail. The Congress has stood with the people, be it during the Covid-19 pandemic or the Hathras rape-and-murder case. We did not move back even an inch," he said, claiming that the people are looking at the Congress as an alternative now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-likely-to-address-kisan-panchayat-in-5-eastern-up-districts-after-holi-101616319948659.html
21-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says government wants to 'snatch' farmers' future via farm laws||Stepping up his attack on the BJP-led Centre over the three new farms laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the government wants to snatch the income and future of farmers for the benefit of a few top businessmen in the country.He was addressing a function in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur to disburse cash benefit to farmers and cattle-rearers under the two schemes of the state government through a recorded video-message in Hindi."What we had promised to farmers, we have fulfilled it today. You know the government of India is heading on some other path. It has brought three farm laws against the farmers. The central government wanted to snatch the income and future of farmers and hand it over to two-three big businessmen," he said without naming anyone.Hailing the Bhupesh Baghel-led dispensation in Chhattisgarh, Gandhi said he is happy that his party's governments in Chhattisgarh and other states are walking on the path of supporting farmers, labourers, small businessmen, youth and women.Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over demonetisation and GST rollout, Gandhi said, "Narendra Modiji's government implemented 'notebandi' and GST, and today you can see that India has failed to create employment."In contrast, the Chhattisgarh government extended support to farmers and strengthened the rural economy, he said."We pumped in money into the rural economy and therefore, Chhattisgarh has not been facing any trouble (during the coronavirus crises), which is being faced by other states," he added.On the occasion, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel transferred ₹1,104.27 crore into the accounts of 18.43 lakh farmers as the fourth and last instalment of Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana (for kharif and rabi crop year 2019-20).Besides, he also transferred ₹7.55 crore to the accounts of cattle-rearers under the Godhan Nyay Yojana.Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, farmers have been paid a total of ₹5,627.89 crore in four instalments as input support to paddy cultivators and certified seeds growers, a government official said.Under Godhan Nyay Yojna, the state government has been procuring cow dung at ₹2 per kg from cattle-rearers for production of vermi-compost, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-government-wants-to-snatch-farmers-future-via-farm-laws-101616315692027.html
21-03-2021||India||Turn Bengaluru into Delhi, gherao city from all sides, Rakesh Tikait tells farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait urged the farmers agitating against the three farm laws in Bengaluru to organise a protest in the state similar to that of Delhi and gherao the city from all sides, according to news agency ANI."There are lakhs of people gheraoing Delhi. This fight will go on for a long. We need to start such protest in every city until these three black laws are taken back and the law on MSP is not brought. You need to run a protest in Karnataka. A strategy has been made to snatch your land. Big companies will do farming... Labour laws have been amended to employ cheap labour," Tikait said while addressing a farmers' meeting in Shivamogga.Also Read: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic divertedRefuting the government's claim that as a result of these laws, farmers will be able to sell their crops anywhere, Tikait said, "The Prime Minister said farmers can sell crops anywhere so you take your crops to offices of District Collector, SDM and if the police stop you, ask them to buy crops on MSP." Watch | ‘Make Bengaluru like Delhi; gherao city from all sides’: Rakesh Tikait﻿﻿He also said that the farmers needed to raise their voices against the privatisation of the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). "If this agitation is not held, then the country will be sold and you will lose your land in the next 20 years. You need to protest against these companies. Around 26 major PSUs are in process of privatisation. We need to take a pledge to stop this sale. We need to protest against this," he said.Thousands of farmers from various states are protesting in the national Capital against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September last year. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turn-bengaluru-into-delhi-gherao-city-from-all-sides-tikait-tells-farmers-101616292923841.html
21-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to address farmer rally in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Punjab on Sunday in support of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.The AAP, in a statement, said the Kisan Mahapanchayat will be held at Anaj Mandi, Bagha Purana and Moga.Kejriwal will also address a Kisan Mahapanchayat at Huda Maidan in Jind, Haryana on April 4.The chief minister earlier held a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’’s Meerut.“The Aam Aadmi Party has been with the farmers since the beginning. AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will lend his voice to this pertinent issue at tomorrow’’s Kisan Mahapanchayat,” the AAP said.The AAP has extended full support to the farmers protesting against the three farm laws that seek to deregulate farm trade. Kejriwal visited Singhu border, where farmers are protesting, and have reiterated his support to them on a number of occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-punjab-s-moga-101616264496402.html
21-03-2021||India||Cong MPs ‘dissociate’ from Parl panel report||In an unusual move, three Congress MPs have written to the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to “dissociate” themselves from a standing committee’s report that asked the Centre to “implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit”. The three MPs, members of the House panel on food, consumer affairs and public distribution, also alleged that the report was approved in the panel chairman’s absence.Saptagiri Ulaka from Odisha’s Koraput, V Vaithilingam of Puducherry and Kasargod’s Rajmohan Unnithan have written to the Speaker against the Eleventh report of the House panel on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution. The report, titled “Price Rise of Essential Commodities – Causes and Effects”, was adopted on March 18 and presented in Parliament the following day. The panel is headed by Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay. The Congress MPs “completely dissociated” from the panel’s recommendation” to implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit…” The amendments to the ESA are one of the three laws being opposed by many farm unions, the Congress and other opposition parties. The report recommended that “the Government implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit, and without let or hindrances so that the farmers and other stakeholders of farming sector in this country receive the benefits intended under the said Act.”The dissenting MPs maintained that their position “in line with the stand expressed by the Congress Party, where it opposed tooth and nail the implementation of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, as it impinges on federalism, encourages hoarding and black-marketing, and therefore demand its immediate repeal.” Ulaka said he earlier expr-essed his opposition in a meeting in December. Bandopadhyay said the “Trinamool is also opposed to the farm laws” and said the panel suggested that “foodstuffs such as potato, onions and pulses are part of a common man’s daily diet and that lakhs of people who do not get the benefits of Public Distribution System may suffer adversely in the aftermath of the implementation of the new Act..”Senior Congress strategist Jairam Ramesh quoted Ulaka’s letter and said, “MPs of the Congress party did not ask for implementation of the ESA. The Standing Committee Report is a misrepresentation!” TMC floor leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien targeted the BJP for the adoption of the report and tweeted: “This is the BJP cheap ‘n dirty tricks department in action. Con job was done when Chairman of #Parliament Committee was not at meeting. @aitc position on #FarmLaws and Essential Commodities Act well documented. Withdraw draconian laws #FarmersProtest.”The Congress MPs also raised an objection that the report was adopted under “acting chairperson” Ajay “Teni” Misra, a BJP MP from UP. “...I was not present when the Report was adopted as the meeting was called in a short notice of merely 15 hours, on the adoption of a report on the very important subject of ‘Price Rise of Essential Commodities’,” read Ulaka’s letter posted on Twitter. Rejecting the charges, Bandopadhyay said: “There is nothing called as an acting chairperson. The final meeting went for two days—March 17 and 18. One the first day, NC leader Farooq Abdullah chaired the meeting... the report has been adopted properly and all rules have been adhered to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-mps-dissociate-from-parl-panel-report-101616281843998.html
