27-03-2021||India||BJP MLA thrashed by protesting farmers in Punjab, Amarinder Singh condemns incident||A BJP MLA in Punjab was allegedly thrashed and his clothes torn by a group of farmers at Malout in Muktsar district on Saturday, police said.BJP leaders have been facing the ire of farmers for the last several months in the state. Agitating farmers have been opposing the programmes of the saffron party leaders in the state over the farm laws issue.When Abohar legislator Arun Narang reached Malout on Saturday along with local leaders to address a press conference, they were surrounded by a group of protesting farmers and black ink was thrown at them and at their vehicles, officials said.Some police personnel took the MLA and local leaders to a shop. But later when they came out of it, the protesters allegedly thrashed Narang and tore his clothes, police said.Policemen escorting Narang faced a tough time in protecting him from the protesters. The legislator was later escorted to a safe place by the police, officials said.Deputy Superintendent of Police (Malout) Jaspal Singh said the protesters were adamant that they would not allow the BJP legislators to hold the press conference.A video has surfaced on social media, purportedly showing the MLA in torn clothes being shifted to a safer place by the police.Later, Narang told PTI that he was "punched" by some people."I was punched a lot and my clothes were also torn off," he alleged.The BJP legislator said he had gone to Malout to address a press conference but the protesters did not allow it. They got violent and surrounded him, the MLA claimed.Asked whether he has lodged a complaint in this matter, Narang said he will talk to the party leadership over this issue.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh strongly condemned the alleged attack on Narang and also warned of strict action against anyone trying to disturb peace in the state.He urged the farmers not to indulge in such acts of violence, and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently resolve the crisis triggered by the passage of farm laws in parliament last year to prevent the situation from escalating.The chief minister directed the police chief to take strict action against the perpetrators of the incident, who also clashed with the police personnel trying to rescue the legislator.Superintendent of Police (Headquarters), Faridkot, was injured while trying to save and evacuate the MLA. He suffered a cane blow on his head, causing his turban to fall off. He was admitted in Civil Hospital, Malout, the CM said in a statement.The DGP said a criminal case will be registered against the suspects and statements of local BJP leaders were being recorded.Amarinder Singh said while protesting is the democratic right of the farmers, violence of any sorts would not be tolerated.Reacting to the demand for his resignation by Punjab BJP leaders, he said instead of trying to take political mileage from Saturday's incident, they should put pressure on their central leadership to withdraw the contentious farm laws.Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh also strongly condemned the alleged attack on Narang at Malout."It is not only unacceptable, but highly condemnable that an elected representative of the people was mercilessly thrashed in full public view," he said.Darshan Pal, the leader of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers' union spearheading the agitation against the central agri laws, said, "Today, farmers protested against BJP MLA from Abohar. Under adverse circumstances, it turned violent and the MLA was physically assaulted."It is a matter of regret that an elected representative was treated this way. We do not encourage such behaviour. We strongly condemn this act," he said in a statement.Pal also said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha appeals to all protesters to remain peaceful and disciplined.The ruling Congress in Punjab, the BJP, as well as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) condemned the incident.Such "unlawful behaviour" has no place in a democracy and the farmers' protest will be weakened by these incidents, State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said.BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh slammed the Amarinder Singh-led government over the incident and claimed that it has "exposed the complete collapse of law and order in the state".Describing the incident as a "murderous attack" on Narang, he accused the ruling Congress of engineering it. Amarinder Singh was "instigating such attacks in order to stifle the voice of the BJP", Chugh alleged and demanded that the chief minister resign.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal termed the "violent attack" on Narang "deplorable" and demanded an impartial inquiry to fix the responsibility for the "failure" of the police in protecting the dignity of an elected representative.He appealed to everyone to exercise restraint to ensure that peace and communal harmony in the state was not disturbed.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the farm laws. PTI CHS VSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-thrashed-by-protesting-farmers-in-punjab-amarinder-singh-condemns-incident-101616865287712.html
27-03-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai records highest spike in single-day infections and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Slight dip in Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally, Mumbai records highest spike in one-day infectionsMaharashtra recorded 35,726 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a slight dip from the 36,902 reported on Friday, the state’s health department said in a bulling on Saturday. Read morePresident Kovind to undergo bypass procedure on Tuesday: Rashtrapati BhavanPresident Ram Nath Kovind, who complained of chest discomfort on Friday, will undergo a 'planned bypass procedure' in New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Tuesday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Read more‘Will cut electricity to 16 states if govt doesn’t consider demands’: Rakesh TikaitFarmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait threatened to cut the electricity line to 16 states if the central government doesn’t give in to the farmers’ demands. Tikait’s comments came during his media interaction in Bharatpur on Saturday while on his way to a mahapanchayat in Dausa, Rajasthan. Read moreRahul Gandhi says Kerala’s economy central issue, pegs NYAY as solutionCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday outlined Kerala’s ailing economy as the main poll plank of his party while campaigning in the southern state ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held early next month. Read moreGovt releases list of states with more than 280,000 Covid-19 casesAmid a rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country, the Centre on Saturday released a list of 11 states and one Union territory that have more than 280,000 infections so far. Read moreMay need to try other options: Ramiz Raja on India's bowling attack for 3rd ODI vs EnglandFormer Pakistan captain Ramiz Raja believes India need to look into their bowling resources before the third and final ODI against England at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Pune on Sunday. Read moreSara Ali Khan recalls breaking down, eating South Indian food with Dhanush, 'stalking' Akshay Kumar as Atrangi Re wrapsAfter Akshay Kumar, Sara Ali Khan took to Instagram and celebrated the wrap of Atrangi Re. The actor, who stars with Akshay and Dhanush in the Aanand L Rai directorial, shared a gallery of unseen photos from the sets of the movie and marked the end of the shoot. She shared a picture featuring the three leading stars posing together. Read moreA malware masquerading as System Update is attacking Android phonesDo you own an Android smartphone? Then here’s a piece of information you shouldn’t ignore. Security researchers have discovered a new and aggressive strain of malware that is attacking Android smartphones. What makes this new malware more lethal than others is the fact that it cleverly hides by masquerading as a system update. Read moreKiren Rijiju shares video of Indian army jawans dancing at Pangong Tso in LadakhSports Minister Kiren Rijiju recently took to Twitter to share a video of Indian army jawans dancing at Pangong Tso in Ladakh. Since being shared, the video has won people over. There is a chance that it’ll leave you smiling too. Read moreWatch: What did PM Modi pray for at Bangladesh's Kaali temple? Watch his answer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-records-highest-spike-in-single-day-infections-and-all-the-latest-news-101616857007637.html
27-03-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Roads blocked, rail services hit in Punjab and Haryana||A 12-hour Bharat Bandh called by farmer groups affected large parts of Punjab, Haryana, Bihar and western Uttar Pradesh with road and rail transport severely hampered, although the impact of the nationwide demonstration was largely limited in other regions of the country.The bandh, called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to protest against the three contentious farm laws, was in force from 6am to 6pm. Dozens of farm leaders and activists were detained and the northern railways said 41 passenger trains and 40 freight trains had to be cancelled, diverted or delayed.The nationwide bandh was called to mark the day the agitation on the outskirts of the national capital completed four months. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November 26, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year – Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.The farmers fear the new laws will dismantle the Minimum Support Price (MSP)-system and corporatise farming. Talks between unions and the central government failed to resolve the stalemate despite 12 rounds of meetings.Friday’s protests led to the blockage of railway tracks in at least 44 locations under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions of the railways, leading to cancellation of four high-speed Shatabdi trains, and the delay of 35 other passenger trains and 40 goods trains, according to a northern railway spokesperson DJ Narain.“Barring some limited number of trains in Punjab and Haryana, the bandh has had almost zero impact across the nation. Other than in these two states, around five to six trains were delayed for some time. Less than 0.5% of trains impacted nationally. Trains are running smoothly,” he said.On Friday, security was increased across toll plazas and railway stations in Punjab and Haryana as farmers blocked traffic on highways. Several shops remained shut and both public and private vehicles stayed off roads for the day.“There are reports of successful ‘Bharat Bandh’ from almost every district in Haryana. Markets and other services in cities like Kurukshetra, Karnal, Sonipat, Yamunanagar, Ambala etc remained suspended. In Punjab, ‘Bharat Bandh’ programs were held in more than 200 places, including Mansa, Amritsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Jalandhar,” a statement said, adding that there was “impressive” impact in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.The Eastern Peripheral Expressway near the national capital, too, was blocked while a sit-in was staged on a road connecting Delhi’s Nizamuddin to neighbouring Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region, news agency PTI reported.Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) chairman Brijesh Goyal said there was no impact of the shutdown on markets and industrial areas of the national capital.In Haryana, farmers blocked the Delhi-Ambala and Rohtak-Delhi highways with their tractors, and only allowed movement of school buses and ambulances in the area.Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha secretary Dayanand Punia said the demonstrators laid siege to railway platforms in the state till 6pm. “The labourers also joined our protest and rural areas also remained shut on Friday,” he said.In Uttar Pradesh, the impact of the bandh was largely seen in western districts, with farmers blocking roads and highways in areas such as Bulandshahr, Meerut, Agra and Muzaffarnagar, BKU leaders said.Twenty CPI (Marxist-Leninist) activists, protesting in Sikandarpur township of Ballia district, were taken into custody, news agency PTI reported.In Gujarat, farmer leader Yudhvir Singh was detained for allegedly holding a press conference in a hotel in Ahmedabad without police permission and in violation of Covid-19 norms. “Gujarat has truly become a police state,” Jignesh Mevani, an independent legislator, said.Barring areas such as Thane, Palghar, Nashik and Ahmednagar, the protest was overall scaled down in Maharashtra in the wake of surge of Covid-19 infections. “Due to the coronavirus outbreak, no large scale rallies have been planned in the state. However, we are submitting our petitions to 400 taluka centres and 30 collector officers in support of the farmers protest,” Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation of 110 farmers, said in a statement.Stray incidents of forceful closure of businesses were reported but the strike remained largely peaceful in Bihar. There were little to no signs of a shutdown in poll-bound Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-roads-blocked-rail-services-hit-in-punjab-and-haryana-101616791578081.html
