02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||25 lakh sign up for COVID jab on day 1 of expanded rollout||Twenty-five lakh potential beneficiaries had registered on the Co-Win portal on Monday, the first day of the second phase of COVID-19 vaccination covering those over 60 and people with specified comorbidities over the age of 45, the Union Health Ministry said. “Out of this, 24.5 lakh are citizens and the rest are healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers. About 6.44 lakh appointments were booked today by the citizen beneficiaries,” the Ministry said. Over 1 crore doses given It added that a total of 1,47,28,569 vaccine doses had been given so far, as per the provisional report till 7 p.m. on Monday and these include 66,95,665 HCWs, who have taken the first dose, and 25,57,837 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 53,27,587 frontline workers (1st dose), 1,28,630 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 18,850 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities. However, the first day of the wider roll-out saw several glitches in registration, with beneficiaries complaining about unavailability of slots, forcing the Health Ministry to issue a clarification stating that “Registration and booking for appointment for COVID vaccination is done through CoWIN Portal — cowin.gov.in. There is no CoWin App for beneficiary registration. The App on Play Store is for administrators only.” After Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the Covaxin shot at the AIIMS early in the day, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told ANI that the PM was leading by example.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-lakh-sign-up-for-covid-jab-on-day-1-of-expanded-rollout/article33967361.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vaccination for senior citizens launched||Telangana Health department on Monday started to administer COVID-19 vaccine to people who are 60 years or above, and for those with comorbidities in the 45-59 years age group. On the first day, 4,558 people from the two priority groups were given the first dose of the vaccine at 93 government and private health facilities. No adverse cases Till late Monday afternoon, senior officials from the department said that no Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) cases were reported. However, the ‘AEFI’ column was not mentioned in the media bulletin issued in the night. While 2,647 people were targeted to be vaccinated at 48 government health facilities, only 2,005 turned up which comes to 76%. And 2,553 out of the 4,112 target took the vaccine at 45 private hospitals, which is 62% of the target. Senior officials said that they will increase the number of vaccination centres to over 1,000 in one week. In the coming days, people will have the more option of of choosing a hospital of their convenience. Registration Health Care Workers (HCW) and Front Line Workers (FLW) were given first and second dose of the vaccine on Monday along with the two groups . The first dose was administered to 300 health care workers and front line workers, second dose was given to 86 of them. State Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said people can choose to register for vaccination either online, or on the spot registration at vaccination centres. State Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar along with Health department's principal secretary SAM Rizvi visited District Hospital in King Koti to take stock of the arrangements for the vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-for-senior-citizens-launched-in-state/article33967944.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra awaiting Rs. 29,290 cr. GST dues||Confirming in Maharashtra Assembly that the Bharatiya Janta Party(BJP)-led central government has yet not paid GST dues to the State government, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said on Monday that the State was waiting for Rs. 29,290 crore payment from the Centre. “By the end of February 2021, out of the Rs. 46,950 crore due to my Government as Goods and Services Tax Compensation, the Central Government has paid just Rs. 6,140 crore and Rs. 11,520 crore as loan for Goods and Services Tax compensation. Goods and Services Tax Compensation to the tune of Rs. 29,290 crore is overdue from the Central Government,” Mr. Koshyari said in his address to the joint session of the legislature on the first day of the Budget session. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance portfolio, has been repeatedly saying that the Centre has not paid the compensation that is due. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too has raised the issue several times. Mr. Koshyari said that the lockdown due to spread of novel coronavirus has slowed down the State’s economy in addition to a medical emergency and natural calamities. “Out of the revenue collection target of Rs. 3,47,456 crore, the State has collected just Rs. 1,88,542 crore at the end of January 2021. This is 35% less than the budgetary estimate and 21% lower than the collection in the same period in the previous year,” he said. The Governor praised the State government’s ‘My family, my responsibility’ health campaign to tackle the pandemic saying this had helped create a health map. Citing the example of Dharavi where COVID-19 was successfully contained, Mr. Koshyari said that Maharashtra was the first State to erect temporary jumbo corona hospitals in record time. “My Government took several measures for control and management of the COVID-19 pandemic which have become a model for the rest of States and even in other countries,” he said. Mr. Koshyari said despite a significant reduction in revenue, the State has provided priority funding to the departments of Public Health, Medical Education and Drugs, Relief and Rehabilitation, Food and Civil Supplies and Home during the pandemic. “To stimulate the economy, my Government has provided for 75% of the budgetary provision for capital expenditure and released 100% money to the Local Development Fund, DPC schemes and Dongri Vikas Karyakram,” he said. The government, he added, was pursuing with the Centre for increasing the grant in aid receivable, in accordance with the recommendations of the Central Finance Commission, and is also seeking an increase in the Centre’s contribution in Central schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-awaiting-rs-29290-cr-gst-dues/article33968051.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Good response to vaccine from seniors||The overwhelming response to COVID-19 vaccination from the general public on the first day itself took the health administration by surprise, as hundreds of senior citizens, armed with the Aadhaar card, queued up at major government hospitals right from the morning on Monday. Though there was official intimation that the registration/vaccination for those over 60 years and those between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities would be initiated from Monday, health officials had little clarity on how things would work out on the day. Heavy traffic made the Co-Win portal slow and most of the eligible categories who managed to get on to the portal or website could only get their names registered. The majority could not get an appointment for vaccination. Centre’s guidelines But with the Centre announcing that walk-in or spot registration and vaccination would be allowed, many senior citizens chose this option. It could be the fear of COVID-19 or the hope that the vaccination would enable them to live more freely, senior citizens seemed to be in a rush to secure the vaccine, as could be witnessed from the overcrowding and long queues at General Hospital in the capital district. Statewide data were not readily available. However, in Thiruvananthapuram district, 2,432 persons in all received the vaccine, of whom, 877 were senior citizens who had walked in with the identity card to public hospitals. Crowd-control measures had to be taken at the GH here as by noon the numbers swelled. By 5 p.m., when the vaccination closed, there were scores still waiting anxiously. They were sent back with tokens so that they could get the shots the next day. Private hospitals “We cannot open up vaccination sites at private hospitals overnight, without inspecting the hospitals and ensuring that they have proper cold chain facilities to store the vaccine. This vaccine does not come with vaccine vial monitors, so ensuring proper cold chain arrangements is a priority. We had a meeting with representatives of private hospitals and they were trained on site preparation, vaccination guidelines and data management on Co-WIN. By Tuesday, we hope to finish site inspections so that a good number of private hospitals can be designated as vaccination sites soon,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-response-to-vaccine-from-seniors/article33967556.ece
02 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Minor girl found dead in Aligarh village||In yet another horrific incident in Uttar Pradesh, a minor Dalit girl was allegedly smothered to death in a village in Akrabad tehsil of Aligarh on Sunday when she went to collect fodder. The Aligarh police have registered a case against unidentified persons on charges of rape and murder. Five persons have been arrested in the case so far. Senior Superintendent of Police, Aligarh, Muniraj P. said on Monday that the post-mortem report had confirmed death by asphyxiation. “The report suggests death by strangulation and smothering. There are external injury marks on the body caused by dragging. The chin has been peeled off. There are nail marks on the chest and face. However, no internal injury was found in the autopsy. Rectal and vaginal swab have been collected for microscopic investigation,” the officer said. Mr. Muniraj said he suspected that the victim was dragged into the fields for the purpose of sexual assault but when she resisted, she was killed. However, villagers insisted that the victim was raped and then killed. They point to the fact that the body was found face down in a semi-nude condition and the wheat crop at the spot was completely trampled. They said the 14-year-old girl was speech impaired and that could be the reason why the perpetrators targeted her. Earlier on Sunday evening, when a police team went to take the body for a post mortem, irate villagers blocked its passage by setting fodder on fire. The SHO of Gangiri police station was also injured in stone-pelting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-girl-found-dead-in-aligarh-village/article33967357.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC asks man accused of rape if he can marry girl||The Supreme Court on Monday asked a State government employee whether he would marry a girl he was accused of raping repeatedly while she was a minor. The man refused saying he was married. A Bench led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde subsequently stayed his arrest for four weeks so he could apply for regular bail. The court asked the lawyer for the accused to find out if his client would be willing to marry the victim or risk the prospect of going to jail. “We are not forcing you...” Chief Justice Bobde said. “I had initially asked for marriage... Right now, I cannot marry her. I am married,” the lawyer reported to the court on what his client said. The accused in his petition recounted the prosecution allegations that he had sexual intercourse with the girl since she was in high school, stalked and threatened her. It was alleged that his mother had promised marriage when the girl turned 18, but they later backed out. The accused had moved the SC against the cancellation of his anticipatory bail by the Bombay High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-asks-man-accused-of-rape-if-he-can-marry-girl/article33967715.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘G-23’ lambasts Congress alliance with Furfura peer||Days after a show of strength by a section of the Congress group of dissenters (“G-23”) in Jammu, a key member of the group, Anand Sharma, on Monday lashed at out at his party for having an alliance with the Indian Secular Front in West Bengal, and asserted that the poll tie-up “militates against the Congress ideology”. On Sunday, West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is also the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, had shared a stage with Left leaders and Indian Secular Front founder Abbas Siddiqui of Furfura Sharief at a public rally of the grand alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/g-23-lambasts-congress-alliance-with-furfura-peer/article33967710.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||‘Cyber sabotage led to Oct. 2020 outage’||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said an investigation by the State cyber crime unit has shown a possible cyber sabotage of the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) server resulting in power outage across Mumbai on October 12, 2020. Mr. Deshmukh’s statement comes in the backdrop of an exclusive report by the New York Times linking the power outage with alleged Chinese state-sponsored cyber intrusion, which had been tracked and revealed by U.S. cyber security and intelligence firm Recorded Future. “Maharashtra Power Department had sought an inquiry into the incident based on which we had asked Inspector General of the State cyber crime unit to conduct an inquiry. An analysis of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA) has shown that there is a possibility that this incident was a cyber sabotage. The department has given a report which we have handed over to the Power Department,” said Mr. Deshmukh. The preliminary report pointed out three possible modes of sabotage — a malware attack on the server of the MSEB, transfer of 8 GB unaccounted data from foreign server to MSEB server, and attempt by several blacklisted I.P. addresses to log into MSEB server. Asked whether any country had been named, as mentioned in the New York Times , Mr. Deshmukh said it was a preliminary report. “Based on this, further investigation will begin,” he said. Maharashtra’s Power Minister Nitin Raut said, “We had requested the State Home Department to conduct an inquiry. I have also received reports from the central government and the MERC. Once we go through them, we will initiate further action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyber-sabotage-led-to-oct-2020-outage/article33968053.ece
02 March 2021||Hubballi,||SSLC exam from June 21 to July 5, says Minister||The SSLC examination will be held from June 21 to July 5. Announcing the final timetable at a press conference in Dharwad on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the dates were finalised after taking into consideration the objections received from the public on the provisional dates that had been announced earlier. The examination was tentatively scheduled between June 14 and June 25. But the schedule was tweaked after the Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board received objections. He said that the government had given a month’s time for filing objections and forwarding suggestions on the examination dates and the deadline ended on February 26. After considering various aspects, the department decided to hold the examinations from June 21, he said. The Minister said that to improve the pass percentage and also to impart training on conducting the examination, workshop for headmasters would be held in every district. On the reopening of schools for students of first to fifth standard, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that as there was a surge in COVID-19 infections in six States, including Karnataka, a decision on it had been put off. However, a decision on school reopening for these classes would be taken in a week in consultation with the technical committee of the Health Department, he said. The Minister said that midday breakfast for government school children, especially for those in rural areas, was necessary and permission for this had been sought from the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-exam-from-june-21-to-july-5-says-minister/article33967519.ece
02 March 2021||Tirupati,||Naidu detained during ‘high drama’ at airport||It was a hectic day of political activity as former Chief Minister and TDP national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu was detained at the Renigunta airport here, after the authorities denied him permission into the city on Monday as he arrived at the tarmac. After fervent appeals by officials and a spate of protests by party workers across the State, Mr. Naidu finally left by 7.15 p.m. flight, making the officials heave a sigh of relief. Mr. Naidu has tweeted that the State government cannot prevent him from reaching out to the people. “Your fear-driven, state-sponsored vendetta won’t stop me from reaching out to my people. Grow up, @ysjagan,” tweeted Mr. Naidu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-detained-during-high-drama-at-airport/article33967354.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi takes first dose of Covaxin at AIIMS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi early on Monday took the first shot of Covaxin, the Indian-researched and produced anti-COVID-19 vaccine (manufactured by Bharat Biotech) at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Twitter post Tweeting a picture of himself getting a shot, Mr. Modi said, “Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India COVID-19 free!” It was learnt that the nurse who administered the vaccine to Mr. Modi was P. Niveda of Puducherry, assisted by Rosamma Anil, a nurse from Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-takes-first-dose-of-covaxin-at-aiims/article33967358.ece
02 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha CM criticised over demolition of heritage structures||The controversy over development around temples in Odisha continues to rage as Bharatiya Janata Party MP Aparajita Sarangi has come down heavily on the Naveen Patnaik government saying development cannot be taken up at the cost of centuries old heritage structures. “In the name of beautification, some of the most sacred mutts of Puri such as Emar Matha, Mangu Matha, Languli Matha, Uttar Parshwa Matha and Dakshin Parswa Matha have been demolished and razed on to the ground,” said Ms .Sarangi in a strongly worded letter to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. She said, “I would be very keen to know which heritage conservationist was monitoring and guiding the reckless demolition using heavy earth moving machineries in extremely sensitive zones.” The BJP MP, who a member of standing committee on urban development, wondered how replacement of invaluable monuments with manicured lawns, fountains and toilets is going to enhance the spiritual experience of visitors coming to pray to Lord Jagannath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-cm-criticised-over-demolition-of-heritage-structures/article33967585.ece
02 March 2021||kolkata,||TMC plays ‘daughter’ card||Highlighting the party’s election slogan ‘Bangla Nijer Meye ke Chai’ (Bengal wants its own daughter), the Trinamool Congress launched a dedicated website on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-plays-daughter-card/article33967586.ece
02 March 2021||navi mumbai,||Two Flipkart staff held for cheating||The Koparkhairane police have arrested two employees and one former employee of Flipkart for allegedly cheating the company by replacing electronic items and other valuables meant for delivery, with soaps and other items. The accused are an offload team leader in delivery section, a delivery boy and a former delivery boy. oy Sanghpal Baburao More (29), a resident of Airoli, and former delivery boy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-flipkart-staff-held-for-cheating/article33968055.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,||100 receive vaccine jab in DK and Udupi||As many as 61 persons, aged above 60 years, and those above 45 with co-morbidities received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Udupi, while 39 received it in Dakshina Kannada on Monday. With eight new COVID-19 cases and 22 patients discharged, the active cases in Dakshina Kannada on Monday came down to 195. In Udupi, four new cases were found and 14 patients discharged on Monday. The active cases stood at 63, said the bulletin by the Udupi district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/100-receive-vaccine-jab-in-dk-and-udupi/article33968025.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Corporation areas declared as ODF||The jurisdiction of Mangaluru City Corporation has been certified as open-defecation free (ODF), following the third-party inspection carried out under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The inspection was carried out on December 4 and 5, 2020. The certificate issued on December 5, 2020 will be valid till June 5, 2021. While mentioning about one community toilet and 36 public toilets, the report ranks six toilets as the best ones, which includes the ones at K.S. Rao Road and Pandeshwar. The team inspected a total of 10 toilets and found eight of them to be clean. It includes the public toilet at the Bejai Kapikad Road, M.G. Road, Kadri Market, Urwa Market, and Mangaluru Central Railway Station. The inspection team has visited 25 places. It includes the slum areas near Urwa Market and in Dongarkeri, Boloor, and Shanti Alva Compound. The four residential areas they visited were NITK Residential Colony, Kudumboor, Raikatte Kuloor, and Ayyappa Nagar. They also visited Central and Surathkal Markets and also the taxi stand at the Mangaluru Junction Railway Station.  The members also inspected the Netravathi and the Gurupura. All these places have been termed as open-defecation free areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corporation-areas-declared-as-odf/article33968026.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||A year since first case, concerns about surge||Exactly a year ago, the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana. Thereafter, lives of crores of people haven’t been the same. Twelve months later, the pandemic situation is not very different from how it was when the first case was reported on March 2, 2020, although fear of contracting the virus has come down and people hardly seem to have any qualms about letting their guard down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-year-since-first-case-concerns-about-surge/article33968128.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,||AIADMK in a predicament over Sasikala, AMMK factor||The AIADMK seems to be in a predicament over the BJP’s suggestion that it accommodate the AMMK, led by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in the ruling party-led NDA for the upcoming Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Dhinakaran is the nephew of V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK. The issue was said to have been deliberated during a late-night meeting between leaders of the AIADMK and the BJP on Sunday, in which Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh, AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Theni MP P. Ravindhranath took part. The BJP is said to have indicated that it would allot seats from its share to the AMMK. In view of the idea “not finding favour” among many of its leaders, the AIADMK deputed senior leaders, including K.P. Munusamy and R. Vaithilingam, to impress upon the BJP its stand on the issue during another round of discussions on Monday evening. The BJP was represented by Pon Radhakrishnan, former Union Minister, and L. Murugan, president of the party’s State unit. Earlier, the Chief Minister and his deputy met senior functionaries at the party headquarters. Though no leader of either camp was willing to go on record about what transpired during Sunday’s meeting, a section of AIADMK leaders said the issue had been discussed. The indication from the BJP is that it would be better to include the AMMK in the coalition. A senior BJP leader said that in at least 25 constituencies, the AMMK would make or mar the prospects of the coalition. “As the election is going to be fiercely contested between the fronts led by the AIADMK and the DMK, you stand to lose, rather than gain, by leaving the AMMK out,” the leader contended. As of now, the national party’s leaders have been stating publicly that the question of a patch-up between the AIADMK and the AMMK is an “internal matter” for the two parties. Several AIADMK functionaries from the southern districts are, however, receptive to the idea of accommodating the AMMK, which received a 9.3% vote-share in nine Assembly constituencies in the south during the 2019 by-elections. But in the run-up to Ms. Sasikala’s release from a Bengaluru jail last month, the AIADMK took a strong stand against her and expelled many second-rung and third-rung functionaries from the party for having pasted posters in her favour or having associated themselves with her in one form or the other. A U-turn would draw a “severe backlash” and reflect very badly on the image of the party, argued an AIADMK leader who is opposed to a patch-up with the AMMK or Ms. Sasikala. Another issue being discussed in AIADMK circles is the symbol under which the AMMK’s nominees should contest, in the event of the party getting accommodated in the alliance. Those in the ruling party who are supportive of the AMMK feel there should be no objection to the latter’s candidates being fielded on the former’s symbol of ‘two leaves’, a scenario the AMMK office-bearers don’t relish, given the fact that their party secured the ‘pressure cooker’ symbol after a protracted struggle. Notwithstanding the complexity of the issues, the ruling party and the BJP say clarity would emerge in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-in-a-predicament-over-sasikala-ammk-factor/article33967408.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,||Finish cofferdam works by May-end: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) to complete the cofferdam works at the Polavaram project by the end of May and to expedite the spill channel works. He also insisted that the relief and rehabilitation (R&R) of the project-displaced families should be done in strict compliance with the guidelines. In a review meeting on Monday, officials told the Chief Minister that the construction of cofferdam before the completion of the spillway caused a lot of problems. The cofferdam works were done in a piecemeal manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finish-cofferdam-works-by-may-end-cm/article33967355.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Chinese cyber attack foiled: Power Ministry||“State-sponsored” Chinese hacker groups targeted various Indian power centres, the Union Power Ministry said on Monday, but added that these groups have been thwarted after government cyber agencies warned it about their activities. While the government refused to confirm or deny The New York Times report, based on a U.S. cybersecurity firm’s claim that the Mumbai power outage in October 2020 was part of a coordinated cyberattack by China, it said it has suffered “no data breach” as a result of the threat. “There is no impact on any of the functionalities carried out by the Power Sector Operations Corporation (POSOCO) due to the referred threat. No data breach/data loss has been detected due to these incidents,” the Ministry said in a statement, which made no direct mention of the Mumbai power outage on October 12, 2020, that lasted several hours. “Prompt actions are being taken by the Chief Information Security Officers at all these control centres under operation by POSOCO for any incident/advisory received from various agencieslike CERT-in, NCIIPC, CERT-Trans etc.,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-cyber-attack-foiled-power-ministry/article33967359.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CoWIN glitches hit vaccination drive in State||The second phase of COVID-19 vaccination for all senior citizens and those aged above 45 with comorbidities, which began on Monday, was marred by technical glitches on the CoWIN portal. As a result, only 1,576 senior citizens and 374 persons above 45 years with comorbidities were vaccinated on day one in Karnataka. The Health Department, which had earlier decided to administer the vaccine only on alternate days, has now said the inoculation drive will continue on Tuesday as many people were eager to get the shot. Owing to the technical glitches, the drive could not be taken up in some vaccine session sites across the State, including Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (Victoria Hospital) and C.V. Raman General Hospital. The drive was delayed by over an hour at some centres where vaccination officials were able to open the portal, but the beneficiary verification and OTP generation took a long time on the portal. T.S. Ranganath, nodal officer for vaccination at Victoria Hospital, said they were not able to open the portal at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cowin-glitches-hit-vaccination-drive-in-state/article33967862.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC flays police report on Tanha ‘confession’ leak to media||The Delhi High Court on Monday expressed displeasure at the city police’s vigilance inquiry report on the allegation of leaking to media a confessional statement of a Jamia Millia Islamia student arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Mukta Gupta said, “This vigilance inquiry is even worse than what they do in an ordinary inquiry in a petty theft case. These are not files sent through couriers, these are hand-held files.” The High Court ordered the Special Commissioner of Police (vigilance) to be present in the virtual proceedings on March 5. The court’s direction came while hearing the plea of Asif Iqbal Tanha, who was aggrieved by various news reports appearing in electronic media that alleged that he had confessed to organising and inciting riots in north-east Delhi last year. During the hearing, the police said it had sent the case file to the Delhi government and the Home Affairs Ministry. Reacting to this, the court said, “Where did you do the inquiry, who did you inquire of? Where were the files sent? Who took them to the Delhi government and MHA and who brought them back? There is nothing in the report. It is completely silent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-flays-police-report-on-tanha-confession-leak-to-media/article33967714.ece
02 March 2021||Patna,||COVID-19 vaccination will be free for all: Nitish||After getting his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccination at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna on his birthday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday declared that everyone in the State would get free vaccination at government hospitals and identified private hospitals across the State. “Today I got the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination and after 28 days will take another dose on March 31,” Mr. Kumar told media persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccination-will-be-free-for-all-nitish/article33967588.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Exotic earthworm found in State for first time||An exotic and highly invasive earthworm —Amynthas alexandriof theMegascolecidaefamily — has been collected and reported for the first time from Karnataka. Its original home is believed to be Southeast Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exotic-earthworm-found-in-state-for-first-time/article33967864.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm, trade unions to launch joint campaign||Farm unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha banner and 10 Central trade unions have agreed to carry out a joint campaign, combining their demands and planning common actions. The decision was taken at a meeting of representatives from both sides on Monday, but will need to be ratified by the wider SKM at its general body meeting on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farm-trade-unions-to-launch-joint-campaign/article33967712.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||WhatsApp’s new policy being examined: govt.||The Central government on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it was examining WhatsApp’s controversial new privacy policy, which is scheduled to come into effect from May 15, at the highest level. The court granted three weeks’ time to the Centre to submit a status report on the issue and posted the case for further hearing on April 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/whatsapps-new-policy-being-examined-govt/article33967713.ece
02 March 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds more than 6,000 fresh cases||After nearly a week of witnessing single-day surges of more than 8,000 COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra reported a comparatively lower spike of 6,397 new cases on Monday. Recoveries, too, were comparatively higher than discharge figures in the last week, with 5,754 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. As many as 30 deaths pushed the toll to 52,184. The State’s active case tally stands at 77,618 while the total cases have reached 21,61,467.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-adds-more-than-6000-fresh-cases/article33968056.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC asks about action taken over rules violation||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government and the city police to submit a report on the action taken over the violation of COVID-19 norms during a rally organised on February 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-asks-about-action-taken-over-rules-violation/article33967521.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Gowda accuses Congress of poaching attempt||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday lashed out at the Congress for the alleged bid of leaders of that party to poach JD(S) councillors in order to get the Mayor’s post in the hung Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gowda-accuses-congress-of-poaching-attempt/article33967522.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,||Exotic earthworm found in Karnataka||An exotic and highly invasive earthworm — Amynthas alexandri of the Megascolecidae family — has been collected and reported for the first time from Karnataka. Its original home is believed to be Southeast Asia. It has been found to be distributed at four sites in the State .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exotic-earthworm-found-in-karnataka/article33967523.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,||Election process more important than individual stakes, says SEC||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar asserted that he dealt with certain issues related to municipal elections as per the directions of the High Court and maintained that the process of elections was more important than individual stakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/election-process-more-important-than-individual-stakes-says-sec/article33967356.ece
02 March 2021||Washington DC,||Chinese may have targeted power systems, ports, says U.S. firm||Chinese state-sponsored actors may have deployed malware into Indian power grids and seaports as border tensions between India and China began escalating last May, culminating in a deadly clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in mid-June. The alleged cyber-intrusion was discovered and revealed by U.S. cyber security and intelligence firm, Recorded Future, according to The New York Times , which broke the story. An October 12 grid failure in Mumbai may have been caused by the Chinese malware, as per the report. The Massachusetts-based firm found that in the lead-up to the clashes, they noticed an increase in malware targeting the government, defence organisations and the public sector. The Power Ministry confirmed that while attempts to breach systems were made, the sector had not been impacted. Recorded Future told The Hindu that there is still some evidence of ongoing intrusion although a significant amount of it has subsided recently. ‘Govt. was alerted’ “There is evidence that some of the intrusions remain ongoing; however, a significant proportion of the activity appeared to cease in early to mid-February following notification,” a spokesperson for Recorded Future, Caitlin Mattingly, told The Hindu via email on Monday. While the government has not contacted Recorded Future since The New York Times published its report, according to Ms. Mattingly, the company had been in touch with the government prior to the report’s publication. “We shared technical details of the intrusions with the Indian government that would allow them to identify and respond to the incidents. We are not an incident response firm and so do not directly typically investigate internal incidents in organisations,” Ms. Mattingly said when asked if Recorded Future is helping the government patch up the vulnerabilities, which it alerted the government to soon after it noticed them. The intrusions, which began in May 2020 continued throughout the year.  The New York Times report quoted Recorded Future COO Stuart Solomon as saying the Chinese state-sponsored group (which the company calls ‘Red Echo’) “has been seen to systematically utilise advanced cyber intrusion techniques to quietly gain a foothold in nearly a dozen critical nodes across the Indian power generation and transmission infrastructure.” Specifically, Recorded Future identified 21 IP addresses targeting 10 power organisations (RLDCs and SLDCs — Regional Load Despatch Centres and their State counterparts) and two seaports: the V.O. Chidambaranar Port and Mumbai Port Trust. Other intrusions included a high-voltage transmission substation and a coal-fired thermal power plant. The report links the malware attacks to a massive power outage in Mumbai and its suburbs last October which impacted hospitals, businesses, the stock market, homes and transport systems. “Additionally, local media reporting previously linked an October 2020 power outage in Mumbai to the identification of malware at a Padgha-based State Load Despatch Centre. At this time, the alleged link between the outage and the discovery of the unspecified malware variant remains unsubstantiated. However, this disclosure provides additional evidence suggesting the coordinated targeting of Indian Load Despatch Centres,” the report says. “The intrusions in May 2020 onwards, which were China-linked but separate to the Red Echo activity highlighted in the report, were all reported to the Indian government shortly after discovery,” the spokesperson said. Both the U.S. and Indian authorities had been informed and acknowledged receipt of the information and said they would investigate the findings, she added. A State Department spokesperson told The Hindu they were aware of the reports. “In general, we continue to have concerns about states’ dangerous and coercive actions, including in cyberspace, and we reaffirm the importance of joint action on cybersecurity, critical infrastructure, and supply chain security,” the spokesperson said. Irresponsible: Beijing China’s Foreign Ministry hit out at the report, calling it “irresponsible”, and attacked it for not offering evidence. “China firmly opposes and cracks down on all forms of cyber attacks,” spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. “Speculation and fabrication have no role to play on the issue of cyber attacks, as it is very difficult to trace the origin of a cyber attack,” Mr Wang said. He said it was “highly irresponsible to accuse a particular party when there is no sufficient evidence around,” adding that “China is firmly opposed to such irresponsible and ill-intentioned practice.”  (With inputs from   Ananth Krishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-may-have-targeted-power-systems-ports-says-us-firm/article33967309.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Comorbidities list for vaccine eligibility seen as too narrow||The Union Health Ministry’s list of 20 comorbidities that make people in the 45-59 year age group eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine is seen by some medical professionals as too narrow. “The list of comorbidities is overly restrictive and complicated. Many conditions, including obesity, have been left out,” said Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore. “The focus seems to be on people with severe diseases and combination of comorbidities,” Dr. Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health and bioethics in Bhopal said. Hypertension, a common condition that increases the risk of progressing to severe COVID-19 disease and even death, alone does not qualify unless it is accompanied by diseases such as diabetes or conditions such as angina. “The initial focus has been on severe forms of a disease or condition. In a month or two, we may see less severe forms of diseases included,” said Dr. D. Prabhakaran, from the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Delhi and one of the two members who prepared the list for cardiovascular diseases. Across the world, people with comorbidities have been identified as a high-risk group. The risk is higher in older people with comorbidities. India, as part of the second phase of vaccination, made people aged over 60 years and those above 45 years with comorbidities eligible to get a vaccine from March 1. With each comorbidity increasing the chances of severe disease and death, focusing on people with more than one comorbidity would have been acceptable in case of vaccine shortage. But with millions of doses of both vaccines available in India, it is not clear why the focus is on diseases at an advanced stage, said Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist at PHFI, Bengaluru. “Large sections of the population don’t even know if they have comorbidities. It would have been better had we followed the U.K example, which has gone with age bands instead of comorbidities,” Dr. Kang added. Diabetes is a major comorbidity resulting even in death in COVID-19 patients. However, only those with over 10 years of diabetes plus hypertension are eligible for vaccination. Similarly, only those with end-stage kidney disease and on haemodialysis are included. People with stroke are eligible only if they also have hypertension or diabetes. Many suffer from stroke from aneurysm or haemorrhage even in the absence of hypertension or diabetes. While asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease have not been specified, the list includes those using corticosteroids for a “prolonged period” as being eligible. “Prolonged” is not defined, however.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/comorbidities-list-for-vaccine-eligibility-seen-as-too-narrow/article33967323.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Gang behind ‘bumper prizes’ held||Ten members of an inter-State gang, including five from Telangana’s Mancherial district, were arrested by the Cybercrime police of Cyberabad for cheating people in the name of winning ‘bumper’ prizes. Commissioner of Police V. C. Sajjanar said that the accused gang members run call centres in Ranchi and Rourkela from where they send letters with a scratch card to the customers of Naaptol, Herbalife and other popular e-commerce firms, informing that they won a lottery. Scratch cards The gullible customers scratched the card they were made to believe they won Sports Utility Vehicle or its matching amount. So far, the gang had duped hundreds of people to the tune of Rs. 2 crore. When the victims came in contact with the accused gang members using telephone numbers given in the letters, some persons speaking in regional languages duped the victims after collecting money on various occasions citing different reasons as a condition to deliver the SUV they won. “In excitement of ‘winning’ a car, they call the fraudster without any verification and get into their trap,” the Commissioner of Police said. Initially, the fraudsters would ask the victims to pay 1% of the vehicle’s cost as a tax amount to confirm the order. Then they would further ask them to send 3% amount for vehicle registration, 5% money to deliver the SUV, 12% as GST and 15% as refundable security deposit. Prime accused Tarun Kumar from Bihar, started the call centres, collected and hired several telecallers to dupe the gullible people.  Customer database Tarun collected a database of the customers of different e-commerce websites like Herbal Care Group, Shopclues, Club factory and Naaptol from Alok and Tiranju of Bihar. Later, he along with Prabhakar Kumar Sinha started preparing envelopes containing forged letters from Naaptol, Shopclues, Herbal Care Group and other companies with a bank stamp and a scratch card and would send them to customers by post. “As the stolen data of the e-commerce companies did not have the contact numbers of the customers, they sent letters to their postal addresses,” Mr. Sajjanar said. Whenever they receive calls from the victims, the accused would send fake ID cards of e-commerce companies on their WhatsApp to make them believe that they are genuine. “To dupe people from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the telecallers would speak in Telugu, and to cheat the victims from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, they would speak in the respective language,” the officer said, adding that teams were sent to Bihar and Jharkhand to nab the accused. Tarun also created fake Aadhaar cards, voter IDs, PAN cards in the name of Yashwanth Sartap and opened several bank accounts in ICICI and HDFC banks to hide his identity. Police seized 42 mobile phones, two laptops, 900 Naaptol letters and scratch cards, 28 debit cards, 10 Aadhaar cards and two rubber stamps from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gang-behind-bumper-prizes-held/article33967290.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Five States have 84% of active cases||With several States in the country continuing to report an increased number of daily new COVID-19 cases, India has reported 106 deaths in the 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Monday with five States accounting for 86.79% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the highest casualties (62). Kerala follows with 15 daily deaths and Punjab reported seven deaths, the Health Ministry noted in its release. Twenty States and Union Territories, including Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Assam and Manipur, did not report any deaths. “Six States, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, have shown a surge in new COVID cases in the last 24 hours. Also the total number of cases with U.K., South Africa and Brazil variants of the COVID virus in the country as on date are 213,” the Ministry said. It added that 15,510 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours with Maharashtra continuing to report the highest daily new cases at 8,293. It is followed by Kerala with 3,254 while Punjab has reported 579 new cases. Of the new cases, 87.25% are from these six States. “The Centre is continuously engaging with the States and UTs manifesting a higher caseload of active cases and those reporting a rise in the daily new COVID cases. States/UTs have been advised to maintain a continued rigorous vigil for containing the spread of COVID-19. Need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts are strongly emphasised,” added the Ministry. Upward trajectory Currently, eight States are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases — Maharashthra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. India’s total active caseload was 1,68,627 on Monday. India’s present active caseload now stands at 1.52% of India’s total positive cases. Five States account for 84% of the total active cases in the country and Maharashtra alone accounts for 46.39% of India’s total active cases, followed by Kerala with 29.49%. Also, 21 States/UTs have reported less than 1,000 active cases. Arunachal Pradesh has reported no active cases in the last 24 hours and 15 States/UTs have registered more than 1,000 active cases. Kerala and Maharashtra are the two States with more than 10,000 active cases, while the rest of the 13 States/UTs have between 1,000-10,000 active cases. More than 1.07 crore (1,07,86,457) people has recovered so far and 11,288 patients have recovered and been discharged in the last 24 hours. Of the new recovered cases, 85.07% are observed to be concentrated in six States. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 4,333 newly recovered cases. In Maharashtra, 3,753 people recovered in the past 24 hours, followed by 490 in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-states-have-84-of-active-cases/article33967313.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,||LPG cylinder price goes up again||Cooking gas cylinders used by households turned dearer on March 1, with national oil marketing companies increasing the price of the 14.2- kg liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) refill by Rs. 25 each. It is the second such increase in five days. The new rate is effective for deliveries made from March 1. In Delhi, the cylinder will now cost Rs. 819 (from Rs. 794); in Kolkata, Rs. 845 (Rs. 820); in Mumbai, Rs. 819 (Rs. 794) and in Chennai, Rs. 835 (Rs. 810). In Hyderabad, households need to pay Rs. 871.50 (Rs. 846.50) for the refill. This is the fourth increase in LPG prices from February 4 and the sixth since December 2020, totally adding Rs. 225 to the cylinder cost. In February, the price per cylinder went up by Rs. 25 on February 4, by Rs. 50 on February 15 and by another Rs. 25 on February 25. The pricing of LPG is determined by the international prices of propane and butane and the dollar-rupee exchange rate. There is a small subsidy component on the cylinders for eligible customers. The subsidy, paid directly into users’ bank accounts, is only for the first 12 cylinders purchased in a year. The subsidy varies across the country and, according to sources, has remained unchanged for some months now though the prices have been increased several times. The subsidy is about Rs. 40 per cylinder in Hyderabad and Rs. 25 in Chennai. Since a Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) of the subsidy is done, the eligible households, including the economically weak that were made to switch from kerosene and firewood to LPG under the Ujjwala scheme, need to pay the prevailing price at the time of taking delivery. Besides domestic LPG, the price of 19-kg cylinder meant for use in commercial establishments, primarily tea stalls, eateries and restaurants, was also increased on Monday. In Hyderabad, the price increased by Rs. 103, taking the cost of the cylinder to Rs. 1,773 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lpg-cylinder-price-goes-up-again/article33967331.ece
02 March 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool amplifies ‘Bengal wants own daughter’ pitch||Highlighting the party’s election slogan ‘Bangla Nijer Meye ke Chai’ (Bengal wants its own daughter), the Trinamool Congress on Monday launched a dedicated website around the slogan and held an outreach programme across the 23 districts on it. Sources in the party said the campaign will have a separate theme in the districts. Not only have many posters come up in the city on the theme but the Trinamool leadership is also highlighting that Mamata Banerjee is the only woman Chief Minister of West Bengal. A number of women leaders also held a programme giving details of women empowerment including nomination of 41% women candidates in the Lok Sabha by the party. Finance Minister Amit Mitra took to the social media claiming that he has “busted the negative propaganda on investment in Bengal”. “Mo-Shah’s negative propaganda on investment busted by 100 Bankers in Meet. Banks in Bengal lent Rs. 63,000 crore for investment to Medium-Sml industry [medium small] Aprl2020-Jan21, with State gov’s support. Result: 23 lakh new jobs as per GoI capital/labour ratio.Mo-Shah bolun?” Mr. Mitra said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the Saradha scam has summoned TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh for questioning. Mr. Ghosh admitted to receiving summons and said he will cooperate with the probe and present himself before the agency on Tuesday. The former Rajya Sabha MP was arrested by the police in connection with the scam.  Another star joins BJP Popular film actor Srabanti Chatterjee on Monday joined the BJP. She was welcomed by party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and State president Dilip Ghosh. Ms. Chatterjee has joined the list of popular stars like Payel Sarkar and Yash Dasgupta who have joined the BJP recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-amplifies-bengal-wants-own-daughter-theme/article33967304.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lawyer couple murder case: Statements to be recorded||Advocate General B.S. Prasad on Monday informed Telangana High Court that investigators would record the statements of the accused in the sensational lawyer couple murder case under section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.P.C.). However, recording statements of all the accused and the witnesses in the case would require a couple of weeks time, the Advocate General told a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. The bench was hearing a PIL petition taken up by it suo moto over the murder of lawyers Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife P.V. Nagamani practising in the HC. The couple was killed on the fringes of Kalvacharla village on Manthani-Peddapalli road while returning to their house in Bowenpally, Hyderabad, after attending Manthani court on February 17. Taking up the gory killings as PIL plea suo moto, the bench had directed the State government the next day to file a status report on the matter by March 1. After perusing the report on Monday presented by the government, Chief Justice Hima Kohli sought to know why the investigators could not record the statements of the accused and the witnesses under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. The police officials probing the twin murders recorded statements of the accused under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. That would be of little help in building up the case since the statements made under section 161 of Cr.P.C. are not admissible, the bench felt. The AG told the bench that investigators would require a couple of weeks as the list of witnesses, whose statements are to be recorded, is long. Meanwhile, the police had to gather crucial evidence relating to the crime - like mobile phones used by the accused, their Call Data Record and details of the scene of offence, he said. The video footage recorded by surveillance cameras at Manthani court from where the couple had started for Hyderabad before being murdered was also collected by the police. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy noted that a video clip had shown Vaman Rao speaking to onlookers, while lying on road with bleeding injuries inflicted with arms, for considerable time. The judge felt that the police should have rushed Mandal Revenue Officer or a gazetted officer to Mr. Rao and recorded the latter’s dying declaration. That would have become a crucial evidence to ensure conviction to the culprits, he said. The AG replied that police focus at that time was to shift the injured persons to the hospital for treatment. However, the couple could not be saved as they succumbed to their injuries, he said. The bench headed by the Chief Justice directed Ramagundam Police Commissioner to file a fresh status report on the investigation into the double murder and posted the matter to March 15 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/statements-to-be-recorded-under-section-164-of-crpc/article33967983.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC takes note of violation of norms||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government and the city police to submit a report on the action taken over the violation of COVID-19 norms during a rally organised on February 21 seeking greater reservation for the Panchamasali Lingayat community under the Other Backward Classes category. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition by M/s Letzkit Foundation on the violation of COVID-19 norms during gatherings, particularly those in which political leaders participate. The Bench referred to reports in the media that indicated that a large number of people at the rally were not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. Legislation enacted by the State government allows the imposition of fine on both the organisers of the event as well as individual violators. The court, during earlier proceedings on the petition, had made it clear that the police and other designated authorities should enforce penal action over COVID-19 norm violations to prevent a spread of the infection because of mass gatherings. Meanwhile, the Bench also directed the government to submit the new regulations of prescribing fines on violators, as per the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, which came into force on February 18, 2021. The rally The rally, which saw the participation of thousands from the community, a Lingayat-Veerashaiva sub-sect, was held in Bengaluru as part of the culmination of a padayatra by Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami of Koodala Sangama Panchamasali Peetha and Vachananda Swami of the Harihara Panchamasali Peetha. Their specific demand was for quota for the community under 2A category (which offers 15% reservation in education and government jobs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-about-action-taken-over-violation-of-guidelines-at-rally/article33967680.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Guidelines for attending Kumbh Mela||The Uttarakhand government has asked the devotees/pilgrims intending to attend Kumbh Mela in Hardwar, which started on Saturday and will continue till April 30, to take precautionary measures relating to COVID-19. Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Om Prakash, in a letter addressed to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, said devotees intending to attend the Kumbh Mela should follow the standard operation protocols for effectively managing COVID-19. Actions suggested He suggested series of actions that should be followed to ensure that transmission of the virus did not escalate and mortality/morbidity are minimised. Accordingly, people above 65 years and children below 10 years, persons with co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac, pulmonary and kidney ailments as also those suffering from cancer cerebrovascular disorders, pregnant women were advised not to visit the Kumbh Mela. Health certificate Visitors to the mela should produce a health certificate in the prescribed format as it was mandatory for entering the mela area. Visitors should produce a negative RT PCR for COVID-19 report (not older than 72 hours) at the time of entry to the mela area. And the report should be as per the prescribed format and was also mandatory requirement for entering the Mela. People intending to visit the mela should register on the Uttarakhand Government portal prior to their visit and should install and use Arogya Sethu App all times. They could be subjected to COVID-19 testing or active monitoring in line with the protocols followed in the State, Uttarakhand CS noted in the letter. Sri Gandham The Chief Secretary has assured that the government would extend necessary support and promote cultivation of Sri Gandham (Santalum Album or Indian Sandalwood) in the State. Mr. Somesh Kumar said the government would positively look into the issues raised by the farmers engaged in the cultivation of Sri Gandham. He was speaking to a delegation of farmers who called on him at the BRKR Bhavan on Monday. The farmers wanted the government to accord permission for export of Sri Gandham as well as for dealerships and licence for selling the sandalwood products. They wanted the government to ensure that protective measures were taken to curb smuggling of sandalwood. The CS assured that he would take the issues to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/guidelines-for-attending-kumbh-mela/article33967993.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||LDF seat-sharing talks gather pace||Seat-sharing talks gathered pace in the Left Democratic Front in Kerala on Monday. LDF leaders are unwilling to hazard a definite guess on the proposed calculus. However, some indicated that constituents would not get the same number of seats they had in the 2016 Assembly elections. Members might have to sacrifice a few seats to make space for the KC(M) and the LJD, both recent allies. The CPI(M) is likely to set an example by giving up the maximum number of seats to uphold coalition unity and values. Bargaining on Bargaining between constituents for seats was reportedly on at the AKG Centre for the second consecutive day. The meetings were a closed-door affair. The LDF is also likely to field influencers and validators outside the realm of active politics. Meanwhile, friction over seat-sharing and candidate selection appeared to plague the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in some measure on Monday. The challenge appeared more pronounced in Kollam district. The Youth Congress, Mahila Congress and Kerala Students Union (KSU) have decried the UDF’s proposal to cede the Chadayamangalam constituency to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). The organisations staged an open protest in Kadakkal and raised banners against the putative arrangement. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary M.M. Nazeer told The Hindu that the IUML did not even have a committee in the Assembly segment. Ceding the seat to the IUML would drive Hindu votes to the BJP. Fearing a BJP surge, Christian and Muslim votes would gravitate towards the LDF, he said. In Pathanamthitta, candidate selection has re-emerged as the bone of contention between two factions in the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ldf-seat-sharing-talks-gather-pace/article33967282.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||New test to measure Vit B12 absorption||A team of researchers from St. John’s Research Institute (SJRI) has developed a new test to measure vitamin B12 absorption in humans with stable 13C isotopes. Earlier, this was possible only using the radio-isotopes-based Schilling test. This major clinical development has been published in American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.  Vitamin B12 deficiency, that is widespread in India, is linked to many poor health outcomes. It is mainly due to a low intake of animal source foods or malabsorption. The problem lies in measuring whether it is well absorbed from the diet or from remedial supplements. Unless the absorption is known, it is very hard to design the appropriate dose to remedy deficiencies. Sarita Devi from St. John’s Research Institute, who is the lead author of the paper, said unfortunately, the measurement of vitamin B12 absorption is not performed now, because the original or modified Schilling’s test requires radioisotopes. “The problem is the use of radioactive isotopes (Cobalt in this case), which is heavily restricted, to ‘label’ vitamin B12 so that it can be traced to quantify its absorption. This problem has continued for the last 70 years, since Dr. Schilling first published his eponymous testing method,” she explained. The study describes the re-engineering and innovation of a new method to measure Vitamin B12 absorption. “We did this by biosynthesizing a novel Vitamin B12 molecule that was labelled with a ‘stable isotope’ of carbon 13C. This, as the name implies, is stable (not radioactive and therefore does not emit any harmful radiation) and is therefore safe for human use,” she said. The molecule that the team of researchers synthesized, is a form of Vitamin B12 called 13 C-cyanocobalamin. This (cyanocobalamin) is one of the commercial vitamin B12 supplements that are prescribed. “We then used this to measure vitamin B12 absorption in humans, and also defined a new mathematical or pharmacokinetic model for this purpose. This test is safe and can now be used in a clinic and in any age group safely without radiation concerns,” Dr. Devi explained. “This is a major development in nutrition that also changed the daily requirement of Vitamin B12 in a recently published report by the ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition for Indians,” she said. Anura V. Kurpad, senior author of the paper and chair of the ICMR Expert Committee on Nutrient Requirement of Indians, said the earlier thinking was that dietary vitamin B12 was 100% absorbed. As the researchers’ team led by Dr. Devi had measured this at about 50% absorption, Dr. Kurpad said: “This effectively doubled the daily dietary requirement from 1 microgram to 2 microgram/day. Since Vitamin B12 is only available from animal source foods, it is critical to ensure that an adequate intake of milk or eggs/meat is available in the diet.” From a therapeutic viewpoint when treating the deficiency, the study also showed that the absorption of Vitamin B12 was very tightly regulated, in that it could not go above a certain amount. Hence, a high intake does not necessarily mean more absorption, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/st-johns-develops-new-test-to-measure-vit-b12-absorption/article33967545.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kerala Life Mission officials got Rs. 4.5 cr. in kickbacks: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation has alleged in the Supreme Court that officials of Kerala government’s Life Mission housing project received kickbacks to the tune of around Rs. 4.5 crore in collusion with their counterparts in the UAE Consulate General office. The money was illegally diverted by two companies, Unitac and Sane Ventures, from foreign contributions received to build homes for flood victims on over two acres of land in Wadakancherry, the CBI has contended in the Supreme Court. The draft of the CBI contentions in the apex court was shared with The Hindu by Kerala government counsel. The investigative agency said the initial Memorandum of Understanding on the Wadakancherry project was between Red Crescent and Life Mission. However, subsequent agreements were executed between the UAE Consulate and Unitac and Sane Ventures. “The intention was only to divert the foreign contribution and receive kickbacks from the said foreign contribution. The agreements were executed between third parties who are not parties to the MoU in active connivance with officials under Life Mission and officials of the Consulate General of UAE,” the CBI has said.  “The two companies have admitted the involvement of kickbacks and gratification by way of money and I-phones to the officials of UAE Consul General and Life Mission, which support the case alleged in the complaint. It is also clear that the foreign contribution routed through third person was for evading mandatory audit and other formalities, had it been routed through government machinery,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-life-mission-officials-got-rs-45-cr-in-kickbacks-cbi/article33967294.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘G-23’ lambasts Congress alliance with Furfura peer||Days after a show of strength by a section of the Congress group of dissenters (the “G-23”) in Jammu, a key member of the group, Anand Sharma, on Monday lashed at out at his party for having an alliance with the Indian Secular Front (ISF) party in West Bengal, and asserted that the poll tie-up “militates against Congress ideology”. On Sunday, West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is also the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, had shared a stage with Left leaders and ISF founder Abbas Siddiqui of Furfura Sharief at a public rally of the grand alliance. Mr. Sharma’s outburst came on a day when the Congress tried to create a divide among the G-23 — leaders who had sought a complete revamp of the party in a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi last August — by appointing one of the letter writers, Prithviraj Chavan, as the head of screening committee to shortlist party candidates for poll-bound Assam. Issuing a strong counter, Mr. Chowdhury told The Hindu that Mr. Sharma should have spoken to him first to “find out ground realities” and asserted that Congress’ alliance was with the Left parties for 92 seats and other secular forces are part of the grand alliance”. “Congress’ alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC [Congress Working Committee],” tweeted Mr. Sharma, the Deputy Leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha. “Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement [of] West Bengal PCC [Pradesh Congress Committee] president is painful and shameful, he must clarify,” he added. His comments targeting the Congress came barely 24 hours after his senior colleague, Ghulam Nabi Azad, heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “not hiding his humble background of selling tea and washing utensils”. Mr. Azad’s comment embarrassed the Congress, which is in the midst of fighting Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/g-23-lambasts-congress-alliance-with-furfura-peer/article33967307.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||CISCE Class 12 exams from April 8; Class 10 from May 5||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will conduct its Class XII exams from April 8 to June 16 and Class X board exams from May 5 to June 7. The board examination results will be declared by July. In 2020, the CISCE’s board examinations were interrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, with all schools shutting their doors from mid-March. Students were evaluated on the basis of internal assessment for the papers they had missed. Physical classes Although students have been out of the classroom for much of this academic year, most Class X and XII students have returned for physical classes over the last two months as the number of COVID-19 cases dropped. The CISCE has issued a series of guidelines to ensure that the Board examinations are conducted safely, with minimal risk of spreading the virus. Students are required to wear face masks, carry hand sanitiser, and maintain six feet distance between each other. Schools have been directed to ensure there is no overcrowding on their campuses at any point during the examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cisce-class-12-exams-from-april-8-class-10-from-may-5/article33967324.ece
02 March 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. trade report flags issues from ‘Make in India’ policy||The U.S. tried to resolve “long-standing market access impediments affecting U.S. exporters” during 2020 with India, says the 2021 President’s Trade Agenda and 2020 Annual Report — an annual report submitted by the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to Congress, calling India’s policies “trade-restrictive” and saying the “Make in India” campaign epitomises the challenges to the trade relationship. “While India’s large market, economic growth, and progress towards development make it an essential market for many U.S. exporters, a general and consistent trend of trade-restrictive policies have inhibited the potential of the bilateral trade relationship. Recent Indian emphasis on import substitution through a “Make in India” campaign has epitomised the challenges facing the bilateral trade relationship,” the report says. The Make in India campaign was launched by Prime Minister Modi in 2014 to incentivise production in India. The report describes the Trump administration’s revocation of India’s preferential trading status under the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) program in June 2019 and the ensuing discussion to achieve a mini trade deal (“package”) throughout 2020. In a section on Digital Service Tax, a Section 301 investigation on India’s DST, which began in June last year, is highlighted. The investigation is ongoing, as per the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-trade-report-flags-issues-from-make-in-india-policy/article33967856.ece
02 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Ancient church, set to be razed, gets new life||Centuries-old St. George’s Orthodox Church at Cheppad has faced the risk of demolition for widening of National Highway (NH) 66, but it is now set to be declared a Centrally protected monument of national importance by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Last month, as directed by the ASI Director General, a team of officials from the ASI Thrissur circle inspected the church and recommended its preservation. K.P. Mohandas, superintending archaeologist, wrote a letter to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) urging it to propose a new alignment for the NH. “It has been noticed that the church is one of the rarest in Kerala, having traditional Kerala church architectural pattern with rare and beautiful mural paintings on the walls of the altar. Considering the historic, art and architectural importance of the church, this office intends to protect the church as a Centrally protected monument of national importance. It is, therefore, informed that the present alignment of the NH may please be changed to protect this ancient church and its valuable mural paintings,” reads the letter. Built in AD 950 It is believed that the church was built in AD 950, but some experts put the year of construction at AD 1050. Though it was rebuilt in 1952, the apse at the eastern end of the church was left intact to preserve the murals. Forty-seven murals are arranged in three rows on three walls of the church. The paintings include those of St. Paul with a sword, the birth of Jesus Christ, resurrection of Lazarus by Christ, the kiss of Judas, the Last Supper, Christ bearing the cross and being flogged by soldiers, other scenes from crucifixion, Adam and Eve eating the forbidden fruit, and Noah’s Ark. These paintings, a blend of Persian art and Kerala’s mural artwork, have drawn enthusiasts from far and wide. Besides, Philipose Mar Dionysius, Malankara Metropolitan during the 19th Century, was buried in a sepulchre attached to its sanctuary R. Balashankar, co-convener, BJP national training programme, who made interventions to protect the church, said it was an invaluable historic treasure. “The destruction of the tomb or the ancient mural paintings could become a matter of grave religious nature." Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a letter to Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, had said that “while the State government is committed to the widening of the NH, it is felt that a 1,000-year-old historical religious place is to be preserved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-church-set-to-be-razed-gets-new-life/article33967287.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC exempts hostels, convents from tax||The Supreme Court on Monday held that residential accommodation for nuns near a convent and hostels for students attached to educational institutions can claim exemption from paying building tax in Kerala. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman, in a judgment, said a building can be exempted from property tax if its core purpose is to accommodate nuns and students, not for profit, but to provide them easy access to their centres of study. “Nuns are living in a neighbouring building to a convent only so that they may receive religious instruction there, or if students are living in a hostel close to the school or college, it is obvious that the purpose of such residence is not to earn profit but residence that is integrally connected with religious or educational activity,” Justice Nariman, who authored the verdict, observed. The court did not agree with the Kerala government’s view that such buildings should be taxed as they are used for residential purposes, and not exclusively for religious activities. Section 3(1)(b) of the Kerala Building Tax Act, 1975 exempts payment of tax for premises used “principally” for religious, charitable or educational purposes or as factories or workshops.  The court snubbed the Kerala government’s stand that exemptions from paying tax contained in a fiscal statute should be strictly construed and any ambiguity should be interpreted in favour of the State. “If we were to accept the contention of the State, buildings in which nuns are housed and students are accommodated in hostels which have been completed after 1.4.1999 and which have a plinth area of 278.7 square meters would be liable to pay luxury tax...” Justice Nariman observed.  If we were to accept State’s contention, buildings in which nuns and students stay... will be liable to pay luxury tax Justice Rohinton Nariman Supreme Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-exempts-hostels-convents-from-tax/article33967855.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Food processing revolution needed’||The time has come to increase the private sector participation in all areas of agricultural research and development as well as in the food processing space, according to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Addressing a webinar on Monday on budget announcements for the farm sector, he said a food processing revolution was now overdue for several decades. “In the 21st century, in a time of increasing agricultural production, India needs a post-harvest food processing revolution, with a focus on value addition. It would have been good for the country had this been done two to three decades back,” said the Prime Minister. In order to ensure that such a revolution takes place speedily, apart from the participation of farmers, public-private partnerships were also needed. It was critical that storage facilities and processing units were available near the fields, he said. Lakhs of existing micro-processing units needed to be equipped to expand, through handholding by Farmer Producer Organisations. “We must increase the number of agro-industry clusters near the villages, so that the people in the villages can get employment related to farming in the village itself,” he said. Mr. Modi emphasised that the scope of this Indian food processing revolution must be global. “It is the need of the hour to ensure that our farmers get as many options as possible to market their produce. We have to integrate our agricultural produce into the global processed foods market,” he said. The Prime Minister lamented the fact that Indian fish was now processed in East Asia before reaching the international market, resulting in a loss of business opportunities for the fisheries sector in the country. Seaweed, beeswax, millets, coarse cereals and organic vegetables were the other sectors with significant potential, he said. Mr. Modi urged the private R&D sector to go beyond the seed industry alone, and expand their focus to the whole life cycle of a crop. He noted that contract farming had been present in the country in different forms for a long time, adding that it should not be viewed purely through the lens of business. Rather, corporates engaging in contract farming had a responsibility to bring the best facilities and technology to the country’s small farmers, said the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/food-processing-revolution-overdue-for-decades-pm/article33967326.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Minor girl found dead in Aligarh village||They point to the fact that the body was found face down in a semi-nude condition and the wheat crop at the spot was completely trampled. They said the 14-year-old girl was speech impaired and that could be the reason why the perpetrators targeted her. On Sunday evening, when a police team went to take the body for a post mortem, irate villagers blocked its passage by setting fodder on fire. The SHO of Gangiri police station was also injured in stone-pelting. It was only around 10.30 p.m. that the body could be taken to Aligarh for post mortem. Mr Muniraj said the SHO had received minor injuries when he was heckled by the angry villagers. “It took some time to pacify the villagers. It seems they wanted the media and their leaders to reach the spot. Now, we are getting their support. The last rites have been performed peacefully,” he said. The police have detained five persons, two of whom were working at a nearby tubewell at the time of the incident. The three others are brothers from the same village. Sources said police had found empty glasses and pouches of liquor around 200 metres from the spot. “Five teams are working on the case,” said Mr. Muniraj. The victim’s father worked as a labourer in Aligarh and her mother works at a restaurant. The girl was one of the four children and has been living with her maternal grandmother for the last 10 years. On Sunday, around noon, she had gone out to collect fodder for her goats. When she didn’t return till late in the afternoon, villagers started searching for her. Her body was then found in a field, around one kilometre from the village.  Members of political parties reached the village and raised slogans in front of the Akrabad police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-girl-found-dead-in-aligarh-village/article33967291.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese cyber attack thwarted: Ministry||Specifically naming the Chinese group “Red Echo”, which has been identified in the U.S. company Recorded Future’s report as responsible for the Mumbai outage, officials said they had been warned by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology’s (MEITy’s) Cyber Emergency Response Team-In (India) (CERT-in) about the threat from malware called “ShadowPad” in November 2020, and by the NTRO’s National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) in February 2021, of the threats, weeks before the Recorded Future report was released. “NCIIPC informed [Power Ministry] through a mail dated 12th February, 2021 about the threat by Red Echo through a malware called Shadow Pad. It stated that Chinese state-sponsored threat Actor group known as Red Echo is targeting Indian Power sector’s Regional Load Dispatch Centres (RLDCs) along with State Load Dispatch Centres (SLDCs).” The Ministry listed actions it took as a result of the warnings that have ensured that there is no “communication and data transfers” taking place to the Internet Protocol addresses(IPs) mentioned as dangerous by NCIIPC. “All IPs and domains listed in NCIIPC mail have been blocked in the firewall at all control centres. Log of firewall is being monitored for any connection attempt towards the listed IPs and domains. Additionally, all systems in control centres were scanned and cleaned by antivirus,” it said. In Mumbai, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said a preliminary Cyber Cell report on the power outage had been handed over to the State Energy Ministry. “The report findings state there is evidence that suggests there might have been a cyber-sabotage attempt. The report has been handed over to Minister Nitin Raut,” Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh reportedly told journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-cyber-attack-thwarted-ministry/article33967295.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi takes first dose of Covaxin at AIIMS||It was learnt that the nurse who administered the vaccine to Mr. Modi was P. Niveda of Puducherry, assisted by Rosamma Anil, a nurse from Kerala. Ms. Niveda said the Prime Minister was in good spirits and even jokingly asked if a syringe used by veterinarians was required to administer the vaccine “since politicians are supposed to have very thick skins”. He later complimented the nurses for the ease with which the jab was administered. In an interesting coincidence, Kerala and Puducherry are both going to polls in April. Mr. Modi wore an Assamese gamcha, another State going to polls. Sources said no special route was laid out for the Prime Minister and the lack of traffic early morning was used to make the visit painless for Delhi commuters. At a meeting of Chief Ministers on vaccine disbursal, Mr. Modi had said that political leaders and legislators should allow health and frontline workers to get the jab first as they needed protection. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar also got the first dose of the vaccine on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-takes-first-dose-of-covaxin-at-aiims/article33967296.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||25 lakh sign up on day 1 of vaccine rollout||“I have been saying from the beginning that both our vaccines are safe and perfect as far as immunogenicity is concerned. We are thankful to the Prime Minister. He has always told us that you have to lead by example. He took the jab first when the vaccination of people above 60 years has begun,” said the Minister. The Health Minister added that Mr. Modi took Covaxin, against which a lot of misinformation was spread even when it was scientifically perfect. “I think the Prime Minister has given a clear message to the country. All misinformation and hesitancy should be buried once and for all,’’ he said. The Minister encouraged all eligible beneficiaries to come forward and take the vaccine. “I plan to get vaccinated tomorrow,” he added. The COVID vaccine is being offered free of cost at government COVID Vaccination Centers (CVC) while private centres are offering this at a capped price of Rs. 250 per dose. The Ministry added that so far the beneficiaries will not have a choice on which vaccine will be administered to them. It also clarified that Supreme Court judges will not be allowed to choose the COVID vaccine and that the inoculation process will be done entirely through the Co-Win System. The clarification came after reports that sitting and retired Supreme Court judges will get vaccine shots from Tuesday and that they could choose between Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield as their first shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-lakh-sign-up-on-day-1-of-vaccine-rollout/article33967297.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||My bail is not a victory: Naudeep||Trade union activist Naudeep Kaur, who was arrested on January 12 after a demonstration to demand workers’ wages in Haryana’s Kundli, on Monday said her release on bail last week was not a victory. Addressing a press conference here, Ms. Kaur said, “My case is still on, we haven’t won yet. The Dalits and workers still sleep on empty stomachs. Our wages are still with companies.” Ms. Kaur said she and fellow activists of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sanghathan had been holding protests to demand the “lockdown wages” of workers in the Kundli industrial area. She said she was arrested after one such protest, where she alleged police dragged her by her hair and roughed her up. Once in jail, the young Dalit woman said she was subjected to casteist abuse. ‘We had only flags’ Denying the charges of attempt to murder and extortion against her and other unionists, Ms. Kaur said the workers were carrying flags, not weapons. “Whoever raises their voice gets labelled as anti-national and is jailed. It shows that the state is afraid. We don’t even have the freedom to distribute pamphlets. The state is afraid of a so-called ‘weak’ Dalit girl,” she said. Ms. Kaur said while the workers had been protesting for months, it was when they decided to show solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation that things changed. “Their [the state] fear is that we are with the farmers,” she said. She said the farmers and workers’ protests against the farm laws and new labour codes required mass support. Earlier, during the press conference, Rajbir, the father of Shiv Kumar, the Mazdoor Adhikar Sanghathan president who remains in jail in the same case, said his son had been beaten and tortured in jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/my-bail-is-not-a-victory-nodeep/article33967300.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm, trade unions to launch joint campaign||Farm unions under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha banner and 10 Central trade unions have agreed to carry out a joint campaign, combining their demands and planning common actions. The decision was taken at a meeting of representatives from both sides on Monday evening, but will need to be ratified by the wider SKM at its general body meeting on Tuesday. The SKM will also discuss the possibility of jointly campaigning against the BJP in the upcoming Assembly elections. Some members have already chalked out such plans, but others are not too keen. “The meeting decided to undertake a joint campaign, with five common demands: three demands from the farmers’ side — repeal of the farm reform laws, withdrawal of Electricity Bill and legal guarantee for MSP — and two demands from the workers’ side — to withdraw the labour codes and stop privatisation,” said All India Kisan Sabha treasurer Krishnaprasad, who attended the meeting. All-India Trade Union Congress general secretary Amarjeet Kaur said that farmers and workers’ representatives discussed coming out with a joint statement and programme, which would be announced after the farmers’ meeting on Tuesday. She said the trade unions suggested certain programmes, including observing March 15 as “anti-privatisation day”. The meeting was attended by representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Union-Rajewal and BKU-Ekta Ugrahan, two of the most prominent Punjab groups. The BKU’s Balbir Singh Rajewal is also likely to join in election campaigning against the BJP in Kerala, according to a farm leader who did not wish to be named. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who heads another faction of the BKU in Haryana and is known to be close to the Aam Aadmi Party, is planning to campaign in Bengal, the leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-trade-unions-to-launch-joint-campaign/article33967301.ece
02 March 2021||Kolkata,||‘Will support Mamata’||reRashtriya Janata Dal ( RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav met Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjeeon Monday at the Secretariat and extended support to her in the Assembly polls. Mr. Yadav said the first priority should be to stop “communal forces” and appealed to his supporters to put their “full force behind Mamataji to ensure that the BJP is defeated”. Asked whether the RJD will contest in Bengal, he said, “If Mamataji is contesting it means we are contesting. The BJP is spreading lies, confusion and hate. They have done nothing for Bihar. They had promised jobs to 20 lakh but have not been able to upgrade the Patna university to central university.” On the Left parties and the Congress being part of the alliance with the RJD in Bihar, Mr. Yadav said the fight in Bengal is far greater than any alliance. “Our alliance [with the two parties] is for Bihar. Even in Kerala we have LDF and UDF,” he said referring to the two parties competing with each other in Kerala. The RJD leader heaped praises on Ms. Banerjee and said the manner in which she led the fight against COVID-19 from the front is exemplary. Ms. Banerjee said the people of Bihar gave the mandate to Mr. Yadav but the BJP formed the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-support-mamata/article33967305.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||WhatsApp’s new policy being examined: govt.||The Central government on Monday informed the Delhi High Court that it was examining WhatsApp’s controversial new privacy policy, which is scheduled to come into effect from May 15, at the highest level. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva — who was hearing a petition against the instant messaging platform’s new policy — granted three weeks time to the Centre to submit a status report on the issue. The court posted the case for further hearing on April 19. During the hearing, the Centre said it was in the process of gathering more clarity on the issue and was seeking clarifications from WhatsApp. Earlier, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, had said: “The privacy policy offered by WhatsApp to its European users, specifically prohibition of any information shared with Facebook, while this provision is not present in the privacy policy offered to Indian citizens — who form a very substantial part of WhatsApp user base. This differential treatment is a cause of concern to the government.” The court was hearing a petition filed by advocate Chaitanya Rohilla , who has claimed that WhatsApp’s new privacy policy violates the right to privacy guaranteed under the Constitution. The plea said the new policy “virtually gives a 360-degree profile into a person’s online activity” without there being any supervision of the government. The plea sought direction to issue guidelines to ensure such change in privacy policy by WhatsApp are carried out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/whatsapps-new-policy-being-examined-govt/article33967311.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC asks rape accused if he can marry woman||The Supreme Court on Monday asked a State government employee whether he would marry a woman he was accused of raping repeatedly while she was a minor. The man refused saying he was already married. A Bench, led by Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, subsequently stayed his arrest for four weeks so that he could apply for regular bail. During the hearing, the court asked the lawyer for the accused to find out whether his client would be willing to marry the victim or risk the prospect of going to jail. “We are not forcing you...” Chief Justice Bobde said. “I had initially asked for marriage... Right now, I cannot marry her... I am married,” the lawyer reported to the court on what his client said. The accused, in his own petition in the top court, recounted the prosecution allegations that he had sexual intercourse with the girl since she was in high school, stalked and threatened her. It was alleged that his mother had promised marriage when the girl turned 18, but they had later backed out. The accused moved the top court against the cancellation of his anticipatory bail by the Bombay High Court early last month. Arrest stayed In another case, the Bench stayed the arrest of a man accused of rape after falsely promising marriage. The accused had approached the court saying he was framed. He said they were in a live-in relationship and she had accused him of rape when their relationship turned sour. Their sexual intercourse during the period was consensual. The alleged victim said she was promised marriage and was “brutally and sexually abused”. “When two people are living as husband and wife, however brutal the husband is, can you call sexual intercourse between them ‘rape’?” Chief Justice Bobde asked the lawyer. He replied that his client’s consent was taken by fraud and threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-asks-rape-accused-if-he-can-marry-woman/article33967314.ece
02 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP rule has made Assam unsafe for women: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said Assam has become unsafe for women under the Bharatiya Janata Party-led alliance government. Launching her two-day campaign in the poll-bound State on Monday, she also said Assam’s strength was her cultural diversity. This was in reference to the campaign of the State Congress to save “Assamese culture” from “Nagpuria (Hindutva ideology emanating from Nagpur)” culture. Ms. Vadra interacted with party office-bearers and diverse groups of people besides interacting with tea garden women workers and self-help group members in the north-eastern part of the State. She launched an all-out attack on the Sarbananda Sonowal government for the rising rate of crimes against women in Assam. “Assam has the highest rate of crime against women and the BJP government has been turning a blind eye to this issue. The upcoming elections are very important for the women of the State. You have the power to vote, use it responsibly,” she said in her address to tea garden workers, mostly women. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, Assam reported the highest rate of crimes against women at 177.8 per lakh population in 2019. Appealing to the youth to save Assam, Ms. Vadra said the State’s diverse culture was its strength and the Congress “stands with the people of Assam in the fight to save the State”. She also asked the people of Assam to teach BJP a lesson for “pushing the common man into abject misery through continuous hike in the prices of fuel and essential commodities”. State Congress leader Bobbeeta Sharma said Ms. Vadra would be addressing public meetings in north-central Assam’s Tezpur town before departing the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-rule-has-made-assam-unsafe-for-women-priyanka/article33967933.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC judges won’t be allowed to select vaccine: Centre||The Health Ministry on Monday clarified that Supreme Court judges will not be allowed to choose the COVID-19 vaccine for inoculation and that the process will be done entirely through the Co-Win system. “The government facility within the Supreme Court to be used,” said the Ministry. The clarification was issued after some reports that sitting and retired Supreme Court judges could choose between Covaxin and Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-judges-wont-be-allowed-to-select-vaccine-centre/article33967321.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ramchander Rao and KTR exchange Twitter barbs||Senior BJP leader N. Ramchander Rao, striving to get elected once again for the Graduates Constituency of the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahabubnagar districts, charged that the ruling TRS leadership “is resorting to diversionary tactics to deflect the attention from the issues of higher education, filling of vacancies in the government and employees welfare” on Monday. Mr. Rao waited at the University College of Arts & Social Sciences in Osmania University campus hoping for TRS working president and Minister K.T. Rama Rao for “an open discussion on education and jobs” earlier in the day. To a Twitter post #WhereisKTR', he got a tweet barb from the latter. "Waiting to collect information about the 12 crore jobs (2 crore per year) and Rs. 15 lakh in all Jandhan accounts promised by Hon'ble PM Shri Modiji. So far NDA means - No Data Available". The BJP leader, too did not hold back, asking why the Minister or his partymen are “afraid” of facing the public and answer the charges made. “Why hide behind social media? Why can’t they say the same in the open in a democratic manner? Are they scared of their lies being exposed or their employment numbers turning out to false,” he questioned, sitting besides an empty chair kept ready for Mr. Rama Rao near the college steps. The BJP leader reiterated that the government has “fudging numbers” on employment. “Telangana State Public Service Commission has recruited 32,000 employees. The rest is about either regularising existing employees or appointments on compensatory grounds. There are more than 1.2 lakh vacancies in government alone,” claimed the MLC, later in an exclusive interaction. The Minister may have ridiculed my “questioning nature”, but he is proud of it because that is precisely his role and that of the government to perform. “I am only asking what have they done to the universities in the last six years? How many vacancies were filled and why employees and pensioners are being denied the pay revision and fitment allowances,” he said. Fielding former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani Devi was the “last resort” to split the Brahmin community votes, however, there is “no love lost” for the family as the “real political game plan of TRS is to ensure Left parties support K. Nageshwar’s win at any cost,” he said. Instead of blaming the Centre, TS could start by cutting the 32% tax levied to cut fuel prices, he said, adding that the second volume of compendium of his speeches in the Legislative Council between 2018-2020 will be released soon. “Personal vituperative attacks on me and in social media are signs of frustration and desperate tactics by TRS since they know I have the support of the people and my party has been emerging stronger with every election from Dubbak bypoll to GHMC elections. So, I am confident winning again,” affirmed Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramchander-rao-and-ktr-exchange-twitter-barbs/article33967986.ece
02 March 2021||Chennai,||Madras HC to monitor probe against former Special DGP||In suo motu proceedings, the Madras High Court on Monday decided to monitor the investigation into a sexual harassment complaint against a former Special Director-General of Police (DGP) and restrained political parties from “politicising/publicising” the issue. A woman Superintendent of Police had accused the top officer of sexually harassing her. The court ordered that the parties must not issue any statement to the media touching upon the merits of the issue and warned that violation of the court order might lead to contempt proceedings. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh passed the orders on a suo motu writ petition taken up by him after expressing shock and deep anguish over the incident. Passing an elaborate interim order, he restrained the media from publishing the names of the complainant, the accused and witnesses. On perusing the complaint, the judge found that the alleged harassment had taken place when both IPS officers were involved in providing security to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on February 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/madras-hc-to-monitor-probe-against-former-special-dgp/article33967593.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Seat-sharing talks in LDF gather pace||Industries Minister E. P. Jayarajan has reportedly volunteered to stay away from the Assembly contest. The party would take a final call in the matter. The candidate selection in Alappuzha had reportedly run into some stumbling block. The CPI(M) has purportedly recommended more than one name for Kayamkulam, Aroor and Mavelikara. When contacted, incumbent Kayamkulam legislator U. Prathibha Hari said she could not comment on the selection process. The party’s word was final, she said. Another CPI(M) insider said disagreement about candidature was not unusual in the CPI(M). However, such disputes, if at all, had not manifested as public spectacles of protest.  Influencers The LDF is also likely to field influencers and validators outside the realm of active politics. For one, the coalition is reportedly considering film director Renjith as an Independent candidate from North Kerala. More such personalities might join the Left bandwagon. He said the CPI(M) and CPI would soon reach an agreement on seat allocation. After that, the coalition would weigh the demands of the KC(M), Janata Dal (S), LJD and Nationalist Congress Party. The LDF would announce the matter soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seat-sharing-talks-in-ldf-gather-pace/article33967626.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC gives ‘last chance’ to end trial in actor rape case||The Supreme Court on Monday gave the sessions court hearing a sexual assault case involving Malayalam actor Dileep six months’ time, starting from March 4, to complete the trial. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar made it clear that the time was given as an “indulgence” and as a “last opportunity”. “The parties must cooperate for early conclusion of the trial,” the top court said. The order came on a request, dated January 16, 2021, from the Additional Special Sessions Judge, Ernakulam, Kerala, for six more months to complete the trial proceedings. The Supreme Court had earlier extended the deadline for completion of criminal proceedings by six months. It had asked the court to complete the trial by February 4, 2021. The proceedings had been delayed due to the pandemic and a host of other facts. The prosecution could so far examine only 82 of the nearly 300 witnesses listed in the case. The incident The prosecution case is that the victim, also an actor, was assaulted by a group of men in a moving car in 2017. One of them had recorded the alleged crime on a mobile phone. Dileep is accused of conspiracy in the case and is the eighth accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-gives-last-chance-to-end-trial-in-actor-rape-case/article33967293.ece
02 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NHRC issues notices on Hirakud displacement||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of Odisha and Chhattisgarh over the action taken to alleviate the sufferings of people displaced by the construction of the Hirakud dam over the Mahanadi river about six decades ago. Human rights lawyer Radhakant Tripathy had moved the NHRC alleging that 26,561 families were displaced for the construction of the Hirakud dam project and due compensation was not paid to evictees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-issues-notices-on-hirakud-displacement/article33968058.ece
02 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NHRC issues notices to Chief Secretaries of Odisha, Chhattisgarh on Hirakud displacement||The National Human Rights Commission issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of Odisha and Chhattisgarh over the action taken to alleviate the sufferings of people displaced by the construction of the Hirakud dam over the Mahanadi river about six decades ago. Human rights lawyer Radhakant Tripathy had moved NHRC alleging that 26,561 families were displaced for the project and due compensation was not paid to evictees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-issues-notices-to-chief-secretaries-of-odisha-chhattisgarh-on-hirakud-displacement/article33967932.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||SC to hear bail plea of Navlakha tomorrow||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on March 3 a plea for bail filed by activist Gautam Navlakha in the Bhima Koregaon case. The Bombay High Court had dismissed his bail application on February 8. A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice U.U. Lalit would hear Mr. Navlakha’s appeal against the High Court order. The prosecution case concerns allegations that certain activists made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgaar Parishad meet in Pune on December 31, 2017, which led to violence the next day. Police alleged that the event was backed by Maoist groups. The National Investigation Agency is probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-bail-plea-of-navlakha-tomorrow/article33967322.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||Bailable warrant issued against Kangana||A magistrates’ court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut in a criminal complaint alleging defamation filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar. On the last occasion, summons were issued against Ms. Ranaut to appear before the the Andheri magistrate court, failing which it said a bailable warrant would be issued against her. In an interview on national television on July 19, Ms. Ranaut had linked Mr. Akhtar to the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A criminal complaint was filed on November 3 before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate under Sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bailable-warrant-issued-against-kangana/article33967327.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||HC nod for Varavara Rao release on cash bond||The Bombay High Court on Monday allowed 82-year-old poet Varavara Rao, who is accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, to be released after paying a cash bond of Rs. 50,000 and granted time till April 5 to furnish sureties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-nod-for-varavara-rao-release-on-cash-bond/article33967329.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Three arrested for killing man who objected to rash driving||A 30-year-old man was killed and his younger brother suffered serious injuries after they were stabbed by a group of people when the duo objected to rash driving by one of the accused in Bindapur area of Dwarka, said a senior police officer on Monday. The victims were identified as Suraj Prakash and his younger brother Chander Prakash. Doctors said that a sharp weapon had been used in the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-arrested-for-killing-man-who-objected-to-rash-driving/article33967330.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||RGIA gets Airport Service Quality award||Hyderabad International Airport has once again won laurels in the annual Airports Council International (ACI) Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey with the airport being adjudged ‘Best Airport by Size and Region’ in Asia-Pacific Region for 2020, in its category of 15-25 million passengers per annum (MPPA). ACI World director general Luis Felipe de Oliveira said in a message: “During this most difficult and challenging of years, your customers have spoken and recognised the successful efforts of your team in providing a superior customer experience under trying circumstances.” “We feel honoured that our passengers have chosen us. This achievement is a testament to the untiring efforts of all our stakeholders who have worked hard during the testing times of the pandemic,” said Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker. GMR Airports chief innovation officer SGK Kishore said amid COVID-19, the airport is committed to a safe and seamless passenger experience. ASQ is the world’s leading airport passenger service and benchmarking programme measuring passenger satisfaction. The airport has been consistently ranked in ACI-ASQ Passenger Survey among the Global Top three airports for nine consecutive years (2009 to 2017) including World No. 1 four times in the 5-15 MPPA category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rgia-gets-airport-service-quality-award/article33967962.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Inter-State arms racket busted, eight arrested||The City Market police, on Sunday, busted an inter-State arms racket and arrested eight persons who were allegedly selling pistols illegally in the city. The accused have been identified as Kadeer Khan, 32, from Karnataka, Fayazulla Khan, 31, Vinay from Tamil Nadu, Parag Kumar, 39, from Uttar Pradesh, Shanawaz Ansari, 29, from Gujarat, Naseer Sheikh, 50, Salman Khan, 28, and Fakhruddin, 37, from Madhya Pradesh. Police raided Konark Residency lodge on J.P. Street and caught Kadeer Khan. They recovered 13 pistols and 52 rounds of live ammunition from him. Based on his information, the police arrested the other accused who were part of the racket. Kadeer said that he was sourcing the weapons from his contacts in Rajasthan and Muzaffarnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inter-state-arms-racket-busted-eight-arrested/article33967276.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru: student found dead||A student was found dead at the Bengaluru Institute of Technology in VV Puram on Monday. The student was declared brought dead at KIMS hospital. The police rushed to the spot and recovered a note left behind by the student. The police are probing the reason behind the death.( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengaluru-student-found-dead/article33967277.ece
02 March 2021||SANGAREDDY,||Man killed by crocodile||In a shocking incident, a man was allegedly dragged by a crocodile into a water tank and mauled to death at Isojipet in Pulkal mandal in the district on Sunday. According to sources, one Ramulu took his cattle to a water tank in the village to wash them. He was dragged into the waters by a crocodile and mauled to death. While confirming the incident, the police said that they have not received any complaint so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-killed-by-crocodile/article33967285.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||MUMBAI||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai/article33967319.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,191 senior citizens receive COVID-19 vaccines in city||As many as 2,191 residents above 60 years received the COVID-19 vaccines in 126 hospitals located in the 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation on Monday on the first day of phase 2. The vaccination driver was started in 89 private hospitals, 21 government hospitals and the urban community health centres in Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Tondiarpet, R.K. Nagar, Sanjeevirayanpet, Pulianthope, Padi, Ayanavaram, Mirsahibpet, Vadapalani, Porur, Alandur, Adyar, Perungudi and Sholinganallur. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash launched the vaccination drive for senior citizens at the Communicable Diseases Hospital in Tondiarpet and 253 persons, aged above 60, received the shots. In addition to this, 1,057 residents were inoculated, including 143 healthcare and 111 frontline workers, 64 police personnel and 486 residents with comorbidities in the age group of 45 to 59. The urban community health centres in Adyar recorded the highest number of vaccinations among residents. In all, 4,177 persons received the first dose in Chennai on Monday, with 4,046 opting for Covishield and 131 opting for Covaxin. The Corporation will create awareness among residents to encourage them to get the vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2191-senior-citizens-receive-covid-19-vaccines-in-city/article33967903.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC to monitor probe against former Special DGP||In suo motu proceedings, the Madras High Court on Monday decided to monitor the investigation into a sexual harassment complaint against a former Special Director-General of Police (DGP) and restrained political parties from “politicising/publicising” the issue. A woman Superintendent of Police had accused the top officer of sexually harassing her. The court ordered that the parties must not issue any statement to the media on the issue and warned that violation of the court order might lead to contempt proceedings. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh passed the orders on a suo motu writ petition taken up by him after expressing shock and deep anguish over the incident. Passing an elaborate interim order, he restrained the media from publishing the names of the complainant, the accused and witnesses in the case. On perusing the complaint, the judge found that the alleged harassment had taken place when both IPS officers were involved in providing security to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on February 21. The woman officer rushed towards Chennai to lodge a complaint with DGP (Law and Order) J.K. Tripathy. “The most shocking incident happened only at this stage. The official car in which the victim officer was travelling was intercepted at Paranur toll gate by a large contingent of police headed by one D. Kannan, Superintendent of Police, Chengalpattu district,” the judge said. An inspector and a sub-inspector took away her car keys. Thereafter, she was pressured to talk (on phone) with the Special DGP. He also recorded the submission of Additional Public Prosecutor M. Mohamed Riyaz that there was absolutely no delay in registering a FIR. After she lodged a complaint with the DGP (L&O) on February 26, it was forwarded to the DGP (CB-CID), and an FIR was filed the following day. It was booked by the north wing of the CB-CID in Villupuram against the ex-Special DGP and the Chengalpattu SP. Deciding to monitor the investigation, Justice Venkatesh wrote: “This is one of those extraordinary cases where the sentinel must rise to the occasion to discharge its constitutional duty and to ensure that pure streams of criminal justice are not polluted and corrupted by those in the corridors of power.” The judge directed the High Court Registry to place the matter before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee for listing the case for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-hc-to-monitor-probe-against-former-special-dgp/article33967441.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Electoral Officer holds meeting with political parties||Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo on Monday held a meeting with the representatives of recognised political parties at the Secretariat, ahead of the Assembly election. The ruling AIADMK sought clarity on the mechanism of voting for those aged above 80, while the Opposition DMK expressed concerns over postal votes and made a slew of other allegations, including on cash for votes. Mr. Sahoo had called for a meeting to discuss the model code of conduct after the announcement of the election dates last week. Postal voting “We asked the Election Commission [EC] to clarify to all parties the mechanism for postal voting for voters above the age of 80. We also urged them to clarify the measures in place to ensure that they don’t come and vote again in the polling booth,” Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Pollachi Jayaraman, from the AIADMK, told presspersons after the meeting. Two-day camp The Commission had also assured them that a two-day camp would be organised and an online facility would also be made available for new voters to enrol, he said. DMK’s organising secretary R.S. Bharathi alleged that the ruling party had already started distributing cash and gifts. “We urged the Commission to keep a strict vigil,” he said. R. Damodaran, vice-president, Tamil Nadu Congress, said his party had urged EC to strictly monitor alleged cash distribution by the ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-electoral-officer-holds-meeting-with-political-parties/article33967464.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders CB-CID inquiry into ‘goof up’ in NEET marks||The Madras High Court on Monday ordered a preliminary inquiry by the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) into a claim made by a medical seat aspirant, K.S. Manoj of Coimbatore, that his National Eligibilty-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) marks were shown as 594 out of 720 in the National Testing Agency (NTA) website between October 5 and 16, 2020 but they were suddenly reduced to 248 on October 17. ‘Constitute team’ Justice B. Pugalenthi directed the head of the CB-CID to constitute a special investigation team comprising cyber-crime experts to hold a preliminary inquiry into the issue, without registering a First Information Report, and ordered that the inquiry report must be tabled before the court in June. Although the NTA counsel said that the screenshots of an Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheet produced by the petitioner were fabricated and that the petitioner had obtained only 248 marks, the asserted that he had not tampered with any document and that the petitioner and his parents were willing to face a probe by any agency. Counselling After recording their submissions, the court permitted the student to participate in the medical counselling and join the Government Medical College in Thoothukudi which was allotted to him by considering his NEET score to be 594 out of 720. It made it clear that the admission would be subject to the result of the writ petition and all risks associated with its outcome. “If the investigation reveals that any manipulation has been committed by the petitioner, not only the petitioner but his parents will also be held responsible and have to face the legal consequences. Needless to state that the petitioner can neither take any advantage of the admission obtained in the college pursuant to the order of this court nor claim any refund of the fee paid at the time of admission. “He is also liable to pay the course discontinuance fee. The petitioner and his parents, who are also present before this court, virtually, agreed for the aforesaid terms,” the judge had stated in his January 11 order. Thereafter, he heard the case for a while on the question of ordering a probe and finally decided to order a preliminary inquiry into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-cb-cid-inquiry-into-alleged-goof-up-in-neet-marks/article33967456.ece
02 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||A tale of a region and time||Not many professors among Tamils have taken to literary creative writing. P. Sundaram Pillai, Mu Varadarajan and Indira Parthasarathy are among those who belong to this club. A specialist in bio-physics, P.K. Ponnuswamy, former Vice- Chancellor of University of Madras and Madurai Kamaraj University, is an aspirant to be part of such a league. Having roots in the western belt (called in Tamil “Kongu” zone), Prof. Ponnuswamy has now come out with his third novel,Thirumurthi Mann(Soil of Thirumurthi) which captures the social, cultural and economic changes in a rural part of the belt in the light of Tiruppur emerging as a new industrial hub. The work, brought out by NCBH publication, is an extension of his earlier novel,Padukalam. It covers the events in the lives of a host of people over 50 years, ending with 1985. As far as the 82-year-old author is concerned, his experiences in the most impressionable part of his life are fresh in his memory and he has brought them out through the work, which is characterised by the Kongu dialect. The period and the region, apart from the factor of familiarity for the author, are significant for the reason that there had been no major caste conflicts during the period in question in the region, known for having two evenly-balanced intermediate castes in terms of resources and social standing. The determination of women to carry on with their lives despite suffering misery is an important feature of the work, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-tale-of-a-region-and-time/article33967491.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Satyabrata Sahoo clarifies on travel expenses of politicians||Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said the exemption of travel expenditure of leaders of political parties from being included in the election expenditure of the candidates would be considered only if it was communicated to the Election Commission within 10 days from the date of notification of the election. The notification for General Elections to the Legislative Assembly and by-election to Lok Sabha from Kanniyakumari will be published on March 12, he said in a statement. “According to the provisions of Section 77 of the Representation of the People’s Act, 1951, the expenditure incurred by leaders of political parties on account of travel by air or any other means of transport for propagating programme of the political party is not deemed to be expenditure incurred or authorised by the candidate or his agent,” according to the statement. The benefit will be available if and only if the names of the leaders (maximum of 15 in the case of unrecognised political party and 30 for recognised political party) were communicated to the Election Commission and to the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu, within 10 days from the date of notification for the election, as per the rules, it added. The list of leaders for whom the parties desire to get exemption should be communicated to the Election Commission or Chief Electoral Officer on or before March 22, the statement said. Apart from the travel expenses incurred by the leaders whose names have been communicated to the Election Commission/Chief Electoral Officer, all other expenses of the parties relating to the campaigns will be required to be included in the account of election expenses of the candidates concerned. Also travel by a star campaigner for canvassing for candidates of other parties were not exempt, it added. In another statement, he said certain categories of persons such as loco pilots, assistant loco pilots, guards, travelling ticket examiners, media persons authorized by Election Commission, who will not be able to present in their respective polling station on account of duty on polling day can vote through postal ballot as absentee voters in the essential service category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ceo-clarifies-on-travel-expenses-of-politicians/article33967513.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||LPG refill to cost Rs. 835 in city||Oil majors have hiked liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) prices from March 1, which is part of the monthly revision of prices. Now, a domestic non-subsidised cylinder in Chennai costs Rs. 835. It was Rs. 810 per cylinder after the third price revision last month. The prices of 5kg and 19 kg commercial cylinders too have gone up. They are now Rs. 308 as against Rs. 299 and Rs. 1,730.5 as against Rs. 1,634.5 per cylinder last month. Oil industry experts explained that there is most likely to be one more hike this month. LPG prices have been on the rise with international demand for them going up. The subsidy amount, which is given to eligible customers (those with income of less than Rs. 10 lakh per annum), however remains Rs. 25 per cylinder in Chennai. This amount varies from one bottling plant to another. “The subsidy amount is being provided to customers so that they can be insulated from the volatility of LPG prices in the international market. In 2020, it was Rs. 263 per cylinder. Sometime in mid 2020, it went to the present double digit figure. Consumers, at least those in urban areas, have no other option but to buy LPG cylinders at whatever rates they are sold,” explained an oil industry expert. Of this Rs. 835, Rs. 733.93 is the basic rate, which includes bottling charges, ocean freight, inland transportation charges for the cylinder, Rs. 19.88 goes to the State government as Goods and Services Tax and an equal amount to the Central government. The distributor gets Rs. 61.31 as commission, which goes towards delivery charges, that includes picking up the cylinder from the bottling plant and delivering it to the consumer, establishment costs such as salaries, rent, power and telephone bills. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said that the subsidy component was not serving the purpose that it should. “People are suffering due to increasing rates and the government seems to be watching it without taking any steps to reduce the burden of the common man. When they need it, they conveniently blame the oil companies for the pricing. Between these two, they are making fools of the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lpg-refill-to-cost-rs-835-in-city/article33967912.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Seat-sharing with AIADMK to be finalised in a day or two’||Seat-sharing with the AIADMK for the coming Assembly election will be finalised in a day or two, BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan said on Monday. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Murugan said there was no tussle with the AIADMK on the issue. “The NDA alliance will come to power in Tamil Nadu,” he said. On Sunday night, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. The meeting stretched past midnight for nearly three hours. When asked if the rise in fuel and LPG prices would affect the BJP’s electoral prospects in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Murugan said it would not be an issue. The prices were based on international prices and everyone hoped that the prices would come down, he added. To a query on DMK president M.K. Stalin listing out the names of a number of “rowdies” who have joined the BJP, he said, “None of those who he has named are in our party.”  No tussle with the AIADMK over the seat-sharing issue. The NDA alliance will come to power in Tamil Nadu L. Murugan   BJP Tamil Nadu president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seat-sharing-with-aiadmk-to-be-finalised-in-a-day-or-two/article33967439.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In first round, DMK offers 18 seats to Congress, 4 to VCK||The DMK is learnt to have offered 18 Assembly seats to the Congress in the first round of negotiations for the 2021 election. Another round of talks could not take place as the Congress leaders are busy with former party president Rahul Gandhi’s election tour. It may resume in a day or two. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), which held talks with the DMK on Monday, could not arrive at an agreement because the offer did not match the party’s expectations. The DMK is said to have offered four seats to the party. Confirming the development, leaders in the three parties told The Hindu that they hoped to finalise the seat-sharing pact soon. “We are not able to go ahead with the next round as our leaders are busy with Rahul Gandhi’s tour,” said a senior leader, adding that the Congress was not ready even for 20 or 21 seats. “The onus is on the DMK. If the Congress leaves the alliance, the DMK will be under compulsion to explain that it has not come to any deal with the BJP,” said a senior leader. Congress leaders said Mr. Gandhi’s tour in the Kongu region and the southern districts was a huge success, and the Congress votes would play a role in deciding the outcome in the election. Likewise, during the meeting with the DMK leaders, the VCK pointed out that it was allotted 10 seats in the 2011 election. “We are with the DMK for ideological reasons and not just for electoral gains,” party sources said. The VCK is particular that the existing partners of the DMK should be retained to ensure that the secular votes are not split. The two parties will meet again on Tuesday. The DMK appears be adopting the formula of allotting two Assembly seats per Lok Sabha seat won by the allies. Eventually, it may revise this to three Assembly seats per Parliamentary seat won. Though the DMK contested in 178 constituencies in the 2016 election, it had only the Congress and the IUML in its company. The Congress was allotted 41 seats, but won only five. Now, the DMK alliance has two communist parties, the VCK, the MMK and the MDMK. On Tuesday, the MDMK delegation met the DMK leaders. The two communist parties will also participate in the talks on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-first-round-dmk-offers-18-seats-to-congress-4-to-vck/article33967447.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy warns of filing defamation suit against Shah||Puducherry former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday threatened to file a defamation case against Union Home Minister Amit Shah for alleging that he gave “cut money” to the Gandhi family from the Rs. 15,000 crore allotted to the Union Territory by the Centre. “A Home Minister should speak in a responsible manner. I am ready to face an inquiry. Why has he not ordered an inquiry? He should openly explain for what purpose the money was sent and when it was sent,” Mr. Narayansamy told reporters at the Sathyamurthy Bhavan, in Chennai on Monday. He asked when the Union Government was controlling the Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate and intelligence agencies, what had prevented them from investigating these allegations? Mr. Narayanasamy, who was here, to greet DMK leader M.K. Stalin on his birthday, accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of shamelessly laying the foundation stone for the Villupuram-Nagapattinam four-lane road even though it was announced seven years ago by the then Congress government, led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. “Actually, the function should have been organised in Tamil Nadu since 98% of the road passes through the State. It was done in Puducherry to cheat the people of the State,” he alleged. Mr. Narayanasamy charged that the Congress government in Puducherry was toppled by the BJP government through means of intimidation and money power. “The BJP murdered democracy by threatening the Speaker to allow the three nominated members to vote. Mr. Amit Shah issued direction to the Speaker,” he alleged. Asked whether the BJP replaced Kiran Bedi with Tamilisai Soundararajan as the Lieutenant Governor because she refused to cooperate with the Centre for removing the Congress government, Mr. Narayanasamy said he had also heard about this, but was not sure of it. “Anyway, we never wanted her to continue in the position. We were of the firm opinion that the Union Territory will have a good day only when she was removed,” he said. The former CM also rejected the allegation that the Union Territory had not witnessed any development, saying that even during the COVID-19 pandemic Puducherry had witnessed 10.2% growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-warns-of-filing-defamation-suit-against-amit-shah/article33967917.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses review petition against 50% toll on Maduravoyal-Ranipet stretch||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a review petition filed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) against an interim order passed by the court in December directing it to collect only 50% toll at two plazas situated between the Maduravoyal-Ranipet stretch of National Highway-48 due to very poor maintenance of the highway. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and A.A. Nakkiran refused to entertain the review despite the NHAI claiming that it was losing over Rs. 16 lakh a day due to the reduced toll price. The judges said the lives of motorists was much more precious than revenue collection. They observed that the highway was in a pitiable condition and not as per the standards of the Indian Road Congress. It was on a suo motu public interest litigation petition that the court had directed the NHAI to collect only 50% toll till March 11. Then, the court had noted with anguish that it had been several years since the highway was re-laid. Earlier, the road was riddled with potholes and craters and motorists were put to hardship despite paying toll for using the road. It was only after the court’s intervention, the NHAI filled the potholes and laid patches on the highway. Even those were not laid properly, leading to a bumpy ride. Further, the highway lacked other facilities such as proper lighting and signage, making it very difficult for the motorists to drive safely on the stretch, the court had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-review-petition-on-50-toll-on-nh-48-stretch/article33967901.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Handbook on diabetes released||A book on diabetes, titledEducation and Practical Assistance Handbook for Diabetes Mellitus, authored by Y. Ramalakshmi and brought out by Prema’s Medical and Diabetes Research Centre (PMDRC), was released here on Monday. N. Murali, Director, Kasturi and Sons Limited and president, The Music Academy, who spoke at the function, lauded the efforts of C.V. Krishnaswami of PMDRC.  Recalling Dr. Krishnaswami’s service to the public and his long stint at the VHS Hospital in particular, Mr. Murali said that the doctor was an institution by himself, who opted for community service in medicine as opposed to serving in the corporate sector of healthcare. He added that Dr. Krishnaswami, who was practical in his approach, did not recommend tests unnecessarily and demystified the diseases to his patients. S. Gurumurthy, Editor ofThuglakmagazine, said that it was becoming rare to find people like Dr. Krishnaswami, with strong value systems, at a time when the field of medicine was becoming most commercialised and even “bordering on extortion”. R.T. Chari, philanthropist and managing director of TAG Corporation, said that he considered Dr. Krishnaswami as the reference standard for medical practitioners. Ms. Ramalakshmi said that the book contained the teachings of Dr. Krishnaswami and it was written for the Indian audience in a way that everyone could understand. Price not fixed Dr. Krishnaswami said that the price had not been fixed for the book as the intention was to take it to as many people as possible irrespective of whether they could afford it or not. D. Parthasarathi of T.C. Trust released the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handbook-on-diabetes-mellitus-released/article33967894.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M entrepreneurship cell e-summit will begin on March 5||The entrepreneurship cell of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras will host an e-summit from March 5 to 14. The summit will be held online and feature four conclaves, including one for start-ups. So far, 300 start-ups from across the country are participating. The Innovators’ Conclave has 2,000 registrations and 800 people have registered for the Growth Conclave. The Youth Conclave is expected to attract 1,000 attendees. The theme for this year’s summit is ‘Sustain to Attain’. A social campaign, called ‘Pankh’, will focus on the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises through sustainable business models. Some of the speakers at the event include actor Rana Daggubati; Fit and Myntra’s co-founder Mukesh Bansal; co-founder of Groww Lalit Keshre; Yashish Dahiya, co-founder of Policy Bazaar; Sanjeev Bikhchandani, founder of Infoedge; Deep Kalra, founder of MakeMyTrip; Varsha Tagare, MD, Qualcomm Ventures; and Gaurav Agarwal, co-founder of 1mg. E-summit 2021 caters to a diverse set of audiences, both in competitive events and lecture series where agritech and retail tech would be covered in Unconference and Medtech in the Product Construct. The Inspirit lecture series would cover space tech. ‘Pankh’ aims to help MSMEs and is organising a policy-making competition ‘Strategise’ in association with the National Institute of MSME, Hyderabad. Updates about the summit will be posted on social media such as Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-cell-e-summit-will-begin-on-march-5/article33967465.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi demands suspension of former Special DGP||DMK women’s wing secretary and MP Kanimozhi has demanded the suspension of the former Special DGP, who has been accused of sexually harassing a woman IPS officer. Addressing a rally organised by the DMK women’s wing in Chennai on Sunday, she said if he was allowed to continue in service, he could prevent witnesses from speaking against him in the commission of inquiry. “There will be no fair inquiry so long as he is in service,” she said. Demanding his suspension and legal action against the former Special DGP, she said the DMK, when voted to power, would constitute a separate commission to deal with the complaints of sexual harassment of women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-demands-suspension-of-former-special-dgp/article33967454.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court rejects contractor’s plea against curbs on carrying cash||The Madras High Court on Monday made it clear that the Election Commission of India is free to carry out random inspections until the conduct of the Assembly election in the State and confiscate money if those in possession of cash over Rs. 50,000 were not able to explain with proper documents the purpose for which they were carrying the money. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy dismissed a writ petition filed by the Coimbatore Corporation Contractors’ Welfare Association, which sought a direction to the Election Commission to permit its members with an annual turnover above Rs. 10 crore to carry up to Rs. 15 lakh cash since they were required to pay remuneration and attend to other expenditure. The association claimed that its members faced difficulties during the 2019 parliamentary election, when individuals were not allowed to carry more than Rs. 50,000 at a time and had to produce several documents to get back the money that was seized by officials on election duty. Therefore, it had made a representation on the issue, well in advance, to the Election Commission of India. The association said it had suggested to the Election Commission on February 17 that government civil contractors could be categorised into those with an annual turnover of Rs. 2 crore, Rs. 2.1 crore to Rs. 5 crore, Rs. 5.1 crore to Rs. 10 crore and over Rs. 10 crore, and permitted to carry up to Rs. 2 lakh, Rs. 5 lakh, Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-rejects-contractors-plea-against-curbs-on-carrying-cash/article33967455.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elephant camp situation: HC seeks Forest dept.’s response||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Forest department to respond within a week to the allegation that the Thekkampatti camp for temple elephants in Coimbatore district had been cordoned off with barricades and tin sheets. The barricading was apparently done after a video of Srivilliputtur Andal temple elephant Jayamalyatha being beaten up by its mahout and another caretaker went viral on social media recently. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy called for an explanation after public interest litigant Rangarajan Narasimhan produced photographs of the camp having been completely cordoned off. He had filed a case last week against ill treatment of temple elephants and the court passed an interim order seeking a comprehensive report on banning private ownership of elephants in future and steps taken to ensure well being of elephants already in captivity. He told the Madras High Court that after the court passed interim orders in his public interest litigation petition and took cognisance of the video, the camp had been made out of bounds for the public. The litigant claimed to have got information that one more temple elephant had pushed its mahout in the Thekkampatti camp on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-forest-depts-response-on-thekkampatti-camp-being-barricaded/article33967458.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two tanks near Minjur to be linked to combat seawater intrusion||The Water Resources Department (WRD) plans to combine the Voyalur Periya Thamarai and Voyalur Mamanikal tanks, near Minjur, to create a new waterbody with increased storage capacity. This is to enhance groundwater recharge in the region that is grappling with seawater intrusion. The department proposes to create a new waterbody on the lines of the ongoing project to increase the storage capacity of the Kattur and Thathamanji tanks. WRD officials said the storage capacity of the waterbodies in Voyalur would be increased from the existing 100 million cubic feet (mcft) to about 300-400 mcft once the project is completed. Field study “We are in the process of preparing estimates and conducting a field study of the project. Several irrigation lands in the region may be provided up to 150 mcft for cultivation from the proposed waterbody, and the remaining amount could be used for supplying drinking water to surrounding villages,” an official said. Height of weir Besides desilting and strengthening the bunds, the WRD plans to increase the height of the weir, a structure that allows excess water to flow out automatically. This would also help in adding storage capacity. As raising the height of both the bund and the weir may flood the land in the foreshore area, the land level will also be raised with silt. The combined tank will be spread over 4.24 sq km and will benefit areas at least within a 5 km radius. The WRD is also simultaneously building dykes and checkdams across Araniar river to arrest seawater intrusion. According to a recent study by the Department of Geology, Anna University, the Ponneri, Panchetti and Minjur coastal belt continues to be affected by seawater intrusion and the ingress has extended up to 18 km inland, near Vannipakkam, in 2019. On the ongoing project, officials said nearly 25%-30% of the work to increase the storage at the Kattur-Thathamanji tank at a cost of Rs. 62.36 crore had been completed so far. The storage capacity would be enhanced from 58.27 mcft to 350 mcft. Besides benefiting an ayacut area of 648.73 hectares, the water can also be used for the city’s water needs. The ongoing work would be completed by the upcoming northeast monsoon, officials added.  Several irrigation lands in the region may be provided up to 150 mcft for cultivation from the proposed waterbody||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-tanks-in-minjur-to-be-linked-to-combat-seawater-intrusion/article33967908.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to distribute pension on day of superannuation||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has distributed pension payment orders to retiring employees of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. and Ashok Leyland Ltd. on February 26 as part of ‘Prayaas’, an initiative to release pension on the day of superannuation under the Employees Pension Scheme, 1995. The pension orders were handed over to the retiring employees by Regional P.F. Commissioner-II (Pension) Sudhir Kumar Jaiswal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-distribute-pension-on-day-of-superannuation/article33967897.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for sexually abusing multiple women in Shastri Nagar||Personnel from the Shastri Nagar police Station on Monday arrested a 21-year-old who sexually abused several women while they were walking alone on the streets. The police identified the accused as V. Saran, a collection agent and resident of Poonamallee. He was caught by a team led by Assistant Commissioner, Adyar, Gowthaman following a complaint from one of his victims, a woman doctor. The police said on February 25, the victim was walking alone in Shastri Nagar towards her place of work. The youth followed her on a two-wheeler. He got down from his vehicle and molested her. When she attempted to catch him, the accused sped away on his vehicle. The police scrutinised CCTV camera footage and caught the suspect Saran. “For the last two years, he sexually abused young women and college students he found walking alone. He fled the scene before the victim raised any alarm or attempted to catch him,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-sexually-abusing-multiple-women-in-shastri-nagar/article33967906.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 8% manage to get registered on Co-WIN||Only 8% of those who tried to register themselves for vaccination through the Co-WIN website or app were able to do so on Monday, an online survey has found. The good news is that with the Prime Minister taking the vaccine on the first day of phase two of the inoculation drive, vaccine hesitancy among people fell to 36%. Just 45 days after the vaccines were introduced, as much as 64% were willing to take the jab as against 38% earlier, the survey revealed. Registration was made available from 9 a.m., but there were several glitches. While some did not receive the one-time password despite repeated attempts, others could not see their appointments or book them despite receiving the OTP. LocalCircles conducted a survey and received over 14,000 responses from people in 221 districts. While 13% said they could not access the site/app, 50% said OTP/SMS registration did not work. Around 29% said they were able to get registered, but appointments did not show up. Only 8% were able to book appointments successfully, the survey found. People were asked about their plan to get vaccinated. Around 7% had already taken one or both the doses, while 17% said they would be taking the vaccine very soon. However, around 15% said they would like to wait for up to three months, while 7% said they would wait for six or more months and then decide. Around 7% of citizens said they would not take the vaccine, and another 7% said they couldn’t say. Of the 14,000 respondents, 65% were men and 35% were women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-8-manage-to-get-registered-on-co-win/article33967914.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five booked for forgery||The Entrustment Document Fraud (EDF) Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has booked a criminal case against five persons for allegedly forging land records belonging to Remibai Jeppiar, wife of the late educationist Jeppiar. The case was booked against S. Jose, of Perumbakkam, and S. Justin, who were personal secretaries of Jeppiar, A. Muralidharan and two others, on a complaint from N. Kannan, who holds the power of attorney for Ms. Remibai. Through subsidiary companies, land was purchased from lawful owners when Jeppiar was alive. Their records were kept in functional offices of the said companies at Sathyabama Deemed University. After Jeppiar’s death in 2016, the original title deed relating to one of the properties located on Ganapathy Street, Royapettah, went missing. The complainant alleged that a fake power of attorney was created favouring Jose to handle the property. The property was then pledged with Muralidharan and a loan worth Rs. 5 crore was obtained without the knowledge of Ms. Remibai. On receiving the complaint, the CCB registered a FIR against five persons under various sections of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-men-booked-for-forging-land-records/article33967898.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin comes up with 10-year vision statement||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said he would release a 10-year vision statement for Tamil Nadu at the party conference in Tiruchi on March 7. Addressing presspersons on the occasion of his birthday in Chennai, Mr. Stalin said the vision statement had been drafted to secure the first place for Tamil Nadu in all sectors in the next 10 years. “I have defined the goals to be achieved in 10 years in every sector,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the vision statement had been prepared based on the interaction with senior party leaders, neutral personalities, experts and scholars from various areas. “We have decided to take the vision statement to the knowledge of 2 crore families in 20 days. The headquarters of the party will reveal the vision statement and how it will be announced in Tiruchi,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-comes-up-with-10-year-vision-statement/article33967437.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM ticket aspirants interviewed by members||Makkal Needhi Maiam’s (MNM) governing council members — R. Mahendran, C.K. Kumaravel, R. Rangarajan, Santhosh Babu and a few others — were interviewed by the candidate selection committee members and party founder Kamal Haasan at the party headquarters here on Monday. Explain pitch Party sources said the interviews dwelt on the candidate’s knowledge about the constituency they were hoping to contest in and also personal questions. They were also asked to explain their pitch to the voters in a minute. Party sources said that Mr. Haasan might contest as a candidate in Alandur, while other governing council members might choose seats where the party is the strongest in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mnm-ticket-aspirants-interviewed-by-members/article33967444.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 11,000 get jabs on day 1 of expanded rollout||Over 11,000 people were inoculated against COVID-19 on the first day of the second phase of the vaccination drive on Monday. Among those who received the vaccines were Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu and Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Though the government had urged people to register themselves on the Co-WIN app or website before coming to the vaccination site, many opted for on-site registration as the online platforms couldn’t handle the rush. Doctor’s certificate Though it had been mandated that people in the 45-59 age group should have a valid doctor’s certificate, some of those who received their first dose said they did not produce it. A total of 5,197 persons aged 45-59 and 5,865 persons aged above 60 were vaccinated. The government has extended vaccination to those with co-morbid conditions in the 45-59 age group and all those above 60 years of age. As of 7 p.m. on Monday, as many as 5,105 persons in the 45-59 age group and 5,690 persons in the 60+ age group opted for Covishield. A total of 92 persons in the 45-59 age group and 175 persons aged above 60 opted for Covaxin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-11000-get-jabs-on-day-1-of-expanded-rollout/article33967450.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After talks fail, DMDK hints at going it alone||After the DMDK failed to reach a seat-sharing agreement with the AIADMK on Monday, its deputy general secretary L.K. Sudhish, who is also the brother-in-law of party founder Vijayakant, indicated on social media that the DMDK may fight the Assembly election alone and project Mr. Vijayakant as its Chief Ministerial candidate. However, it remains to be seen whether this is yet another attempt by the DMDK to put pressure on the AIADMK or an indication that it hopes to stitch together and lead a credible alliance, like it did in the 2016 Assembly election. Mr. Sudhish posted an image on social media, stating: “Vijayakant is our Chief Minister; Murasu is our symbol; Our flag is the DMDK party flag.” Doubts about the continuation of the DMDK in the AIADMK-led alliance were raised following murmurs that the seat-sharing discussions had hit a roadblock on Monday. Sources in the DMDK and the AIADMK said the latter was unwilling to meet the former’s demand that it be treated on a par with the PMK and be allotted the same number of seats. Reportedly, the AIADMK agreed to allot only half the number of seats (around 10-12) allotted to the PMK (23), which was unacceptable to the DMDK leadership. Sources privy to the discussions said the AIADMK felt the DMDK would not make a huge difference to its alliance, as Mr. Vijayakant’s health had worsened and his party’s relevance in the political arena had dwindled. Mr. Sudhish’s announcement came late in the evening on Monday, after it was revealed that he may meet Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam to discuss alliance matters on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-talks-fail-dmdk-hints-at-going-it-alone/article33967453.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC notice on contempt plea moved by DMK over OBC quota committee||The Madras High Court on Monday ordered notices to a host of Central and State government officials on a contempt of court petition filed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for alleged irregularities in constitution of a committee to decide the quantum of reservation to be given to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates while filling up medical and dental seats contributed to the All India Quota (AIQ) by State government-run colleges. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the orders after senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, said the court had on July 27, 2020 specifically ordered the inclusion of the State government’s Health Secretary in the committee. However, the Chief Secretary had nominated the Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation on behalf of the government to the committee, he complained. Wilful disobedience Similarly, the Centre had not included the Director General of Health Services in the committee and instead a consultant to DGHS had been made the chairperson of the committee, the counsel said and sought to punish the contemnors for alleged wilful disobedience of the orders passed by the court on a batch of cases filed for providing 50% reservations for OBC candidates in the medical and dental seats surrendered by the State government to the All India Quota every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-notice-on-contempt-plea-moved-by-dmk-over-obc-quota-panel/article33967510.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directive to govt. on school fee committee||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the State government to apprise it by March 11 on the work done so far by the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Fee Determination Committee with respect to fixing of fees for various schools for the academic year 2020-21 and beyond. The court wanted to know whether the committee had been provided with the infrastructure required for carrying out such a mammoth exercise. Justice B. Pugalendhi directed the Special Government Pleader (School Education) C. Munusamy to get necessary instructions from the School Education Secretary within 10 days. The direction was issued during the hearing of a batch of writ petitions filed by private schools and their associations against a Government Order last year directing them not to indulge in forcible collection of fees. However, in order to balance the interests of schools, which had to pay salaries to staff, and parents, who suffered pay cuts during the lockdown period, the court permitted the schools to collect 75% of fees in instalments for academic year 2020-21 and await further orders to be passed after the committee determines the fee. When the cases were listed for hearing again on Monday, senior counsel Rev. Fr. A. Xavier Arulraj and S. Silambanan, representing a few schools, urged the court to permit the schools to collect the rest of the 25% of the fees, too, since the academic year was almost coming to an end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-on-work-done-by-school-fee-panel-sought/article33967909.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court rejects contractors’ plea against curbs on carrying cash||The Madras High Court on Monday made it clear that the Election Commission of India (ECI) officials would be free to carry out random inspections until the conduct of Assembly elections in the State and confiscate money if those in possession of cash over Rs. 50,000 were not able to explain with proper documents the legal purposes for which they were holding on to the currency notes. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy dismissed a writ petition filed by Coimbatore Corporation Contractors’ Welfare Association which had sought for a direction to ECI to permit its members with an annual turnover above Rs. 10 crore to carry as much as Rs. 15 lakh in cash since the contractors required cash in hand to pay remuneration and attend to other expenditures. Money seized The association had claimed that its members had to face lot of difficulties during the 2019 Parliamentary elections when individuals were not allowed to carry more than Rs. 50,000 in cash at a time and had to produce several documents to get back the money seized by officials on election duty. Suggestion to ECI Therefore, it had made a representation on the issue, well in advance, to the ECI. The petitioner association also claimed to have made a suggestion to the Commission on February 17 that government civil contractors could be categorised into those with an annual turnover of Rs. 2 crore, Rs. 2.1 to Rs. 5 crore, Rs. 5.1 to Rs. 10 crore and over Rs. 10 crore and permitted to carry up to Rs. 2 lakh, Rs. 5 lakh, Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh respectively. Individuals permitted On the other hand, senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing the ECI, told the court that the commission would permit individuals to carry cash over Rs. 50,000 also if they were in possession of proper documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-rejects-contractors-plea-against-curbs-on-carrying-cash/article33967492.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail increases frequency||Chennai Metro Rail Limited has announced that it will operate trains every five minutes from 7 a.m. till 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. till 8 p.m. from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-increases-frequency/article33967896.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in hit and run accident||Personnel from the Marina police station are probing the death of a 26-year-old history-sheeter who died under suspicious circumstances late on Sunday. Police identified the victim as Baskar alias Karuthu Baskar who was involved in a murder. On Sunday night, while he was trying to cross Kamarajar Road near Kannagi Statue, an unidentified vehicle ran him over before speeding away. He was declared brought dead at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-hit-and-run-accident/article33967899.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK advances last date||The ruling AIADMK has advanced the last date to March 3 (Wednesday) from March 5 for submission of applications from aspirants for contesting in the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala, a release said. This had been done in view of the Election Commission’s move to have polling done on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-advances-last-date/article33967913.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Never compromise on quality of science’||S.M. Yusuf, director, Institute of Physics in Bhubaneswar, said that interdisciplinary research was needed for nation-building. Speaking at the annual research day held at the SRM Institute of Science and Technology, he said the purpose of research was to discover answers to questions through application of scientific procedures. “Never compromise on the quality of science. Have a deep knowledge in the subject and give 100% devotion to work,” he said. P. Sathyanarayanan, Pro-Chancellor, SRMIST, said the institution was moving from a teaching institution to a research institution. He stressed on the need for all students to get involved in research. C. Muthamizhchelvan, Vice-Chancellor, SRMIST, highlighted the contributions made by the institution in research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/never-compromise-on-quality-of-science-give-100-devotion/article33967895.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Renal transplants resume in Stanley||After a gap of several months owing to the lockdown, the Government Stanley Hospital resumed renal transplants recently. A woman donated a kidney to her son who had chronic renal failure. The surgery was done on February 24. Hospital authorities said both were doing well. J.V.S. Prakash, head of the Urology Department, and his team conducted the surgery. Live transplants Till date the hospital has done 733 live related transplants and 132 cadaveric transplants. On average, 40 to 45 renal transplants are done every year. Dean P. Balaji said 19 patients were currently on the waiting list for renal transplant. One transplant would be done every week on the basis of seniority, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renal-transplants-resume-in-stanley/article33967466.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK allots 3 seats to IUML, 2 to MMK||The DMK on Monday reached a seat-sharing agreement for the Assembly election with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK), allotting them three and two seats respectively. The constituencies will be decided later. An IUML delegation, led by Kader Mohideen, met the DMK seat-sharing negotiations committee, headed by T.R. Baalu, at Anna Arivalayam and finalised the deal. Mr. Mohideen told presspersons his party had sought five seats, but the DMK said their demand could not be met because of the existing political situation. MMK leader M.H. Jawahirullah said the DMK needed to win in more constituencies to defeat the BJP-AIADMK alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-allots-3-seats-to-iuml-2-to-mmk/article33967445.ece
02 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||342 take vaccine on first day||On day one of the Central Government opening COVID-19 vaccination for those over 60 years of age and 45 years of age with medical conditions, 342 persons took the vaccine at the Coimbatore Corporation’s health centres. Sources said at the eight designated urban primary health centres, 342 persons, most of who were 60-plus, took the vaccine. The Corporation administered the vaccine at no cost at the centres in Peelamedu, Ramanathapuram, Podanur, Gandhipark, Ramnagar (Kalingarayan Street), on Dr. Krishnasamy Road (SLM Home), Thudiyalur and Singanallur. To encourage more people to take the vaccine, the Corporation had advised the urban health nurses at the eight health centres to talk to outpatients so as to encourage them to take the vaccine. It had also asked the nurses to reach out to the 45-plus persons, who regularly took medicines from the centres for non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension, etc. The sources said from among the frontline workers, the Corporation had administered the vaccine to 3,670 persons since the Central Government prioritised vaccination for the people who fell under the category. While many Corporation workers and officials had taken the vaccine, to cover more of its workers, officials had asked the field staff concerned to close the conservancy workers’ attendance at the nearest, designated urban primary health centre so that at the end of day’s work, the workers were vaccinated. The Corporation administered the vaccine at no cost and wanted as many people in the 60-plus category to make use of the opportunity. Ganapathy KRG Nagar resident P. Jayarani, who took the vaccine in the Ramnagar urban primary health centre, said she and her husband took the vaccine on the first day because they wanted to make use of the Government-given opportunity. “We came also because Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking the vaccine on Monday morning encouraged us to take it,” she said and added that she was not worried about side-effects or the rumours surrounding the vaccination drive. “We have read enough in the papers and seen enough in the media. We are confident and therefore, we decided to be early birds.” Meanwhile, the Corporation in a release on Monday evening said it was imperative that those above 60 years of age and 45-plus years with comorbidities take the vaccine because of increase in cases in several States. It was important that the age groups take the vaccine to protect not only themselves but also their family, the release appealed and reminded the city’s residents that they should continue to wear mask, wash hands and maintain physical distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/342-take-vaccine-on-first-day/article33967920.ece
02 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three-day horse show concludes||The second annual edition of the horse show titled ‘Hooves Print, which was conducted by the Indigenous Horse Society of India, concluded here on Sunday. According to a press release, Governor Banwarilal Purohit inaugurated the event at the Alexander Equestrian Club on Thursday. Intended to raise awareness on indigenous horse breeds, the show was held from Friday to Sunday. Over 80 horses from various States, including Kerala and Rajasthan, participated in the event that included horse parades and horsemanship shows, the release said. Raghavendra Singh Dundlod, vice-president of the Indigenous Horse Society of India, said in his speech on Friday that there has been rising interest in indigenous horse breeds in southern India. The indigenous horses should participate and find success in national-level equestrian sporting events, he said. Chairman of JRD Realtors J. Rajendran and founder-director of the Alexander Equestrian Club Sakthi Balaji were present, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-day-horse-show-concludes/article33967515.ece
02 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Flag marches taken out in city||Personnel from the Coimbatore City Police, the Armed Reserve and the Central Industrial Security Force took out two flag marches on Monday to instil confidence among the people and assure them of safety ahead of the Assembly election in the State. A total of 175 personnel took part in the two flag marches, said the city police. The first flag march was taken out from the police outpost at Kannappa Nagar to Puthupalam. This was followed by another flag march from the six corner at Rathinapuri to omni bus stand on Dr. Radhakrishnan Road. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, Deputy Commissioners of Police and senior officials from the CISF took part in the flag marches. A company of CISF consisting of 94 personnel had arrived in Coimbatore late on Saturday for election duty. They are currently camping at the Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Ramnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-marches-taken-out-in-city/article33967923.ece
02 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Painting contest for school students||JSW Paints in association with The Hindu Young World announced ‘Futurescapes’, a painting competition for school students of Classes 3 to 12. Open for students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana along with Union Territory of Puducherry, the entries for the preliminary round must be submitted by March 10. The topics for the competition for the Sub-Junior (Classes 3 to 5) category are ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’ and ‘My Favourite Animal’. For the Junior (Classes 6 to 8) category, the topics are ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun with Family’ and ‘Wildlife Safari’. The Senior (Classes 9 to 12) category will have the topics ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’ and ‘Clean and Green India’. The participants may choose any one out of the three topics in their respective categories and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons or colour pencils. Markers or sketch pens could be used only for outlining purposes. Next, the participants must visitwww.ywc.thehindu. com/jswpaintsto complete the online registration and upload a scanned copy of their works. A Unique Registration Number will be generated after the uploading is completed, which must be written on the front side of the physical copy along with the topic. On the back side, details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, state, category of participation, parent’s name, registered e-mail address and mobile number must be written. The physical copies of the paintings with these details must be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process with “JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021” written on the top left corner of the envelope. The physical copies of the works must reach the respective offices by March 10. Those participants who qualify for the finals will be intimated through the registered e-mail address. Each participant may submit only one painting. Students or parents may call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Monday to Saturday) regarding any further clarifications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-contest-for-school-students/article33967930.ece
02 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Election control room with toll-free number set up||The district administration has set up an election control room with 1800 425 4757 as toll-free number. A release from the administration said people would man the centre 24x7 to enable public, political parties and activists to lodge complaints or report poll code violation. The administration would respond immediately to the complaint and initiate action against violators, if warranted. Members of the public could also use the cVigil mobile application, as announced by the Election Commission of India and the administration would look into those complaints as well, the release said. In the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district, there were 30,62,744 voters – 15,09,531 men, 15,52,799 women and 414 third gender voters. Those persons eligible to vote but were yet to register names in the voters list could visitwww.nvsp.into register or fill in Form 6 and submit the same at the taluk office or revenue sub divisional office concerned. The release further said the following officers would be the returning officers for the Assembly constituencies – Mettupalayam – district supply and consumer protection officer (94450-00245), Sulur – assistant commissioner, urban land tax (99949-68613), Kavundampalayam – revenue divisional officer, Coimbatore North (94459-24164), Coimbatore North – deputy collector, social security scheme (94422-92741), Thondamuthur – revenue divisional officer, Coimbatore South (94450-00442), Coimbatore South – assistant commissioner, Central Zone, Coimbatore Corporation (94892-06055), Singanallur – distrct adi dravidar and schedule tribe welfare officer (94430-89804), Kinathukadavu – district backward and most backward classes welfare officer (94454-77853), Pollachi – sub collector, Pollachi (94450-00445) and Valparai – district inspection cell officer (63827-93328).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-control-room-with-toll-free-number-set-up/article33967929.ece
02 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for smuggling gold||Sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Coimbatore International Airport apprehended a 50-year-old man who smuggled 999 g gold from Sharjah early on Monday. Based on specific information, DRI sleuths examined a passenger P. Balu of Sivaganga district as he arrived from Sharjah on an Air Arabia flight, said sources at the airport. They found a gold bar weighing 999 g from his bag. He was handed over to the Customs for further proceedings. The passenger was released on bail in the evening, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-smuggling-gold/article33967489.ece
02 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nigerian held with counterfeit U.S. dollar bills||The Kattoor police on Monday arrested Nathan Ikechukwu, a Nigerian national, for attempting exchange counterfeit U.S. dollar bills for rupees. The police said the foreigner approached the Gandhipuram branch of a forex firm on Monday with $ 1,500, to exchange these for rupee. An employee at the firm suspected that the dollar bills could be fake and informed the police. The police rushed to the forex branch and took the foreigner into custody after examining the currency. They later established the dollar bills were counterfeit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nigerian-held-with-counterfeit-us-dollar-bills/article33967488.ece
02 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversion tomorrow||City Police have announced traffic diversions from 12 noon to 8 p.m. on March 3 in view of the car festival of Koniamman Temple. Vehicles entering the city from Pollachi Road and Palakkad Road will have to take the Ukkadam - Sungam bypass to reach Classic Towers junction to proceed to their respective destinations. Vehicles from Avinashi Road and Tiruchi will not be allowed to take the Vysial Street towards Perur, instead they will have to take the Ukkadam junction, Perur Bypass Road and Shivalaya Theatre Road to proceed further. Vehicles from Perur Road to the city via Chetty Street and Raja Street should take Sullivan Street to reach Gandhipark and proceed further. Parking of vehicles will not be allowed from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on KG Street, Vysial Street, Oppanakara Street and Raja Street, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversion-tomorrow/article33967924.ece
02 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||One more held in carjacking case||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police arrested a man hailing from Kerala in connection with the carjacking reported near Madukkarai on January 11, this year. The Madukkarai police said that K.H. Akbar (35) from Kaipamangalam in Thrissur district was arrested on Saturday. He was nabbed by a special team with the help of Kerala police from a hideout near Akalad beach in Thrissur district. According to the police, four men, including Akbar, waylaid the car travelled by K. Mohammad Musthafa (34) of Mannarkad in Palakkad district and his friend Sharjah at Marappalam, near Madukkarai, around 9 p.m. on January 11. The four men took away the car along with the carton containing money after forcibly ousting the duo. The police found the car abandoned in Kanyakumari on January 20. The Madukkarai police produced Akbar before a magistrate. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-held-in-carjacking-case/article33967493.ece
02 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Police conduct flag march in Cuddalore ahead of polls||The Cuddalore district police took out a flag march on Monday to instil confidence in the people in view of the Assembly election. Being the first flag march before the April 6 election, about 300 police personnel, led by Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav and two Deputy Superintendents of Police, participated. The flag march started from Town Hall and covered Bharathi Road, New Cinema, and Vandipalayam Cross Cut Road and culminated at Thirupadhiripuliyur. Police sources said one company from the Central Reserve Police Force also participated. The idea was to enhance the confidence level of people so that they can come out and cast their votes without any fear, a police officer said. Similar flag marches would be conducted in all police station limits, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-conduct-flag-march-in-cuddalore-ahead-of-polls/article33968108.ece
02 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter killed||A woman and her daughter were hacked to death by unidentified persons at Singirikudi near Reddichavadi on Monday. The deceased were identified as C. Vijayalakshmi, 48, and her daughter Madhangi alias Sandhya, 24, of Nonankuppam in Puducherry. Police sources said the duo was found murdered near their agricultural field at Edayarpalayam. Locals alerted the police, who retrieved the bodies and sent them for post-mortem examination. Police said they were probing various angles in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duo-hacked-to-death/article33967410.ece
02 March 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Students told to save fuel at webinar on oil conservation||G.T.N. Arts College (Autonomous), Dindigul, in association with Petroleum Conservation Research Association conducted a one-day workshop on oil conservation. About 150 students participated in the event. External Faculty Research Associate of PCRA M. Jayakumar urged the students to strictly follow traffic rules. He told the students that they must possess a valid licence, third party insurance, use helmets and avoid triple riding on motorcycles. He advised the students to strictly adhere to road rules and avoid rash driving. He also explained the techniques of riding vehicles effectively and how to save the consumption of fuel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-told-to-save-fuel-at-webinar-on-oil-conservation/article33967474.ece
02 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle checks intensified across Erode district||With the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) coming into force for the Assembly election, round-the-clock vehicle checks have been intensified in the district. Officials have asked people to carry valid documents while transporting goods. The district has eight Assembly Constituencies and 24 flying surveillance teams, 24 static surveillance teams and 24 video surveillance teams have been formed to check vehicles for transport of cash, valuables and other products without valid documents. Members of the flying squad checked the vehicles plying in the city and across the district. Vehicles entering the State from Karnataka through Hasanur were also checked. The police strength in the checkposts at border areas of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in Talavadi, Hasanur and Bargur hills have been increased to check vehicles for bootlegging. Meanwhile, the weekly grievances redressal day meeting conducted every Monday at the Collectorate stands cancelled until the election process is completed. A box has been kept at the ground floor of the Collectorate for the public to drop their grievance petitions. Permission for public meetings A total of 61 locations across the eight Assembly constituencies in the district have been approved for conducting public meetings. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said that political parties were permitted to conduct meetings only in the permitted locations after obtaining permission from the election officials concerned. He said that all COVID-19 precautionary measures should be adhered to while conducting the meeting. The locations permitted in Erode East constituency are Marapalam Four Road, Surampatti Four Road, Second bus stop Surampatti, Opposite to Hotel Chimney, Sampath Nagar and Thirunagar Colony; Erode West constituency – Veerappanchatiram bus stop, Mariamman Kovil Thidal Moolapalayam, Kariyakaliamman Kovil Thidal and Opposite Panchayat Union Primary School at Modakkurichi, Elavamalai village, Kalingarayanpalayam, Mettunasuvampalayam, Lakshmi Nagar, Perodu, Kuttai Tayirpalayam and K.K. Nagar, all at Chithode. List of locations permitted in the constituencies of Bhavani, Anthiyur, Gobichettipalayam, Perundurai, Bhavani Sagar and Modakkurichi are available with the returning officers concerned. Control room set up Complaints related to model code of conduct (MCC) violations can be lodged round the clock at the control room set up at the Collectorate.  District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said that since MCC is in force in all the eight Assembly constituencies in the district from February 26, complaints can be lodged by dialling control room’s toll free number 1077 or 0424-2267672. Complaints can be also be mailedspltahrele.erd@gmail.com. Complaints will be forwarded to the returning officers concerned for necessary action, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-checks-intensified-across-erode-district/article33967502.ece
02 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man fined for smuggling medicinal root||A 37-year-old man from Bargur Hills was fined Rs. 50,000 for smuggling four bags of Decalepis hamiltonii ( maahaali kizhangu ) here on Sunday night. Personnel from Anthiyur Forest Range intercepted a pick-up van at Sellampalayam forest check post on Sunday night and found the medicinal root. The driver, identified as U. Murugesan of Thambureddy, was taking the roots to Erode. He was taken to the forest office and fined Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-fined-for-smuggling-medicinal-root/article33967500.ece
02 March 2021||ERODE/TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Stolen ATM broken open, cash missing||The automated teller machine (ATM) of a nationalised bank that was stolen by a gang in Tiruppur district on Sunday was found broken on a vacant land at Saralai village, near Perundurai, here on Monday. The cash stolen from the ATM was estimated to be Rs. 1,00,100, according to the police sources. The damaged machine was found 300 metres from the Salem-Kochi National Highway, with its damaged parts scattered on the land. Police said unidentified persons had stolen an autorickshaw belonging to Balamurugan of Ingur in Perundurai Taluk and had transported the machine from Sarkar Periyapalayam to Vijayamangalam and again loaded the ATM onto another vehicle and reached the secluded place at Saralai. They broke open the chest and escaped with the cash. Special teams from Tiruppur district are conducting an inquiry and on the lookout for the accused. Sources in the Tiruppur District Police said the identities of the four-member gang that stole the ATM were not ascertained as of Monday. It was suspected that the accused were from northern India and four special teams were formed to investigate the case. The Uthukuli police registered a case under Sections 457 (Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night) and 380 (Theft in dwelling house, etc.) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stolen-atm-broken-open-cash-missing/article33967487.ece
02 March 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Man bludgeoned to death||A 26-year-old man was bludgeoned to death in a suspected case of ‘honour’ killing here in Berigai on Monday. The accused surrendered to Bagalur police upon commission of the crime over the elopement of his minor daughter. The victim Vasanth, from Naidu community and the accused Narayanachetty (58), from Chettiar community, were both vegetable traders in J.P. Nagar market in Bengaluru. Narayanachetty belonged to Berigai in Bagalur. Vasanth and Narayanachetty’s 17-year-old daughter were in a relationship, which was objected to by the girl’s family. According to C. Murali, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Hosur, the family registered a complaint with Gummanahalli police station last September objecting to Vasanth meeting the girl. Three days ago, the girl and Vasanth had eloped. However, the girl was found by her family and forcibly taken to a relative’s. On Monday, Narayanachetty had convinced Vasanth that he would take him to meet his daughter in Berigai. Vasanth, who followed Narayanachetty to Berigai, was, however, bludgeoned to death. The accused then surrendered before the police. According to the DSP, there were other family members involved in the murder. Narayanachetty has been taken into custody for further inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-bludgeoned-to-death/article33967511.ece
02 March 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t carry more than Rs. 50,000 cash without valid documents’||District Election Officer and Collector Kiran Gurrala has cautioned people to have valid documents if they are carrying cash above Rs. 50,000 and articles and gifts worth Rs. 10,000. Chairing an all-party meeting at the Collectorate here on Monday, Mr. Gurrala said that unexplained cash above Rs. 50,000 would be seized. It will be released only after it is proven that it has nothing to do with the elections. If the seized amount from any individual is above Rs. 10 lakh, it will be referred to the Income Tax Department, he said. The Collector said that campaign shall be conducted between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Any violation would be dealt with by the officials concerned as per the Election Commission of India’s guidelines. Public can call on the helpline 1950 or 24-hour control room at the Collectorate on 04151 - 224155 to 224158 to register complaints on poll-related issues, he said. The Collector appealed to the representatives of recognised political parties to cooperate with officials in completing the poll process in a smooth manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-carry-more-than-rs-50000-cash-without-valid-documents/article33968112.ece
02 March 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar analyses significance of National Education Policy||The Alagappa University College of Physical Education in collaboration with Sri Murugan International Research Foundation for Higher Education, Karaikudi, conducted a two-day webinar on ‘Reflection and Practices of Indian National Education Policy - 2020 in Higher Education’. Highlighting the significance of the New Education Policy, Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa University N. Rajendran said faculty and students should work together with determination to implement it. The policy would equip youth with knowledge and skills to serve the needs of the future, Mr. Rajendran added. Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University M. Selvam listed out insightful reforms made in the National Education Policy. Former Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Sports University and President of Sri Murugan International Research Foundation for Higher Education R.Thirumalaisamy spoke of the need to impart holistic education in in the field of sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-national-education-policy-held/article33967477.ece
02 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court tells tribunal to number a claim petition||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Motor Vehicle Accident Claims Tribunal in Virudhunagar to number a claim petition. It observed that the tribunal had failed to number the petition after it wrongly interpreted a High Court order. The court was hearing the petition filed by Senthil Kumar and two others from Virudhunagar who sought a direction to number the claim petition before the tribunal. The petition was returned by the tribunal. Justice R. Subramanian observed that a Division Bench of the court held that when there was an accident involving two vehicles, and both vehicles could be said to have contributed to the accident, it was for the claimants to implead the owners of both motor vehicles. “It is this judgment, which had been wrongly relied upon by the tribunal, while numbering the petition. The claimants have been required to implead the owner of the two-wheeler for the death of whom compensation has been sought for. I fail to understand that as to how a deceased person can be impleaded as a party to the proceedings,” the judge said.. Therefore, the return of the claim petition was set aside and the tribunal concerned was directed to number the petition without insisting upon impleading of a dead person to an action before the court of law, the judge said. The Division Bench had directed tribunals in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry not to number any of the claim petitions without impleading the other vehicle which was also involved in the accident. However, the court made it clear that it would not apply to cases of hit and run where the tortfeasor could not be possible of identification. The tribunals were expected to insist the claimant to array the driver and owner of the other vehicle stated to be involved in the accident as party before numbering the claim petition, the court had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-tells-tribunal-to-number-a-claim-petition/article33968024.ece
02 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||293 persons administered COVID-19 vaccine in Madurai district on day one||A total of 293 persons aged above 60 and those in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbidities were administered the COVID-19 vaccine in Madurai district on Monday. After administering the vaccine for healthcare and frontline workers, the vaccination drive for these categories of people began on Monday. Deputy Director of Health Services K. Arjun Kumar said 189 persons aged above 60, and 104 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were administered the vaccine on Monday. Among them, 272 persons received the vaccine in government hospitals and the rest in private hospitals. “Through a sustained awareness campaign, we have planned to increase the number of beneficiaries from the general public,” he said. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said additional manpower had been deputed in the view of the public getting vaccinated in the hospital. While the vaccine will be administered free of cost at government health facilities, the beneficiaries will have to pay Rs. 250 in private hospitals. Dr. Arjun Kumar said all the government hospitals and primary health centres in the district can collectively vaccinate a maximum of 4,200 beneficiaries in a day. People can register and book an appointment at COWIN 2.0 portal or through Arogya Setu App, he added. Virudhunagar In Virudhunagar, apart from 21 government facilities, vaccination was being done in 22 private hospitals that have been empanelled under government health insurance schemes, said Deputy Director of Health Services A. Palanisamy. He said details of patients with common comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension were available in government hospitals and primary health centres. “Since, these patients come to our hospitals to get medicines every month, a dedicated staff nurse in each hospital or PHC has a list of such patients,” Dr. Palanisamy said. Such patients can get vaccinated at government hospitals. Those who want to get vaccinated should bring any one of the permitted identity cards such as Aadhaar card or driving licence. Dr. Palanisamy said that 95% of the healthcare workers have got vaccinated in the district. Only 50% of the police personnel have got vaccinated so far, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/293-administered-vaccine-in-madurai-district-on-day-one/article33967471.ece
02 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Enlist us in video surveillance teams during polls, says cameramen association||Members of Madurai District Cameramen Association and Madurai District Photo Studios Association submitted a petition to the Collector here on Monday urging the district administration to assign them the task of shooting videos for the video surveillance teams constituted for the upcoming Assembly elections. A. Gugan, district president of Madurai District Cameramen Association, said most of the photographers and videographers had severely suffered financially during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Even now most of the photographers and videographers are not earning much as their services are not utilised any more by people who have turned cost-conscious and conduct weddings and other functions in a simple manner,” he said. Hence, the Association members must be given the task of being part of the video surveillance teams, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enlist-us-in-video-surveillance-teams-during-polls-cameramen/article33968022.ece
02 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rath yatra: State govt. files appeal against single bench order||The State on Monday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that it has filed an appeal against a single bench order that permitted a rath yatra in Madurai to collect funds for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Taking note of the submission, Justice R. Hemalatha adjourned the hearing in the contempt petition filed by N. Selva Kumar, the Madurai district convenor of the Sri Rama Jenma Boomi Theertha Kshethra Trust. The court wanted to know as to why the rath yatra was stopped even after a direction was given by the court to permit its conduct with reasonable restrictions. The court had summoned the Commissioner of Police of Madurai city. With the State preferring an appeal against the single bench order, the court adjourned the hearing in the contempt petition by a week and dispensed with the appearance of the Commissioner of Police before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rath-yatra-state-files-appeal-against-order/article33968020.ece
02 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for appointment of officers||Pointing to the case of a boy rescued from bonded labour in Thanjavur, an advocate moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the State to appoint special officers at the State and the district level to conduct an inspection to rescue and rehabilitate such minors. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice in the petition filed by advocate K.R. Raja of Madurai. The petitioner also sought a direction to the State government to provide financial assistance to rescued bonded labourers as per relevant Acts and rules. He said that apart from the Thanjavur case, there were other reported cases of minors being engaged in bonded labour in the delta districts for the purpose of cattle rearing. Though the minors were rescued, the compensation were yet to be paid, the petitioner said. The case was adjourned for filing of the response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appoint-officers-to-identify-bonded-labour/article33967411.ece
02 March 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||New harbours are to give a fillip to deep sea fishing||The slew of fishing harbour projects under various stages of construction in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts are expected to pave way for hundreds of mechanised fishing boats to undertake deep sea fishing. Since mechanised fishing boats have caused depletion of precious marine fishery resources, the harbour projects envisage an end to bottom trawling. The harbours will have the requisite infrastructure facilities to handle tuna and deep sea catches, officials said. A fishing harbour at Poompuhar in Mayiladuthurai district that was constructed at a cost of Rs. 148 crore under a Centrally sponsored scheme was put to use a year back. The fishing harbour at Tranquebar under Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) to the tune of Rs. 120 crore is designed with a northern breakwater to a length of 330 metres, nouthern breakwater up to 1,060 metres and other land side facilities for the hygienic handling of catches. The fishing harbour at Tranquebar will fulfil the long-term aspirations of the people of Tharangambadi and coastal villages like Chinnamedu, Chinnangudi, Thazhampettai, Pudupettai, Perumalpettai, Vellakoil, Kuttiyandiyur, Chandrapadi, and Chinnoorpettai. The FIDF sanction of Rs. 100 crore was made for the fishing harbour with modern facilities at Vellapallam village in Nagapattinam district. Earlier this year, the work on construction of a fishing harbour at Arcottuthurai in Nagapattinam district at a estimated cost of Rs. 150 crore was initiated for the benefit of several hundreds of fishermen of Kameswaram, Vilunthamavadi, Vanavanmahadevi, Vellapallam, Naluvedhapathi and Pushpavanam villages. The project for construction of the mini harbour in Nambiyar Nagar was initiated last November. The residents of the coastal village have contributed Rs. 11.43 crore as their one-third share for the over Rs. 34 crore project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-harbours-are-expected-to-give-a-fillip-to-deep-sea-fishing/article33967412.ece
02 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||A day with school students, Rahul Gandhi style||It was a pleasant surprise for young Antony Felix, when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi made an unscheduled stop at a roadside bakery near here to have a cup of tea on Monday. The leader, who has been enjoying the company of local people in his three-day road show in the southern districts, broached a conversation with the boy who had come to the bakery at Paraikode village on Nagercoil-Thiruvananthapuram highway. When he told Mr. Rahul Gandhi that he was a sprinter, the Congress MP sprung him a challenge. Ready to race “Can you run faster than me?” Rahul asked the boy. With a little chuckle the boy, studying in Class V, told him that he could certainly outrun him. Impressed with the boy’s prompt reaction, the Congress leader promised to send him a pair of running shoes and sought the size of his shoes. When Mr. Rahul learnt that the boy lived in the neighbourhood, he walked with him to his house and spent sometime with the family. The Congress leader also met another boy who wanted to become an astronaut. “I will give you a letter to get permission from the ISRO Chairman to visit an ISRO facility. I will play the role of facilitator so that you can realise your dream,” he assured. Interaction During his interaction with the students of St. Joseph’s Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Mulagumoodu, Mr. Rahul accepted the push-ups challenge of a girl student. His score was more than 15 in lightning pace even before the competitor could take a couple of push-ups. Then, he challenged the girl to do single-hand push-ups. While he scored effortlessly, the girl struggled, amidst thunderous applause from other students. Rahul also danced with four students, with one of them singing a song. He also encouraged Dinesh Gundu Rao, in-charge of party affairs in Tamil Nadu, and Tamil Nadu Congress Committe chief K.S. Alagiri to join him. Mr. Rahul also showcased his expertise in aikido, a modern Japanese martial art.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-day-with-school-students-rahul-gandhi-style/article33967473.ece
02 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. in need of independent CM’||Tamil Nadu, “which is badly in need of an independent Chief Minister”, will have such a leader after the Assembly election to guide it towards progress, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said here on Monday Winding up his three-day campaign in the southern districts of the State in Kanniyakumari, Mr. Gandhi said the “corrupt” Chief Minister, who was bowing his head in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, should do so only in front of the people of the State. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had to bow his head in front of Mr. Modi even though he was “insulting” Tamil culture, the language, tradition, etc., the Congress leader said. “The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu should not be controlled by anyone else, including the Prime Minister. I, as an Indian, have the duty of protecting the culture of all Indian languages, its tradition and its culture. Hence, I will also protect Tamil culture, its tradition and its history,” Mr. Gandhi said. The new Chief Minister (after the Assembly election) would revive the State’s glory, including the small and marginal industries that had been destroyed by demonetisation and GST, he said. After starting the day’s campaign at Kanniyakumari, Mr. Rahul visited the memorial of the party’s late Lok Sabha MP, H. Vasanthakumar, at Agastheeswaram. He paid floral tributes to the late leader and consoled his family members. “Mr. Vasanthakumar stood like a rock despite being threatened by the Central agencies and served the party. Moreover, he helped thousands of students with scholarships,” Mr. Gandhi said.  The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu should not be controlled by anyone else, including the Prime Minister Rahul Gandhi Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-in-need-of-independent-cm/article33967449.ece
02 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Second phase of vaccination against COVID-19 gets under way||The second phase of COVID-19 vaccination, that enlarged scope of beneficiaries eligible for immunisation, got under way in the Union Territory on Monday. Launching the programme at the Indira Gandhi Government Hospital and Research Institute, Health Director S. Mohan Kumar said that the phase would cover senior citizens above 60 years of age and those above the age of 45 years with specific co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension and respiratory disease. J. Ramesh, COVID-19 nodal officer and other health officials were also present as an elderly woman was administered the first shot. The first phase which was rolled out on January 16 targeted healthcare and frontline workers. Health officials said the vaccines would be available in any of the 17 government-based centres. The Health Department has a stock of about 70,000 doses. People should present documents, such as Aadhaar or Voter Id cards for age proof. After vaccination, the norm is to wait for half-an-hour for observation in the vaccine centres. With a large number of government officials expected to be posted for poll duties with the elections scheduled for April 6, the Elections Department is aiming at having all poll personnel vaccinated. To date, 10,329 personnel, including 9,589 healthcare workers and 740 frontline workers have undergone immunisation. Against the backdrop of sub par immunisation coverage in the first phase, a high-powered panel, chaired by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, has been formed to monitor and upscale vaccination activities across the Union Territory. Puducherry is on the bottom rung of nation-wide immunisation rates reporting under 50% coverage, along with Nagaland, Punjab and Chandigarh. The Union Territory is also among the eight States/Union Territories that have reported less than 25% coverage of registered frontline workers for the first dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, P. Niveda, a nurse hailing from Puducherry, shot to the limelight when she, along with a colleague from Kerala, administered a Covaxin shot to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the AIIMS. Video clips circulated on social media of her sharing the experience saying how Mr. Modi exclaimed in Hindi “Is it over? I hardly felt anything”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-phase-of-vaccination-against-covid-19-gets-under-way/article33968117.ece
02 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Election Officer appeals to parties to adhere to poll code||District Election Officer (DEO) Purva Garg on Monday appealed to the political parties and the general public to adhere to the model code of conduct for the April 6 Assembly election in Puducherry. In a release, Ms. Garg said consequent to the announcement of the election schedule by the Election Commission of India, the model code had come into force. The schedule drawn for the election would start with the issue of notification on March 12. The last date for filing nomination would be March 19, date of scrutiny would be March 20 and the last date for withdrawal March 22. Polls would be conducted on April 6 and the results would be announced on May 2. The entire election process would be completed on May 4. The code of conduct would be in place till the completion of the election process, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-officer-appeals-to-parties-to-adhere-to-poll-code/article33968120.ece
02 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With another death, toll in Puducherry up to 669||One more COVID-19 death was registered on Monday taking the aggregate toll to 669 in the Union Territory. A 52-year-old male patient who had co-morbidities, such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at JIPMER. With this, the toll in the Union Territory capital stood at 547, followed by Karaikal (67), Yanam (45) and Mahe (10). The Union Territory also recorded nine new cases — seven in Puducherry and two in Karaikal. No new cases were reported in Karaikal and Yanam in the last 24 hours. Positivity rate The test positivity rate was 1.29%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 97.87%. With 16 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases stood at 177. Of this, 81 were in hospitals and 96 in home isolation. The total cases to date in the Union Territory aggregated to 39,734 cases while 38,888 patients have recovered so far. Of an estimated 6.30 lakh tests carried out to date in the Union Territory, about 5.86 lakh have returned negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-another-death-toll-in-puducherry-up-to-669/article33968115.ece
02 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G asks beneficiaries to get immunised||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday appealed to the target beneficiaries of the second phase of COVID-19 vaccination to get themselves immunised against the virus. Ms. Soundararajan, who held a meeting with senior officers of the administration to review the ongoing projects and development works, urged persons in the age group of 60 years and above and those in the age group of 45-60 years with co-morbidity to come forward and vaccinate themselves for a “safe and healthy Puducherry”. The Lt. Governor also reviewed the progress on COVID-19 vaccination programme. The second phase of the vaccination programme began in the Union Territory under a nation-wide roll out on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-asks-beneficiaries-to-get-immunised/article33968114.ece
02 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Regular classes to begin from tomorrow||Regular classes will commence in all schools in Puducherry and Karaikal from Wednesday. A circular from P.T. Rudra Goud, Director of School Education, said regular classes would be held for students of Classes 1 to 12 in the forenoon and afternoon at government/government-aided and private schools on six days of the week (Monday to Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regular-classes-to-begin-from-tomorrow/article33968118.ece
02 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister calls on Rahul||Former Congress Minister M. Kandasamy on Monday, called on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at Courtallam. The Minister told The Hindu that he met Mr. Gandhi to discuss about the prevailing political situation in the Union Territory. Mr. Kandasamy also said that Mr. Gandhi asked him to work for the Congress party in the coming Assembly election to prevent the BJP from coming to power in the Union Territory. Mr. Kandasamy’s son K. Vignesh, Pudhucherry Youth Congress working president, accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-calls-on-rahul-gandhi/article33967409.ece
02 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Young World painting contest for school students||JSW Paints in association with The Hindu Young World is organising a painting competition -- Futurscapes -- for school students. According to the organisers, the contest will be held in two stages, prelims and finale.  Topics Topics for prelims are Class 3-5 (Sub-juniors): ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’, ‘My Favourite Animal’; Class 6-8 (Juniors): ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun With Family’, ‘Wildlife Safari’, Class 9-12 (Seniors): ‘Colours Of India’, ‘Family Vacation’, ‘Clean And Green India’. Participants should choose a theme and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons and colour pencils. Sketch pens and markers should only be used for outline purposes. Each participant can submit only one painting. Candidates should visit www.ywc.thehindu.com   /jswpaints , complete the registration and upload the finished work. A unique registration number will be generated once the file is uploaded. A physical copy of the painting must be submitted at the nearest office of The Hindu before March 10. Candidates must mention the unique registration number and topic on the front side of the copy and details such as name, class, school name (with branch), City, State, category of participation, parent’s name, registered email ID, and mobile number on the back side. The date and details of finale would be communicated to qualifying participants through registered email. The competition is open to students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana only. For details Online registration is mandatory for participants. For further details, contact: Prasath at 9585506050 from 10 a.m and 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-young-world-painting-contest-for-school-students/article33967499.ece
02 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Silver wires worth Rs. 3.24 lakh seized||Election surveillance officials seized silver wires worth Rs. 3.24 lakh here on Monday. During a vehicle check near Kandhampatti, a flying squad team in Salem West constituency seized about 4.85 kg of silver wires used for manufacturing silver anklets being transported without necessary documents. Officials said the seized goods would be handed over to the treasury and would be returned once the documents were produced before the Appeals Committee. In Namakkal, during a vehicle check near Kondicettipatti on Namakkal-Mohanur Road, a flying squad team intercepted a vehicle and seized Rs. 2.37 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-wires-worth-rs-324-lakh-seized/article33967495.ece
02 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Probe ordered against cooperative bank||After a video of a cooperative bank near Ayothiyapattinam here operating beyond working hours went viral on social media, the Cooperative Department has ordered an inquiry against the bank. The video allegedly showed the bank staff operating beyond working hours and issuing gold loans based on a recent State Government announcement. Based on the allegations, senior Cooperative officials have deputed officers to verify documents at the bank and take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-ordered-against-cooperative-bank/article33967503.ece
02 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Toll plaza attacked||A toll plaza on the National Highways at Nethikarrai here was attacked during the late hours of Sunday. The police said that about 10 persons, who allegedly belonged to Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi, picked a quarrel with the staff when they asked for toll. The argument led to a scuffle and the staff suffered injuries in the incident. The toll plaza was also damaged. The toll plaza authorities registered a complaint with the Thalaivasal police. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-plaza-attacked/article33967508.ece
02 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Anna Medal recipients felicitated||Salem City Police Commissioner Santosh Kumar on Monday felicitated Anna Medal recipients A. Sivanyanam, SI (Intelligence) and R. Rangarajan, Special Sub-Inspector, Veeranam Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-medal-recipients-felicitated/article33967509.ece
02 March 2021||Salem/ Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive for senior citizens begins in districts||Administration of COVID-19 vaccines to persons aged above 60 and those aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities began at the government and private health facilities in the districts on Monday. While government facilities provided the vaccination free of cost, private hospitals charged Rs. 250. In Attur health district, the vaccine is being administered at 37 primary health centres and 16 private facilities. Deputy Director of Health Services (Attur) R. Selvakumar said that walk-ins were being allowed and persons in the permitted age category can get vaccinated by producing any valid photo identity card. “We have sufficient stocks of Covishield and Covaxin and the vaccines are distributed as and when required,” Dr. Selvakumar said. In Salem health district, the vaccine is being administered at over 35 private facilities besides government facilities. According to health officials, till Monday evening, 136 persons aged above 60 and 330 persons aged between 45 and 60 received their first shot at various government facilities. Officials said as of Sunday, 21,120 frontline workers had received their first dose and 6,019 persons had received second dose. In Namakkal, the vaccination is being done at 19 private centres and 20 government facilities. Deputy Director of Health Services (Namakkal) S. Somasundaram said they had stocked 6,860 Covishield vaccines and 2,600 Covaxin vaccines in the district. According to officials, 7,210 frontline workers have been vaccinated so far in the district. The district administration has warned stern action against private facilities charging above Rs. 250 for vaccination and the public can register their complaints by dialling 104 and 1077.  Erode Staff Reporter adds  Administration of COVID-19 vaccination began at 66 hospitals across the district on Monday. The vaccination drive at the District Headquarters Hospital was delayed by over one hour as there was difficulty in registering in the CoWIN portal. Later, upon the directions of Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal, copies of documents such as Aadhaar card were obtained and offline registration was done. The vaccination began at 11 a.m. Since the drive was being carried out across the country, the portal could not be accessed by many at the same time. But we started the vaccination after offline registration, she said. Vaccination is being done at 24 government hospitals and 42 private hospitals in the district. Health department officials said that persons above 60 years and those above 45 years with co-morbidities can walk into the nearest vaccination centre and submit valid photo identity card and get vaccinated. Online registration Those who want to vaccinate can register through the CoWIN portal (www.cowin.gov.in) or the Arogyasethu app and they can choose the vaccination centres and available slots. Persons aged 45 to 59 with co-morbidities should produce a certificate from a registered medical practitioner to get the vaccination. New cases Erode district reported nine new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,802. While 11 persons were discharged, 94 persons continue to be under treatment. Nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Monday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous.Namakkal reported four new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-senior-citizens-begins-in-districts/article33967507.ece
02 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA awards presented||Universities play a key role in building strong capabilities in research and innovation by nurturing and igniting young minds to move in the path of scientific excellence, said Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology. Speaking at a virtual meeting on the occasion of National Science Day organised by the SASTRA, Deemed to be a University on Sunday, Ms. Swarup said the nation’s scientific growth was evident from the surge in innovation index and the number of start-up ventures. She also highlighted the impetus given for research and innovation. S. Vaidhyasubramaniam, Vice-Chancellor, SASTRA Deemed University, outlined the university’s tradition of honouring stalwarts in science. As part of the Science Day celebrations, Mr. Vaidhyasubramaniam said that the SASTRA - G. N. Ramachandran Award was presented to Ajay Kumar Ghatak, formerly Professor at Indian Institute of Technology Delhi; the SASTRA – Obaid Siddiqi Award to Dr. Gitanjali Yadav of National Institute of Plant Genome Research, New Delhi and SASTRA – C N R Rao award for Chemistry and Materials Science for the year 2021to A. K. Ganguli of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and G. Mugesh of Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. The awards carry a cash price of Rs. 5 lakh each, he added. Apart from this, the SASTRA-Professor Saroj Chandrasekhar Memorial Award 2021 instituted to recognise and reward women candidates in their third or the fourth year of their doctoral programme were presented to three candidates – Madhu Chaturvedi and Nishant Manzar of IIT, Kanpur, and Sayantani Sinha, CSIR, Jhadavpur University. The awardees would get a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh each. Two others, Ramya of SASTRA and Akansha Onkar, IIT, Kanpur, received a cash prize of Rs. 50,000, each with honourable mention and Roohi Mohi, UD-DIN, University of Kashmir received Rs. 25,000 cash prize with special mention, according to a SASTRA press release. A technology business incubator – ABLEST (Association for Bio-Inspired Leaders and Entrepreneurs) at SASTRA, established at a cost of Rs. 7 crore under the BIONEST programme of the Department of Biotechnology was also inaugurated by Dr. Renu Swarup on the occasion, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-awards-presented/article33967422.ece
02 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Woman drapes saffron cloth on Periyar statue in Thanjavur||Tension prevailed at Orathanadu near Thanjavur for some time on Monday morning after a woman draped a saffron cloth on a statue of the Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar E V Ramasamy in the town. A woman had wrapped the Periyar statue with a “saffron” coloured cloth and also placed a cap on the head early in the morning, according to an information received by the Orathanadu police. Subsequently, police rushed to the spot and removed the cloth and the cap from the statue. The police team narrowed down on the accused after going through the video recordings of the closed-circuit cameras installed by the traders in the area. The woman, identified as Kala (55) of Ponnapur, was detained. On interrogation, the accused was found to be undergoing treatment for mental illness at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, according to the Special Team sub-inspector, Basil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-drapes-saffron-cloth-on-periyar-statue/article33967424.ece
02 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for gambling||Six persons were arrested on Sunday by the Kumbakonam West police on charges of gambling at a lodging house. The accused – Gurumoorthy, Baranikumar, Sakthivel, Balaji, Vasudevan and Ravichandran – all residents of Kumbakonam – were caught when they were gambling at a lodge on Bazaar Street on Sunday night. A sum of Rs. 35,000, in cash was seized from them, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-gambling/article33967421.ece
02 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Central forces take out flag march||About 200 security personnel, including 88 from the Border Security Force (BSF), conducted a flag march here on Monday. Ahead of the election scheduled to be held in the State on April 6, security personnel were being deployed in various cities and Assembly constituencies. A police officer said that based on the number of sensitive polling stations identified in the previous elections and the present trend, the Election Commission was given the data through the Chief Electoral Officer. The paramilitary forces would be deployed in sensitive/critical booths and would also be responsible for security at counting centres. Along with Central forces, the State police and other agencies would be entrusted with the task at different rings of security. The BSF personnel took out a flag march from Palayamkottai Road, Anna Statue Junction, Beach Road and other places. SP Jeyakumar led the march in which local police participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-forces-take-out-flag-march/article33968178.ece
02 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination of senior citizens begins in Thoothukudi||Vaccination for persons above 60 years and for those in the age group of 45 and 60 years with co-morbidities began here on Monday. According to doctors at Government Hospital, the exercise was launched in the State on January 16. After administering the vaccine to frontline workers, the second round was targeted towards the age group of 45 and 60 years. Doctors and officials from the Health and Family Department said they had adequate stock of the vaccine and had to follow the procedure prior to administering it. While vaccination was voluntary, beneficiaries should produce valid identity proof such as Aadhaar card, PAN card, driving licence or passport. After filling up a form, they would get SMS to their registered mobile number.. On the first day, about 50 people were administered the vaccine at the GH. Private hospitals too had been authorised to administer them, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-of-senior-citizens-begins-in-thoothukudi/article33968182.ece
02 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for release of eight fishermen from Tharuvaikulam detained in Maldives||With notification for the election to the Legislative Assembly announced, the model code of conduct came into force on February 26. Under such circumstances, the weekly grievances meeting held at the Collectorate was suspended until further orders. Officials, however, installed a box in which the petitions could be dropped. On Monday, a delegation representing Tharuvaikulam Fishermen Welfare Association led by its president Anthony arrived at the Collectorate and insisted on submitting a petition to the Collector personally. Collector K. Senthil Raj said he would look into the petition. Later, the fishermen told reporters that colleagues from their hamlet set off into the sea from Kanniyakumari for fishing. As they were sailing southwards, an unexpected wind took their mechanised boat into the territorial waters of Maldives. A surveillance team from Maldives and naval authorities seized the boat and arrested the fishermen. “For no fault of the fishermen, they have been detained for the last 10 days.” Mr. Anthony said, “we have made a request to the Collector to at least send our petition to the Central government, who alone can take action.” In another petition, villagers from Srivaikundam, Keezhur, Naduvoor and other hamlets came to the Collectorate and pleaded with officials to suspend the licence issued to a stone quarry in their area. Stone quarry About 100 villagers claimed that the quarry site was not only causing pollution, but also creating tremor-like experience during odd hours. The villagers threatened to boycott the poll if the officials failed to look into their grievance within a week’s time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-release-of-eight-fishermen-from-tharuvaikulam-detained-in-maldives/article33967481.ece
02 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||VOC Port users thank Modi||Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his announcement on making Tuticorin Port a container transhipment hub, port users’ association secretary J.P. Joe Villavarayar on Monday hoped that it would go a long way in bringing in more maritime development in the region. In a press release he said various stakeholders formed the association in 2004 with the objective of making the facility a container transhipment hub port. The Prime Minister’s mention that the Union government would take further steps to make VOC Port into a big transhipment hub on the east coast came as a fillip to the industry as stakeholders were severely hit due to the pandemic. Also, thanking Union Minister of State for Ports Mansukh L.Mandaviya, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi and others, Mr. Villavarayar said it was a dream of the port users to see it turned into a container transhipment hub as it had all pre-requisite qualifications. Further, exporters and importers using the port would gain tremendously in terms of cost and time as all containers at present were being transhipped at Colombo and the country would save flow of precious foreign exchange as well, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-port-users-thank-modi/article33967475.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||General public walk in to get the shot||Districts in the central region began administering the COVID-19 vaccine for people over the age of 60 and those above the age of 45 with comorbidities in line with the instructions given by the Centre. The public has the option to self-register on the CoWin portal or walk in to the nearest government health facility or an empanelled private hospital in the district. While the government facility would provide the vaccination free of cost, private hospitals would charge Rs. 250. Health officials expect a week to pass before the third phase of vaccination rollout picks up steam. However, the response was notable, compared to that of the frontline workers, senior staff at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital said. On Monday, 120 doses of Covaxin and 160 doses of Covishield were administered at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi of which 95% were the general public. “The government has to either ask the frontline workers to come later or ask them to register the same way as the public. We cannot conduct separate registration processes and it is causing chaos,” a senior doctor at the Tiruchi GH said. Individuals can register onwww.cowin.gov.inor directly visit the vaccination centre. One has to feed a mobile number or Aadhaar number or any other government identification number to register. Once registered, vaccination centres in the vicinity will be displayed. The individual may choose the date and location of the vaccination. While directly approaching a vaccination centre too, the individual must carry a photo ID card along with their Aadhaar card. “We have been instructed to reserve around 60% of the day's vaccination quota for walk-ins. We have sufficient supply and are ready to inoculate up to 1,000 people a day,” K. Vanitha, Dean, Tiruchi GH. Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated the vaccine rollout in Tiruchi, and Collector P. Uma Maheshwari in Pudukottai. Deputy Director of Health Services, Geetha Rani Ramesh inoculated her mother in Perambalur. The officials requested the public to utilise the facilities made available by the government to fight against the novel coronavirus.  We have been instructed to reserve around 60% of the day's vaccination quota for walk-ins. We are ready to inoculate up to 1,000 people a day K. Vanitha Dean, Tiruchi GH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/general-public-walk-in-to-get-the-shot/article33967428.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ten companies of para-military personnel arrive in central zone||With about a month to go for the Assembly elections, personnel belonging to the central para-military forces have arrived in the nine districts in the central region to carry out poll-related duties. Six companies of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel and four companies of Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) men and officers have been accommodated in police line, police training centre, barrack, private colleges and wedding hall in the respective districts upon their arrival. While CISF personnel arrived in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, personnel of ITBP have landed at Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts with a senior officer in the rank of an Assistant Commandant heading each of the respective CISF and ITBP companies. Police sources told The Hindu on Monday that a total number of 927 personnel of CISF and ITBP have arrived in the central zone and that each company consisting of men and officers ranged from 91 to 101, would be used for deployment in each of the nine districts. A police liaison officer has been nominated in each district for the para-military companies. Ahead of the Assembly elections, the para-military forces armed with necessary paraphernalia would be engaged in route marches in places identified as sensitive and for area domination exercise that would be done in coordination with the respective district police personnel, the sources said. They were also expected to be deployed at check posts across the region. Police have formed an election control cell in the districts in view of the upcoming polls for which a team of police personnel have been nominated. Special police teams have been constituted in each district to go after absconding anti-social elements and execute non-bailable warrants ahead of the forthcoming elections. City Police sources said vehicle checks were being conducted in all the eight check posts falling within the Tiruchi City Police limits.  Thanjavur The District Election Officer (DEO) and Collector M. Govinda Rao on Monday made a surprise inspection of vehicle checks conducted by the election static surveillance teams in the district. During the supervision at Palliaghraharam on the outskirts of Thanjavur town and on the Pattukottai bypass road, the DEO interacted with the motorists and the bus commuters asking them to cooperate with the official machinery in conducting the elections in a smooth and fair manner. He also instructed the surveillance team members to strictly follow the rules while checking the vehicles and bring to book any violation of overloading of sand or transportation of goods/articles surreptitiously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-companies-of-para-military-personnel-arrive-in-central-zone/article33967431.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pushed to the brink, stone sculptors hope for a stimulus package||The sound of stone being chipped fills the air as one drives toward Thuraiyur from Nagalapuram in Tiruchi district. Here, around 200 families of stone sculptors undertake the strenuous work of making statues for temples in the area. Their business that took a hit during the COVID-19 lockdown now shows signs of revival. But, still, the conditions are not really conducive. Many among the artisans who were pushed to poverty during the lockdown have moved on to become labourers. Those who have returned have no choice, but to stick on to make a daily living. “The future of our occupation is now at stake. Stone-carving has been our source of livelihood since our fathers’ time. The pandemic has pushed us to the brink,” M. Selva, who owns a workshop said. Some orders were never completed when the lockdown was enforced, and statues that were completed remain in the workshops, he said. Prior to the lockdown, orders, each worth Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000, would be placed every month, and the workshop owners would pay the artisans a monthly salary. Now, however, they are being paid depending upon the order. Expenses for electricity, as the workers use electric carving tools, is also high. The workers were dependent on the ration given through the Public Distribution System (PDS) shops for the last year or so. “We have to eat rice and curd, or remain content with ‘kanji’ (porridge) for months. While our savings lasted us a few months, we were helpless for most of the year”, said Vadivel, a worker at Selva's workshop. The winter months are usually a great time for sculpting without the inconvenience of a scorching summer sun. Now, with summer peaking, the workers have constructed a small make-shift shed to protect themselves from the direct heat. “The shed doesn't help much against heat. But, this is our job and these are occupational hazards which come with the job," he said. The stone sculptors are looking for a stimulus package from the government. “We make statues which people pray to, but when we need help, there is not a person in sight,” Vadivel sighed. “The government could also help us get loans to pay our workers and get more orders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pushed-to-the-brink-stone-sculptors-hope-for-a-stimulus-package/article33968172.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Painting competition for school students||Entries are invited from budding artists for the JSW Paints Futurescapes painting competition 2021, organised in association with The Hindu Young World . The competition will be conducted in three categories for students of classes 3 to 12. The competition is open to students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana only. The painting competition will have preliminary and final rounds. In the preliminary round, participants are required to paint on any one of the following topics for the respective categories: Sub-juniors (classes 3 to 5) - ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’ or ‘My Favourite Animal’; Juniors (classes 6 to 8) - ‘Favourite festival’, ‘Fun with family’, or ‘Wildlife Safari’; and Seniors ( classes 9 to 12) - ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’, or ‘Clean and Green India.’ Participants should paint on a white drawing sheet (of 32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons or colour pencils. Sketch pens and markers can be used only for outlining purposes. A participant can submit only one painting. Students are required to register online by logging on towww.ywc.thehindu.com/ jswpaintsand upload a clear scanned copy of their painting to generate their unique registration number. The physical copy of the drawing should also be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu before March 10. The unique registration number must be written on the front side of the physical copy along with the topic. On the back side, details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, state, category of participation, parent’s name, registered e-mail address and mobile number must be written. On the top left of the envelope, mention ‘JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021.’ Students who qualify for the finale will be intimated of the date and details through their registered email ID. In case of any queries or clarifications, students or parents can also call the toll free number 1800 102 1878 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. (except Sundays).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-competition-for-school-students/article33967418.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Unseasonal rain brings down yield of ‘nendran’ banana||Harvest of “nendran” banana has begun in different parts of the district. Nendran, which is marketed mainly in Kerala, has been raised on about 3,000 hectares in the district in the current season (2020-21), up by 500 hectares over the previous season. Availability of sufficient water sources had motivated the farmers to bring more area under nendran cultivation during the current season. The crop has been raised predominantly in Andhanallur, Manikandam, Thiruvalarcholai, Panayapuram, Uthamarseeli, Sirugamani, Perugamani, Mutharasanallur, Thottiyam and Musiri. The crop raised in April last year, has reached the harvest stage and fruits are being harvested simultaneously in different parts of the district. According to sources, the yield is slightly less than normal. The yield hovers around 12-13 tonnes an acre in normal circumstances. But many farmers have reported a yield of around 10 tonnes an acre. The unseasonal rainfall during the extended monsoon is said to have played spoilsport, denting the growth of bunches. “The conditions were perfect until October. The extended spells of rain for many days during the monsoon season ultimately affected the health of the cop. The yield has been at least two tonnes less per acre than normal,” said S. Senthikumar, a farmer, who has raised nendran on five acres of land at Panayapuram near Thiruvalarcholai. According to farmers, it requires Rs. 1.5 lakh to raise nendran crop on an acre. Of this, Rs. 50,000 is spent on paying lease fee and irrigation charges. The current yield is insufficient to meet the expenditure. Most farmers prefer to send their produce to markets in Kerala. More than 200 traders and middlemen from Malappuram, Kozhikodu, Thiruvananthapuram, Alleppey, Kochin and Kottayam have come to the banana fields to procure nendran variety. The harvest is expected to pick up momentum in the second and third week of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unseasonal-rain-brings-down-yield-of-nendran-banana/article33967426.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Railway workshop surpasses target||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has surpassed the annual overhauling and production targets set by the Railway Board, New Delhi, by the end of February despite the pandemic. In spite of full lockdown in April and partial opening in May and June last year, momentum of overhauling and manufacturing activities picked up in the current fiscal at the workshop from July onwards. Against the Railway Board’s revised annual target of overhauling 864 broad gauge coaches in this year, the Golden Rock Workshop overhauled 915 coaches. This is 51 coaches more than the total annual target with one month to go, a press release from the Chief Workshop Manager said. Against the expectation of 90 coaches per month, the workshop has been turning out 100 coaches per month in the last seven consecutive months. Such an increase in productivity was necessitated to supplement the shortfall that arose out of extended closure of two railway workshops earlier in Perambur. In the manufacturing sector, the workshop completed 351 rolling stock programme wagons consisting of brake vans and open type wagons for carrying coal and other metal ores across the country. This was the highest ever production achieved in the last 50 years amidst pandemic blues faced globally. In February 2021 alone, 50 wagons were accomplished for the first time which was double the normal production rate. Seventy old ICF coaches were converted as new modified goods in a single fiscal which was the highest among the Southern Railway workshops in this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-workshop-surpasses-coaches-overhauling-target/article33967413.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Multiple gift items seized in Dharapuram||In a major seizure after the Model Code of Conduct came into force, election officials on Monday seized thousands of sarees, dhotis and silver plates allegedly hoarded by the AIADMK in Dharapuram. Complaint Sources in the Revenue Department said that based on a complaint, a flying squad initially seized 1,950 silver plates from a four-wheeler near a private engineering college on Oddanchatram-Dharapuram road around 6.30 p.m. After the plates and the four-wheeler were brought to the Dharapuram taluk office, another complaint through the election helpline claimed of more gift items being locked inside the college. Following this, a Static Surveillance Team reached the private college around two hours later and found 4,000 cloth bags bearing the images of AIADMK leaders, along with 1,700 sarees and 4,500 dhotis, inside two rooms of the college, according to the sources. Confirming the development, Dharapuram Sub-Collector and Returning Officer for Dharapuram Assembly constituency Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar said that the gift items inside the colleges would be transported to the Dharapuram taluk office on Tuesday due to the large quantity. “Police protection has been given for the college,” he told The Hindu . Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/multiple-gift-items-seized-in-dharapuram/article33967516.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Saplings plantation has improved soil quality across Tiruppur district, says study||A short-term study made on the Vanathukkul Tiruppur sapling plantation initiative has shown that the plantation of over 10 lakh saplings in the past six years across Tiruppur district has positively contributed to the environment such as improvement in soil quality and biodiversity. The Ecological Impact Survey Report released by Coimbatore-based environment NGO Siddharth Foundation on February 27 in Tiruppur, studied 70 out of the total 481 plantations where the saplings were planted since 2015. As many as 79 species of birds, 65 species of butterflies and 41 species of spiders were recorded in these 70 plantations during the study, the report said. The report estimated that 7,377 tonnes of carbon were sequestered through the saplings planted in the initiative. Carbon sequestration is the removal, capture or sequestration of CO2 from the atmosphere which could help in mitigating global warming. “Maintenance of existing VT [ Vanathukkul Tiruppur ] plantations for four more years will result in the sequestration of 38,000 tonnes of CO2 from the air,” the report said. Within the 70 plantations, about 88% of the saplings planted have survived and were growing well. “This survival rate is excellent compared to other afforestation programmes elsewhere,” the report said, noting that the Vanathukkul Tiruppur initiative provides a model of participatory afforestation that can be adopted anywhere. Managing Trustee of Siddharth Foundation P.N. Anoop Raj said on Monday that this study was carried out between March 2020 and December 2020 and that a long-term study spanning one or two years is required to assess the impact better. “Long-term monitoring is also required,” he said, as these plantations will take around 15 years to become as matured ecosystems. T. R. Sivaram, Founder and President of NGO Vetry that has been carrying out this initiative since 2015, termed the results as encouraging. “This shows we are on the right path,” he said. The target for the seventh year of Vanathukkul Tiruppur is two lakh saplings, Mr. Sivaram said. The nursery was inaugurated by Managing Trustee of NGO Siruthuli Vanitha Mohan in Tiruppur on Saturday and the planting of these saplings will begin in June, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-plantation-has-improved-soil-quality-across-tiruppur-district-says-study/article33967486.ece
02 March 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Use mobile app to lodge election-related complaints’||The District Election Officer (DEO) and Collector V. Santha has called upon the electorate to utilise the mobile application – eVIGIL – to lodge election-related grievances/complaints. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, the DEO said that eVIGIL developed by the Election Commission of India could be downloaded through the Google Playstore. The application has been designed in such a manner that photographs or videos could be annexed with the complaint. Such complaints with respect to the violation of the election model code of conduct or any other grievances relating to the conduct of the elections could also be lodged over the phone by dialling 1950, she added. The complaints received through the mobile application or through phone by the Control Room staff would be forwarded to the concerned officials and necessary actions would be initiated immediately. Stating that the following officials have been designated as the Returning Officers (ROs) for the Assembly Constituencies indicated against their positions, Ms. Santha urged the political party representatives, electorates and the government officials to extend their cooperation for the smooth conduct of the election process. The ROs for the four Assembly Segments falling in the Tiruvarur district are: District Supply Officer, Tiruvarur (94450 00295) – Thiruthuraipoondi; Revenue Divisional Officer, Mannargudi (94450 00463) – Mannargudi; RDO, Tiruvarur (94450 00464) – Tiruvarur and Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Tiruvarur (94434 86537) – Nannilam. Pointing out that flying squad, static surveillance teams and video surveillance teams have been formed to keep watch on the compliance of MCC by those involved in the election process, the District Election Officer called upon the political parties to desist from campaigning between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. The political parties have also been directed to remove/whitewash the election-related graffiti/party related announcements put up by them on the walls of government/public or private buildings and to avoid putting up graffiti on private walls without obtaining prior permission from the concerned officials, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-mobile-app-to-lodge-election-related-complaints/article33967420.ece
02 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Cash, gifts seized in the Nilgiris||More than Rs. 20.73 lakh cash as well as Rs. 3.30 lakh worth of gifts have been seized by flying squads and static surveillance teams in the Nilgiris since the Model Code of Conduct came into force, said Collector J. Innocent Divya. Ms. Divya said that a total of 4,167 persons will be involved in ensuring that the elections are conducted smoothly in the district. All of them will be administered the COVID-19 vaccine, she said. Of the 4,167 persons on election duty are 2,600 school teachers and 250 college professors. The number of polling stations in the district has been increased from 683 to 868 and people will be stationed there to ensure that all voters undergo thermal scanning. Of the 868 polling stations, 112 have been classified as “vulnerable”. After meeting with the Nilgiris district SP, it was decided that the vulnerable polling stations will be monitored with the use of web-cameras and polling videotaped, said the Collector. In the Nilgiris’ three constituencies of Udhagamandalam, Coonoor and Gudalur, nine flying squad teams, nine static surveillance teams, three video surveillance teams, three video viewing teams, three accounting teams and three model code of conduct teams have been formed to take action against individuals or political parties found to be breaching the code of conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-gifts-seized-in-the-nilgiris/article33967927.ece
02 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive begins in the Nilgiris||Residents above 60 years of age or those above 45 with comorbidities can be inoculated against COVID-19 in government hospitals, upgraded primary health centres and at 10 private hospitals here from Monday. It will be done in all GHs free of cost and at upgraded PHCs, health officials said. For a fee of Rs. 250, people can also choose to get the vaccine at S.M Hospital and Vijaya Hospital in Udhagamandalam, Nankem Hospital, Sagayamatha Hospital, Pushpa Hospital and Siddhagiri Sai Hospital in Coonoor, K.M.F. Hospital and H.F. Hospital in Kotagiri as well as Ashwini – Gudalur Adivasi Hospital and Pushpagiri Hospital in Gudalur. Those who wish to get vaccinated need to bring one of the following ID proofs – Aadhaar card, bank passbook, voter ID, PAN card, driving licence, passport or pension document affixed with photo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-begins-in-the-nilgiris/article33967928.ece
02 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead||A 15-year-old elephant was found dead in the Bitherkad forest range in Gudalur on Monday. Following a postmortem, the forest department declared that the animal died from natural causes. According to the forest department officials, the animal had sustained injuries consistent with an attack by another elephant near the stomach and neck, and believe that the dead tusker had a fight with another bull elephant in the area, which resulted in its death. Forest department officials said that they would use a drone to find if the elephant that had caused the tusker’s death was still in the area, so that they could find further proof to corroborate their belief that the injuries were caused by another pachyderm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead/article33967490.ece
02 March 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Licence of 28 fireworks units suspended for violations||Three days of surprise inspections conducted by seven teams of officials from various departments revealed massive violations in safety norms in fireworks units, resulting in suspension of licences of 28 cracker units. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said that officials from the departments of Revenue, Police, Fire and Rescue Services, Industrial Safety and Labour, and from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation were in the teams. As the inspecting officials found gross violations, the licences were suspended and the units sealed. “We will seek explanations from the owners for further course of action,” Mr. Kannan said. District Revenue Officer (DRO) R. Mangalaramasubramanian said that each of the unit had been mandated with inspecting 10 units every day. “The violations ranged from lack of attendance register or lack of proper maintenance of register to allowing workers to work outside the working sheds,” he said. “One of the units in Ramalingapuram was found to have been leased out,” an official said. Non-maintenance of proper records for chemicals stocked, lack of fire fighting equipment and improper way of allowing finished goods to dry were also found. Some of the units had set up illegal sheds for working. Other violations were misusing of working sheds meant for specific process for some other work, deployment of more workers than the permitted numbers, improper way of drying up black fuses, making different varieties of fireworks that were not permitted under the licensing conditions, and absence of foreman. Many unit shut A senior official said that many cracker units remained closed on Monday when the officials went for inspection. The DRO said that all the fireworks units would be inspected by teams in the coming days. The inspections followed two major fireworks accidents reported in the district in February that claimed 29 lives and injured around 50 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/licences-of-28-fireworks-units-suspended-after-inspection/article33967460.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No new case in Kallakurichi and Perambalur||Tamil Nadu recorded 474 cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 8,52,016. The new cases included four returnees, including three from Andhra Pradesh and one from Bihar. A total of 4,009 persons are currently undergoing treatment. As many as 482 persons were discharged after treatment on Monday, taking the total figure to 8,35,506. The toll increased to 12,501, with the State recording five more deaths. Chennai district recorded 171 fresh cases, even as 180 persons were discharged after treatment. It also recorded two deaths. As many as 2,35,721 persons have contracted the infection and 2,29,783 have been discharged in the district so far. The toll stands at 4,155. No new case While there was no new case in Kallakurichi and Perambalur, Coimbatore recorded 41 cases and Chengalpattu 40. In Chengalpattu, two more persons died of the disease. Kancheepuram recorded 18 new infections and one death. In Tiruvallur, 25 persons tested positive. All five deceased had pre-existing chronic ailments. While three of them died in government hospitals, two succumbed to the infection in private hospitals. The youngest person to have died was a 47-year-old man from Chengalpattu with type 2 diabetes and hypertension. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in the early hours of Sunday, and died an hour after admission. Tested positive He had tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. His death was recorded as having occurred due to COVID-19 pneumonia/respiratory failure. The oldest casualty was an 80-year-old man from Chennai, who tested positive for the infection on February 26. He had severe hypertension, and had been admitted to a private hospital on Saturday, following complaints of fever for 10 days and cough and breathing difficulty for two days. He died the same day, and his death was recorded as having occurred due to acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by COVID-19 pneumonia.  As many as 482 persons were discharged after treatment on Monday, taking the total figure to 8,35,506||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-case-in-kallakurichi-and-perambalur/article33967452.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||41 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 41 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 42 persons from Coimbatore got discharged from different hospitals after recovering from COVID-19. A total of 379 persons from Coimbatore district were undergoing treatment on Monday. The district did not report any death due to the disease, according to the department. Tiruppur district reported 14 fresh cases, which took the tally to 18,361. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 18,021 patients have recovered and 116 were active cases. On Monday, 13 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, seven persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,359. The number of deaths in the district stood at 48 while 61 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article33967926.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK in a predicament over Sasikala, AMMK factor||A senior BJP leader said that in at least 25 constituencies, the AMMK would make or mar the prospects of the coalition. “As the election is going to be fiercely contested between the fronts led by the AIADMK and the DMK, you stand to lose, rather than gain, by leaving the AMMK out,” the leader contended. As of now, the national party’s leaders have been stating publicly that the question of a patch-up between the AIADMK and the AMMK is an “internal matter” for the two parties. Several AIADMK functionaries from the southern districts are, however, receptive to the idea of accommodating the AMMK. But in the run-up to Ms. Sasikala’s release from a Bengaluru jail last month, the AIADMK took a strong stand against her. An U-turn would draw a “severe backlash” and reflect very badly on the image of the party, argued an AIADMK leader who is opposed to a patch-up with the AMMK or Ms. Sasikala. Another issue being discussed in AIADMK circles is the symbol under which the AMMK’s nominees should contest, in the event of the party getting accommodated in the alliance. Those in the ruling party who are supportive of the AMMK feel there should be no objection to the latter’s candidates being fielded on the former’s symbol of ‘two leaves’, a scenario the AMMK office-bearers don’t relish, given the fact that their party secured the ‘pressure cooker’ symbol after a protracted struggle. Notwithstanding the complexity of the issues, the ruling party and the BJP say clarity would emerge in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-in-a-predicament-over-sasikala-ammk-factor/article33967442.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||School dropout turns into trailblazing entrepreneur||It is easy to miss this nondescript building at Melakkal village in Madurai which houses the M.S. Rope Production Centre - a unit which generates an annual turnover of around Rs. 1 crore. This small unit was bustling with activity on Monday morning as women were busy converting banana fibre into ropes which are used to manufacture a wide range of products. The proprietor, P.M. Murugesan, a farmer who dropped out of school when he was in Class 8, has fabricated three machines that could convert plantain waste into banana ropes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised Mr. Murugesan’s agro-innovation in making wealth out of plantain waste during the recent Mann Ki Baat programme. Mr. Murugesan said he had to drop out of school to help his father in agricultural activities. “Though we were traditionally into agriculture, wet did not earn much profits,” he said. Being a banana farmer, Mr. Murugesan was overwhelmed by tonnes of waste (banana stem) that he had to dispose of from his fields. “Farmers usually burn tonnes of these waste or dump it into waterbodies,” he said. It was in 2008 when Mr. Murugesan started thinking about ways to utilise the plantain waste. He hit upon an idea to make ropes from it. But his idea was ridiculed. After many trials and errors, he finally developed a handle rope machine - a spinning machine with pulleys. Now he has patented three machines used for converting banana waste into ropes. IIT-M incubator  He approached an incubator of Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, to market a few products made from banana waste. “Through the incubator, I received orders from abroad where the clients sought details on the rate of my products. I was overjoyed as it was the first time I was able to fix a price for my products. Usually, it is the commission agents who decide the price of crop cultivated by farmers,” he added. Today, he has five units across Madurai district, employing around 350 women. About 50 types of products, including mats, bags, lamp holders and baskets, are manufactured out of banana waste. They are exported to many countries, including the UK, the Netherlands, Singapore, France and Malaysia. “These products have a huge demand in foreign countries as they are biodegradable alternative to plastic products. It is economical and totally organic too,” he said. Mr. Murugesan has conducted many workshops across the country, encouraging farmers to make banana ropes. He has also received many awards from the Union and State governments in recognition of his work.  A money-spinner  He was anguished over tonnes of banana waste being burnt  After many trials and errors, he developed a handle rope machine  Now he has five units employing 350 women and exports products||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-dropout-turns-into-trailblazing-entrepreneur/article33967462.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination for senior citizens begins in Virudhunagar district||After administering vaccine to healthcare workers and frontline staff from other departments at designated government healthcare facilities, the vaccination drive has been opened to all people above the age of 60 and those in the age group of 45 to 60 with co-morbidities. In Virudhunagar, apart from 21 government facilities, vaccination will be done at 22 private hospitals that have been empanelled under government health insurance schemes, said Deputy Director (Health Services – Virudhunagar) A. Palanisamy. Dtails of patients with common comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension are available in government hospitals and primary health centres. “Since these patients come to our hospitals to get medicines every month, a dedicated staff nurse in each hospital/PHC has a list of such patients,” Dr. Palanisamy said. Such patients can get vaccinated at government hospitals. Those who need to get vaccinated should bring any one of the permitted identity cards such as Aadhaar card or driving licence. While vaccination is free at government hospitals, beneficiaries need to pay Rs. 250 per dosage at private hospitals. About 95% of healthcare workers and 50% of police personnel have been vaccinated in the district so far, he added. Meanwhile, health officials are gearing up to vaccinate additional people since the Election Commission has mandated vaccination to all poll-related officials. Around 10,000 polling officials meant for 2,370 polling booths need to be vaccinated in the next few days so that they can get the second dosage before April 6. Adequate stock Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan appears confident of providing vaccination to all polling officials. “We have adequate stock of dosages with us. We can increase the number of persons to be vaccinated to 200 at a centre,” he said. Vaccination can be done between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Dr. Palanisamy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-for-senior-citizens-begins-in-virudhunagar-district/article33967483.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea seeks filling up of vacancies in district consumer forums||An advocate has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State to fill vacant posts of presiding officers, members and other staff at the District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forums. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice in the petition filed by advocate R.M. Arun Swaminathan of Madurai. The petitioner said that due to the vacancies, cases were simply getting adjourned. He pointed out that presiding officers of the consumer forums in the nearby districts sit once a week in the forums where there was a vacancy. The matters would get simply adjourned as the officers were unable to arrive at a decision. The Consumer Protection Rules, 2020, states that there has to be one president and two members appointed for each district forum. Due to insufficient members, the complainants were not getting their grievances redressed, he said. The purpose of the Consumer Protection Act is not getting accomplished. Therefore steps must be taken to fill the vacancies, he said. The judges sought a report on the steps that were initiated in this regard and adjourned the hearing till March 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-seeks-filling-up-of-vacancies-in-district-consumer-forums/article33967469.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Violation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violation/article33967498.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flouting safety norms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flouting-safety-norms/article33968110.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gearing up for polls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gearing-up-for-polls/article33968188.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||42 COVID-19 cases||Tiruchi The central region on Monday reported 42 new cases of COVID-19. No death was reported in the region. In Thanjavur, 13 patients tested positive for COVID-19, and in Tiruchi nine. Two patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Six fresh cases were reported in Tiruvarur and five in Nagapattinam. Four patients tested positive in Pudukottai district. Three patients reported positive in Karur district and two in Ariyalur. No fresh cases were reported in Perambalur for the fourth consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-covid-19-cases/article33967429.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SALEM||Sona School of Management: Sona Bazaar 2021, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article33967494.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi today||CULTURE  Organising Committee: Sadguru Sri Thyaga Brahma aradhana mahothsavam, veena concert by R.Srinivasan and students, Koratha Moolai, North Chithirai Street, Srirangam, 6 p.m.; flute recital by Jothi Sharma and party, 7.30 p.m. GENERAL  Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: National Science Day – science exhibition, 10 a.m.  National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi: International Women’s Day celebrations  St.Joseph’s College Department of English: Parent-Teacher meet, 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article33968173.ece
02 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two dead in mud collapse||Two farm labourers died when a mound of mud collapsed on them in Biranholi village near Hukkeri in Belagavi district on Monday. Halappa Gurav 25, and Yallappa Harijan, 22, were trying to loosen the mound and remove mud for using it in the construction of a house. However, the mound collapsed on them. Other labourers working in a nearby field came to check on them after an hour and found the mud collapse. They informed the Yamakanamaradi police, who tried to remove the mud with their help. But the two workers could not be rescued and their bodies had to be dragged out. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-dead-in-mud-collapse/article33967677.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Take a relook at OTS norms for loan recovery: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has advised the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of India to have a re-look into the norms of One Time Settlement Scheme (OTS) for banks to recover loans while questioning why payment of only 70% of the secured portion of loan under OTS is demanded even when more amount could be realised from the pledged assets. “It is not understandable as to why a borrower is permitted to pay only 70% on the secured portion and the remaining 30% is waived. This means even when a security can realise more money, borrowers are absolved by paying only 70% value. Though this is a policy matter and not under challenge, it is appropriate for those concerned in the Ministry of Finance and the RBI to have a re-look into the Scheme,” the High Court said. Justice P.S. Dinesh Kumar made these observations while dismissing with Rs. 2 lakh cost a petition filed by one Balakishan Boob, who is a guarantor of M/s. Bhagwan Cotton Ginners Pvt. Ltd., Raichur. “It is rather strange that banks lend money without proper tangible security and offer to receive a portion of it under the OTS Scheme. Logically, this is preposterous because, banks deal with money belonging to the depositors. Waiver of portion of money lent by whatever name it is called, directly results in inflation and shall have adverse impact on the economic health of the nation,” the court observed. On petitioner’s claim that OTS is non-discriminatory and non-discretionary in nature, and as per the norms OTS has to be considered on the ledger balance as on the date of declaration loan as non-performing asset (NPA), the court observed, “if this contention is to be accepted, any borrower/guarantor may choose to repay at their sweet leisure several years after declaration of NPA. This is anti-thesis of economic progress. In financial market, money has to grow by the day.” The petitioner had questioned the decision of the Bank of Maharashtra in rejecting petitioner’s claim on behalf of the company for OTS scheme 2020-21. The bank had said that the petitioner had not honoured the OTS benefit extended in 2018-19 and went on making claims under OTS every year thereafter. While pointing out that the overall dues from the company was around Rs. 14 crore and pledged assets were valued around Rs. 50 crore, the bank said the petitioner was offering around Rs. 5 crore repayment under OTS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-a-relook-at-ots-norms-for-loan-recovery-hc/article33967550.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City schools conduct ‘satisfaction’ surveys||Schools in the city are conducting ‘satisfaction surveys’ involving students who are attending online and offline classes. Based on the feedback, they are tweaking the learning strategy. School managements have got feedback that offline classes are the students’ preferred choice. Nooraine Fazal, founder-director of Inventure Academy, said that their school had administered satisfaction surveys to see how the hybrid learning model – offline and online classes – was working for students. “We wanted to hear from both set of students, and get their feedback on the teaching techniques and pedagogy,” she said. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, said that they had asked for feedback from students, and majority of them preferred offline classes. Ms. Fazal said that on a scale of 4, students who attended classes on the campus have rated the classes 3.92, while those who attended online classes rated the classes 2.9. She said that, based on the feedback, the school installed noise cancellation mikes and added two cameras for teachers who were conducting offline classes. They placed a camera behind and one in front of the teachers so that teachers who were conducting offline classes could be heard by students who were attending online classes. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said that while students were initially very enthusiastic about online classes, the attendance in many schools in December 2020 had dipped to 30% from the earlier average of around 80% in July 2020. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of English Medium Schools in Karnataka, said that many students who are not attending offline classes are unable to understand concepts and lessons. “But they say that their parents are not willing to send them to school,” he said. He added that based on the feedback from students, many schools are once again teaching lessons that teachers had taught in online sessions, during the offline classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-schools-conduct-satisfaction-surveys/article33967870.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private operators ask State govt. to allow them cargo, parcel service||A few days ago, the cash-strapped Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and two other road transport corporations launched cargo and parcel services to generate more non–fare revenue. The primary objective of the new service by road transport corporations is to generate non-fare box revenue and reduce the financial burden induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, the counterparts of the corporations in the private sector have demanded that the State government allow private bus operators to carry parcels in the buses and discontinue the rules of imposing penalty for transporting cargo. Nataraj Sharma, general secretary of Karnataka State Tourist Operators’ Association, said, “For years, the RTO officials have been imposing hefty penalties on private operators citing that parcels and articles cannot be transported in a passenger vehicle. There are instances of imposing penalty of Rs. 10,000. Now, KSRTC has been allowed to do the cargo business. We demand that the State government allow even private operators to transport cargo.” He further added that after the outbreak of pandemic, private operators were hit hard by poor ridership and recovery from losses was taking time. “It is not just the State road transport corporations that suffered loss after the outbreak of pandemic. Even private operators are hit hard. It is discriminatory if only government run corporations are allowed to do the business,” he said. Other than in Karnataka, the KSRTC has launched services in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The KSRTC, NWKRTC, and NEKRTC — cumulatively cover 51 lakh km with 14,500 schedules and carry 38 lakh passengers every day. In the first phase of the initiative, Namma Cargo will operate in 88 taluks in Karnataka and 21 inter-State locations. The Transport Department also aims to expand the service to provide home deliveries. Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar said, “The KSRTC is running buses under stage carriage. The private running buses under stage carriage can carry parcels like KSRTC but transportation of cargo in not permitted in contract carriage buses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-operators-ask-state-govt-to-allow-them-cargo-parcel-service/article33967537.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress tried to poach JD(S) members to get Mayor’s post in Mysuru: Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday lashed out at the Congress for the alleged bid of leaders of that party to poach JD(S) councillors in order to get the Mayor’s post in the hung Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) council. This attempt failed and so the Congress leaders supported the JD(S) candidate to keep the BJP out of power, he said. The JD(S) was ready to offer the Mayor’s post to the Congress on the condition that the party would get the post in the next two years, Mr Gowda told presspersons at the national capital on Monday. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah did not care for the JD(S) and did not speak with JD(S) leaders on the alliance, he added. “I told our leaders such as Sa. Ra. Mahesh to give the Mayor’s post this time to the Congress if Siddaramaiah persisted with the demand, and in the next two years we would get the post. The Congress had to accept the condition. But Siddaramaiah did not care about us and did not speak to our leaders.” He then claimed that Congress leaders had tried in vain to poach JD(S) councillors to get the Mayor’s post. The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy camped in Mysuru and ensured the unity of party councillors, Mr. Gowda said. Rukmini Made Gowda of the JD(S) and Anwar Baig of the Congress were recentlyelected as Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Mysuru, respectively. Asked about his talks with former Minister and MLA Tanveer Sait, Mr. Gowda said no one spoke to him. ‘Clash of egos’ Though party insiders have described the differences between Mr. Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) chief D.K. Shivakumar as a “clash of egos”, Mr. Shivakumar termed it “a small local issue” to be sorted out within the party. Sources said Mr. Siddaramaiah was annoyed over the KPCC president’s interference in the MCC polls, that too ceding the Mayor’s post to the JD(S), without consulting him. Mr. Sait, who was instrumental in the formation of the tie-up, has defended the alliance.On Monday, supporters of Mr. Sait shouted slogans praising the alliance with the JD(S) at the Congress office in Bengaluru when he came to submit a report on the developments in Mysuru. Mr. Sait could not submit the report to Mr. Shivakumar since the latter had left for Kolar earlier in the day. Sources said the two would meet on Tuesday. KPCC working president R. Dhruvanarayana has met the KPCC president and submitted his report on the MCC mayoral polls. Mr. Dhruvanarayana said he has also met Mr. Siddaramaiah and explained to him the developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-tried-to-poach-jds-members-to-get-mayors-post-in-mysuru-deve-gowda/article33967682.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private complaints: Adopt halt and proceed approach, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka has directed that the trial courts must adopt what could be conveniently called “halt and proceed” approach before issuing summons to the persons named as accused in private complaints when such persons reside outside the territorial jurisdiction of the particular trial court. Referring to the provisions of Section 202 of Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr. PC), which specifically mandates the trial courts to postpone issue of process/summons to enable the trial judge to inquire himself or order investigation into the complaint when the persons named as accused are residing outside its territorial jurisdiction, the High Court said the trial courts “cannot treat this onerous obligation like a mere ritual or an empty formality”. “This halt and proceed approach is mandatory and any violation of the same will fetch a ‘red signal’ from Section 202 of Cr. P.C...” the High Court said. Justice P. Krishna Bhat passed the order while setting aside the cognizance of offences taken by a magistrate court at Gokak in Belagavi district against several prominent companies and their directors based on a complaint lodged by Inspector, Legal Metrology, Gokak for alleged violation of certain provisions of Legal Metrology Act, 2009 related to violation of packaging rules. The magistrate had in June 2020 taken cognisance of offences against M/s P J Margo, Nestle India Ltd., Reckitt Benckiser(India) Ltd. and M/s. Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. and a host of their directors. “A cursory glance of the complaints would have revealed to the trial judge that the companies and petitioners arraigned as accused in the complaints are located/residing outside his territorial jurisdiction,” the High Court said while pointing out that “this would have alerted the trial judge to seek guidance from Cr. PC” on proceeding against persons residing outside its jurisdiction. “This is a guarantee assured to all the potential accused in private complaints residing outside the territorial jurisdiction of the summoning court that before they are called upon to make an arduous trip to the court to answer the charges, the court has doubly assured itself that they are, in light of materials available before it, liable to answer such charges,” the High Court made it clear. While setting aside the cognisance of complaints, the court directed the Gokak magistrate to apply his mind afresh and take a proper decision as per law.  The halt and proceed approach is mandatory and any violation of the same will fetch a ‘red signal’ from Section 202 of Cr. P.C. High Court of Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-complaints-adopt-halt-and-proceed-approach-says-hc/article33967548.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AAB wants law for protection of advocates||Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru (AAB) on Monday resolved to request both the State and Union governments to enact a law for the protection of advocates in the light of recent incidents of attacks on them, particularly the murder of a lawyer on the premises of a court complex in Hosapete on February 27. In the resolution, adopted at the special general body meeting of the association chaired by its president A.P. Ranganatha, it also decided to hold demonstrations near all the court complexes in the State on March 3 to demand for a law for protecting the legal fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aab-wants-law-for-protection-of-advocates/article33967547.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student found dead on engineering college campus||A student of Bangalore Institute of Technology in V.V. Puram was found dead in the campus on Monday. The police suspect suicide. The deceased, Jayanth K. Reddy, 20, is the son of Subramanya Reddy, a contractor and resident of Doddabommasandra. He was a second-year student of Computer Science. Soon after the incident came to light, students started protesting outside the college accusing the management of not giving enough time to prepare for exams and of high exam pressure. They accused the management of not completing the portions and not giving enough time to prepare for exams. They claimed to have complained to the authorities that they did not have enough time to prepare in between the individual exam papers. V.V. Puram police rushed to the spot. They spoke to the management and dispersed the crowd. The police said that the student had gone to the college to submit his lab reports.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-found-dead-on-engineering-college-campus/article33967866.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Briefs for city||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant has imposed prohibitory orders in a 2-kilometre radius of Vidhana Soudha from March 4 to 31 . The prohibitory orders have been imposed to provide security cover for the sessions in both the houses, and the possibility of protests and rallies to disturb law and order, the police said.    Ramaiah Institute of Technology is launching its First Cross-Disciplinary Startup Eco-system of India, on March 3 at 11 a.m. M.R. Jayaram, chairman, Gokula Education Foundation, will be the chief guest. M.R. Seetharam, vice chairman, Gokula Education Foundation, M.R. Ramaiah, secretary, Gokula Education Foundation, M.R. Sreenivasa Murthy, chief executive, Gokula Education Foundation (Medical), B.S. Ramaprasad, chief executive, Gokula Education Foundation (Engineering and General Sciences) will be the guests of honour at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefs-for-city/article33967867.ece
02 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||CM promises more welfare schemes for Shivamogga||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said he would bring all development projects for Shivamogga such that the future rulers would have no work left to execute in the district. He was speaking at a felicitation in a programme organised by his well-wishers on the occasion of his birthday in Shivamogga on Sunday evening. “I have already brought in many development works for the district. In the remaining two-and-a-half-year tenure I will bring a few more. Tell me, what you want for the district. I wish the future leaders would have nothing left to do for the district”, he said. Recalling his younger days, Mr. Yediyurappa said he was selling vegetables in his native place in Mandya district. He joined Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and as a volunteer of the organisation he visited Shikaripura and it changed his path. “I have occupied this position today because of the RSS”, he said. All through his political life, he said, he led many protests. During the Emergency, he was imprisoned. He staged a protest in the prison demanding quality food for the inmates. People of Shivamogga always stood by him and he was indebted to them for their support, he said. Further, he said he would work for people of the State in the remaining term and travel across the State extensively to bring the party back to power with 130-140 seats in the next Assembly polls. Former Chairman of Legislative Council D.H. Shankaramurthy, Ministers K.S. Eshwarappa, Byrathi Basavaraj, RSS leader Pattabhiram, legislators and other party leaders were present. The felicitation was followed by a music programme. Foundation stone The Chief Minister laid the foundation stone for the construction of a Veerashaiva hostel near Shivamogga City Corporation building on Monday. Grant Speaking on the occasion, he announced a grant of Rs. 5 crore for the building. Legislators Ayanur Manjunath and Rudre Gowda, and Mallikarjuna Murugharajendra Swamy were present on the occasion. Change in schedule As per the initial plan, the Chief Minister was scheduled to travel back to Bengaluru after participating in the programme. However, he chose to stay put for the day in Shivamogga. According to the revised tour plan, he would return to Bengaluru on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-more-welfare-schemes-for-shivamogga/article33967666.ece
02 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||A few days on the Delhi ‘battlefield’||H.R. Naveen Kumar, Hassan district president of Karnataka Pranta Raitha Sangha (KPRS), has come out with a book ‘Kadana Kana (Battlefield), based on his travel to Delhi to take part in the farm protest. As a representative of the KPRS, he stayed put with the protesters in Delhi for 10 days in January 2021. He spent his days interacting with the protesters, farm leaders and taking photos of events at the Delhi borders. He chose to narrate his experiences besides discussing the issues that forced the farmers to hit the streets in large numbers in his book. “I did not travel to Delhi to write a book. It happened as the days went by. My plan was to take part in the protest as an activist, representing my organisation. As I started sharing my experience on a daily basis on social media platforms, friends suggested that I bring out a book”, said Naveen, who hails from a farmer’s family of Narasipura near Hassan. Being a leader of KPRS, Naveen has organised many protests on farm issues. He had also been to prison following a protest in Hassan. But what he witnessed in Delhi was historic in terms of the scale of people’s turnout and the issues it involved. “I called the book Kadana Kana because I felt I was on the battlefield. The powerful government has waged a war on its own citizens, fighting for just demands. I felt a mini-India is on the streets in Delhi protesting in the interest of the country’s future”, he said. The author explained the arrangements made by the organisers to sustain the protest so long and how the local people had been extending their help to the protesters. “Hundreds of residents of Delhi visit the protest sites in the weekend and interact with the protesters.” When he was in Delhi, a couple of Ministers in Karnataka had ridiculed the protesters by calling them anti-nationals. Naveen said he was upset with such statements. The book was launched in Hassan at a programme organised at the CITU office. Senior journalist R.P.Venkateshamurthy; Professor in Political Science C. Suresh; activist and writer K.S. Ravi Kumar; and district CITU president Dharmesh attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-few-days-on-the-delhi-battlefield/article33967675.ece
02 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||73 drop out of school in Hassan this year||As many as 73 children have dropped out of schools in Hassan district in the current academic year. Among them, 64 have moved to other places with their parents, six students have no interest to study, two have stopped going to school due to health issues and one is avoiding school due to a problem in the family. The issue came up for discussion during a review meeting of Hassan Zilla Panchayat in Hassan on Monday. Deputy Director of Public Instructions K.S. Prakash said as per the survey conducted by the department 84 students dropped out of the school this year. After the teachers’ efforts, 11 returned to school, while 73 have not. “Of them, six students have no interest in studies. Their parents are also not interested in sending them to school”, he said. ZP president Shwetha Devaraj, who presided overthe meeting, said that it was the duty of the department to ensure no child is left out of school. The teachers must convince the parents and bring them to school, she said. In the year 2019-20, as many as 127 students had dropped out. Among them, only 68 had returned to school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/73-drop-out-of-school-in-hassan-this-year/article33967667.ece
02 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan ZP CEO warns of salary cut||Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B.A. Paramesh has said he would withhold the salary of staff members of Rural Development and Panchayat Department hesitant to take the COVID-19 vaccine. He would not mind even if the staff members moved court challenging his move, he said at a review meeting in Hassan on Monday. Many staff members had ignored the government’s order to get vaccinated. “From now on it will not be tolerated.”  District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar said so far 17,000 people had taken vaccination in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-zp-ceo-warns-of-salary-cut/article33967668.ece
02 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Efforts on to bring COVID-19 infections to zero, says Shettar||Compared to other States, Karnataka now has lesser COVID-19 infections and all efforts are being made to reduce infections to zero, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said. He was inaugurating the inoculation drive for citizens above the age of 60 years and those in the age group of 45 to 59 with age related health issues, by receiving the vaccine shot at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi on Monday. The Minister said that there were no adverse effects of the vaccine and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had boosted the morale of the people by receiving the vaccine shot. “During the initial days of vaccination, questions were raised about why elected representatives were not being administered vaccine shots. After inoculating health workers and COVID-19 warriors, people above the age of 60 years are being inoculated. As per the queue, elected representatives above the age of 60 years are now getting themselves inoculated. The vaccine will be free at government hospitals and it will be Rs. 250 at private hospitals,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that among the 28,000 COVID-19 warriors identified in the district, 19,545 had been administered the vaccine and 7,175 had received the second dose. The Minister said that the biggest vaccination campaign had been launched in India and people should come forward voluntarily to get the vaccine shots. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Director of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Hospital Ramalingappa Antaratani, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar, Director of KSDL Mallikarjun Savakar, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/efforts-on-to-bring-covid-19-infections-to-zero-says-shettar/article33967531.ece
02 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||90.33% applications disposed of: Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Monday commended officials for being able dispose of 90.33% of the applications that came in at the maiden Belagavi division ‘Shikshana Spandana’ in Dharwad. Addressing presspersons after the event on Monday evening, Mr. Kumar said that in all, 2,940 applications from teachers were received during the ‘Shikshana Spandana’, and of them 2,674 were disposed of. The Minister said that as 266 applications received during the event required approval from the Finance Department, they have been kept pending but would be resolved within a week. He also said that of the 90 applications pertaining to PU level, 41 were disposed of. Some among them pertaining to changing college names will have to be cleared at the level of PU director. In Kalyana Karnataka He said the next ‘Shikshana Spandana’ programme would be held at Kalaburagi and the date would be announced after the Budget session. He said that from April 2, he would tour every district in the State and hold meetings with headmasters and Block Education Officers on the matter of alleviating examination fear among children. “Students should be encouraged to face exams without fear. They should enjoy writing exams and should not panic,” he said.From the next academic year, the department plans to evaluate teaching at the primary level, and a special drive to improve the educational standards to bring them on a par with private schools would be introduced, he added.  On the shift of students from private to government schools, Mr. Kumar said that for various reasons, including economic considerations and migration, 1.5 lakh children from private schools had enrolled in government schools. In Belagavi division alone, 8,500 children from private schools had shifted to government schools and the challenge was to retain them. On teacher transfer, he said after KAT quashed the government’s new transfer list following a plea by some teachers, the government had approached the High Court of Karnataka on the issue. The court might hear the matter next month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9033-applications-disposed-of-suresh-kumar/article33967543.ece
02 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bank to revive lakes and build toilet blocks on priority basis||Lake rejuvenation and construction of toilet blocks and other initiatives in schools and colleges will be taken up on priority basis under the CSR projects of Karnataka Bank, Mahabaleshwara M.S., Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, has said. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of a CSR initiative in Hubballi on Monday, Mr. Mahabaleshwara said that rejuvenation of lakes would be the number one priority under the CSR projects across India as it would improve the entire ecosystem in the surrounding area of the lakes and the bank believed in contributing towards creating a sustainable environment. “We initiated a lake rejuvenation project at Sagar in Karnataka and rejuvenated the lake which has Sharavati Reserve Forest on one side and farmlands on the other side. Now rejuvenated lake has transformed entire ecosystem with even wildlife getting benefitted out of the project,” he said. Mr. Mahabaleshwara said that the second on the priority list was construction of toilet blocks for government schools and colleges for the benefit of the students and staff. The others would be based on community related issues and the CSR support team of the bank would initiate them based on inputs from the local bank officials, he said. In the current financial year, the bank had taken up 169 projects worth around Rs. 8 crore in various parts of the country. These projects were a mix of normal CSR projects and COVID-19 related initiatives. Earlier Mr. Mahabaleshwara symbolically inaugurated the ventilator donated by the Bank to Tatwadarsha Hospital in Hubballi. Assistant General Manager Nagaraj Aithal, Chief Managers Manjunath Somayaji, Diwakar K.S., and Srirama P., Bank Manager Vani Bhat, S.P. Baligar, Sanjeev Kalasur, Sanjiv Kulgod, and others were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-to-revive-lakes-and-build-toilet-blocks-on-priority-basis/article33967529.ece
02 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Shikshana Spandana’ will be held in every revenue division: Minister||To ensure early disposal of applications and redressal of grievances of teachers and educational issues, the State government will hold the ‘Shikshana Spandana’ programme in all the revenue divisions of the State, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Monday. He was inaugurating the Belagavi division-level ‘Shikshana Spandana’ programme at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) in Dharwad. Mr. Kumar said that teachers, who should be holding classes and participating in the educational progress of students, were being forced to run from pillar to post to get their work done and grievances redressed. “In the first phase, Shikshana Spandana programmes will be held in Kalyana Karnataka, Mysuru, and Bengaluru divisions,” he said. The Minister called upon teachers to make efforts, including holding special classes, to ensure that students do better in examinations. He also called upon them to be enthusiastic in training students further and holding exams. Arun Shahpur, MLC, said that as against the sanctioned posts of 7.5 lakh teachers in the State, only 5.5 lakh had been appointed. He said this had, naturally, affected the quality of education. He made an appeal to the Minister to take steps to begin recruitments to fill up the sanctioned posts. S.V. Sanakanur, MLC, spoke on issues concerning education. Director of PUE R. Snehal and various officials were present. Welcoming the gathering, Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction Major Siddalingayya Hiremath (retd.) made a briefing about the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shikshana-spandana-will-be-held-in-every-revenue-division-minister/article33967539.ece
02 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Another lockdown not warranted’||Although there was no such situation that could force another lockdown, people should be cautious about the second wave of COVID-19 infections, Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar has said. He was inaugurating the State-level vaccination drive for citizens above the age of 60 years and persons in the age of 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities at Sirsi in Uttara Kannada district on Monday. The Minister said that already the third phase of inoculation drive had been launched in the nation and in Karnataka, 270 inoculation centres had been set up. “The State has around 50 lakh senior citizens and 16 lakh persons with co-morbidity,” he said. The Minister clarified that there was no such situation as to force another lockdown in the State but the people had been asked to be more cautious to avoid any such situation. Speaker of Legislative Assembly Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, chairman of Bio Diversity Board Ananth Hegde Ashisara and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-lockdown-not-warranted/article33967535.ece
02 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sriramulu announces sports schools in 10 districts||Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu said that the State government will start sports schools in 10 districts in the State and appoint around 500 wardens and teachers to the residential schools. Speaking after the inaugurating a Morarji Desai Residential School near Upanayakanahalli at Hagaribommanahalli taluk in Ballari district on Monday, the Minister said that better infrastructure would be provided to all residential schools run by his department. “All-round progress is possible only through education. Along with formal education, the students need to learn and internalise noble values and practices. Our government is committed to providing all better learning environments in all the schools. We are going to start sports schools in 10 districts across the State. We are also planning to appoint 500 wardens and teachers to residential schools in the days to come,” he said. Referring to the request made by Hagaribommanahalli MLA Bhima Naik to sanction Ambedkar and Valmiki community centres for his constituency, Mr. Sriramulu said that he would ensure the sanction soon after receiving the list of places where the community centres were to be built. The Minister also took a round at the premises of the Morarji Desai Residential School in Upanayakanahalli that was built at a cost of Rs. 19 crores and took stock of the buildings and the facilities put in place. He later visited Hagaribommanahalli government hospital where COVID-10 vaccination was underway. Lok Sabha member from Ballari Y. Devendrappa, Hagaribommanahalli tahsildar Sharanamma, Social Welfare Department Deputy Director Rachappa and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sriramulu-announces-sports-schools-in-10-districts/article33967541.ece
02 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||New laws will cause more farm suicides: SUCI(C)||Referring to the recently amended farm laws, the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) SUCI(C) said that the implementation of the laws in question would deepen the agrarian crisis and result in more farmers’ suicides. “These farm laws are designed to allow big corporate houses to plunder the farm sector. The implementation of the laws would lead to more exploitation of farmers and push them into the deepened crisis. The country has already seen more than 3.5 lakh farm suicides. These laws would push more farmers to commit suicide. We have to force the government to completely repeal the laws at any cost,” H.V. Diwakar, a member of the State committee of SUCI(C), said at a press conference here on Monday. He also verbally attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government at the Centre for displaying more interest in serving big industrialists such as Mukhesh Ambani and Gautam Adani and sacrificing the interests of people. “Bent on serving his corporate masters, Prime Minister Modi is giving them permission to loot the country. His government is ruthlessly suppressing people’s movements that are exposing his pro-corporate policies and measures. His army of followers are branding the democratic people who criticise the government as anti-nationals and pushing them behind the bars,” he said. Mr. Diwakar said that the Modi government’s mismanagement of the economy and its pro-corporate policies were the reason for the price rise. “The Modi government has removed many essential commodities from the ambit of the Essential Commodities Act. This has led to the unlimited stocking of essential commodities and artificial scarcity resulting in price rise. The prices of petroleum products are constantly rising despite the fall in prices of global crude oil,” Mr. Diwakar said. He announced that his party would hold protest rallies across the State from Thursday against rising prices of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-laws-will-cause-more-farm-suicides-sucic/article33967524.ece
02 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bilgundi re-elected as HKES president||Bheemashankar Bilgundi was re-elected as the president of the Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society for the second consecutive term by securing 624 votes in the elections held here on Sunday. Sharnabasappa R. Harwal was elected as vice-president. Dr. Bilgundi maintained a comfortable lead right from the first round and defeated Mr. Bhimalli with a margin of 145 votes. Shashil G. Namoshi came third. Dr. Bilgundi secured 624 votes, Mr. Bhimalli 479, and Mr. Namoshi 329. Dr. Harwal became vice-president by securing 847 votes, Dr. Devarmani got 372 votes, and R.S. Hosgouda got 226. Of the total 13 governing council members’ posts, seven members got elected from the Bhimalli panel, five from the Bilgundi panel, and one member from the Namoshi panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bilgundi-re-elected-as-hkes-president/article33967526.ece
02 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Decision to remove tourism consultants slammed||Congress leader Priyank Kharge criticised the BJP-led State government and flayed its decision to remove the tourism consultants appointed on contract during the then Congress government. In a letter to Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar, Mr. Kharge said that to develop tourism infrastructure in the State and also to envisage employment opportunities in the tourism sector, 31 tourism consultants, one for every district, were appointed on contract basis by the then Congress-led government in 2014, but the Director for Tourism, in its notice on February 8, stated that the State government has not directed regarding the renewal of the contract of all the 31 tourism consultants. The consultants will help to formulate a concrete tourism promotion policy, implementation of policy, branding, and investing grounding for each district, to boost tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-to-remove-tourism-consultants-slammed/article33967527.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CII wants rail corridor inside Shiradi Ghat tunnel project||The one-year-old Mangaluru chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry will focus on getting the much needed connectivity to the port city, particularly road and rail, said its chairman 2021-22 Jeevan Saldanha. Interacting with presspersons on the sidelines of taking over the new office during CII’s annual day celebrations here on Monday, Mr. Saldanha said the proposal to have a tunnel bypass for Shiradi Ghat by the Union Road Transport Ministry was a much needed welcome move. CII, Mr Saldanha said, has urged the Centre to include a rail line too in the tunnel project so as to transport goods seamlessly. Because of Shiradi Ghat connectivity issue, much of the consignment from Karnataka was being diverted to other ports. This was despite New Mangalore Port being one offering of the faster turnaround time for vessels. If the connectivity issue was addressed in the right earnest, the coastal region would witness tremendous development, he said. CII Mangaluru was also for faster development of ring roads — Mulki-Kateel-B.C. Road and Melkar-Thokkottu — for the comprehensive development of Mangaluru region. At the same time, road developers should also provide service roads for the benefit of local residents. CII supports the IT park project proposed by the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and Keonics, Mr. Saldanha said and added this would enable entrepreneurs to set up new IT and ESDM companies in Mangaluru. It also supports Kanara Industries Association proposal for Industrial Township Authority project for Baikampady Industrial Area. In the health sector, Price Waterhouse and Coopers has taken up the detailed project report for a health and wellness corridor project from Manipal to Konaje. CII Mangaluru would pursue the matter and facilitate it through support from state and central governments. It would also work on setting up a pharma park in the region and enhance industry-academia collaboration. CII, Karnataka chairman Sandeep Singh said the chapter in Mangaluru would help growth of the region. Though the body has close to 50 members in one year, it was bound to add another 50 in the coming year. Outgoing CII Mangaluru Chairman Prakash Kalbavi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cii-wants-rail-corridor-inside-shiradi-ghat-tunnel-project/article33968032.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. will conduct resurvey of persons with disabilities, says Minister||The government will conduct a re-survey of persons with disabilities in the State to record their exact number for providing benefits to them, said Minister for Backward Classes Welfare and Muzarai Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Monday. Speaking at a function organised by the Urban Poverty Alleviation Cell of Mangaluru City Corporation to distribute various facilities, Mr. Poojary, who is also Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada, said changes will made in the norms for assessing the disability. Appreciating the work of Mayor Diwakar and other councillors in allotting houses to pourakarmikas, handing over wheelchairs and other benefits to beneficiaries under the urban poverty alleviation fund of the MCC, Mr. Poojary said the State government is committed to identify people without houses and without power and provide them facilities. D. Vedavyas Kamath, Mangaluru City South MLA, said that construction of 930 flats to the houseless on 10 acres in Shakti Nagar has not commenced despite issuance of title deeds to the beneficiaries in 2018. The concerned land was a deemed forest and the Union Ministry for Environment and Forests is yet to give clearance for using the same land for housing purpose. Steps are being taken by the State government to give an alternative 20 acres to the Forest Department for compensatory afforestation and seek allocation of the land in Shakti Nagar for building a multi-storey apartment complex. “We have to seek pardon of the beneficiaries for the delay in the construction,” he said. Mr. Kamath said process of identification of beneficiaries will start shortly for the proposed 1,500 houses to be constructed by the Karnataka Slum Development Board in Kannur. Errors in the title deeds issued to the houseless in Bengre were being rectified, he said. Earlier, 16 current and retired pourakarmikas received keys of their houses in newly constructed three-floor residential apartment complex in Mahakalipadpu. There are 32 apartments in this complex. Benefits namely allotment of wheelchairs, cooking gas connection, lavatory construction, and reimbursement of healthcare expenses were given away to a total of 759 beneficiaries on Monday. Mayor Diwakar and Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-will-conduct-resurvey-of-persons-with-disabilities-says-minister/article33968043.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Will emerge stronger: B.R. Shetty||NRI entrepreneur and philanthropist B.R. Shetty on Monday said he was confident of emerging stronger and coming out of the economic crisis surrounding his empire while stating that he has not cheated anyone. Though his healthcare empire has fallen over the charges of mismanagement, no one could imagine his personal worth. He has pledged half of his wealth for charity and he would continue to work for people, Mr. Shetty said. He was speaking to media persons on the sidelines of celebrations of 10,000 newborns at the Koosamma Shabhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital in Udupi, developed by his trust. Mr. Shetty said he had no unpaid loans with banks in India; whatever was borrowed from foreign banks would be repaid soon. He said the media had launched a negative narrative against him as if he had become a pauper. In reality, his economic worth has not deteriorated so much as depicted in the media. He was a victim of deeds by his own people. Stating that several States have invited him to build hospitals on the lines of the one in Udupi, Mr. Shetty said he was yet to take a decision on that. At Udupi, he intends to build a statue of the late V.S. Acharya at Ajjarkad and develop the school where the late Udupi Pejawar Mutt Seer Sri Vishwesha Tirtha studied. Mr. Shetty said he would not take the income from the proposed super-speciality hospital in Udupi; instead the income would be used for running the Koosamma Shetty hospital. Earlier, the first and the 10,000th child born at the Koosamma Shetty Hospital on July 2, 2018 and February 24, 2021, were felicitated. Speaking on this occasion, Mr. Shetty recalled his time as the vice-president of the then Udupi municipality when Acharya was the president. It was his desire to improve healthcare facilities at his native place that made him to build the Koosamma Shetty hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-emerge-stronger-br-shetty/article33967683.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||In a first, exotic earthworm found in State||An exotic and highly invasive earthworm — Amynthas alexandri of the Megascolecidae family — has been collected and reported for the first time from Karnataka. Its original home is believed to be Southeast Asia. It has been found to be distributed at four sites in the State — Hosabale and Hosanagara in Shivamogga district, Kaimara in Chikkamagaluru district, and Konaje in Dakshina Kannada. Earlier, the same earthworm was recorded in 15 States/Union Territories in India, according to a study published in the January issue of the Canadian journal Megadrilogica , an international scientific journal devoted to publishing earthworm studies from across the world. The study — Amynthas alexandri Beddarad, 1901 (Clitellata: Megascolecidae), a new addition to the earthworm fauna of Karnataka State, Southern India — was conducted and reported in the journal by four researchers, including two from Mangalore University. They were Vivek Hasyagar, a research scholar in the Department of Applied Zoology, Mangalore University; K.S. Sreepada, chairman and researcher, Department of Applied Zoology, Mangalore University; S. Prasanth Narayanan, researcher, Advanced Centre of Environmental Studies and Sustainable Development, Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, Kerala; and John W. Reynolds, research associate, New Brunswick Museum, Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada. Prof. Sreepada and Mr. Hasyagar told The Hindu that the distribution of Amynthas alexandri was also found at Puttur in Dakshina Kannada recently. The four authors concluded in the journal: “…being large, fast-moving and highly invasive in nature, this species has practically inhabited all the districts of Kerala. As has happened in Kerala, soon it may invade the northern portions of the Western Ghats in Karnataka.”  Amynthas alexandri is a medium-to-large-sized worm and its colour is brownish in light and dark at dorsum. Its length varies from 132 mm to 169 mm, and it is 5 mm to 6 mm in diameter. Earthworms are important for maintaining the soil fertility of forests, grasslands, and agro-ecosystems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-a-first-exotic-earthworm-found-in-state/article33967685.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘MCC has failed to make use of Dalit welfare funds’||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has failed to make proper use of the funds reserved for the social and economic welfare of Dalits, the State co-convener of Adivasi Hakkugala Samanvaya Samiti, Krishnappa Konchadi, alleged here on Monday. Addressing a gathering during a protest organised by the Dalita Hakkugala Samiti and the Adivasi Hakkugala Samanvaya Samiti in front of Mangaluru City Corporation, he said that the circular issued by the State government on January 19, 2019 pertaining to the guidelines for the use of funds reserved for the welfare of Dalits is “anti-Dalit”. As the MCC is preparing its action plan for the use of funds meant for Dalit welfare based on the same guidelines the overall development of Dalit community could not be achieved. He said that the government should provide Dalits Rs. 6 lakh financial assistance for building each house and Rs. 1 lakh should be provided for repairing a house. Vasantha Achari, Dakshina Kannada district secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxists), alleged that the Union government year after year is reducing its grants for Dalit welfare. It is diverting the funds meant for Dalit welfare to other activities. Hence Dalits have been deprived of many government facilities. K. Yadava Shetty, general secretary, Dakshina Kannada unit of Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-has-failed-to-make-use-of-dalit-welfare-funds/article33968035.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Jan Aushadhi Diwas to be observed on March 7||The Udupi District Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Centres Owners’ Association will observe ‘Jan Aushadhi Diwas’ on March 7 as part of the nationwide event. Addressing presspersons in Udupi recently, president of the association Donald Oscar Salins said that the association, as a prelude to the celebration, has planned various activities like health camps, interaction, and a rally in different parts of the district starting from Monday till March 7. 40 centres There are 40 Jan Aushadhi centres in the district, he said, adding that more private doctors have now begun to write prescriptions for medicines with their generic formula. It has enabled patients to buy medicines at nominal price when compared to branded medicines. Mr. Salins said that as per the direction of the Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI) more Jan Aushadhi centres will be opened in the coming days and people can expect such centres opening close to their places. Secretary of the association Sunder Poojary Moodukukde said that the activities have been planned to educate and inform the people on the need for going for cost effective generic medicines. The ‘Jan Aushadhi Diwas’ is being observed for the third consecutive year, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with patients and chemists from many States on the occasion of ‘Jan Aushadhi Diwas’ through virtual mode on March 7. It will be telecast in front of all Jan Aushadhi Centres. Some people will get to share their experience on how drugs from Jan Aushadhi Centres are cheaper by 50 % to 90 %, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jan-aushadhi-diwas-to-be-observed-on-march-7/article33968036.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreign currency seized at airport, man held||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport on Monday arrested a person from Uttara Kannada on the charges of attempting to smuggle Rs. 5,52,678 in foreign out of the country. A Customs release gave the name of the accused as Muzakkir Ahamed Faqui Ameda hailing from Honnavar. Based on intelligence and reconnaissance, he was nabbed near the departure terminal of the airport when he was about to travel to Dubai, the release said. He tried to smuggle them out by hiding it in his inner garments kept in the baggage. The foreign currency was without valid documentary evidence. Further investigation is on. The team was led by Customs Deputy Commissioner Avinash Kiran Rongali and comprised Superintendents Rakesh and Vikas, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreign-currency-seized-at-airport-man-held/article33968040.ece
02 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Surfing competition on March 7||Mangaluru Surf Club will organise a free open surf competition at Tannirbhavi beach here on March 7. It will be held from 6.30 a.m. to 10 a.m., its president Mithun Bhat Kakunje said. The competition will be conducted in four categories - below 12, below 16, below 20 and above 20 years. The last date to register is March 2. There will be a first and second prize in each category. In addition, participation certificates will be issued to all participants. Call 9845085180 or e-mailsurfmangalore@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surfing-competition-on-march-7/article33968046.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Maritime India Summit today||A special session on investment opportunities in maritime sector of Karnataka will be a part of the three-day Maritime India Summit 2021 starting on Tuesday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will give out details of the opportunities at the virtual session starting 12.30 p.m. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate this summit virtually earlier in the day. Minister for Ports and Fisheries S. Angara will give out details about developments done in the maritime sector in the State as well as proposed projects. Additional Chief Secretary, Infrastructure Development Department, Kapil Mohan would spell out various opportunities available for investors in the maritime sector. After presentation by the Ports Department, the Tourism and Industries Departments too will give details about investment opportunities in their sectors. The session will witness exchange of information about opportunities for private players in port development in the State, a release said. For details, visit maritimeindiasummit.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maritime-india-summit-today/article33968033.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Guest teachers for Hindi wanted||Mangalore University has invited applications to teach Hindi subject in its University Evening College, Hampankatta, as a guest teacher for 2020-21 academic year. The applicants can download the application form from the website www.mangaloreuniversity.ac.in and it should be submitted to the office of Registrar (Administration) by 5.30 p.m. on March 3. Applications can also be e-mailed through devsectionmu@gmail.com. Preference will be given to those who have passed State-level and national-level eligibility tests conducted by the University Grants Commission and those who have completed their Phd. The general category candidates should have obtained a minimum of 55% marks in Hindi in their postgraduation and ST and SC candidates should have secured 50% marks. The date of interview will be announced on the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guest-teachers-for-hindi-wanted/article33968041.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more policemen suspended||Two more police personnel from the city have been placed under suspension on the charge of “misconduct and dereliction of duty” in the case in which a car seized by the police was reportedly sold. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar placed under suspension Ashit and Raja, who worked in the Central Crime Branch (CCB), based on the preliminary findings of the inquiry by the Criminal Investigation Department. A couple of the days ago, Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood ordered the suspension of Economic and Narcotic Crime (ENC) wing Police Inspector K.K. Ramakrishna and Sub-Inspector Kabbal Raj, who was in CCB, on the same charges.  The CID is inquiring into the issue and has issued notices to these four and other police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-policemen-suspended/article33968044.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Alva’s team wins in Raichur||The team from Alva’s College, Moodbidri, won the State-level Invitational Ball Badminton Championship for men, held in Raichur on February 27 and 28. According to a press release, the Alva’s team defeated Skalvi Astra team from Bengaluru 35-30 and 35-21. As many as 20 teams from across the State participated in the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alvas-team-wins-in-raichur/article33968045.ece
02 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||The origins||The original home ofAmynthas alexandriearthworm is believed to be Southeast Asia, though the type of specimen observed for the first time in India by Beddard in 1901 had its origin in Kolkata. Their distribution in Asia earlier was in China, Myanmar, Pakistan, Thailand, Europe and England. Their distribution in India earlier was in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand, and West Bengal.  (Source: Megadrilogica, January 2021)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-origins/article33967686.ece
02 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Some areas in the city will have no power supply on March 3 from 10 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. The areas are Kuluru Junction, Bangra Kuluru, Kottara Chowki, Gandhi Nagara, Shanti Nagara, Vidya Nagara, Rayikatte, Jyothi Nagara, Kunjathbail, Marakada, Bunder, Azeezuddin Road, and J M Road. It is for maintenance works.     The Karnataka Yakshagana Academy has proposed to bring out an encyclopaedia on Moodalapaya during 2021-22. It has begun collecting information on the art form from experts. If people had information with them on the artistes, its costumes, facial make up, photographs and the like they can send them to the academy, according to its chairman M. A. Hegde.     There will be no power supply to Malpe, Tenkanidiyoor, Badanidiyoor, Kola, Bailakere, Subrahmanya Nagara, Lakshmi Nagara, Srinagara and nearby areas in Udupi on March 2 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.     Journalists’ sports meet will be held in Nehru Maidan here on March 7 from 9 a.m. It has been organised by Dakshina Kannada Working Journalists’s Union, Mangaluru Press Club and Patrika Bhavan Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article33968038.ece
02 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||In Mysuru district, 4.5 lakh senior citizens to get the jab||The third phase of the vaccination campaign against COVID-19 got off to a start here on Monday with the district administration aiming to administer Covishield to nearly four-and-a-half lakh senior citizens. In the first and second phases, healthcare workers and frontline workers had been vaccinated respectively. The third phase is meant for persons aged 60 years and above (with or without comorbidities) and the people in the age group of 45 years and 59 with co-morbidities (certification from doctor is mandatory). Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri launched the driveat the District Hospital on KRS Road. Ramakrishna of Hebbal was the first person to get vaccinated there. The drive was launched at Apollo BGS Hospitals by industrialist R. Guru who got the first dose. Many senior citizens had gathered at the hospital to register and receive their first dose. They include litterateur Arvind Malagatti, Sankalp Group Chairman Jagadeesh Babu, and retired professors. Danseuse Vasundhara Doraswamy was the first to receive the vaccine at the JSS Hospital after the launch by Pramoda Devi Wadiyar of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family. Chidananda Swami of Sri Hosamutt and litterateur Aryambha Pattabhi were the second and third recipients. Before the vaccine was administered, the health check-up of senior citizens was done. Following glitches in the CoWIN2.0 portal, not all those who had turned up at the district hospital here got the vaccine. However, it was announced later that registration could also be done offline at the vaccination sites because of the glitch. Ms. Sindhuri, after the launch, said nearly 4.5 lakh senior citizens had been identified for the vaccination. All of them will receive the vaccine, she said, adding that more vaccination sites will come up since the number of recipients are more in the category compared to the healthcare workers and the frontline workers. The exercise was also launched at Trauma Care Centre by the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Director C.P. Nanjaraj. At the District Hospital in Mysuru, 56 senior citizens and 7 persons with co-morbidities got the shot. The highest number of senior citizens who got the vaccine in the district was at the JSS Hospital here where 80 got the shots followed by Apollo BGS Hospitals here with 73. The programme was carried out at 10 sites in the district. In total, 294 persons, including 281 senior citizens and 13 persons with co-morbidities, got vaccinated on day one in the district. The vaccination in Kodagu was launched by former Speaker and MLA K.G. Bopaiah in Madikeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-mysuru-district-45-lakh-senior-citizens-to-get-the-jab/article33967674.ece
02 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||At last, ‘Ambari’ to hit the road today in Mysuru||The open-roof bus tour in a custom-built double-decker bus is at last becoming a reality with ‘Ambari’ all set to hit the road here on Tuesday. This is the newest attraction for tourists in Mysuru, as the bus takes them around to experience the city that is known for palaces and buildings with architectural marvels. The launch was delayed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, and for technical reasons. The first such bus out of six proposed for the rides in Mysuru and Hampi had arrived here last March. Modelled on London’s Big Bus Tours of taking tourists around the city in the open-roof buses, the initiative of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) will be launched at Hotel Radisson Blu at 5.30 pm. Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar will flag off the bus in the presence of stakeholders of the tourism industry. All hurdles on the designated route had been cleared for operating Ambari. The Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation realigned its transmission lines along the route while the Mysuru City Corporation, with the support of the Forest Department, pruned tree branches to facilitate the smooth movement of the 15-feet tall bus. Theroute covers Hotel Mayura KSTDC office, Deputy Commissioner’s office, Crawford Hall, Kukkarahalli Lake, University of Mysore, Folklore Museum, Ramaswamy Circle, Palace Karikallu Thotti, Jayamarthanda Gate of the palace, zoo, Karanji Lake, Jockey Quarters’ Circle, Snow City, Chamundi Vihar Stadium, St. Philomena’s Church, Bannimantap, and City Railway Station. The tour culminates at Hotel Mayura KSTDC office. The ticket has been priced at Rs. 250 per person. The 40-seater bus, with lower and upper decks, was built in Bengaluru. The COVID-19 situation had put brakes on the KSTDC’s plan of launching ‘Ambari’ and one such bus that arrived here from Bengaluru for the launch had to be parked in the KSTDC office premises awaiting the run for many months.  Audio guide Ambari is a hop-on, hop-off initiative for tourists to experience the palaces and heritage buildings of Mysuru. Tourists will get an audio guide the moment the bus reaches the tourist sites identified on the route. The audio will be available in two languages in the beginning — Kannada and English. The KSTDC plans to add foreign languages subsequently. The body wrapping of Ambari had been done based on the State’s art forms, culture and diversity, wildlife, and tourist destinations, according to the KSTDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-last-ambari-to-hit-the-road-today-in-mysuru/article33967670.ece
02 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rift in Cong. likely to have bearing on politics in Narasimharaja||The differences that have erupted in the Congress over former Minister Tanveer Sait’s decision to align with the Janata Dal (S) in the mayoral polls in Mysuru are expected to have a bearing on the politics of Narasimharaja Assembly segment in the district. Counted among the Assembly segments to be a safe bet for the Congress in the State, Narasimharaja had backed Mr. Sait in the past five elections. However stiff the contest for the party’s poll nomination from the constituency segment has been, it has always favoured Mr. Sait, who also enjoys the political legacy of his late father Azeez Sait. During a recent outburst after the mayoral poll controversy erupted, Mr. Sait recalled the reported efforts made during successive elections to keep him out of the electoral contest, apparently referring to his detractors in the party and in his own Assembly constituency. When two former Mayors — Arif Hussain and Ayub Khan — called for his suspension from the party for the sloganeering against former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, Mr. Sait said the discontent against him, which remained behind the scenes so far, was now out in the open. In the Muslim-dominated Narasimharaja constituency, Mr. Sait has hitherto managed to stave off not only a threat to his leadership from his own partymen, but also the serious electoral challenge posed by the Bharatiya Janata Party and Social Democratic Party of India in the last few elections. While Mr. Sait has grown in political stature over the years, and was even given a ministerial berth, his detractors in the party detest the coterie that surrounds him. Even though Mr. Sait, who has been summoned by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar, is hoping that the party will do justice to him, it remains to be seen if the differences between him and Mr. Siddaramaiah over the mayoral polls will lead to the party taking action against him. JD(S) invite Meanwhile, the invitation extended by the JD(S) to Mr. Sait to join the party if the Congress removes him has set off speculation in political circles. Even though the JD(S) is not new to Mr. Sait, who served as a councillor in the Mysuru City Corporation representing the regional party before becoming a Congress MLA, the prospect queers the electoral pitch in the constituency. It may open up opportunities for his political detractors in the Congress to stake a claim for the party’s nomination from Narasimharaja. If Mr. Sait successfully argues his case and the party takes no action against him, it remains to be seen how he will handle his detractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rift-in-cong-likely-to-have-bearing-on-politics-in-narasimharaja/article33967679.ece
02 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||New office-bearers for CII Mysuru Zonal Council||Chairman of Rangsons and Chief Executive Officer of Rangsons Aerospace, Mysuru, Pavan G. Ranga, has taken over as the new Chairman of Mysuru Zonal Council of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) while Managing Director of PLANSEE India High Performance Materials Supriya Salian has taken over as the Vice-Chairperson for 2021-22. They took charge at the annual meeting of the Council on February 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-office-bearers-for-cii-mysuru-zonal-council/article33967671.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘6,840 government schools have scope for improvement’||The infrastructure of as many as 6,840 government schools in Karnataka has scope for improvement. A recent analysis by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) for the 2020-21 academic year on several parameters revealed that as many as 1,961 government schools have secured the D grade while 4,879 obtained the C grade. A majority – 52.06 % (25,656 schools) – have obtained the B grade while 16,783 schools secured the A grade, as per the School Infrastructure Report. While lower primary schools (classes one to five) have been graded on eight parameters, upper primary schools (classes six to seven/eight) are graded on 10 parameters, and high schools (classes eight to 10) on 11 parameters. They include school building, compound wall, toilet, drinking water, availability of electricity, playground, kitchen garden and library. Upper primary classes and high schools are also graded on availability of IT facilities, computer and science labs. Most of the government schools do not have playground and kitchen gardens. The analysis also shows that in several schools, access to drinking water and adequate toilets continues to be a matter of concern. A DPI official said that the aim of the exercise was to analyse and find out which schools need most financial support. “We will focus on improving C and D category schools, and urge the government to release funds for infrastructural development of the 6,840 schools that fall under this category,” the official added. Basavaraj Gurikar, vice-president, All India Teachers’ Federation, said that in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government should ensure that infrastructure in schools is revamped so that students have access to adequate toilets and safe drinking water. “This should be done on a war footing before all classes commence for the next academic year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6840-government-schools-have-scope-for-improvement/article33967873.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Only 938 people given vaccine on first day||Glitches in CoWIN portal and confusion marred the vaccination drive for senior citizens and patients with co-morbidities on Monday. Of the 22 vaccination centres in the city, multiple centres – Victoria Hospital, C.V. Raman Nagar General Hospital and Columbia Asia Hospital in Whitefield and Sarjapura – did not give a single shot due to glitches in the CoWIN portal and app. In most of these centres, the CoWIN portal couldn’t be accessed, and in some cases, registrations and scheduled appointments did not reflect on the portal. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) could only give the jab to 938 senior citizens and co-morbid patients, just below a quarter of the target – 4,200 – for the 22 centres. Confusion about timing “Several issues, especially with the CoWIN portal, have come to light, which we have flagged off to the ministry. The app and portal are not able to take the load, which needs to be fixed immediately. Also, while the vaccination drive was scheduled to be held between noon and 5 p.m., the portal showed it as 9 a.m. and 6 p.m., prompting senior citizens to make a beeline to the centres early in the morning,: said civic commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. The day started with senior citizens queuing up at centres much before the scheduled time of noon and without prior registration on the portal. Raghavendra Reddy, 72, hoped to get the vaccine and walked into the nearest vaccination centre on Monday. However, he had not registered on the portal or scheduled an appointment. “Media said there will be walk-in registrations. But here they say it’s only for rural areas, after waiting for two hours. Most of the senior citizens in urban areas too are not well-versed with online registration. We should be given the facility of a walk-in,” he said. At most centres, the vaccination drive did not even begin at noon as scheduled. A doctor at one of the private vaccination centres said they couldn't login into the portal till 2 p.m. At most centres, it was at least 1 p.m. by the time the drive began. Time lag Even after that, there was a long time lag in those who had registered for the vaccination to get an OTP on their phones, which is a part of the verification process. This delayed the vaccination process making it impossible to achieve the targeted 200 jabs per centre. This forced centres to reschedule vaccination appointments for many senior citizens to Tuesday and some even two days later, which upset many senior citizens, most of whom were accompanied by their children. Anubhav Srivastava, who accompanied his senior citizen parents to M.S. Ramaiah Hospital, said the scheduled appointment had no meaning if the vaccination centres couldn't keep it. “It will be a hassle if we have to bring our parents again,” he rued. ‘Need more transparency’ He also added that more transparency on which vaccine was being administered, and the modalities for the second shot was needed. “We are fine with either of the two vaccines, but there is no clarity on how to ensure we get the same vaccine for the second shot as well,” he said. However, not all was bad. Several senior citizens and co-morbid patients heaved a sigh of relief after taking the shot on Monday. Kichu Shankar, 61, told The Hindu that he was relieved to have been vaccinated. “There was neither pain nor any adverse reaction. There were some teething problems since it's the first day. But I am happy to have got the jab,” he said. Another co-morbid patient Subhash Kumar, 48, said he was initially hesitant to take the jab, but realised it was better to take it since he travelled a lot.  The app and portal are not able to take the load, which needs to be fixed immediately. Also, while the vaccination drive was scheduled to be held between noon and 5 p.m., the portal showed it as 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-938-people-given-vaccine-on-first-day/article33967877.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||AI driven personalised eyecare unit launched||An Artificial Intelligence (AI) driven Personalised Ophthalmology unit that will cover wide-ranging eye problems, including cataract surgery, dry eye, pediatric diseases and complications arising out of COVID-19, was launched on Monday. The unit has been set up at Narayana Nethralaya in Indiranagar. It will also cater to the rising incidence of myopia among children. Hospital chairman and managing director K. Bhujang Shetty said personalised ophthalmology is a synchronisation of three critical pillars – deployment of clinical skills and knowledge; advanced imaging of the eye (backed by AI) and linkage to advanced research labs. “For instance, myopia cases among children have manifolded by 100 times in the last one year in view of over exposure to laptops, mobile screens and digital learning methods. Such cases need personalised ophthalmological care. Our Indiranagar unit will be the first branch to formally adopt personalised eyecare in its daily operations,” he said. Stating that AI will enable specialists to see more patients, screen more people to detect eye disease early, and offer the right treatment at the right time, Dr. Shetty said, “We can accurately and effectively diagnose and treat people with a proven accuracy rate of more than 99% with this technology.” The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has funded this personalised eyecare protocol to the tune of Rs. 4 crore. The hospital is soon going to begin gene therapy for eyecare, the doctor added. Dr. Rohit Shetty, hospital vice chairman, said personalised ophthalmology is a boon to patients who do not respond to conventional treatment. “We have to personalise treatment and medicines for patients. Currently, 38% of patients require personalised medicine. This share is set to increase as changing lifestyles and working conditions are triggering different ailments among people,” he said.  Myopia cases among children have manifolded by 100 times in the last one year in view of over exposure to laptops, mobile screens and digital learning methods. Such cases need personalised ophthalmological care K. Bhujang Shetty, chairman and managing director, Narayana Nethralaya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ai-driven-personalised-eyecare-unit-launched/article33967879.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Shivaram Karanth layout: Owners of buildings start submitting documents||The Supreme Court-appointed committee started accepting documents from owners who had built buildings on land notified for formation of Dr. K. Shivaram Karanth Layout of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) on Monday. The chairperson of the committee, Justice A.V. Chandrashekar, had asked owners of the properties, who had built residential and other buildings prior to August 3, 2018, to submit documents online and offline. On Monday, the help centre at Government Urdu Primary School, Medi Agrahara, Vaderahalli Panchayat, became functional. The remaining four centres – a community hall in Somashettyhalli; Government School Byalakere; Dr. Ambedkar community hall at Singanayakanahalli; and BDA head office at Kumara Park West – will be opened soon. The committee has trained more than 40 law students to assist property owners submit their documents at the help centres. Background The BDA had issued a preliminary notification for formation of the layout on December 30, 2008. It was challenged in the Karnataka High Court, which quashed the preliminary notification on November 26, 2014. The BDA challenged the High Court order in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court cancelled the High Court order, and directed the BDA to issue final notification for formation of the layout. The apex court had also appointed a committee, headed by Justice A.V. Chandrashekar, with former DGP of the State Dr. S.T. Ramesh and former BDA commissioner Jayakar Jerome as members, to protect the interest of people who lawfully built houses prior to final notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivaram-karanth-layout-owners-of-buildings-start-submitting-documents/article33967868.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Eight persons selling drugs arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted a drug trafficking network. Eight persons have been arrested and 681.8 kg of ganja seized from them. A team of NCB officials intercepted three cars near a toll plaza in Ranga Reddy district, Telangana, and seized the ganja, concealed in compressed form, in 335 brick-like packets and wrapped with brown colour adhesive tapes. This is a common modus operandi of drug trafficking from the Andhra-Odisha border, the police said. The arrested persons are S. Pawar, V. Pawar, B. Ware, M. Dhotre, D. Deshmukh, R. Gunjal, A. Gandhi and S. Sanap. “The syndicate used to source ganja in huge quantities from Vishakhapatnam and distribute it in various parts of Pune and Osmanabad,” Amit Ghawate (Zonal Director, Bengaluru), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-persons-selling-drugs-arrested/article33967874.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoWIN glitches||“We could not start the drive at all due to the portal issues. We took down phone numbers of senior citizens who had lined up for the shot and sent them back. We told them we will call them after the issue is resolved. However, the glitches continued till evening,” the doctor said. “If the issue is resolved, we will take up the drive on Tuesday, even though it is not a scheduled vaccination day. We could not start it on Monday,” said H.D.R. Radhakrishna, medical superintendent, C.V. Raman General Hospital. There was chaos in some centres as senior citizens were informed that only those who had registered online would be covered on day one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cowin-glitches/article33967878.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Visit by central team||A central team of three officials, a Joint Secretary in the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and two doctors, arrived in the city on Monday to review COVID-19 safety precautions and control measures, in light of the emergence of clusters recently. The team visited the testing facility at Kempegowda International Airport, a cluster at Sambhram College of Engineering and Genome testing facility at NIMHANS. “The team will also visit vaccination centres Tuesday morning, followed by a review with the State health department and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike,” a senior civic official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/visit-by-central-team/article33967880.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Morning fog||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/morning-fog/article33968049.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-fervour/article33967533.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Temple journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-journey/article33967552.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Offers exceed number of students at IIMB||Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, students of the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB) managed to bag more offers than the number of students in just over two interview days. All the interviews involving various companies, which were held last week, were conducted online. A press release issued by IIMB stated that all the 435 students who appeared for interviews were placed. The release said a total of 481 offers were made to the Post Graduate Programme in Management Class of 2019-21. A large chunk of offers were made in the consulting and product management domains. U. Dinesh Kumar, chairperson, Career Development Services, IIMB, in the release, said that the students have done remarkably well. “They have been recruited by reputed companies despite COVID-19 disruptions,” he added. Speaking about the virtual placements process, Roopa Adyasha, senior manager, Career Development Services at IIMB, said, “The placements office and the student team put in commendable effort. We set up the required infrastructure and software platforms, and managed the entire operations through team work and collaboration.” Harshit Verma, student placement representative, in the release said that strategy consulting and product management continue to be the most sought-after roles, followed by finance. While consulting companies made 165 offers, prominent recruiters in the information technology and IT product management domain made 78 offers, while 67 offers were made in the finance domain. Meanwhile, leadership tracks and general management positions saw 47 offers made by conglomerates, startups, and other firms. Those who opted for sales and marketing roles received 50 offers and were recruited by major consumer goods firms. Tapas Ranjan Pati, manager, Career Development Services, IIMB, said that even companies from overseas locations like Amsterdam, Dubai and Singapore made offers across domains such as consulting, finance, international trading, and business strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/offers-exceed-number-of-students-at-iimb/article33967538.ece
02 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Drastic drop in voters in Idukki||Three Assembly constituencies in Idukki district have witnessed a drastic drop in the number of voters. This is said to be due to the strict action by the district administration in eliminating double voting and migration of a large section of plantation workers to their native places in Tamil Nadu. In the three constituencies of Peerumade, Udumbanchola and Devikulam, 9,000 voters were eliminated from the list. They included those who had two voter identity cards, those who migrated from the area, and those who are dead. According to District Collector H. Dinesan, nearly 5,000 voters were eliminated from the list in Devikulam taluk alone. The three constituencies have a large plantation area with the majority of people living there of Tamil origin. While Udumbanchola taluk has mostly cardamom plantations, Peerumade and Devikulam have tea plantations. Over the years, a large number of estate workers traditionally living in the workers’ quarters moved back to their native places following a crisis in the tea sector. Workers’ quarters remaining closed for long and worn-out living rooms on the tea estates are mute witness to a drop in the population there. Over 20 plantations in Peerumade taluk remained closed in phases in the last two decades when there was a massive migration from here to Tamil Nadu. In Udumbanchola too, many workers returned to their native places but attend work in plantations daily using contract vehicles to travel. Many from Devikulam went back to Tamil Nadu in search of better prospects as the construction sector there began booming. The drop in the number of voters is a reflection of all such trends. Corroborating these developments, Deputy Collector (Election) Vrinda Devi says though the final voters’ list has not been published the number of voters are fewer than before. She too attributed the trend to the migration of workers back to Tamil Nadu due to the COVID-19-induced crisis and the action taken to eliminate double voting.  In Peerumade, Udumbanchola and Devikulam, 9,000 voters have been eliminated from the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drastic-drop-in-voters-in-idukki/article33967630.ece
02 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Budget promise fails to perk up coffee market||A month ago, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac announced in the State Budget a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs. 90 for a kg of Robusta raw cherry, with the intention of supporting coffee farmers in the district. The announcement is yet to make any impact in the coffee market, according to Prasanth Rajesh, president, Wayanad Coffee Growers Association (WCGA). The market price of raw coffee berries on Saturday in Wayanad was Rs. 65 a kg as against Rs. 68 a kg during the corresponding period last year. The price for the commodity was Rs. 63 a month ago and the slight increase in price was in proportion to an increase in the international price of the produce, Mr. Rajesh said. Value-added products The Budget announcement had raised farmers’ hopes and many stocked the crop to get the MSP, borrowing funds to meet their immediate requirements. But the government is yet to procure the produce from the farmers, Mr. Rajesh said. While procuring coffee at MSP, the government would provide 50% of the price difference between market price and the MSP and the remaining price would be borne by the Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), which is entrusted with procuring the crop. ‘Wayanad Coffee’ The BDS aims at meeting the expense through the sale of value-added products from Robusta coffee under the brand name ‘Wayanad Coffee’. In the first phase, only a small quantity would be procured. The quantity would go up in the later stage, sources said. Rs. 5 crore allotted  The government had allotted Rs. 5 crore to the BDS to expand its coffee processing unit and Rs. 20 crore to the Kudumbashree Mission to set up 600 filter coffee powder selling outlets, 100 kiosks, and 600 coffee vending machines across the State. As per demand from the Kudumbashree Mission, the BDS would provide coffee powder at Rs. 400 a kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-promise-fails-to-perk-up-coffee-market/article33967657.ece
02 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Follow model code, parties told||Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla has asked political parties and poll aspirants to strictly follow the model code of conduct (MCC) for the upcoming polls. Addressing a meeting of the representatives of various political parties and officials concerned here on Monday, Ms. Abdulla said that public could inform the authorities on issues regarding the model code of conduct through cVIGIL, an innovative mobile application for citizens to report model code and expenditure violations during the elections. “The official concerned will address the issue in 100 minutes,” Ms. Abdulla said, adding that the public could also use the helpline number 1950 for the purpose. The political parties, candidates and their supporters should ensure peaceful conduct of the election, she said. According to the latest census, 21,817 people in the district belong to the age group of 18 to 19 years but, only 6,879 persons among them were enrolled in the electoral roll so far, Ms. Abdulla said, adding that the political parties should initiate to sensitise the public on the significance of elections in a democratic setup. As many as 948 polling booths would be set up in the district including 576 major booths and 372 auxiliary booths, she said. District police chief Aravind Sukumar said that 175 booths in the district were identified as vulnerable and sensitive booths of which 124 booths were identified as Maoist-affected booths and three-level security measures would be set up in those booths, Mr. Sukumar said. Two companies of Central forces would arrive in two weeks in the district and more forces would be deployed on the polling day, he said. Police checking would be intensified in the three inter-district and eight inter-State border roads, he said. While organising poll propaganda, political parties should adhere to the COVID-19 restrictions, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/follow-model-code-parties-told/article33967561.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marayur solar micro grid a success||The Kerala State Energy Management Centre has successfully deployed a micro grid electricity supply system with the support of the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert), Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), Thiruvananthapuram, and the Marayur grama panchayat. It will now integrate a small hydroelectric project of about 5 to 15 kW. The project was earlier approved by the National Mission on Power Electronics Technology (NaMPET). Puravayal, a tribal colony near Marayur, originally an un-electrified village, was provided with electric power more than a year ago relying on solar generation. The village is located nearly 5 km inside the forest area with off-road access. Only four-wheel drive vehicles can be used for transportation of materials to the colony, which has around 20 houses spread over nearly 0.75 sq km and about a 100 residents. Energy resource A micro grid is a localised group of interconnected energy resources and loads that can either operate as an off-grid system or in a grid connected environment. Off-grid micro grid is solution for providing reliable power for rural areas where the Central grid is not a choice both geographically and economically. The project for the off-main grid electricity supply was approved by the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology under the National Mission on Power Electronics Technology (NaMPET) Phase II programme. The objective of the programme was to develop, deploy and demonstrate a renewable energy based micro grid for remote village application, incorporating indigenous power electronic and power system technology. Anert provided the field trial site and support for system deployment, operation and maintenance. Wiring in houses The micro grid system includes a 25-kWp solar PV array, 30-KW power conditioning unit, 360-V, 300-AH battery bank, LVDC-powered control room and 10 street lights, and 15-kVA diesel generator with separate battery charging facility. The electrical wiring of all houses was carried out and each house provided with four to six 10W LED lamps and two 5A power sockets. Armoured underground cables with HDPE conduits were used for both the AC and DC distribution system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marayur-solar-power-micro-grid-a-success/article33967564.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NATPAC to suggest steps to curb accidents at 39 black spots||With the city traffic police approaching the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) to suggest measures to streamline traffic flow and avert accidents at 39 high-risk black spots in the city, the Thiruvananthapuram-based agency is awaiting a work order from the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) to kick-start its study here. There are a total of 58 high-risk black spots in Ernakulam district. Paperwork was being readied to conduct the study and map all the black spots, in keeping with the latest accident statistics, said official sources. The highly accident-prone locations identified in the city include Vyttila and Kundannoor junctions, where traffic snarls continue to persist beneath the six-lane flyovers commissioned in January. The two junctions are among the busiest in Kerala, with approximately one lakh passenger car units (PCUs) passing through Vyttila each day. The NATPAC was willing to suggest measures to streamline traffic movement and to prevent accidents at the key junctions on the NH Bypass, if requested by the PWD (NH wing), which built the flyovers and designed the pathways beneath them, said Ebin Sam, scientist in charge of NATPAC’s Kozhikode regional centre, who led a team that mapped high-risk black spots and readied a list in 2019. “The design of the two intersections might need a revisit. This is especially true of Vyttila, where multiple roads converge. The agency can even otherwise conduct a study of the junctions and suggest alterations in their design. They have to adhere to specifications of the NHAI, the agency that owns the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass,” he said. Other locations The other accident-prone locations include Madavana, Kannadikkad, Thykoodam, Chalikkavattom, Chakkaraparambu, Palarivattom, the NH Bypass stretch near Oberon Mall (all on the NH Bypass), Kadavanthra, Kaloor, High Court Junction, Menaka, Changampuzha Park Junction, South Kalamassery, North Kalamassery, TVS Junction, Edappally Toll Junction, Kunnupuram, Kumbalangi, Mattancherry BOT Bridge Junction, Palluruthy, Koonamthai on NH 544, S.N. Junction in Thripunithura, Karingachira, Pallimukku Junction, Atlantis Junction, the stretch near Thoppumpady village office and the curve near Puthiyakavu Hospital Junction. The NATPAC will recommend to the agency concerned structural or other alterations that the locations need, to ensure safe and smooth flow of traffic, on the basis of traffic, topographic and other surveys. “We generally recommend easily implementable measures, while it is up to the agency concerned to ready long-term measures which may involve land acquisition or readying bridges or flyovers,” said Mr. Sam. Across Kerala, 232 of the 340 priority black spots are located in high-risk locations. The NATPAC has suggested rectification measures for 75 such locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natpac-to-suggest-steps-to-curb-accidents-at-39-black-spots/article33968001.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NGT seeks remedial action plan against pollution of canals||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has asked a five-member committee constituted by it to submit a factual and action taken report on the alarming levels of faecal contamination in the Perandoor and Edappally canals. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta issued the direction after taking suo motu notice of The Hindu report titled ‘Faecal contamination high in Perandoor, Edappally canals’ published on January 28. The report had revealed that the total coliform count, indicating faecal contamination, had exceeded the maximum permissible limits by 160 and 96 times respectively in the canals. Explaining that there arose a substantial question of environment that required the interference of the Tribunal to resolve the issue, the Bench appointed a joint committee comprising the District Collector or a senior officer not below the rank of Assistant Collector or a Sub Divisional Magistrate, and one senior officer each representing the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, Department of Environment, Kochi Corporation, and Greater Cochin Development Authority. The committee should inspect the area in question and submit a factual as well as action taken report to remedy the situation before March 31. The Bench reminded the government that it had a constitutional obligation to protect the health of the people. They have to provide clean environment, which is part of Right to Life as enshrined under Article 21 of Constitution as has been expected from the State government departments and also the local bodies as mandated under Article 48 A of the Constitution of India as well, it said. The committee has to recommend measures to rectify the issue that includes stabilisation and improvement of sewage system and treatment of septage and sewage being collected through the drains in a scientific manner. The implementing authorities were directed to come up with an independent action plan as to how they were going to solve the issue in an effective manner with long term and short term measures since allowing such a menace for a longer time will have great impact on health of the people, it said. The Bench asked the committee to ascertain the damage caused to the environment and assess the environmental compensation to restore the damage caused, including the expenses required for implementing the remedial measures, besides identifying the polluter who will have to remit the restoration charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-seeks-remedial-action-plan-against-pollution-of-canals/article33968016.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||7,385 polling officials take first shot||A total of 7,385 polling officials took the first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine on Monday. The vaccination drive for polling officers will continue till Wednesday at government vaccination centres, said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, Reproductive and Child Health Officer and nodal officer for vaccination in the district. As many as 117 centres had been readied for 28,352 polling officials. While registration began for people over the age of 60 and those with co-morbidities over the age of 45 to take the vaccine, very few registrations were successful on Monday. Since government vaccination centres are, for now, focussing on polling officials, people might have only been able to see time slots at private hospitals through the Co-WIN portal, Dr. Sivadas said. “But private hospitals have not stocked the vaccine yet. At a meeting held today with private hospitals, they have been asked to purchase stock of the vaccine,” he said. The number of government and private vaccination centres in the district will be increased by March 3, and vaccination of people over the age of 60 and over 45 with co-morbidities will be able to start soon after officials on poll duty are vaccinated, he said. A total of 49 government vaccination centres have been listed so far. Dr. Sivadas said that all beneficiaries at private hospitals, even healthcare workers, are now required to pay for the vaccine as per regulations, though the matter was still being discussed. Meanwhile, Dr. T. V. Ravi, IMA Cochin Chapter President, said that the process was marred by confusion on day one of the registration. “Now, private hospitals are being asked to charge even healthcare workers for their second dose. The hospital has to procure the vaccine for healthcare workers also at a price. Healthcare workers got their first shot for free,” he said. Besides, the portal had crashed for a while on Monday, he said. The portal to register is available at:cowin.gov.in 240 new cases The district recorded 240 new COVID-19 cases and 500 recoveries on Monday. A total of 4,241 samples were sent for testing. Thirteen people tested positive in North Paravur, 11 in Asamannoor and nine in Thrikkakara. A total of 8,583 people are recovering from the infection. Of them, 7,509 people are recovering at home, 29 are at the Government Medical College Hospital and 54 are at PVS Hospital. As many as 24,524 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7385-polling-officials-take-first-shot/article33968007.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure proper treatment of sewage, Corpn., GCDA told||The National Green Tribunal has asked the Kochi Corporation and the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) to carry out the directions given by the State Pollution Control Board for the effective management of waste generated at the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium complex in Kaloor. The Southern Bench of the Tribunal comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta gave the direction while disposing of a petition filed by the Lawyers’ Environmental Awareness Forum, stating that the poor condition of the sewage treatment plant installed at the stadium had resulted in sewage being discharged into the nearby drains, in violation of norms and causing health hazards to the public. The Corporation and the GCDA have to take steps to avoid such violations caused on account of non-disposal of waste generated within the stadium complex. The agencies were directed to take steps to implement the directions issued by the Pollution Control Board to avoid probable pollution that was likely to be caused on account of the functioning of the stadium, in an effective and time-bound manner, it said. The Bench asked the State Pollution Control Board to conduct periodic monitoring of the functioning of the sewage treatment plant in the stadium complex. The agency has to keep a watch on the management of the waste generated and possibilities of pollution being caused on account of non-implementation of the recommendations given by the tribunal. Action against violators Necessary action should be taken against persons responsible for causing such pollution, in accordance with law, it said. The District Collector has to monitor the functioning of the stadium complex and implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Pandemic situation The board has informed the tribunal that the sewage treatment plant could not be used to its optimum level in view of the fall in number of events owing to the pandemic situation. The GCDA had agreed to submit a time-bound proposal with bank guarantee for the effective installation of an ultrafiltration system within six months. The Corporation submitted that the licence of erring units found operating without adequate pollution control facilities would not be renewed.  The State Pollution Control Board has been asked to conduct periodic monitoring of the functioning of the sewage treatment plant in the stadium complex||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-proper-treatment-of-sewage-corpn-gcda-told/article33968014.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IIM-K submits report on Water Metro’s fare structure||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is in the process of finalising the fare structure of 23 ferries that will be introduced this month as part of the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project, with the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K) conducting a comprehensive survey and submitting a report. The metro agency’s finance wing is reviewing the report, following which the Managing Director will take a call on the fare structure and forward it to the State government for approval. The fare would most likely be similar to that charged by Vega-120, the State Water Transport Department’s partly-AC fast ferry that operated in the Vaikom-Ernakulam-Fort Kochi sector, said official sources. SWTD ferries The foray of KMRL into the water transport sector is expected to usher in competition with the SWTD that traditionally dominated the sector and ferries commuters at rock-bottom fares. The two agencies are largely eyeing the same set of commuters, especially in the Ernakulam-West Kochi sector. The entry of Water Metro vessels and safety concerns prompted the SWTD to launch two modern catamaran ferries in the sector in February. Five more will follow suit, at the rate of one vessel every 45 days. A bulk of people living on the islands that Water Metro will serve had opined that the ticket fares ought to be reasonable since most of them were daily-wage earners. The detailed project report for the Water Metro highlights its potential to have one lakh passengers per day in the twenty-three, 100-passenger capacity vessels in phase one and fifty-five, 50-passenger capacity vessels that will be rolled out in phase two. Finishing touches are being given to the first Water Metro ferry that is being readied at the Cochin Shipyard. It will conduct its trial run for about a month before commencing commercial service in the Vyttila-Kakkanad route.  The fare will most likely be similar to that charged by Vega-120, the State Water Transport Department’s partly-AC fast ferry that operates in the Vaikom-Ernakulam-Fort Kochi sector Official sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-submits-report-on-water-metros-fare-structure/article33968009.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3,899 polling booths in district||The district administration has said that there would be a total of 3,899 polling booths in the district and that postal ballots would be made available for those with different abilities, those above 80 years of age and those who are COVID-19 positive. The number of polling booths had risen from the previous 2,252 booths. There will be a total of 119 temporary polling stations, said District Collector S. Suhas here on Monday. Portable drinking water units will be arranged for 146 booths while drinking water has been arranged for all other polling booths. The booths will also have sufficient furniture. A total of 85 portable bio-toilets will be arranged for the polling booths. The district administration will need 32,392 officials for the conduct of the polls while 59,967 have been enlisted for the duties. The district administration has also taken steps for supply of electricity to all the polling booths. The electricity board has been issued instructions to ensure supply to booths which are devoid of supply now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3899-polling-booths-in-district/article33968011.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||And now, homes too become a stage||The COVID-19 lockdown has imposed many restrictions on public life, but stage artistes have refused to be pinned down by those. While some have taken up one-actor stage shows and others are blazing a trail in short plays that take up between 30 and 40 minutes, a troupe in Ernakulam’s Chelamattam, near Perumbavoor, is staging plays at homes on invitation. “The recent spike in COVID-19 cases in the district has restricted us a little more than was expected,” said Azad Moovattupuzha, the director and lead actor of Puzhayorazhakulla Pennu. The Chelamattam Samarpitha troupe is staging the short play at homes on invitation. The shows were inaugurated recently and have received encouraging invitations, said Mr. Azad, who was an active stage performer before the pandemic brought life to a standstill for artistes like him. The play, of about 70 minutes, was among the shortest in the history of drama troupes in the State, claimed Mr. Azad. The story centres around a girl, who was saved from the floods of 2018 and whose religion is not known. It focuses on the confusion that confronts her saviours and the importance of humanity and kindness, said Mr. Azad. N.O. Saiju, a member of Okkal panchayat, who watched the play said it was impressive and reflected the need for innovation during times of crises. He said stage artistes were among the hardest hit by the lockdown and the subsequent loss of their means of livelihood. There are seven members in the troupe. The performance does not require a big stage or elaborate stage arrangements. Mr. Saiju said about 100 people were part of the audience when the play was staged at Chelamattam. It was a successful model for the pandemic-hit times, he added.  The recent spike in COVID-19 cases in the district has restricted us a little more than was expected Azad Moovattupuzha Actor, director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/and-now-the-home-is-a-stage/article33967634.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NGO demands release of jailed activists||The Central government must release committed social workers and intellectuals who were arrested on the basis of baseless allegations and fabricated evidence and were put in jail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, the executive committee of city-based Society for the Inculcation of Values in Youth (SIVY) has demanded at its meeting held here. Some of them have been languishing in jail for two years, although they had submitted (proof) before the court that the allegations against them were fabricated. Even an 83-year-old Jesuit priest, Fr. Stan Swamy, who is suffering from Parkinson’s disease has been jailed in this case and denied bail. The meeting also strongly condemned the arrest of young activist Disha Ravi on the charge of sedition, for having supported the farmers’ strike, said Prof (Retd) Susan John, president of SIVY. Referring to the NIA arresting another activist, Rona Wilson, executive committee members of the organisation said a digital forensics firm had found that Wilson's laptop had been hacked using malware and incriminating letters deposited in the laptop. The arrest and imprisonment were thus made on the basis of false evidence, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngo-demands-release-of-jailed-activists/article33967560.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Order to free up pokkali fields for cultivation||The Ernakulam district administration has issued orders to allow pokkali fields to be made free for rice cultivation for the new rice season by April 14 so as to allow field preparations ahead of the sowing time. Permission Sources in the Pokkali Samrakshana Samithi, a group of farmers working to revive pokkali rice cultivation in the State, said the order by the district administration had said that the fields should be free of fish culture and that farmers engaged in fish culture after April 15 would not be issued permission for aquaculture if the order was not followed. The pokkali fields in the district are cultivated in a one-fish and one-rice cycle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-to-free-up-pokkali-fields-for-cultivation/article33968004.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Isaac should answer questions on KIIFB: BJP||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac should answer the questions on the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) raised by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rather than resorting to “cheap political statements,” BJP State president K. Surendran has said. Speaking at a press conference held here on Monday, Mr. Surendran criticised Dr. Isaac for his response to the statements made by the Union Minister at a public meeting here on Sunday. Dr. Isaac could not offer answers to the posers of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on the legality and Constitutional validity of KIIFB. When confronted with questions, he evaded direct answers and stated that the issue would be politically dealt with, he said. Violations Dr. Isaac, according to Mr. Surendran, violated the oath of office by leaking the CAG report to the media before tabling it in the State Assembly. He lacked the trust of even the Chief Minister, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-should-answer-questions-on-kiifb-bjp/article33967640.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to remove encroachers||The Kerala High Court has directed Pathanamthitta District Collector to take steps to remove encroachers on public lands at Enadimangalam village in two months. The court passed the order on Monday while disposing of a petition filed by R. Anish Kumar of Pathanapuram and others seeking to prevent encroachment of government land by the land mafia in the Puthuval-Pattara area. The petitioners said the authorities were aware of large-scale encroachment of government land. However, they were not initiating any action to evict the encroachers. As a result, illegal constructions were taking place without the knowledge of authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-remove-encroachers/article33967631.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Policeman suspended for ‘indiscipline’||A Civil Police Officer attached to the Kalamassery police station, who reportedly took the lead in installing a tea-vending machine at the station a fortnight ago, has been suspended from service on the charge of indiscipline, in not informing senior officials of the event that was organised at the station in connection with the machine being launched. The CPO, P.S. Raghu, had won many accolades, good-service entries and cash awards for meritorious service and for humane and charitable activities. He also created news when he assisted a French tourist and her child who were in distress during the lockdown. The machine and provision for snacks at the station were installed with the SHO’s permission, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-suspended-for-indiscipline/article33968010.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat exams postponed||The Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has postponed all exams scheduled on Tuesday in view of the motor vehicle strike. The new schedule will be announced later, according to an official communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-exams-postponed/article33968013.ece
02 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BJP leaders meet Cardinal Mar Alenchery||With Assembly elections round the corner, the BJP top brass has started cosying up to the Christian community in the State. On Monday, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister and BJP leader C. N. Aswanth Narayan and BJP State president K. Surendran met Cardinal Mar George Alenchery. The meeting of Mr. Surendran with the Cardinal lasted for nearly 30 minutes. Mr. Surendran termed the meeting as a friendly one. After his meeting with the Cardinal, Mr. Narayan said more voters from the community will vote for the party this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-leaders-meet-cardinal-mar-alenchery/article33967641.ece
02 March 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Paddy farmer attempts suicide||A delay in the procurement of paddy has put farmers in Upper Kuttanad in distress. On Monday, a paddy farmer from Neendoor attempted suicide after rice mill authorities demanded 6 kg 'thaara' (wastage) per quintal of paddy for procurement. The farmer, identified as Thomas of the Makkothara paddy fields, was saved by other farmers. After the incident, farmers staged a protest in front of the office of the paddy marketing officer in Kottayam. They ended their protests after authorities intervened and promised to initiate talks with mill owners on Tuesday. This was the second such suicide attempt by farmers in the district in less than a week. On Wednesday, Sebastian Palathingal of Kallara tried to end his life at Kallara Krishi Bhavan after mill authorities demanded 16 kg wastage per quintal. Farmers alleged that rice mills were demanding six to 16 kg wastage per quintal of paddy resulting in delay in the paddy procurement in Upper Kuttanad region. They said that agents and rice mill authorities had joined hands to take undue advantage of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-farmer-attempts-suicide/article33967651.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hygiene protocol for city on the cards||The Hygiene Status conferred on it by the State government and several awards on the sanitation front have made the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation honour-bound to keep up the good name and perform better in the coming years. The decision to form a Hygiene Protocol for the city is a result of this. It was Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed who announced in the recent budget session of the corporation that a Hygiene Protocol would be formed and implemented in the current financial year. A 20-point task plan has been formulated to facilitate the protocol. Solid waste management by Harithakarma Sena (HKS) is a major factor in maintaining the hygiene status of the city. The corporation plans to strengthen the HKS with the cooperation of commercial establishments as well as residents’ associations. To facilitate the HKS, a QR code system will be set up at each house and establishment. Regular medical check-up and ensuring availability of mask, gloves and uniform for Harithakarma Sena workers are also part of the plan. On the other hand, the corporation will make active interventions to set up biodegradable waste processing facility in every household. Houses with biocompost and biogas plants will get concessions in property tax. Besides, there will be at least one Thumboormuzhi model plant in every health circle. The corporation will make arrangements for the public to file complaints online against those who dump waste in public places and will ensure that strict action is taken on such complaints. STP project The completion of the sewage treatment plant (STP) project is another key factor that would influence the city’s hygiene status. The STP project under AMRUT is already under way and the agencies for construction of the plant and the network have been finalised. Effective implementation of the ban on single use plastic and disposable materials is another factor. The corporation has already resumed action on this front. There are separate projects to construct public toilets on roadsides in connection with the State government’s ‘Take a break’ project, to process biomedical waste in association with ‘Image’ and to process construction waste. Health cards will be made mandatory for all labourers in the city. Action will be taken against those who encroach on drainages. Restrictions will be imposed on posting advertisements across the city. Unauthorised advertisements will be removed. In addition to these steps, awareness campaigns and a survey on the effectiveness of the present system of waste management are also being planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hygiene-protocol-for-city-on-the-cards/article33967573.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Saying hello to hope||For the past fifteen days, ten paraplegics in Kerala have been living a different life, one in which they could make a living for themselves for the first time in their life, with dignity. This was possible after they were recruited by a mobile phone company as tele-callers, and the credit for this idea goes to Prajith Jayapal from Kozhikode, a quadriplegic himself and the founder of Divyang Foundation. “Nine of them have had spinal cord injuries while one had polio. They are all wheelchair-bound and had given up hope of being able to work ever again,” Prajith said and thanked the mobile phone company for approving his idea about recruiting differently abled people for jobs that do not require physical movement. Working from home All the 10 are from different parts of the State and are working from home. There is also another differently abled person who cannot speak, who has been entrusted with online marketing of the companies’ postpaid plans and projects through WhatsApp. They were all trained through videoconferencing by the company. Their wages are commission based and will go up based on the sales they make every month. The company is also planning to fix their monthly salaries soon. “I want these people to realise their abilities and one day bargain for their wages,” Prajith said. Prajith, who was paralysed after a car crash in 2011, is known for his all-India trip a few years ago when he went to New Delhi and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk on the plight of the differently abled in the country. Future plans His plans for a world tour in 2020 and an International Ability Expo in Kerala in 2021 had to be postponed due to the pandemic. But Prajith has not given up on both.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saying-hello-to-hope/article33967558.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Collector asks parties to ensure green election||District Collector S.Sambasiva Rao has requested the cooperation of political parties to ensure that green protocol is followed in the forthcoming Assembly polls. At a meeting of party representatives here on Monday, he said that compound walls of private individuals could be used for campaign graffiti with the owner’s permission while those of public properties should not be used. Only five vehicles would be allowed in a public rally. The grounds for public meetings had already been designated. The Collector also called for adherence to the COVID-19 protocol during public programmes. Not more than 100 people would be allowed in programmes held in auditoriums while 200 could take part in outdoor meetings. The chairs should be spaced out to ensure social distancing. Parties should take steps to control the crowds at their programmes. Arrangements would be made for the candidates to file their nominations online. They could fill in the applications online and then submit a print-out. The polling stations would be differently-abled-friendly. Arrangements were being made to provide postal ballots to the differently-abled, COVID patients, and essential service personnel, the Collector said.  Meanwhile, flying squads and statistics surveillance teams have been deployed in the district to check attempts to influence voters using money, liquor, or gifts. The squads will look out for excess money (more than Rs. 50,000) in the custody of candidates, agents or party workers. They will also watch out for distribution of liquor, drugs and weapons, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-asks-parties-to-ensure-green-election/article33967562.ece
02 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||380 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded||As many as 380 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Monday. There were 361 locally acquired infections and the source of 13 others was not known, said the District Medical Officer in a release. Kozhikode Corporation reported 109 cases of local transmission, Narippatta 34, Kunnamangalam 19, Kadalundy 17 and Vadakara 15. As many as 5,039 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) is 7.54%. The cumulative TPR is 9.13%. There were 341 recoveries and the active case load from the district is 5,336.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/380-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded/article33967568.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF in a spot as Rema opts out||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has found itself in a spot following a decision of the Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) to field its State secretary N. Venu in Vadakara for the upcoming Assembly polls. The development comes at a time when a significant section of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership are pitching at the candidature of K.K. Rema, wife of slain RMP leader T.P. Chandrasekharan. Their plan was to support Ms. Rema in a bid to influence the voter-base of the RMP in the neighbouring Koyilandy, Kuttiyadi, Nadapuram and Kunnamangalam segments. Local leaders of the Congress-IUML combine have been coercing Ms. Rema to enter the fray for long. But she opted out dashing the hopes of the UDF which wanted to rake up political violence as a key issue and revive the memories of the brutal killing of Chandrasekharan at Onchiyam in Vadakara on May 4, 2012. Ms. Rema, as RMP candidate, had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly polls in 2016, garnering over 20,000 votes. Electoral understanding  After the UDF worked out an electoral understanding with the RMP in the recent local body polls, their leaders were pinning hopes on such an arrangement in the Assembly polls as well. Lok Sabha polls Incidentally, the RMP also did not field a candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Vadakara. K. Muraleedharan of the Congress had secured 71,162 votes then defeating CPI(M) candidate P. Jayarajan, who had secured 48,199 votes. The Congress and the IUML leadership are keen on persuading Ms. Rema to contest from Vadakara. If that fails, the Congress will have to scout for a candidate or offer the seat to any of its coalition partners. The LDF has not decided on the Vadakara seat so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-in-a-spot-as-rema-opts-out-of-race-in-vadakara/article33967566.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Exclude land from buffer zone: farmers||Anticipating a favourable response from political parties in view of the upcoming Assembly elections, farmer organisations in upland areas have reiterated their demand for the exclusion of farmlands from the proposed buffer zone area. They also seek a solution to farmland ownership disputes with the Forest Department. Apart from the Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh, the Indian Farmers Movement and the We Farm settler farmers collective, two new farmers’ movements have also made their entry with aggressive campaigns for their cause. The Kerala Independent Farmers Association and the Karshaka Shabdam say that no political parties can influence voters in the rural belt, especially in Thiruvambady, Kuttiyadi and Perambra constituencies, without giving concrete answers to their concerns. Local meetings are now under way in villages seeking farmers’ support. They make it clear that they will support only candidates who stand by the farmers’ cause and proceed with legal measures to quash anti-farmer laws and regulations. The consolidation of farmers’ votes is likely to emerge as a concern for leading political parties. Leaders of local farmers’ coordination councils say they have the active support of thousands of voters from villages such as Kedavoor, Kodenchery, Nellippoyil, Puthuppadi, Chakkittappara, Kavilumpara and Chempanoda. People in these villages are concerned about their future as the proposed buffer zone may hit them badly, they say. Similar movement A similar movement by farmers’ organisation was visible even during the recent local body elections. Though there were active campaigns, it did not reflect in the election results. However, farmers’ organisation leaders claim that it sent a strong message to political parties that they would be facing a stronger challenge during the Assembly elections too. Functionaries of the Kerala Independent Farmers Association and the Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh say settler farmers who made thousands of acres of hillside land cultivable daring the wild animal menace were on the verge of evacuation threat. “We want to ensure their security in their own land. Also, wild animals like wild boar should be declared as vermin and culled to overcome the crisis,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/upland-farmers-reiterate-demand-to-exclude-their-land-from-buffer-zone/article33967571.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Parties still shy away from fielding women||Despite their tall claims about gender equality and women empowerment, political parties are facing an uphill task to field women candidates even as they are discussing seat-sharing among themselves and also beginning selection of nominees in key segments for the April 6 Assembly polls. Already women affiliates of mainstream political parties, along with their youth organisations, have been clamouring for a respectable representation for them. Ahead of the three-tier local body polls, a section of women leaders in the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) kept upping the ante for a seat in the male-dominated electoral process of the party. After the defeat of Qamarunnisa Anwar from the Kozhikode II Assembly segment in 1996, the IUML has never fielded a woman either for the Assembly or Lok Sabha polls till now. Despite vehement demands within their parties, both the IUML and the Kerala Congress (M) of the Congress-led United Democratic Front did not give the ticket to their women leaders in the 2016 Assembly polls. Last time the IUML and KC(M) contested 24 and 15 seats respectively. The Samastha Kerala Jamiat-ul-Ulema, the influential Sunni cleric forum which supports the IUML, is said to be against women entering the political arena. And so is its rival Sunni sect All India Sunni Jamiyyathul Ulama led by Kanthapuram A. P. Aboobacker Musliyar. Seats are offered to women in the three-tier local body polls only because of the rule that 50% of the seats have been reserved for them.A scrutiny of the candidate list in the previous Assembly polls reveals that the Congress, CPI(M), CPI and the BJP are not far behind when it comes to overlooking their women leaders while selecting nominees in the rough-and-tumble of political combat. The Congress fielded nine women out of its 87 nominees, CPI (M) 12 out of 78, CPI 4 out of 27 and the BJP 10 out of 88 candidates. Leaders of all parties, however, maintain that selection of candidates is solely based on the ‘winnability factor.’ And politics is dominated by men despite female voters playing a big role in Kerala polls. But they also secretly admit that the number of seats are limited even for men to contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-still-shy-away-from-fielding-women/article33967638.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern over ‘focus points’ for Plus Two exams||Plus Two students pursuing Science stream are worried over the long-term impact of ‘focus points’, the portions culled out from various chapters that they have been asked to study for the final exams. Their model tests began on Monday. Due to the pandemic situation, most of the classes were held online this academic year. According to the students, a majority of the chapters were wound up in a hurry between December and January and the exams are scheduled for March third week. Asked how they can study so much in such a short time, the Education Department’s response was that they may appear for the exams after studying only the ‘focus points’. There is no need to go through all the chapters. The students, however, said there was confusion about the ‘focus points’ published by the State Council for Educational Research and Training. The excerpts say that no chapter has been excluded from the ‘focus points’. They have been prepared after avoiding alternate portions. But, the students say that the chapters can be understood in total only if the removed portions too are learnt. According to a group of students from Kozhikode, there is no formal communication on these ‘focus points’ as well. “The authorities have only two objectives: to help the maximum number of students clear the exams and finish off the exercise ahead of the Assembly polls. So, the evaluation process is expected to be very liberal so that the pass percentage is not affected,” said sources. However, some parents say that this would impact bright students. This will affect those who are planning for higher studies, and those appearing for exams such as the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, will be the worst hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-focus-points-for-plus-two-exams/article33967639.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Of mice as pets and making a living out of it||Firoz Khan, a pet breeder at Kundayithode in Kozhikode, shocked a lot of people when he started breeding edible worms a while ago. Now, his mice are the talk of the town. Little did the local farmers or pet lovers know that mice could help one earn a living. Mr. Khan has been breeding mice for seven years and using them to feed the big birds and fishes in his ‘Khan’s Breeding Centre’ at Kundayithode. But it has been just a few months since the news ‘leaked out’ and ever since he is being approached by a lot of breeders and pet lovers for these mice. “I had to make sure that I had enough numbers to cater to the demand. I should also be knowledgeable enough to guide them about the breeding process and hence waited to complete my research before letting out the news,” he says. The colourful lot Now, he has 1,000-odd mice under his care. “We have developed eight colour varieties, including coffee brown, chocolate brown, black, white, ash, and silver ash.” These mice are of a foreign breed. “Unlike the native breeds that are rather violent, they are gentle and friendly. They mingle with people very fast and hence are chosen as pets by many,” he says. Some get a pair from him and breed them. “I guide them as much as possible.” Less capital, more profit He says mice breeding is a low-investment business that yields high profits. “Most of us do not know what kind of food we can provide our pets. Many animals prefer a live prey and mice are the best in that capacity,” Khan said. The pregnancy period for these mice is 19 to 21 days and a litter consists of 10 to 18 babies usually. They procreate fast, making mice breeding a profitable venture. Mr. Khan is also the author of two books on pet breeding, while the third is in the pipeline. All of his family too is into this business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/of-mice-as-pets-and-making-a-living-out-of-it/article33967653.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Order to register govt. vehicles for election||Vehicles belonging to all Central, State and semi-governmental offices in the district, cooperative institutions, public sector enterprises, boards, corporations and Kerala Bank should be registered at the transport cell of the election division in the Kozhikode collectorate by 10 a.m. on March 2, Election Deputy Collector K. Ajeesh said in a press release. Meanwhile, flying squads and statistics surveillance teams have been deployed in the district to check attempts to influence voters using money, liquor, or gifts. The squads will look out for excess money (more than Rs. 50,000) in the custody of candidates, agents or party workers. They will also watch out for distribution of liquor, drugs and weapons, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-to-register-govt-vehicles-for-election/article33967569.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||RPF seizes Rs. 35.97 lakh from train passenger||A special squad of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Monday seized unaccounted money of Rs. 35.97 lakh from a Rajasthan native. Bhabut Singh, 54, who carried the money, was detained while he was travelling by the Mangaluru-Chennai Express. The RPF squad carried out the inspection following a tip-off received by their senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rpf-seizes-rs-3597-lakh-from-train-passenger/article33967559.ece
02 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police yet to find out intent behind transport of explosives||The Government Railway Police (GRP) squad investigating the recent seizure of explosive materials from a train is yet to find any criminal intention behind the shipping of the banned materials by a Tamil Nadu woman who was arrested in connection with the incident. Though the police checked her whereabouts in detail after visiting her hometown in Tamil Nadu and the temporary workplace at Thalassery as part of the first round of investigation, they could not collect any incriminating evidence. The arrested woman, Ramani, had said that she brought the huge cache of gelatine sticks and detonators for carrying out well-digging works along with other workers in Thalassery. Showing some photos of the ongoing work, she had also claimed that local residents in her temporary workplace were all aware of her job. However, the police were not ready to buy her argument as she was found carrying a huge stock of 117 gelatine sticks and 350 detonators. They had also carried out a thorough search in the train following suspicion that a few others were also there as passengers carrying such banned stock. Following the seizure, some of her close friends and family members were interrogated by the investigation team. Police sources said some of those who helped her ship the explosive materials would be arrested soon. Some of the suspected explosive material suppliers and her co-workers had already been interrogated by the special squad. It was on last Friday that the Railway Protection Force (RPF) came across the suspicious consignment in the Chennai-Mangalore Express train during a surprise inspection. The woman passenger was allegedly carrying the materials under her seat. Following the incident, RPF and GRP squads had intensified their vigil and increased the number of surprise inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-yet-to-find-criminal-intent-behind-transporting-explosives/article33967574.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,KERALA||LIFE Mission officials got Rs. 4.5 cr. in kickbacks: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has submitted in the Supreme Court that officials of the Kerala government’s LIFE Mission project have received kickbacks to the tune of around Rs. 4.5 crore in collusion with their counterparts in the UAE Consulate General’s office in the State capital. The money has been illegally diverted by two companies, M/s Unitac and M/s Sane Ventures, from foreign contributions received to build homes for flood victims on over two acres of land at Wadakkancherry, the CBI contended in the Supreme Court on Monday. The draft of the CBI contentions in the apex court was shared with The Hindu by Kerala government counsel. The investigative agency said the initial memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the Wadakkancherry project was between the Red Crescent and the LIFE Mission. However, subsequent agreements were executed between the UAE Consulate and Unitac and Sane Ventures. For fund diversion “The intention was only to divert the foreign contribution and receive kickbacks from it. The agreements were executed between third parties who are not parties to the MoU in active connivance with officials under the LIFE Mission and officials of the Consulate General of the UAE,” the CBI has said. The agency said though the amount was received by Sane Ventures and Unitac, the “receipt was for and on behalf of the LIFE Mission and the officials of the LIFE Mission colluded with officials of the Consulate General to receive kickbacks from the foreign contribution.” “The two companies have admitted to the involvement of kickbacks and gratification by way of money and iPhones to the officials of the UAE Counsel General and LIFE Mission, which support the case alleged in the complaint. It is also clear that the foreign contribution routed through third person was for evading mandatory audit and other formalities, had it been routed through government machinery,” it said. Tip of the iceberg The agency said the probe so far has only revealed “the tip of the iceberg” regarding the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA). The CBI said Unitac owner Santhosh Eapen was the “key accused and the prime conduit in this offence committed in conspiracy with the LIFE Mission officials and others.” “The roles of LIFE Mission officials as well as private persons are to be investigated in detail apart from other aspects... Investigation so far reveals exchange of emails connecting the above project at Wadakkanchery between LIFE Mission and the conduits,” the CBI has alleged. The agency dismissed arguments made by Kerala about its lack of jurisdiction to investigate the case. It said it was authorised to investigate offence under the FCRA involving receipt of foreign contribution of Rs. 1 crore or above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-mission-officials-got-rs-45-cr-in-kickbacks-cbi/article33967654.ece
02 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad welcomes IFFK with gusto||The curtain went up on the final leg of the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) here on Monday. The five-day Palakkad leg of the festival will mark the conclusion of this year’s IFFK being held in four phases. The award ceremony of the IFFK will be held here on March 5. Eighty films from 46 countries are being screened at the festival being held at Priya, Priyadarshini, Priyatama, Satya Movies, and Sreedevi Durga theatres. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi inaugurated the festival by lighting the lamp in the evening. Kerala State Chalachitra Academy chairman Kamal presided over the function. Ms. Joshi released the festival bulletin by handing over a copy to Kalamandalam Sivan Namoothiri. French-Swiss filmmaker Jean-Luc Godard, who won this year’s lifetime achievement award, addressed the audience through video. Nearly 1,500 delegates who tested negative for COVID-19 were allowed to watch the films.  Quo Vadis, Aida? ,’ Jasmila Zbanic’s Bosnian war drama film co-produced by 12 production companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Austria, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania and Turkey, was the inaugural film at Priya Theatre. The 2020 film unveiling the horrors of Srebrenica massacre of July 1995 was well received at several world film festivals, including the 77th Venice International Festival. New film culture N. Nandakumar, former president of the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce, inaugurated the festival office. Writer Mundur Sethumadhavan inaugurated the media cell. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sethumadhavan said that the festival would herald a new film culture to Palakkad. Academy vice chairperson Bina Paul, secretary Ajoy Chandran, executive member Sibi Malayil and general convener T.R. Ajayan; film critic G.P. Ramachandran; and District Information Officer Priya K. Unnikrishnan were present. Twenty-four films, including Lijo Jose Pallissery’s Churuli , will be screened on the second day on Tuesday. Seven of the films will be from the international competition section. World Cinema Films such as Never Gonna Snow Again , The Man Who Sold His Skin , The Roman Who Ran , Santimetrekare , Nowhere Special , Undine , and Wife of a Spy will be screened in the World Cinema category on Tuesday. Vipin Atley’s Musical Chair and Senna Hegde’s Thinkalazhcha Nishchayam will be screened in the Malayalam Cinema Today category on Tuesday. Wife of a Spy Japanese filmmaker Kiyoshi Kurosawa’s latest movie Wife of a Spy will be screened under the World Cinema category at Priya Theatre at 7.15 p.m. on Tuesday.  Wife of a Spy is a romantic historical drama unveiling the internal conflicts of relationships. The story is set in the backdrop of World War II, where a Japanese merchant leaves his wife behind and travels to Manchuria, where he witnesses an act of brutality. He uncovers a disturbing government secret there. His subsequent actions cause misunderstanding, jealousy and legal problems for his wife. This Japanese film, made during COVID-19 crisis, has been rated one of the best thrillers of 2020. The film won the Silver Lion for Best Direction at the Venice International Film Festival last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-welcomes-iffk-with-gusto/article33967565.ece
02 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Open forums to add life to festival from today||The International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK)’s final leg here will turn vibrant with the beginning of open forums on Tuesday evening. Priya Theatre Complex will host the open forums. Chalachitra Academy Chairman Kamal will inaugurate the open forum at 5 p.m. The inaugural debate will be on ‘Film festivals and film society movement’. Film critic G.P. Ramachandran, George Mathew, Dinesh Babu, Rupesh, Madhav Dev, Vennur Sasidharan, Swati Lakshmi Vikram, and Nisam Asaf will take part. Reji M. Damodaran will moderate. Filmmaker Lal Jose inaugurated an exhibition of photos titled Mela@25 on Monday. He said that the IFFK had played a significant role in the transition of Malayalam cinema to what it was today. “The festival over the years has given the new generation the much-needed confidence to do films by imbibing the changing trends of the world cinema,” he said. Audience poll The voting to select the audience choice for best film will begin on Thursday. Fourteen films in the international competition section will be considered for audience voting. The viewers can vote either through the Chalachitra Academy’s official website, or through SMS or through the IFFK mobile application. Those voting through SMS should text IFFK with the respective film code to 56070. The best popular film award will be given away at the valedictory function on March 5. The films to be considered for voting will be Bilesuvar from Azerbaijan, Birdwatching from Mexico, Desterro from Brazil, In Between Dying from Azerbaijan, Memory House from Brazil, Piedra Sola from Argentina, Rom from Vietnam, The Names of the Flowers from Canada, There is no Evil from Germany, This is not a Burial, It’s a Resurrection from Lesotho, and Indian films Chronicle of Space , Churuli , Humour , and Kosa . Seven films in the competition section will be screened on Tuesday. Hindi film Kosa , Brazilian film Memory House and Mexican film Birdwatching will be screened at Satya Movie House at 12 p.m., 2.15 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. respectively. Argentine film Lonely Rock will be screened at Priyadarshini at 5 p.m. Vietnamese film Rom , Malayalam film Churuli , and Azerbaijani film Bilesuvar will be screened at Priya Theatre at 12 p.m., 2.15 p.m., and 5 p.m. respectively. Kim Ki-duk homage The IFFK will pay homage to renowned Korean filmmaker Kim Ki-duk on Tuesday by screening his 2003 film Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter and Spring at Priyatama Theatre at 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/open-forums-to-add-life-to-festival-from-today/article33967629.ece
02 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar protesters march to venue||The Walayar Action Council, which has been leading an agitation demanding action against the police officer who investigated the mysterious death of two minor sisters of Walayar four years ago, took out a march to the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) venue here on Monday. The police stopped the protesters in front of Priya Theatre Complex, the main venue of the IFFK Palakkad edition. Addressing the protesters, rights activist C.R. Neelakandan said the story of the girls’ mother would have won wide appreciation from film artistes and technicians of Kerala had it been made into a film in Latin America or Africa. He said it was a shame that Minister for Welfare of Backward and Scheduled Communities A.K. Balan ignored the mother’s agitation, though he had come forward to resolve problems raised by PSC job aspirants. The protesters demanded that cinema lovers and artistes not turn a blind eye to the agitation. Gandhian and former Minister V.C. Kabeer inaugurated the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-protesters-march-to-venue/article33968165.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sites for poll-related public meets finalised||In view of the COVID-19 situation, the district administration has identified 25 spacious grounds and halls in the 14 Assembly constituencies in the district for safely holding public meetings during the election campaigns for the April 6 Assembly polls. Large public events will be restricted to the 25 spots, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Six locations have been identified in Thiruvananthapuram Assembly segment — Sri Mulam Club, Chandrasekharan Nair Stadium, Central Stadium, University Stadium, Mannam National Club, and the Toss Academy at Manacaud. Public events at the Kazhakuttam constituency will be held at Greenfield Stadium, LNCPE ground, Kerala University ground at Karyavattom and the MG College ground. In Varkala constituency, the administration has identified the Maithanam park for the purpose, while the Attingal town hall and the Mamom municipal ground have been selected in Attingal. The other locations are as follows: Chirayinkeezhu constituency — Sankara ground; Nedumangad — municipal town hall; Vamanapuram — Palode panchayat stadium and the Vrindavan convention centre at Palode; Vattiyurkavu — polytechnic ground; Aruvikkara — Vithura panchayat community hall, Parassala — Parassala panchayat auditorium, Pallichal panchayat stadium; Kovalam — Kottukal Chinnanvila community hall, Maruthoorkonam school ground; Neyyattinkara — Swadeshabhimani town hall, G. Ramachandran municipal stadium. Hoardings’ removal The Collector on Monday urged political parties to respect the model code of conduct and cooperate with the measures adopted for the smooth conduct of the polls. Ms. Khosa was addressing a meeting of political parties held ahead of the April 6 polls. The code of conduct has come into force in the State with the announcement of elections. The anti-defacement squads are removing unauthorised hoardings and boards as ordered by the Election Commission. Political parties should cooperate with these measures, she said. Booths’ relocation The number of polling booths in the district would go up from 2,736 to 4,164 in view of the EC decision to restrict voter numbers to 1,000 per booth. Some of the existing booths may have to be relocated from old buildings, the Collector said. A media certification and monitoring committee headed by the Collector has been formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sites-for-poll-related-public-meets-finalised/article33968153.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Friction over seat-sharing, candidate selection in UDF||Friction over seat-sharing and candidate selection appeared to plague the United Democratic Front (UDF) in some measure on Monday. The challenge appeared more pronounced in Kollam district. The Youth Congress, Mahila Congress and Kerala Students Union (KSU) have decried the UDF’s proposal to cede the Chadayamangalam constituency to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). The organisations staged an open protest in Kadakkal and raised banners against the putative arrangement. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary M.M. Nazeer told The Hindu that the IUML did not even have a committee in the Assembly segment. Ceding the seat to the IUML would drive Hindu votes to the BJP. Fearing a BJP surge, Christian and Muslim votes would gravitate towards the LDF, he said. Mullakkara Ratnakaran of the CPI had defeated M. M. Hassan of the Congress by nearly 20,000 votes in Chadayamangalam in 2016. The BJP had increased its vote share by 10% while that of the UDF and LDF plummeted by almost 7% and 4%respectively. In Pathanamthitta, candidate selection has re-emerged as the bone of contention between two factions in the Congress. Posters have appeared against Robin Peter, a purported ally of Adoor Prakash, MP, reckoned to be the Congress candidate for Konni. The rumblings of dissent in the Congress in Konni had emerged in the run-up to the 2019 Assembly byelection. Mr. Prakash, the incumbent MLA, had got elected to the Lok Sabha from Attingal. Mr. Prakash wanted Mr. Peter to contest from Konni. However, the Congress choose P. Mohanraj. Left Democratic Front candidate K. U. Jenish Kumar trounced him by nearly 10,000 votes. BJP State president K. Sudhakaran had come up a close third in the polls, trailing Mr. Mohanraj by nearly 4,000 votes. He had also increased the BJP's vote share by roughly 17%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/friction-over-selection-of-candidates-in-opposition-front/article33967644.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||House in sight after a 6-year wait||Subeida’s house at one end of a long line of closely packed houses is marked by a roofing sheet torn on the sides and a damaged metal door with a stone behind it for support. Six years ago, 50 fishing families, including hers, were shifted out of their huts at Mathippuram, near the Vizhinjam fishing harbour, to this plot a kilometre away. It was part of a rehabilitation plan under the Rajiv Awaz Yojana (RAY) housing project. The promise was to complete the new flats at the site of their old huts within 15 months, during which time they would stay in the rehabilitation site constructed by the city Corporation. However, they had to stay here for six years, with the Corporation paying their water and electricity bills. Sixty-four other families, who are also to get houses under RAY, are staying in rented houses in various parts of the coast. Now, the work on the flat complex, for 320 families in total, is nearing completion, with the keys expected to be handed over in two months.  According to Harbour ward councillor M. Nizamudeen, who stays near the rehabilitation camp, the delay was due to reluctance of a few families to shift out of the project site.  Reasons for delay “Nine families refused to shift for three years. The entire site had to be cleared for work to begin. The police had to be brought in to make them move out. The work on the flats will probably take one more month. A shed for keeping fishing implements also has to be completed. The families will be able to shift by April or May,” says Mr. Nizamudeen. An official handling the RAY project in the Corporation says that earlier Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms also proved a roadblock for the project, as it is located very close the sea. 1,032 families in all “The RAY project in Mathippuram was envisaged to construct flats for 1,032 fisher families. In the first phase, houses were provided to 222 families. In the second phase 320 families will get flats. Now, flats for 490 more families remain to be constructed. We are preparing the beneficiary list. Priority will be for those living in temporary camps,” says the official. Fund allotment Under the RAY project, the Centre provides 50% of share of the funds for a house, the State government 30%, the Corporation 10% and the beneficiary, 10% of the funds. Some beneficiaries are struggling to arrange their share. The State government’s current housing project LIFE has done away with the beneficiary share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-house-in-sight-after-a-six-year-wait/article33967632.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity drops to 4.21%||With the drop in testing, a usual weekend phenomenon, State reported 1,938 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 45,995 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden rose to 10,61,341 cases. The test positivity rate which has been hovering in the 5-6% range for the past few days dropped below 5% to register 4.21% on Monday.  The State’s active case pool has been dropping rapidly all of last week and with 3,475 recoveries being reported on Monday, the active case load dropped further to 47,868. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 10,08,972. On Monday, the addition of 13 new deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State took the State’s cumulative COVID toll till date to 4,210 deaths. Thrissur reported four deaths, Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha two each, while Ernakulam, Malappuram, Pathanamthitta, Kozhikode and Kannur reported one death each.  Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 380, followed by Malappuram 241, Ernakulam 240, Kannur 198, Alappuzha 137, Kollam 128, Thiruvananthapuram 118, Thrtissur 107, Kottayam 103, Kasaragod 71, Pathanamthitta 62, Wayanad 62, Palakkad 56 and Idukki 35 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-drops-to-421/article33967660.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Voters in capital may apply for postal ballots till March 17||Voters in the district who are eligible for postal ballots can apply till March 17, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Postal ballots are optional for voters above 80 years, persons with disabilities (PwD) and voters who have tested positive for COVID-19 or are quarantined. For availing the postal vote, the voter should apply in Form-12 to the Returning Officer concerned. The consent form will be distributed to the voters through the booth-level officers. The election notification is due to be issued in Kerala on March 12. As per the rule, the application for the postal ballots can be submitted till five days after the issue of notification, in this case, March 17. Voters who test positive after March 17 or are quarantined can cast their votes at the polling booths during the the last hour of polling wearing PPE kits. Consent forms Steps have been initiated for the distribution of the consent forms in the district, the Collector said. Voters in the PwD category are required to produce their disability certificates. COVID-19 patients and voters in quarantine should produce a certificate issued by the medical officer, Ms. Khosa said. Not allowed to mail Once a voter has been allowed the postal ballot, he/she will not be permitted to cast the vote directly at the booths. A team of polling officials will call on the voters with the ballot paper and other documents. The ballot paper has to be returned to the officers after the vote is cast. Voters are not permitted to mail the consent letter or the ballot directly to the returning officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voters-in-capital-may-apply-for-postal-ballots-till-march-17/article33968145.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll code violation alleged||The Save University Campaign Committee has petitioned the Election Commission alleging that the State government had breached the model code of conduct by nominating six members to the Syndicate of A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University. The Higher Education Department had nominated former MP P.K. Biju, CPI (M) district committee member I. Saju and four others to the Syndicate on February 26, the day the Election Commission had announced the schedule of Assembly polls. In their complaint to Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena, committee chairman R.S. Sasikumar and secretary M. Shajirkhan also alleged that the nominations were made hurriedly to influence the appointments to the non-teaching posts of Joint Directors and Assistant Directors. They said the Syndicate had a major role in appointing the selection committee. The nominations made by the ruling LDF were aimed at intervening in the selection process, they alleged, and sought the Election Commission’s intervention to quash or freeze the appointment process and the order that nominated members to the Syndicate.  Forum says govt. nominated 6 members to KTU Syndicate the day polls were declared||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-code-violated-in-syndicate-nomination/article33967628.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||VC: Decentralised governance vital for knowledge society||Kerala’s pioneering strides in the decentralised form of governance held it in good stead as it aspired to attain an inclusive knowledge society, Digital University Kerala Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath has said. Speaking at a plenary session on ‘Education, Health and Knowledge Society’ at the Youth Summit on Future Kerala here on Monday, Dr. Gopinath said the State possessed an advantage unlike any other in the country as its civil infrastructure was more or less uniform across urban and rural regions. “The previous industrial revolutions had ushered in a centralised model of development that led to skewed progress and wealth concentration. The digital revolution has provided us an opportunity to leverage its achievements in decentralised governance,” he said. He added that a shift towards a knowledge society posed various challenges including class divides between the “the employer and the super-employer.” “Moreover, the State will not be able to exploit its benefits if such a knowledge society does not advance into a knowledge economy and we remain mere knowledge consumers rather than generators,” he said. ‘Research real problems’ Former M.P. K.N. Balagopal said the emergence of digital technology and automation should not render large sections unemployed. He also called for research that focused on problems that existed on the ground. Only through such an approach would the State to realise its dream of becoming a knowledge society. ‘Peddling myths’ CPI (M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai, who inaugurated the valedictory session later in the day, was critical of ‘myths and superstitions’ being allegedly peddled as scientific facts by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. Citing the backing provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) towards the conduct of the now-cancelled ‘indigenous cow science’ examination, Mr. Pillai said such actions did not auger well for scientific growth. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran; V.K. Prasanth, MLA; State Planning Board member B. Ekbal; and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree also spoke.  Emergence of digital technology and automation should not render large sections unemployed K.N. Balagopal Former MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vc-decentralised-governance-vital-for-knowledge-society/article33968148.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rahul appraised of campaign strategies||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday turned up at the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) headquarters at Indira Bhavan here. He was returning from a campaign tour in south Tamil Nadu. Congress candidate selection process and seat-sharing talks with United Democratic Front allies were on at the office when Mr. Gandhi arrived. He later caught a late-night flight to New Delhi. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said they had appraised Mr. Gandhi of the State's political situation. Congress leaders also briefed him about campaign strategies and grassroots-level election work. “We requested his presence in Kerala to catalyse the UDF campaign. The Congress also wanted Priyanka Gandhi to campaign in the State,” he said. Mr. Chennithala said Congress candidate selection and coalition seat allocation issues did not figure in the talks with Mr. Gandhi. The congress was focussed on organisational matters. The UDF hoped to finalise its seat-sharing arrangements on March 3. The All India Congress Committee will take the final call on the list of Congress candidates later. A party insider said talks with the Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress had run into rough weather. Mr. Joseph has demanded 15 seats. Legislator Mons Joseph of the faction said the party was opposed to swapping sitting seats. Mr. Joseph is under treatment for COVID-19. He would take a final call in the matter. Congress sources said the party aspired to contest in at least 90 seats or more. The Revolutionary Socialist Party has sought five seats. The UDF is yet to take a final call in the matter. The RSP has informed the UDF that Shibu Baby John and Babu Divakaran would contest the Assembly elections from Chavara and Eravipuram in Kollam respectively. G. Devarajan of the Forward Bloc is likely to face Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam in Kannur. No call taken The Congress has not taken any call on the possible candidature of State Congress chief Mullappally Ramachandran. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar had signalled the choice was Mr. Ramachandran’s. The UDF is also searching for a strong candidate to challenge K.B. Ganesh Kumar of the Kerala Congress (B) in Pathanapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-gandhi-turns-up-at-kpcc-office/article33967646.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corpn. passes Budget estimates||The city Corporation council on Monday passed the Budget estimates for the financial year 2021-22. With the model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly election in force, detailed discussions of projects and expenditures under various heads and passing of the same were not possible. The day’s session was over in less than 30 minutes with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors staging a walkout over the removal of the party’s posters by the anti-defacement squad on Sunday night. Initially, the BJP councillors objected to the figures in the estimates, claiming that some of these were not discussed in the finance committee meeting on February 17. Poster removal Amid the debate during the estimates, one BJP councillor raised the issue of removal of the party’s posters, which it claimed was done selectively. The party demanded a discussion on the issue. With Mayor Arya Rajendran denying permission for the same, the BJP councillors walked out in protest, following which the estimates were passed. Though the Corporation had earlier sought permission from the Election Commission for a detailed discussion of the Budget, it was denied as suggestions for amendments to the projects could crop up during the discussions, which could be deemed to be influencing voters. The Budget was presented in the council on Friday, a few hours before the declaration of the dates of the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-passes-budget-estimates/article33968152.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCTIMST celebrates Institute Day||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) celebrated the 41st year of it being declared an institute of national importance as Institute Day on Monday. It was on March 1, 1981 that SCTIMST was declared an institute of national importance. At a function held at SCTIMST, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan; Union Minister for Health, Science and Technology Harshvardhan; and the president of the institute V.K. Saraswat delivered Institute Day addresses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sctimst-celebrates-institute-day/article33968017.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dawn-to-dusk motor strike today||Normal life is likely to be disrupted on account of the Statewide dawn-to-dusk motor strike on March 2 called by the Kerala Motor Vyavasaya Samrakshana Samiti in protest against the frequent hike in the price of petroleum products and cooking gas. Except the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, all other trade unions pledged support to the 6 a.m.-to-6 p.m. stir called by the samiti, an umbrella organisation of the trade unions affiliated to the Indian National Trade Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, and organisations of owners of various class of vehicles such as private stage carriers, lorries, trucks and other commercial vehicles. Taxies, autorickshaw and private stage carriers would remain off the road. Normal life would be affected as public transport would be hit, the samiti claimed. Operations of the State-owned fleet of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) would be affected, as two recognised unions — INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) and CITU-affiliated Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association — were supporting the cause. “We are observing black day. The stir by those who are opposing the Centre’s move to bring petrol and diesel into the Goods and Service Tax net is politically motivated,” KSTES general secretary G.L. Rajesh said. The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and Plus Two higher secondary and vocational higher secondary model examinations scheduled for Tuesday were postponed to March 8. Mahatma Gandhi University, Cochin University of Science and Technology, Calicut University, University of Kerala, and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University have postponed all examinations scheduled on Tuesday. On March 8 The SSLC English model examination would be held from 9.40 a.m. on March 8 and the Hindi/General Knowledge paper at 1.40 p.m. the same day. For Plus Two higher secondary students, the Chemistry, History, Islamic History, Business Studies, and Communicative English papers would be held in the morning session on March 8, while Mathematics, Part 3 Languages, Sanskrit Shastra, and Psychology papers would be held in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dawn-to-dusk-motor-strike-today/article33967642.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State records the highest winter rainfall in 120 years||Kerala has received its highest winter season (January and February) rainfall in the past 120 years this year, the IMD Meteorological Centre said on Sunday, citing data ranging from 1,900. During the two months, Kerala averaged 114.1 mm of rainfall, which is 410% in excess of the normal (22.4 mm) for the two-month period. In India Meteorological Department parlance, this is a ‘large excess’ as the percentage departure is above 60% of the normal. The State had received heavy rainfall in January due to the late withdrawal of the northeast monsoon and under the influence of an easterly wave. Kerala had recorded 98.1 mm in 1943, 96.8 mm in 1984, 83.1 mm in 1962 and 79.4 mm in 1938. Large excess In 2021, all 14 districts recorded a large excess, with Kasaragod (4,120%), Kozhikode (2,565%), Kannur (1,895%) and Malappuram (1,187%) topping the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-records-the-highest-winter-rainfall-in-120-years/article33967658.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Interviews postponed||The interviews scheduled at the District Medical Office (Homoeo) on March 2, March 8 and 9 have been postponed. The new dates will be announced in due course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interviews-postponed/article33968146.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P.N. Panicker remembered||P.N. Panicker gave a new direction to Keralites by encouraging them to read, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said. Mr. Chandy inaugurated the 112th birth anniversary of Panicker on Monday. CPI leader Pannian Raveendran presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pn-panicker-remembered/article33968147.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 118 new cases||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload went up by 118, while 171 people recovered from the illness as the number of active cases stood at 2,873. With 4,415 people being subjected to testing during the last 24 hours, the test positivity rate stood at 6.5%. Among the fresh cases, three were imported cases, while the source of infection in 40 others were unknown. One health care worker was also among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The death toll stood at 832 as on Sunday. Three recent deaths were attributed to the disease. Containment zones New containment zones were declared in Thalachira in Vithura; Kollarukonam in Peringamala; Melamcode, Nemom, and Poojappura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-reports-118-new-cases/article33968149.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two youths drown in sea||Two youths drowned in the sea off Azhimala, near Vizhinjam, on Monday. The Vizhinjam police identified them as Prasanth Kumar, 25, of Peyad, and Aswin K.G., 27, of Athiyannoor. They had gone with two other friends to visit the Siva temple at Azhimala. The duo is believed to have fallen into the sea around 6 a.m. while climbing the slippery rock near the temple. The bodies, which were recovered around two hours of search, were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-drown-in-sea/article33968150.ece
02 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||15 injured in bus accident||Around 15 passengers of a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus were injured after the bus hit a roadroller near Balaramapuram on Monday. The vehicles, heading towards Balaramapuram from Thiruvananthapuram, collided at the Kodinada junction. The roadroller, belonging to a company contracted for the development of the four-lane road, overturned after the collision. The injured passengers were soon shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital here. The condition of none of the injured was critical, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15-injured-in-bus-accident/article33968151.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sanitiser booths set up||The VHSE section of the National Service Scheme has set up sanitiser booths at all school units ahead of the annual examinations. The sensor-equipped automatic sanitiser dispenser machines were manufactured by students at VHSE schools with Electronics as a subject of study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanitiser-booths-set-up/article33967650.ece
02 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||107 new cases in Thrissur||A total of 107 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday while 272 persons recovered from the viral infection. There are 3,606 active cases in the district and 57 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far 98,819 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 94,531 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 104 persons contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 13 are above the age of 60 and two are children below 10. In all, 2,798 are under home care. Fifty-four persons were hospitalised on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/107-new-cases-in-thrissur/article33968102.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Staunch on demands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/staunch-on-demands/article33967637.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Melodies and memories||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/melodies-and-memories/article33967999.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Halt for now||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/halt-for-now/article33968156.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Women in focus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-in-focus/article33968158.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In view of dry days||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-view-of-dry-days/article33968105.ece
02 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A drama for no reason, says Sajjala||Accusing Nara Chandra Babu Naidu of ‘staging a drama for no reason’, Advisor to the State government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said that the TDP president should respect the laws when the model code of conduct for the municipal elections is in force. He was referring to Mr. Naidu being detained at the Renigunta airport when the latter landed there to take part in a protest being organised by his party’s cadres in Chittoor. After three-hour deliberations with the YSRCP MLAs, MPs, and other prominent leaders from Anantapur Parliamentary constituency here on Monday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that the TDP was unable to find candidates to field from various wards in municipalities, and its president was blaming the YSRCP of blocking their candidates from filing nominations. “Is it possible to physically stop the candidates of recognised political parties from filing nominations? In 13,000 panchayats where elections were held, the TDP had levelled similar charges but could not make more than 160 complaints reach the police or the State Election Commission(SEC),” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Having served as the Chief Minister, Mr. Naidu should have known that taking the permission from the SEC to hold a dharna in Tirupati or Chittoor was mandatory. “Despite police denying permission for dharna, why did Mr. Naidu land at Renigunta airport to take part in the programme? The police had advised him to take part in election campaign, not dharna. But, he did not listen,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. Municipal taxes Making light of the TDP manifesto for municipal elections, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy questioned the rationale behind increasing taxes from 40% to 100% in urban local bodies in 2018 and now promising to waive them. “We will cooperate with the SEC when it comes to its order of not assigning poll duty to the ward volunteers. However, it should not result in trouble to people,” Mr. Ramakrishna said while replying to a question. “If volunteers could influence the voters, then every government employee assigned with election duty could also do so,” he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-drama-for-no-reason-says-sajjala/article33968092.ece
02 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP candidates for corporations to be announced in Vijayawada||The YSR Congress Party will announce the names of candidates for all municipal corporations in the State from Vijayawada and for the remaining smaller municipalities, where there is no dispute or competition among the party leaders for candidature, the local MLAs have been asked to announce the names, Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana said. After day-long deliberations at Anantapur and Puttaparthi with party MLAs, MPs, and key functionaries, Mr. Satyanarayana said that while they were not worried about opposition candidates, they were keen on resolving a stiff competition among party leaders to secure nominations from the wards. “We did our best to talk to all the persons and reached an agreement in most of the places,” he said. He said there were some wards in Anantapur Municipal Corporation and a few in some other smaller municipalities, which would be announced by the party from the headquarters in Vijayawada after consultations with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. March 2 and 3 being the dates for withdrawal, he has advised all party leaders who had filed their nominations to withdraw if they were not the official candidates announced by the party leadership. For the municipalities in Anantapur Parliamentary constituency — Tadipatri, Rayadurg, Kalyandurg, Gooty, Guntakal, and Anantapur Municipal Corporation — the candidates were finalised and the announcement was awaited. For the municipalities in the Hindupur Parliamentary constituency, the discussions were over in Puttaparthi, and government adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana departed for Vijayawada. MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy and R&B Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana attended the meeting along with MP Talari Rangaiah in Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-to-name-candidates-for-all-municipal-elections/article33968090.ece
02 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth drown in Penna river||Four youth hailing from Bodaipalli village in Tadipatri Rural Mandal in the district drowned in the Penna river when they went into the water for fishing. While two of them managed to swim back to safety, search is on for the other two. Search on Tadipatri rural police inspector Suresh Kumar said that the bodies of the duo Talari Sridhar(18) and Uday Kumar(19) have not yet been traced and a search was on with the help of the Department of Fire personnel. He said they must have got stuck in the mud accumulated in the pits where sand mining was done previously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-drown-in-penna-river/article33967364.ece
02 March 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP issue may impact chances of candidates in Zone VI||The Centre’s move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), the corporate entity of the RINL, is expected to have an impact on the prospects of the contesting candidates in the Zone VI in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections, slated for March 10. The State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) tried to dissociate itself from the issue, and had even opposed it initially, while leaders of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the Opposition Telugu Desam Party(TDP) are blaming each other for failing to exert pressure on the Centre over the years to allot captive mines for the VSP, which could have saved it from the present situation. Jana Sena Party (JSP), which has an alliance with the BJP in the State, does not want to antagonise the people on the issue. JSP president Pawan Kalyan wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to drop the proposal.Against this backdrop, all the political parties are worried over the fate of their candidates in the GVMC polls and are trying to send a strong signal to the people that they are against any move to privatise the VSP. The ward No. 78 has 9,913 voters, all living in Sector 3 to 11 of the VSP, and the residents of Sectors 1 and 2 and the Steel Plant Township CISF Colony are included in Ward No. 77. The steel plant was achieved after several struggles and 32 persons lost their lives in the agitation, and the people of the city have an emotional attachment with the plant. GVMC Zone VI falls mainly in Gajuwaka Assembly constituency but a few wards in the zone extend over Visakhapatnam West and Pendurthi Assembly constituency. Many of the retired employees of the VSP have settled along with their families in various colonies, which have come up in the outlying areas of the Steel Township. Over 22,000 acres of land was acquired from the people for establishment of the plant and the rehabilitation colonies have also come up in the industrial area.  Other issues The 2-km Main Road from Kurmannapalem Junction to the flyover, which connects to the Duvvada Railway Station, could not be widened from the existing 60 feet to 100 feet due to lack of coordination between the GVMC and VUDA (now VMRDA). Only a 400-metre stretch was widened to 100 feet, as per the Master Plan, while the remaining 1.6 km is only 60 feet, according to VUDA Nagar Phase-1 residents K. Eswar and P.R. Khan. Underground drainage (UGD) work has not been taken up in VUDA Nagar Phase-1 to 7, Rajeev Nagar, Fakir Tekya and Rasalamma Colony. Open drains and stagnation of water is leading to the proliferation of mosquitoes, says Mr. Eswar. The failure of the YSRCP government to hand over the TIDCO houses constructed at Gajuwaka during the previous TDP government, is likely to work in favour of the TDP nominees, say local people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-issue-may-impact-chances-of-candidates-in-zone-vi/article33968218.ece
02 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP activists block road||Tension prevailed for a while after TDP activists blocked the Chittoor-Puttur road at Sherman High School Junction on Monday, in protest against their party president N. Chandrababu Naidu being detained at Renigunta airport. The police effected the house-arrest of key TDP functionaries such as P. Nani, former Minister N. Amarnatha Reddy, and MLC B.N. Rajasimhulu in Chittoor, Puttur, Madanapalle and Palamaner revenue divisions. Police deny permission The police denied permission for the protest at the busy Gandhi Bomma Centre and deployed perssonel at the proposed venue. As the stalemate continued, the information about Mr. Naidu’s detention at Renigunta airport angered the TDP activists camping at the party office here. The cadres took out a rally to the Sherman School point and squatted on the road, leading to traffic congestion. The police cleared the traffic after holding talks with the local leaders. Meanwhile, addressing the media here, Chittoor Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said that permission to the TDP’s proposed protest was denied for the reasons that the venue (Gandhi Bomma Center) was in the heart of the city, and it would lead to traffic congestion. Model code of conduct “With the municipal elections are around the corner, the protest is seen as a potential factor for creating of law and order problem. Without permission from the State Election Commission (SEC), holding any programme would amount to violation of the model code of conduct,” the SP said, adding that the police had asked the TDP leaders to change their venue , but they did not agree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-activists-block-road/article33968083.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila may announce party launch date on April 9||Less than a month after dropping enough hints that she was serious about launching a new political party in Telangana, Y. S. Sharmila, daughter of late Chief Minister Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy, and sister of AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, is most likely to announce the launch date on April 9 at a public meeting in Khammam. Sources privy to the discussions held between Ms. Sharmila and a few loyalists of late Rajasekhara Reddy on Monday maintained that three dates were deliberated. The leaders zeroed in on April 9 - the day Mr. Rajasekhara Reddy launched his padayatra in 2003, May 14 - when he first took oath as Chief Minister of united AP in 2004, and July 8 - his birth anniversary. While May 14 was ruled out because of the seering summer, July 8, the leaders felt was too far away and hence it was felt that Ms. Sharmila could formally make an announcement about launch date of her new party on April 9. “We plan to hold a massive public meeting in Khammam on that date to make the announcement,” sources close to Ms. Sharmila told The Hindu on Monday. The leaders feel that after announcing the launch date, they could focus on the formalities like how the party flag should be and also the agenda with which the new party would to people. “Tentatively, we want at least 90 days before the party is officially launched with fanfare in Hyderabad,” a senior leader remarked. Sources said once the date is officially announced, plans will be afoot to form an adhoc committee with 11 members for each of the 17 parliamentary constituencies. These committees will make preparatory work for the proposed launch of the party sometime in July, sources said adding that these panels would be entrusted the task of mobilising people for the launch programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-firm-on-new-party-launch-soon/article33967854.ece
02 March 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Audit staffer in ACB net||A senior assistant (State audit) at the Kadapa District Audit Office was trapped and arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths for allegedly demanding bribe to process an application on Monday. The assistant, Abdul Jabbar, was caught red-handed by a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (ACB) P. Kanjakshan when he was reportedly accepting Rs. 5,000 from a retired employee, Kuraku Pedda Venkataiah (60), for processing his pension application. The complainant retired as office subordinate from Kadapa Irrigation Circle Office and was awaiting his pension application to be processed. The officials seized the money as well as the relevant documents, before shifting the accused to the ACB Special Court in Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/audit-staffer-in-acb-net/article33967368.ece
02 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lab finds new COVID-19 virus variant with origin in Kurnool||Kurnool Medical College’s VRDL is the first laboratory in South India to collaborate in employing a new protocol – ‘COVIDSeq Next-Generation Sequencing’ – for diagnosis and phylogenetic analysis of SARS nCoV-2 (COVID-19) samples. This is the next-generation confirmatory test for COVID-19 done at CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, and will be useful for other viruses in the future. Findings The sequencing approach has also provided insights into the evolution and genetic epidemiology of the SARS-CoV-2 samples, in addition to detecting a new variant N440K that was responsible for causing re-infections. In a research article published in the German Scientific Journal, ‘Plos One’, on February 17, the authors said that seven institutions in India that were permitted by the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology to use the protocol (approved for clinical trials by the US Food & Drug Administration) could discover two lineages of SARS nCOV-2 (B.1.112 and B.1.99), 73 novel variants, and 1143 unique single nucleotide variants. Pallavalli Rojarani, one of the authors and a specialist in microbiology, who was appointed by the State government for a temporary period of one year during the COVID-19 pandemic in the Kurnool Medical College, told The Hindu that the KMC-VRDL was the only institution participating in it from South India. High concordance “We used the approach on 752 clinical samples in duplicates (1,536 in all), which could be sequenced on a single S4 sequencing flow cell on NovaSeq 6000 machine. Our analysis suggests a high concordance between the technical duplicates and a high concordance of detection of SARS-CoV-2 between the COVIDSeq and RT-PCR approaches,” said Ms. Rojarani. COVIDSeq could detect SARS-CoV-2 in six samples with high confidence, which were shown negative in the RT-PCR that was being considered the gold standard so far. Ms. Rojarani explained that the assay could also detect SARS-CoV-2 in a set of 21 samples and in another 16 samples that were classified inconclusive and Pan Sarbeco positive, suggesting that COVIDSeq could be used as a confirmatory test. She thanked KMC Principal and Additional DME P. Chandrasekhar for the support to get this facility by convincing the government. The microbiologist said she had also worked on 272 samples from June 20, 2020, until September 2020, when the spread was quick and a large number of fatalities were recorded in Andhra Pradesh The N440K strain with origin in Kurnool was seen to have spread all over Andhra Pradesh and some of the neighbouring States. This was another achievement of the laboratory. “By employing this NGS, we can know the behaviour of various bacteria, fungal, viral, genetic disorders of the foetus,” she said.  COVIDSeq could detect SARS-CoV-2 in six samples with high confidence, which were shown negative in the RT-PCR Pallavalli Rojarani Microbiologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lab-finds-new-virus-variant-with-origin-in-kurnool/article33967374.ece
02 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-Kurnool Mayor joins YSRCP||The first Kurnool Mayor and Telugu Desam Party leader Bangi Ananthaiah, known for his unique way of protests, joined the YSR Congress Party here on Monday. Mr. Anantaiah, who lost the Assembly elections in Kodumuru constituency, had attempted to end his life as the TDP leaders reportedly did not come to his rescue when he was financially wrecked. The veteran leader joined the YSRCP, along with 100 of his supporters, in the office of Kurnool MLA Abdul Hafeez Khan on Monday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-kurnool-mayor-joins-ysrcp/article33967994.ece
02 March 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow SEC guidelines, SP tells parties||Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu has appealed to candidates and activists of various political parties to follow the guidelines of the SEC during the municipal elections. The SP directed the DSPs, CIs and the Station House Officers (SHOs) to bind over the persons who have a criminal history. Candidates should run their campaigns only with five persons, and should follow COVID-19 norms while campaigning, he said. Candidates should obtain permission from officials concerned for organising road shows or for using loudspeakers and should not move around in groups. He warned that cases would be booked against those who violate orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-sec-guidelines-sp-tells-parties/article33968198.ece
02 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||83-year-old among 616 beneficiaries to get inoculated in Nellore||Senior citizens and people aged above 45 with co-morbidities turned up in large numbers to the session sites set up across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Monday. A 83-year-old man was among the 616 persons aged above 60 who took the jab at the Padurupalli Urban Health Centre in the city. SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu oversaw the massive inoculation exercise and urged people in the the targeted age group to walk in to any of the session sites set up across the district including private hospitals. As many as 1,429 persons, including health care workers, frontline workers took the jab till late on Monday, said Nellore District Medical and Health Officer S. Rajyalakshmi. A majority of the beneficiaries had made spot registration. As many as 209 persons took the second dose on Monday. As many as 655 persons, including 186 senior citizens, were administered the vaccine on Monday in Prakasam district. District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli said the health administration planned to cover over 4 lakh people in the district. The official wanted those above aged above 60 and those in the age group of of 45 to 59 with co-morbidities to register their names by visiting any of the Mee Seva centres or going to the portal of CoWin. New cases Meanwhile, the number of active coronavirus cases remained at 105 in the two districts as only five persons got infected in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was 99.04% in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/83-year-old-among-616-beneficiaries-to-get-inoculated-in-nellore/article33967365.ece
02 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||A huge painting to convey green message||City-based painter Shaik Ameer Jan completed working on a painting, undertaken to promote greenery, by giving it a final touch on Monday. It took Mr. Ameer Jan 54 hours to complete the painting, measuring 790 sq. ft, at the Rainbow E.M. School here in a bid to enter the record books and in the process contribute his mite to combat global warming. The painter used lipsticks, eye liners, eye shades and other make-up products to create the eye-catching image measuring 10 ft in height and 79 ft width. The first-ever Guinness World Record feat was set by a group of painters from Mary Kay Inc in the U.S. in 2013 by working for 1,000 hours in 16 days with make-up products, said Srushti Art Academy founder T. Ravindra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-huge-painting-to-convey-green-message/article33967367.ece
02 March 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naina Jaiswal launches green mission in E.G.||Indian table tennis player Naina Jaiswal and Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Monday launched the Yuvatha-Haritha initiative, in which 5,000 saplings were planted along several streets of the city in the first phase. Thirteen routes in the cirty are covered in the plantation drive. The green initiative was launched to increase the green cover. At least 140 students from the Government Arts College planted a few hundred saplings, and their names are displayed next to the saplings adopted by them. “The Haritha-Yuvatha initiative reflects the commitment to increase the green cover in the city and it inculcates a habit of conservation of trees among the youth. It is a joy to be part of this mission in Andhra Pradesh,” Ms. Jaiswal told the students. She also appreciated the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC) for its contribution in developing the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naina-jaiswal-launches-green-mission-in-e-godavari/article33968070.ece
02 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP: unions seek public support for March 5 strike||Left parties and trade unions on Monday urged people from all sections of society to make the March 5 strike a grand success and register their protest over the proposed privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. CITU organised a roundtable conference in Srikakulam to chalk out an action plan to ensure that the strike meets the desired goals. CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao and Srikakulam district general secretary P. Tejeswara Rao said that the the steel plant was facing a financial crisis only due to the lack of its own captive mines. “The Union Government should withdraw its proposal to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. It should also extend its support for the establishment of a steel plant in Kadapa. The government would come to know of the people’s wishes when the proposed bandh is observed totally in the State,” said Mr. Govinda Rao. Garimella Vignana Kendram president V.G.K. Murthy and AITUC Srikakulam district president Chikkala Govinda Rao were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-unions-seek-public-support-for-march-5-strike/article33968073.ece
02 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD likely to relaunch mass wedding programme on May 28||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) would be spending around Rs. 11,400 on each new couple tying the nuptial knot under its Kalyanamastu (mass weddings) programme all set to be relaunched on May 28. The main intention of the programme is to create awareness amongst younger generations, particularly those belonging to downtrodden and weaker communities, regarding the Hindu culture and marriage tradition. Under the scheme, the TTD will provide a gold ‘mangalasutram’ of one gram and a pair of silver ‘mettelu’ (toe rings) to each new couple besides silk clothes and luncheon for 20 members from both sides. Honorarium for priests This apart, it will also bear the honorarium to be paid to the priest and his assistant performing the sacred rite, expenses towards ‘talambralu’, forehead bands, flowers, music band, shamiyana, banana trunks, materials required for homam and cleaning charges taking up the overall expenses to be spent on each couple to around Rs. 32,232. Benefits of scale However, as some of these arrangements are common for the entire event, the expenditure when scaled up for 100 groups (considering a new couple and 20 members as one group) comes to around Rs. 11,40,000. The honorarium of the priest was also fixed at Rs. 5,116 for 10 couples as against the practice of paying him individually for each couple. The programme was an instant hit when it was first introduced in 2007 with 36,000 couples reportedly availing themselves of the benefits in all the six phases. To ensure transparency in the spendings, an eight-member committee headed by the TTD Chairman and Executive Officer has been constituted. New guidelines A new set of guidelines have also been framed according to which the active participation of District Collectors and police officials of the district will also be sought besides the assistance of the Chief Secretary. Desirous bride and groom must be Hindus with faith on God, Indian marriage system and submit a prescribed form with the details of age, rules and regulations of their clan, if any, to the village secretary and MRO concerned for endorsement among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-likely-to-relaunch-mass-wedding-programme-on-may-28/article33968101.ece
02 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu detained during day-long ‘high drama’ at Renigunta airport||It was a hectic day of political activity as former Chief Minister and TDP national President Nara Chandrababu Naidu was detained at the Renigunta airport here, after the authorities denied him permission into the city on Monday as he arrived at the tarmac. After fervent appeals by officials and a spate of protests by party workers across the State, Mr. Naidu finally left by 7.15 p.m. flight, making the officials heave a sigh of relief. Mr. Naidu was scheduled to attend two dharna programmes, one at the Gandhi statue in Tirupati and the other at the Gandhi Circle in Chittoor city, protesting against the ruling party’s ‘high-handed attitude’ in cracking down on opposition leaders. The Tirupati dharna was to show resentment over the manner in which the ruling YSR Congress Party government had allegedly misused its official machinery in pulling down a tea stall belonging to a TDP worker situated in front of a leading cinema theatre, dubbing it an ‘encroachment’. Questions police action Squatting at the airport arrival lounge, Mr. Naidu sought to know from the police officials if it was the manner to treat an opposition leader who had served as the Chief Minister for three terms and accused them of acting at the behest of the ruling party. He refused to leave the spot and insisted on at least meeting the Collector and the Superintendent of Police, if allowed out of the airport. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu told the media that the department had declined permission for the Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) dharna programme, citing the model code of conduct in vogue. The application for dharna, submitted online late on Sunday night, had to be rejected also in view of the likelihood of a second wave of COVID-19 spreading in Tirupati. The party leaders also did not give sufficient time to the department to act, the SP said, adding that according permission to stage dharna at the Gandhi statue close to the APSRTC bus station would also cause inconvenience to visiting pilgrims and also affect the movement of patients in ambulances. Later, Mr. Venkata Appala Naidu personally went to the airport and appealed to the Leader of the Opposition to leave the spot. Earlier, TDP Tirupati parliamentary constituency in charge G. Narasimha Yadav, Satyavedu Assembly segment in charge J.D. Rajasekhar, TNSF national coordinator A. Ravi Naidu were arrested when they arrived at the airport to receive Mr. Naidu, while Tirupati former MLA M. Sugunamma was placed under house arrest. Several leaders were detained and brought to the Tirupati East police station to ‘bring the situation under control’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-detained-at-renigunta-airport/article33967280.ece
02 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress dares BJP for debate in public domain||The Indian National Congress (INC) has shot twelve queries to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and dared the ruling party to come for a debate in the public domain. The list, a mix of national, State and local issues pertaining to Tirupati, released here on Monday by Congress Working Committee (CWC) special invitee Chinta Mohan and All India Congress Committee(AICC) member K. Prameelamma included the Special Category Status (SCS), privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel plant, Dugarajupatnam port remaining a non-starter, closure of NTPC-BHEL Power Projects Limited (NBPPL) plant at Mannavaram and stoppage of the double bed room houses sanctioned to 7,008 women beneficiaries of Tirupati. Dr. Mohan demanded the centre to spell out the logic behind the unrestrained rise in the price of petroleum products. “Congress is a party focussed on the common man’s welfare. The UPA government never allowed the prices to skyrocket and had brought several interventions to arrest its rise, but the BJP seems to be concerned only about the welfare of its crony capitalists,” he retorted. He also sought to know what was the quantum of benefit to A.P in the Rs. 38 lakh crore Budget announced by the Centre recently. Referring to the ‘atrocious rule’ in the State, Dr. Chinta Mohan said the Congress party would not contest the local body elections by taking on the ‘rowdy elements’, but announced to be in the fray for the ensuing by-election to the Tirupati parliamentary seat. In Nellore Meanwhile, speaking at a media conference in Venkatagiri in Nellore district that forms a part of Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, Dr. Chinta Mohan maintained that the BJP-led government at the Centre should not sell the public sector Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The saffron party should take note of the fact that the VSP was achieved following great sacrifices made by Andhra people and take steps to make the PSU profitable, he said. Accusing the BJP-led government at the Centre of meting out a raw deal to Andhra Pradesh, he opined that the saffron party had no moral right to seek votes in the Tirupati Parliamentary byelection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-dares-bjp-for-debate-in-public-domain/article33967370.ece
02 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD plans multi-level car parking at Alipiri||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy directed his team of officials to consider developing a multi-level parking facility at Alipiri, the foot of Tirumala hills. The parking lot is termed to be the first step towards retaining a majority of vehicles downhill so as to protect the pristine nature of the Tirumala hills. Green agenda At a review meeting with the senior officers held on Monday, he asked the officials to grow high-yielding and tall flowering plants at all road junctions on Tirumala hills. “The ongoing works on the Alipiri trekking route should continue without causing inconvenience to the devotees,” he said. As temples are being opened up, he asked the team to frame guidelines for conducting the daily activities at all the temples under the TTD umbrella in tune with the COVID-19 relaxation. Children’s hospital Dr. Reddy also instructed that five acres be identified to develop a full-fledged children’s hospital in Tirupati. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, Joint Executive Officer Sada Bhargavi, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti, SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer O. Balaji, Chief Engineer Ramesh Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-plans-multi-level-car-parking-at-alipiri/article33967371.ece
02 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu using airport incident to divert people’s attention’||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has said that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was blowing the issue of him being detained at Renigunta airport out of the proportion to divert the attention of the people from the rout of the candidates supported by his party in the panchayat election. “Mr. Naidu landed at Renigunta airport knowing that his participation in the proposed dharna was against the COVID-19 guidelines and the model code of conduct in force for the municipal elections. He is trying to be in the reckoning by some way or the other, without understanding that his political graph has slid down,” the Minister told the media on Monday. “Mr. Naidu is trying hard to project that he is still in action with the support of a section of media. But, people are no longer bothered to see or know about him,” the Minister said. The Minister referred the incident during the TDP regime, when Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, then the Leader of Opposition, was detained at the Visakhapatnam airport. “The policemen appealed to Mr. Naidu to leave without creating trouble on Monday. On the contrary, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was handled in a rough manner in Visakhapatnam then. Mr. Naidu remembers democratic values occasionally,” he said. ‘Welfare-oriented policies matter’ Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said ‘only welfare-oriented policies can bring bring a leader closer to the people, not cheap politics.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-using-airport-incident-to-divert-peoples-attention/article33968085.ece
02 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Southern Council meet put off||The Southern Zonal Council meet scheduled to be held in Tirupati on March 4 has been postponed to an unscheduled date. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was scheduled to chair the 29th Southern Zonal Council meet to be attended by the chief ministers, lieutenant governors and chief secretaries of various southern States and Union Territories, for which the Chittoor district administration had made elaborate arrangements. However, after reports came in that Mr. Amit Shah had cancelled his programme at the last minute, Collector M. Harinarayanan confirmed on Monday evening that the meeting had been called off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/southern-council-meet-deferred/article33968191.ece
02 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling party resorting to coercive tactics: BJP||BJP Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh has alleged that the YSRCP-led government is ruling the State by bullying its opponents, “The YSRCP is not accommodative of the opposition parties. It is resorting to high-handed behaviour. Having prevented the rivals from filing nominations, the local leaders of the ruling party are now coercing those in the fray to withdraw their papers ,” Mr. Ramesh said. He dared the YSRCP leaders to fight in the elections in a fair way, if they had confidence that the government’s ‘pro-poor measures’ would bring them votes. Former Minister C. Adinarayana Reddy, BJP general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy, and MLC Vakati Narayana Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruling-party-resorting-to-coercive-tactics-bjp/article33968190.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Digitisation helped industries mitigate impact of pandemic’||The coronavirus posed a challenge to businesses by forcing them to go into prolonged lockdown, but they could survive the crisis through a calibrated approach. The industries could mitigate the impact of lockdowns by adopting digitisation on a scale that was not seen before, said B. Santhanam, CMD of Saint-Gobain India Private Limited. Addressing a seminar on the theme ‘Embracing the new normal- Building resilience and emerging opportunities: lives, livelihood and growth’ organised by the Andhra Pradesh (AP) Chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), here in virtual mode on Monday, Mr. Santhanam said digitisation has been increasingly adopted across the industry verticals to minimise the impact of lockdown and innovations has become vital in these testing times. “The COVID-19 crisis also offered opportunities which were to be utilised by evolving proper strategies,” he said. Sri City Private Limited Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy said the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ package helped the industries build the capacities required to withstand the impact of the pandemic. Moderating the panel discussion, Boston Consulting Group partner Shivaprasad Raja said the State’s 975 km-long coastline is its biggest asset and it should be used to the maximum extent possible. Vijay Subramanian, MD of Alstom Transport (Sri City), Kellogg India director (supply chain) Saurabh Lal, CII-AP chairman D. Ramakrishna and HCL Technologies global operations director and Vijayawada centre head Shiva Prasad and GMR Group vice-president Sreedhar Pothukuchi were among those who took part in the event.  New body Meanwhile, Datla Tirupathi Raju, executive chairman of Vijaynagar Biotech Private Limited has been elected chairman of CII, AP Chapter for 2021-22 and G. Venkateswara Rao, COO of KCP Sugar and Industries Corporation Limited the vice-chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digitisation-helped-industries-mitigate-impact-of-pandemic/article33968096.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many private schools, colleges flouting COVID norms: APSERMC||Even as the Central and the State governments were directing the educational institutions to take steps to prevent the spread of COVID, many private schools and colleges reportedly have ignored the warnings. ‘Excess fee’ V. Shiva, whose son is studying in a private school, says that the management took an undertaking from parents before sending their wards to schools, but had no safety arrangement in place. “The staff were not allowing us into the classrooms. The managements were collecting excess fee despite government instructing schools to reduce fee,” said the parent from Vijayawada. P. Naga Devi, a VII class student of a corporate school, said that the management had assured her mother that only 20 students would be accommodated in a classroom, but the number has crossed 40 now. After parents and teachers approached the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (APSERMC), its members inspected many institutions during which it was found that some private institution managements were running classes in congested rooms and without providing sanitisers. “Some unaided schools, junior and degree colleges were conducting classes in untidy conditions. There are no drinking and running water facilities, ventilation, electricity and other facilities. The condition of hostels is worse,” said APSERMC member C.A.V. Prasad. “We visited some private and corporate colleges in Tirupati, Nellore, Krishna, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Rajamahendravaram, Srikakulam and other districts in the last few days. The commission received many complaints from the students and parents. “Staff of some institutions also reached out to us and highlighted the poor facilities,” said another member V. Narayana Reddy, saying that the problems were taken to the notice of commission Chairman R. Kantha Rao. ‘No sanitation staff’ APSERMC members B. Eswaraiah and D.V.R.K. Prasad, who headed the inspection teams, said the staff were not changing blankets in hostels, cleaning the dormitories, canteens, kitchens and toilets. Drainages were overflowing in some colleges and there were no sanitation staff in many institutions, Prof. Narayana Reddy said. “The commission is discussing the problems with parents, students, staff, managements and officers of various departments,” said Mr. Eswaraiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-private-schools-colleges-flouting-covid-norms-apsermc/article33967378.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finish cofferdam works by May-end: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) to complete the cofferdam works at the Polavaram project by the end of May and to expedite the spill channel works. He also insisted that the relief and rehabilitation (R&R) of the project-displaced families should be done in strict compliance with the guidelines. In a review meeting on Monday, officials told the Chief Minister that the construction of cofferdam before the completion of the spillway caused a lot of problems. The cofferdam works were done in a piecemeal manner. There was a major breach in the earth-cum-rock fill dam during floods due to the gaps in the cofferdam, the officials pointed out. The spillway works were also hampered. The WRD officials said that there was no chance of reducing the dam height and even the Central Water Commission gave a clarification in that regard. The Chief Minister ordered that the proposals for interlinking of rivers should be so made out that the projects did not harm the interests of the States having a stake in them. Linking of rivers He wanted priority to be accorded to linking of rivers Mahanadi, Godavari, Krishna, Penna and Kaveri and a comprehensive report to be sent to the Central government for necessary clearances. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy suggested that the officials prepare the designs for the construction of ‘YSR Gardens’ at Polavaram in such a way that the environment is not affected. It was proposed to install a 100-foot-tall statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy there and develop the site into a park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/finish-cofferdam-works-by-may-end-cm/article33968081.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||ULB polls: State moves HC against SEC order||The State government filed a writ petition in the High Court challenging the orders given by the State Election Commission (SEC) that the ward volunteers should not be assigned any duty pertaining to municipal elections and that they must deposit their cellphones to ensure a free and fair poll. Advocate General S. Sriram argued that the order was a ‘continuing instance of egregious excesses of the SEC’. He maintained that the volunteers were integral to the disbursement of pensions and without cellphones, they could not upload the details. Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu adjourned the matter to March 2. In a separate hearing, a division bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C. Praveen Kumar dismissed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed against the resumption of elections to urban local bodies from the stage where it was postponed last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ulb-polls-state-moves-hc-against-sec-order/article33967948.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IOCL launches 5-kg LPG cylinder||The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) launched the sale of a free trade licence (FTL) 5-kg LPG cylinders at the M/s Pilot Service Station (IOCL petrol bunk) on the Bandar Road on Monday. IOCL (Vijayawada Division) LPG Senior Manager V.V.S. Chakravarthy launched the sale. Petrol bunk managing partner M.V.V. Satyanarayana said the cost of the cylinder including gas has been fixed at Rs. 1441.50. The cylinders would be sold at the station round the clock. The cylinders can be purchased without submitting any proof of identity, Mr. Satyanarayana said. Petrol bunk managing partner K. Venkatapaiah, IOCL sales officer (LPG) G.V.V. Mukteswara Rao, sales officer S. Prabhu Sunder, Indane Gas distributor Lokesh, Vijayawada Press Club president N. Chalapathi Rao and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iocl-launches-5-kg-lpg-cylinder/article33968193.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poll important than individual stakes: SEC||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar said that he dealt with certain issues related to municipal polls as per the directions of the High Court and that the process of elections was more important than individual stakes. In a consultation with representatives of political parties on the conduct of municipal elections, on Monday, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the officials have been instructed to distribute voter slips by March 5. Besides, the Chief Secretary was asked to shift employees who have been working at the same places for long and necessary steps have been taken, the SEC said. Mr. Ramesh Kumar called upon political parties to strictly follow COVID protocols and said that he would look into the suggestion that the government should provide transport to the elderly and the infirm. He reportedly chided TDP leader Varla Ramaiah for causing an interruption during his address to the gathering. The SEC told The Hindu that he warned Mr. Ramaiah against disrupting the proceedings further and doing so would lead to his withdrawal from the deliberations. “I did not send him (Mr. Ramaiah) out. He remained till the end,” he said, denying reports that the TDP leader was asked to leave midway. The SEC issued an order permitting the following persons, who were either forced to withdraw their nominations or were prevented from filing the papers, to again file the same (by 3 p.m. of March 2) on the basis of reports submitted by the Collectors and district election authorities. These candidates are: D. Vimala, R. Sadasiva, C.N. Saravana, A. Munemma, G. Surya Kumari and A. Chandra Mohan in ward numbers 2, 8, 10, 21, 41 and 45 respectively in Tirupati Municipal Corporation, S. Munni, C. Geethamma and B. Chandrakala in ward 9, 14 and 28 in Punganur municipality and K. Venkata Chalapathi and K. Abdul Rahiman in ward 20 and 31 in Rayachoti municipality. The SEC issued orders reviving the candidature of the persons who were forced to withdraw their candidature under duress and coercion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poll-important-than-individual-stakes-sec/article33968088.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||58 new COVID-19 infections reported in State||The State reported 58 new COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. No new death was reported for the third consecutive day. The tally increased to 8,89,974  and the toll remains at 7,169. The number of recoveries increased to 8,82,080 and the number of active cases also increased to 725. The recovery rate and death rate stands at 99.11% and 0.81%. However, only 20,269 samples were tested in the past day and 0.29% of them turned positive. So far, 1.397 crore samples were tested and their positivity rate was 6.27%. Chittoor district single-day tally has come down to 11. However, it was the district with the highest single-day tally in the past day. It was followed by Kadapa which reported 10 new infections. East Godavari reported eight, Guntur seven, Kurnool six, Nellore and Srikakulam four, Anantapur three, West Godavari two and Krishna, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam reported one each new infections. Vizianagaram reported no new case. The district-wise case tallies are: East Godavari (1,24,457), West Godavari (94,336), Chittoor (87,493), Guntur (75,740), Anantapur (67,760), Nellore (62,483), Prakasam (62,206), Kurnool (60,886), Visakhapatnam (60,029), Kadapa (55,383), Krishna (48,921), Srikakulam (46,221) and Vizianagaram (41,164).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/58-new-covid-19-infections-reported-in-state/article33968095.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||54.50 lakh get social security pensions in State||The State government has distributed social security pensions on Monday. Village and ward volunteers carried out the exercise by visiting houses of beneficiaries since dawn. As many as 54.50 lakh beneficiaries received their pensions by 6 p.m. accounting for 88.78% of the total pensioners, and the amount disbursed was Rs. 1302.62 crore. The State government is extending the social welfare pensions under the YSR Pension Kanuka to more than 61.40 lakh beneficiaries across the State by allocating Rs. 1,478.83 crore. As many as 2.66 lakh volunteers visit houses and pay the pensions using biometric identities and capturing the iris of the beneficiaries, according to Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) CEO Raja Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5450-lakh-get-social-security-pensions-in-state/article33968097.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP govt. suppressing democratic protests’||The TDP has demanded the State government to clear the air on the reasons for permission being denied to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu to hold dharnas in Chittoor and Tirupati. “ The TDP leaders were confined to their houses without any valid reasons. We will not be cowed down by such tactics and agitation will not stop,” said party State president K. Atchannaidu. He said Mr. Naidu has protection of NSG and the onus lies on the government to tell the people whether he has no right to conduct tours in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-suppressing-democratic-protests/article33968093.ece
02 March 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trial in Tuni arson to begin from today||The trial in the Tuni arson case, in which some people sustained injuries and some railway bogies, police vehicles and other property were set afire by miscreants at Tuni in East Godavari district five years ago, will commence in the Railway Court on Tuesday. Cases have been registered under the IPC as well as the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The RPF personnel who filed cases under several sections of the Indian Railway Act, 1989, recently filed a chargesheet. The Metropolitan Magistrate Court (Railway court) served summons on 40 persons and directed them to appear in court on March 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trial-in-tuni-arson-to-begin-from-today/article33968079.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grow up’ Naidu tells Jagan||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has tweeted that the State government cannot prevent him to reach out to the people. “We will not be stopped. We will not be silenced. Your fear-driven, state-sponsored vendetta won’t stop me from reaching out to my people. Grow up, @ysjagan,” tweeted Mr. Naidu after the Renigunta incident. “ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is making a mockery of democracy,” said TDP national general secreatry N. Lokesh. TDP leaders Gorantla Butchaiah Choudhary, G. Ramamohan, B. Satyanarayana Murthy, K. Srinivasulu, K.S. Jawahar, P. Sujatha and N. Amarnath Reddy and others described it as ‘a cowardice and undemocratic act’. TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the detention is akin to usurping his civil rights. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said, “Taking away his phones and not allowing him to speak to others is violation of the right to freedom of speech and expression.”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grow-up-naidu-tells-jagan/article33968086.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector promises all support to Begum’s kin||Collector A.Md.Imtiaz consoled the family of Anganwadi worker Gulshad Begum who died after receiving second dose of vaccine against COVID, at their house in Tulasi Nagar of Kanuru on Monday. Mr. Imtiaz, along with local officials, visited their house and promised all support from the government and Women Development and Child Welfare Department. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz said that Begum died after receiving second dose of the vaccine and the causes of death were under examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-promises-all-support-to-begums-kin/article33968189.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shed fears over vaccine, people told||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz asked all the eligible beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated against COVID without any hesitation on Monday as the second phase of the drive began. In a release, Mr. Imtiaz said that so far 42,000 beneficiaries including health workers, frontline workers and other government staff received vaccine doses in the district. In the third phase, all people aged above 60 and those above 45 and having chronic ailments can get vaccinated by registering through CoWin portal www.cowin.gov.in, he said. He said people with ailments have to submit a doctor recommendation letter along with the application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shed-fears-over-vaccine-people-told/article33967362.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure 100% polling, VMC Commissioner tells officials||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner and Additional Election Authority V. Prasanna Venkatesh asked the officials concerned to run awareness campaigns urging people to cast their votes in the upcoming municipal elections.  In a meeting with the officials on Monday, Mr. Venkatesh appointed Chief Medical Officer of Health as nodal officer for Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activities. He said citizens should be reminded of their right to vote during door-to-door garbage collection in the city. He asked officials to leave no stone unturned to ensure 100% polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-100-polling-vmc-commissioner-tells-officials/article33967363.ece
02 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||432 govt., 92 private hospitals to offer COVID vaccine in State||The COVID-19 vaccine for eligible persons in the third phase will be available at 432 government and 92 private hospitals across the State. In a release, the Health department said that persons aged above 60 and those aged between 45 and 59 with chronic ailments can register for the vaccination by visiting cowin.gov.in web portal and get the vaccination as per the appointment issued. Persons with chronic ailments need to upload a doctor’s recommendation letter in a prescribed format. Any recognised document with photo ID such as Aadhaar card, voter ID card, passport, driver’s licence and PAN card can be uploaded as proof of identity. Meanwhile, on the first day of the third phase, 3,165 beneficiaries received the first dose of the COVID vaccine on Monday. Of them, 1,268 beneficiaries were aged between 45 and 59 and had chronic ailments while the remaining 1,897 were aged above 60. As many as 3,044 beneficiaries received Covishield vaccine while only 121 beneficiaries received the Covaxin vaccine. Overall, 14,701 beneficiaries including health workers, frontline staff, government employees and general public received the vaccine on the day. While 11,614 of them received the first dose, 3,087 received the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/432-govt-92-private-hospitals-to-offer-covid-vaccine-in-state/article33968197.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Model code will be strictly enforced in municipal polls: SEC||State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said that Model Code of Conduct set by the Election Commissioner of India will be strictly enforced during the upcoming urban local body (ULB) polls and any violations noted during the phase will be strictly dealt with. He was addressing the media after holding a review meeting with the district authorities, election observers and various political parties, here on Monday. He pointed out that as per the EC’s guidelines, every political party should send a maximum of five party workers to a house during the door-to-door campaign. “Some Opposition parties have expressed fears that whether the ruling party would follow the rule and based on their apprehension, the district authorities have been told to keep a tab on it and react immediately to any complaints pertaining to it,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. He also said that the authorities concerned have been told to ensure law and order during roadshows and public meetings, during the campaign phase. “We recorded over 85% polling during the recently concluded gram panchayat elections and it was due to the secured atmosphere that prevailed. We should aim for a similar turnout of voters in the ULB polls and it is the responsibility of all the District Collectors and senior police officials to ensure that,” he said. The SEC also said that mobile teams have been told to keep a watch during night time to ensure that unhealthy practices do not take place and excise, police and SEBs have been told to check the flow of illegal liquor and cash. “We have received some complaints that bars and wine shops are being threatened to supply liquor. We are just waiting for one single complaint with proof to take action,” he said. The SEC has instructed the District Collector and the GVMC Commissioner to ensure that voter slips are distributed by March 7. Speaking about withdrawal of nominations by candidates under threat, he said, “We have received a few complaints and we are investigating them. Based on facts and evidences, the SEC has the discretionary power to allow them to file nominations again.” Regarding the complaints of alleged intentional power cuts at some places during the recent gram panchayat elections, he said that the respective District Collectors have been told to conduct an inquiry.  ‘Inquiry against AU V-C’ On Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy reportedly attending a caste-based political meeting organised by the ruling YSR Congress Party, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said that it has been brought to his notice and a complaint has been lodged. “We have asked the District Collector to conduct an inquiry and if it is found correct then the necessary action as per the code of conduct will be initiated against the V-C,” he said. The SEC also pointed out that Visakhapatnam was a model city with a cultured demography. Any attempt to disrupt that fabric during the course of election will be seriously viewed, he said. During gram panchayat elections, not a single case of the COVID-19 was reported and people should come out openly and freely to cast their votes, and uphold the spirit of democracy, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/model-code-will-be-strictly-enforced-says-sec/article33968124.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restrain State Election Commissioner, Dadi urges HC||YSR Congress Party leader and former Minister Dadi Veerabhadra Rao has appealed to the High Court to restrain State Election Commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar from issuing any policy-related guidelines without prior permission of the court. Speaking to the media at Anakapalle on Monday, Mr. Veerabhadra Rao has alleged that the SEC was issuing irresponsible orders by succumbing to vested political interests. His orders directing the District Collectors to seize the phones of the Ward Volunteers make one wonder whether he had lost his mental balance, Mr. Veerabhadra Rao said. A watch was being kept on the 2.60 lakh volunteers as though they were thieves. The SEC could say after a few days that volunteers should not be given voting rights, he ridiculed. The welfare programmes being implemented, under the biometric system, would come to a standstill, if the phones of the volunteers were taken away, Mr. Veerabhadra Rao said. The services of volunteers were being appreciated by national agencies as they were not government employees but working for honorarium, he said. The SEC seems to have forgotten the guidelines applicable to government employees were not applicable to volunteers, the YSRCP leader added. The SEC has issued directions that Volunteers should not be involved in the distribution of voter slips. He may also issue direction later that government employees should not be allowed to distribute the voter slips, the YSRCP leader said. Mr. Veerabhadra Rao said that by issuing guidelines in violation of the law from time to time, the SEC was preventing the District Collectors from doing their duties. He alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu was behind the SEC in taking all these actions. He said that during the tenure of NTR and YSR, the ruling party had secured only 55% and 65% seats in the panchayat polls. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had created a record of sorts by getting 80% seats, he said. The YSRCP-backed candidates had won even in Kuppam but Mr. Naidu indulging in cheap tricks instead of analysing reasons  for the debacle of his party, Mr. Veerabhadra Rao alleged. He said that Mr. Naidu would lose as an MLA in Kuppam in the next elections, if he continued with his cheap gimmicks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restrain-sec-dadi-appeals-to-high-court/article33968194.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties extend support to call for State bandh on March 5||The Left parties have extended total support to the State bandh to be organised in protest against the move of the Centre to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), on March 5. In a joint statement here on Monday, CPI(M) city secretary B. Ganga Rao, CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju and CPI-ML leader Ganesh Panda called upon all sections of the people to support the bandh, being organised for protection of the steel plant. They alleged that the NDA government was planning to hand over the VSP to corporate groups. The Centre, which failed to implement the promises made in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, was once again planning to deceive them by privatising the VSP, which was achieved after several struggles, they alleged. All sections of the people, irrespective of their political affiliations, have been staging protests against privatisation of the VSP for the past one month but the Centre was going ahead with its plan, ignoring their protests, they alleged. They called upon all sections of people to participate in the bandh and make it a grand success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-parties-back-call-for-ap-bandh-on-march-5/article33967995.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on South Coast Railway Zone will begin soon: GVL||The work on the Visakhaptanam-based South Coast Railway Zonewill begin shortly , said BJP MP G.V. L. Narasimha Rao. Addressing a meeting organised by railway trade union leaders on Monday, he allegd that the Opposition parties were spreading rumours on the issue. MLC P.V.N. Madhav said that the Centre has sanctioned Rs. 170 crore for the establishment of the zone in the last Budget, but none of the political parties, including the YSRCP, is talking about it. In a scathing attack on the TDP and the YSRCP, Mr. Narasimha Rao said assured that he would take up the issue of retaining the Waltair Division and creation of RRB for the new zone, with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and also with the Railway Board Chairman. ‘Misguiding people’ He pointed out that public are being misguided by the TDP and the YSRCP on the revenue generation of the division. “The revenue generated by divisions across the country goes to the consolidated fund of the Indian Railways and the division or zones have no authority to spend any part of it on their own,” he said. Vizag-Chennai corridor Highlighting a few projects he said, “The State government’s response to the Vizag-Chennai corridor, which would see huge investment and generation of employment to about 1.5 crore people has been lukewarm. It appears that the government has no interest in the Asian Development Bank-funded project.” Visakhapatnam has got huge funds under Smart City project and every housing scheme is funded by the Centre under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), but there is a wrong notion among the people that the Centre had done nothing, due to the propaganda being spread by the TDP and the YSRCP, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-south-coast-railway-zone-will-begin-soon-gvl/article33968087.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID restrictions: tour operators upset with order of Odisha govt.||The tour operators of the city are upset with the new order issued by the Odisha government restricting travel from Andhra Pradesh, under the COVID-19 guidelines. The Odisha government on February 26 had passed an order based on resurgence of COVID-19 cases in a few States. In its order, the Odisha government had notified Andhra Pradesh along with other States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, Chandigarh and Karnataka. Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh president K. Vijay Mohan, pointed out that notifying A.P. along with other States was not correct, as there is no resurgence of cases in the State. “In other States such as Maharashtra and Kerala, there is a spike in cases and including Andhra Pradesh was uncalled for,” he said. There are a lot of tourists from Andhra Pradesh to Odisha and vice versa and it will hit the tourism industry, he said. As per the Odisha government order, all passengers from the notified States have to be screened on arrival at airports and railway stations, on-site RT-PCR tests to be conducted for symptomatic passengers and all incoming passengers will have to follow one-week mandatory home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-restrictions-tour-operators-upset-with-order-of-odisha-govt/article33968216.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||India progressing well in radio pharmaceuticals: former IAEA Director||Nuclear medicine has witnessed a number of technological advances with its applications ranging from diagnostics to therapeutics and India is progressing well in radio pharmaceuticals, former Director of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Meera Venkatesh has said. Participating as the chief guest at the valedictory of the National Science Week celebrations at GITAM Deemed to be University here on Monday, Dr. Meera, who is also former former Director of BARC Radio Pharmaceuticals Division, said that after establishing BARC-Dhruva research reactor several radionuclides were produced for healthcare. The establishment of 20 Med cyclotrons and 350 Nuclear Medicine Centres and innumerable X ray and CT centres shows how the country was using nuclear medicine in the healthcare sector. She said that several technological advancements in nuclear diagnostic imaging have led to significant ease in the diagnosis, treatment and management of chronic and critical disorders. She also briefed about the use of radiation to treat cancer and in cardiology. GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna said that when young people contribute their ideas and energy to addressing social issues, they begin to see themselves as capable leaders who can make significant contribution to the lives of others. GITAM Vice-Chancellor N. Siva Prasad and Science Dean A. Subrahmanyam were among those who participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/india-progressing-well-in-radio-pharmaceuticals/article33968098.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice Admiral A.B. Singh takes over as ENC chief||Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh (right) took over as the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) from Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain at a ceremonial parade held at the naval base here on Monday. Vice Admiral A.B. Singh inspected the ceremonial guard and reviewed platoons of naval personnel drawn from various ships and establishments of the ENC. The ceremony was attended by all Flag Officers and Commanding Officers of ships, submarines and establishments. Later, he also paid homage to martyrs by laying a floral wreath at the War Memorial on Beach Road. He was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2011 and Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 2016. Speaking to the media after taking charge, Vice-Admiral A.B. Singh said The Eastern Naval CommandENC was well prepared to face any challenges, Vice-Admiral A.B. Singh said. He also said that ENC was playing a major role in securing the nation and will continue to carry forward the responsibility of protecting maritime security in the region.He was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal in 2011 and Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-admiral-ajendra-bahadur-singh-takes-over-as-enc-chief/article33967284.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre okays upgradation of road||Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana efforts to improve the roads in his Parliamentary constituency have at last borne fruit with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways giving the green signal for the widening and upgradation of Pendurthi Junction to Bowdara Road, from State Highway to National Highway (516 E). He had taken up the matter with the Centre several times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-okays-upgradation-of-road/article33968212.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||National Science Day celebrated at NSTL||Naval Science & Technological Laboratory (NSTL), Visakhapatnam, observed National Science Day here on Monday. National Science Day is observed every year on February 28, to mark and celebrate the invention of ‘Raman Effect’ by Sir C.V.Raman. Chief guest G.A. Ramadass, Director, National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), delivered a talk on “Ocean Research – A Civilian Perspective”. He explained the work being carried out by the NIOT in emerging and futuristic areas of oceanography. He also reiterated the commitment of the NSTL and the NIOT to work together in the field of naval research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/national-science-day-celebrated-at-nstl/article33968213.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVL hails services of Rotary Clubs||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao commended the yeomen services being rendered by Rotary Clubs during his visit to the city on Monday. The members of Rotary Club of Visakha Port City apprised him of their efforts and activities. Mr. Narasimha Rao was all praise for the efforts of Rotary Club Visakha Port City for the wonderful service during the COVID-19 and also for efficiently running the Rotary Blood Bank. MLC P.V.N. Madhav, club president Capt. Kali Prasad, secretary Vithal Prasad, PRSI chairman P.L.K. Murthy, Rotary Blood Bank chairman G.S. Raju, secretary Rambabu and Rotarian G. Subrahmanyam were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvl-hails-services-of-rotary-clubs/article33968214.ece
02 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New DCI Managing Director takes charge||G.Y.V. Victor assumed charge as Managing Director and CEO of Dredging Corporation of India Limited, here on Monday. This was the first top management senior appointment in DCI, since it was taken over by consortium of four ports — Visakhapatnam Port Trust, Paradip Port Trust, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust and Deendayal Port Trust — in a strategic divestment deal. Mr. Victor was the first DCI cadet from all India Dredging Cadre. He had joined DCI as a dredge cadet in 1991 and worked with many international and national companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-managing-director-takes-charge-at-dci/article33968123.ece
02 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan’s schemes will ensure win for YSRCP ’||The ruling YSR Congress Party is banking on a slew of welfare schemes rolled out by the State government in order to win the Bobbili municipal elections. Party cadres are going around the town explaining to people the benefits offered under schemes like Amma Vodi, YSR Asara, Jagananna Kanuka, Jagananna Divena, doorstep delivery of ration, and others. YSRCP Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu said that the people were eager to show their gratitude to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by voting in favour of YSRCP in the municipal elections. “We are sure of winning almost all 31 wards in the municipality and we will develop Bobbili town at par with cities. Improvement of basic civic infrastructure on the outskirts and laying of new roads in all colonies and improvement of water supply to all wards are on our agenda,” he told reporters. YSRCP leaders Sambangi Srikanth, Inti Gopala Rao and S. Krishnamurthy participated in the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagans-schemes-will-ensure-win-for-ysrcp/article33968072.ece
02 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavam ends on a high at Sri Kshetram||Many devotees offered prayers at Sri Kshetram-Astalakshmi Sameta Venakteswara Swamy temple on Monday, the concluding day of the annual Brahmotsavam. Ashtottara Kalashabhishekham was performed under the supervision of priests. The temple trustees Durga Balaji and Uma Devi said that Avabridha Snanam, Chakra Teertham, Sala Bali, Mahapurnahuti and other rituals were performed as per the customs and traditions of the temple. They expressed happiness over the participation of a large number of youngsters in the Sobha Yatra which was conducted from Fort Junction to Jagannadha Swamy temple on Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavam-ends-on-a-high-at-sri-kshetram/article33968075.ece
02 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader condemns ‘ill-treatment’ to Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Vizianagaram Parliamentary wing president Kimidi Nagarjuna on Monday strongly condemned the detaining of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu at the Renigunta airport. Mr. Nagarjuna said the detainment of Mr. Naidu was a clear example of how democracy was not being upheld in the State any more. He alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s government was unable to come to terms with the TDP’s strong performance in municipal elections and had resorted to unethical practices to win the election. TDP-Srikakulam Parliamentary wing president Kuna Ravikumar also registered his protest over the treatment meted out to Mr. Naidu at Renigunta airport. He said that Mr. Naidu had a right to meet people in the State and said no one should object to his tours without any valid reason.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-condemns-ill-treatment-to-naidu/article33968076.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Laborious task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/laborious-task/article33968078.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hassle-free travel||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hassle-free-travel/article33968221.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Asking for trouble||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asking-for-trouble/article33967380.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Laborious task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/laborious-task/article33968126.ece
02 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Insecticide-treated nets for 501 villages||As part of the integrated vector management strategy, the district medical and health department has geared up to distribute as many as 1,63,175 long-lasting insecticide-treated nets (LLINs) in 501 villages to cover a population of 2.76 lakh from next week. The authorities have drawn up plans to take up the LLINs distribution drive, which was reportedly delayed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic last year, sources said. The plan envisages distribution of the LLINs among the population at higher risk of malaria mostly residing in the Agency areas of the district. It forms a key intervention of the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). The inter-sectoral coordination and vigorous implementation of the total sanitation drive helped bring down the cases of vector-borne diseases in 2020, said Mokalla Venkateswara Rao, NVBDCP Programme Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/insecticide-treated-nets-for-501-villages/article33967865.ece
02 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||77 get free COVID jabs at Kothagudem hospital||As many as 77 persons above 60 years and those in the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities were given the COVID-19 vaccine at the District Headquarters Hospital in Kothagudem on Monday. Kagithapu Ramulu and Venkatamma, an elderly couple from Peon Basti in the coal town, were among those who took the jabs free of cost at the hospital. Collector M.V. Reddy visited the hospital and interacted with the vaccine recipients. He appreciated a 65-year-old resident of Budidagadda area, Narala Lakshmi, for turning up voluntarily for the vaccine. The Collector commended the members of the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) for helping several elderly persons reach the hospital and get vaccinated. District Coordinator of Hospital Services Mukkanteswara Rao and Kothagudem Municipal Commissioner Sampath Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/77-get-free-covid-jabs-at-kothagudem-hospital/article33968131.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A year since first COVID case in TS, similar concerns about surge||Exactly a year ago, the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana. Thereafter, lives of crores of people haven’t been the same. Many lost their parents, children, spouses and dear ones to the infectious virus. Twelve months later, the pandemic situation is not very different from how it was when the first case was reported on March 2, 2020, although fear of contracting the virus has come down and people hardly seem to have any qualms about letting their guard down. What’s more, the development of vaccines has brought hope of the pandemic being defeated. In March last year, fear about a rise in cases had gripped the common people as well as health officials. The same fear and conversations currently reign as cases are surging in neighbouring Maharashtra and many other States too. Telangana Health staff is keenly monitoring the situation in Adilabad district, which has seen a spurt in cases in many of its villages sharing border with Maharashtra’s Yavatmal district. The year that was Ask any healthcare worker (HCW) or frontline worker (FLW) to sum up the last 12 months and each will have a personal story to share about the tough times that the pandemic brought in its wake. While citizens were instructed to stay cooped up at home and step out only during emergencies, that too by observing precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining distancing, HCWs and FLWs were out on duty. Healthcare professionals continue to urge people to maintain precautions as earlier as they have experienced first-hand the trauma of seeing scores of COVID-related deaths. Going beyond duty Nodal officer for COVID-19 at Gandhi Hospital, T. Prabhakar Reddy was on duty when the health facility became the ground zero for treating coronavirus patients. He saw both ugly and generous shades of people. He said some refused to take back their parents even after they had recovered and so, Health department staff or NGO members stepped in to care for them. T. Pramod Kumar, professor of Pulmonology at Government General and Chest Hospital, was among the doctors who attended COVID-19 patients at Gandhi Hospital right from the first case. Back then, many were wary of being in the immediate surroundings of a COVID patient. Dr Pramod and his team, however, did not have any hesitation in attending the first case, by slipping into Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). “As frontline workers, we can’t say no to a patient. If not us, who will treat those with respiratory illness? Though the threat of contracting COVID was very real, we were not worried. We continue to attend COVID patients to this day,” said Dr Pramod, who has taken the COVID vaccine. Junior doctors also played crucial role in attending to patients. Asked about what has changed in the past one year, a junior resident doctor, Akhilesh Kumar Maurya said they now more about the disease than they did during the initial phase of the pandemic. “We learnt a lot and are still learning. Now we know that COVID primarily targets the lungs and other organs too are affected,” he said.  Along with doctors and nurses, other sections of hospital employees also attended COVID-19 patients. Sanitation worker B Yellamma, recalled how she and other workers had to clean wards and bathrooms used by COVID patients. A patient care provider at Gandhi Hospital, G. Sujatha said that they used to feed the patients, carry them from one ward to another and even clean their beds. Men affected more According to statistics available with the State government, men made for almost 60% of the total COVID-19 cases detected in the State. For people in the age group of 21-30 years, the incidence of the virus was 23.66% while for those in the 31-40 year bracket, it was 23.04%. Meanwhile, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said Telangana was the first State to implement lockdown, and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was the first among his counterparts to request the Central government to stop international flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-year-since-first-covid-case-in-ts-concerns-about-surge-prevail/article33967956.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy confident of BJP victory||The ruling TRS government is leaving no stone unturned to defeat BJP candidates in the Graduates Constituency elections for the Legislative Council by misusing official machinery and spending money, and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao personally is planning the campaign, charged senior BJP leader and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Monday. “Never before a Chief Minister got involved so much in a Graduates Constituency election which had our party stalwarts like V. Rama Rao and others winning consistently to the Upper House as the voice of the intellectuals. But this time, the TRS wants to stop us even if it means defeat of their own party candidate,” he claimed, in a series of public meetings in Mahabubnagar and Naryanpet and in media interactions. The Minister has been campaigning in support for party candidate and incumbent MLC N. Ramchander Rao for the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar Graduates constituency. Pointing out that Mr. Rao had won the poll in 2015 when the TRS popularity was high and against an employees union leader, he said since then there has been a sea change in the political climate with every section “sick and tired” of the “corrupt and dictatorial family regime.” He appealed for re-election of Mr. Rao with bigger majority and recalled his public service record from the student days when he had courted arrest in the agitations for many a public cause. “Neither Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao nor his son K.T. Rama Rao have any moral right to question his record. In fact, they should answer why not a single teacher has been recruited in the last six years,” he said. Mr. Reddy is convinced that TS people have been seeking a change to “free themselves from the clutches of the KCR and Owaisi families stranglehold” and this is evident during the Parliament elections when the party had won four seats. The Modi Government has been supporting every project and scheme in the State, including foodgrain procurement, supply of fertilizer etc., developing National Highways and another Rs. 17,000 crore more is proposed to be spent. However, the government is been dragging its feet in providing land and funds for many works like the MMTS phase two, expansion of AIIMS and so on, he added. Vice president D.K. Aruna was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-reddy-confident-of-bjp-victory/article33967988.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth Congress activists stage protest at TSPSC||Youth Congress activists staged a protest, in spite of the police bid to keep them inside the premises of Gandhi Bhavan, in front of the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) demanding a white paper on the jobs filled by the TRS government since 2014, and also payment of unemployment allowance to the unemployed youth, as promised. Tension prevailed in the Gandhi Bhavan and TSPSC building in Nampally area, premises of which lie side by side, as the activists of the Youth Congress gathered in the party office from the morning. The police tried to prevent them from venturing out of Gandhi Bhavan and reaching the TSPSC office the next door to lay siege and stage protest, as planned. However, the Youth Congress activists gave a miss to the police blocking the entrance of the Gandhi Bhavan with multiple barricades and came onto the road from the back gate of the party office. When the police obstructed their march to the TSPSC office, they staged the protest on the road itself. State president of the Youth Congress Shivasena Reddy, Hyderabad district president M. Rohith, State general secretaries Prabhakar, Aravind Yadav, Rakesh, Vidya Reddy, Shivalal Rathod, Rangareddy district president Ravikanth Goud, Medchal president Shravan Reddy, Bhadradri district president G. Venkat, Vikarabad president Satish Reddy and others participated in the protest.Later, the police took the Youth Congress leaders into custody and shifted them to Narayanguda police station. Meanwhile, Congress activists also staged a protest at Gandhi Bhavan against the increasing prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. They participated in ‘vanta-varpu’, cooking as part of the protest. PCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Mulugu MLA D. Anasuya alias Seethakka, party leaders Indira Shobhan, Sunita Rao, B. Sandhya Reddy, Ravali Reddy, Bhavani Reddy and others participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-congress-activists-stage-protest-at-tspsc/article33967981.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||70 lakh people enrolled as TRS members, says KTR||Working president of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) K.T. Rama Rao said that about 70 lakh people have enrolled themselves as primary members of the party till date from February 12, when the membership drive was launched. Mr. Rao reviewed the party’s membership drive at a meeting with the party’s general secretaries here on Monday. He stated that the drive is going on successfully and there is a huge response to it from people. The exercise was launched after a road map was given by party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on February 12. The general secretaries informed the working president that the response to the membership drive was massive at the field level and the target of enrolling at least 50,000 members from every Assembly constituency would be crossed, and in some constituencies it could be about one-lakh each. They stated that the membership drive is going on actively in spite of the canvassing on for elections to the two Graduates’ Constituencies in the Legislative Council. The general secretaries however brought to the working president’s notice that the party ranks would need an additional 3-4 days time for completing the exercise. Mr. Rao called legislators of Bhupalapally, Narayanpet and Jangaon, who have been facing some health issues, including COVID-19, over the phone and enquired about their well-being. He also called some legislators over phone and complimented them for enrolling members beyond the target. The party general secretaries told Mr. Rao that the membership fee amount is also being remitted to the party head office regularly. Suggestion made by several legislators for extending the membership drive for another week to 10 days due to huge response was also brought to the notice of Mr. Rama Rao at the meeting. They further stated that digitalisation of membership details is also in progress and over 50% membership is already digitised. The party’s working president directed the general secretaries to focus on formation of party committees immediately after the membership drive so that all committees would be in place by the month-end. He told the general secretaries to be active at the field level since the work on strengthening the party is expected to go for one more month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/good-response-to-party-membership-drive-ktr/article33967990.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After months of confinement at home, elderly step out for jab||After almost a year of restricting themselves to home over COVID-19 fears, senior citizens in Telangana took frail steps towards a relatively normal life as their turn for vaccination came up on Monday. After healthcare workers and frontline workers, the Health department is now vaccinating common people aged 60 years and above, and those in the 45-59 year age group with co-morbidities. Some elderly persons walked to the vaccination centres at private hospitals while others relied on walking sticks or wheelchairs. Most of them were accompanied by a family member. Among the oldest persons to take the vaccine in Hyderabad was 100-year-old Jaidev Chowdhry, a former entrepreneur. He took the jab at Medicover Hospitals, opposite the State Secretariat. The jabs are offered free of cost at government hospitals. If one choose to get the jab at a private hospital, they have to pay Rs. 150 per dose, and a maximum of Rs. 100 service charge. One can either register for the vaccination online (cowin.gov.in), or by simply walking into the vaccination centres with government-issued photo identity cards. While online registration opened on Monday morning, senior Health officials said they received complaints about technical glitches during registration. There were instances of people not receiving one-time password (OTP) to initiate the registration process or getting a confirmation message after registering. The turnout at government hospitals remained low, while it surged at corporate hospitals during afternoon hours. A common question asked at the vaccination centres was about the brand of vaccine being administered since people are not being given a choice in this matter. Waiting for their turn was a test of patience for many. Rajendra Prasad, 83, had to wait for over an hour at Care Hospitals, Banjara Hills. He said the process of registration was fairly simple. Also in the queue was C.V. Raghavulu, an 80-year-old retired vice-chancellor. So far, he has managed to steer clear of COVID-19 as he remained confined to home and observed precautions. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said antibodies will be generated two weeks after the first dose and that vaccine recipients will be fully protected within 42 days of the initial jab. The vaccine is to be taken in two doses with a gap of 28 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-months-of-home-confinement-senior-citizens-step-out-for-the-jab/article33967959.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Walk-in registration opened post noon||The Health department had decided to allow only online registrations for the first few days of COVID-19 vaccination drive covering high-risk citizens, but opened walk-in registrations from Monday afternoon. Vaccination at government hospitals would be open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. every day except on Wednesdays and Sundays. Private hospitals have the freedom of fixing their own timings and days of the week. Those interested in getting the jab at private hospitals may call the hospital in advance to confirm their appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/walk-in-registration-opened-post-noon/article33967951.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ask OTP to renew card||Two people, who cheated several people by impersonating bank officials, were arrested by Hyderabad Cyber Crimes police. The accused were brought to Hyderabad after they were arrested in Delhi on February 26. Police seized six mobile phones, three bank cards and other material from the possession of 28-year-old Vineet Singh and 32-year-old Deepak Singh Rawat from Delhi. In December last, one Ravi Kumar from Tarnaka approached the police stating that unknown persons had phoned him posing as RBL Bank officials and informed him that his credit card would expire soon and asked him to follow their instructions to get its extension. Further, they sent OTPs to his mobile number and made transactions of Rs. 50,000 by cheating him. Based on a complaint lodged by Ravi Kumar, a case was registered and special teams were formed to nab the accused. Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said that the accused persons continue to transfer the money from the accounts of victims until the victims realised that they were being cheated. He warned people to not believe in such calls and that no bank officials will ask their customers to share the OTPs for extension of credit or debit cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ask-otp-to-renew-card/article33967970.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Most unsuitable boy||A youngster from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh was arrested by the Cyber Crimes police of Hyderabad for cheating a woman whom he met on a matrimonial website. In October last, a woman from Tarnaka told police that she met one Rajiv Mallin from the United Kingdom through Bharat Matrimony. He expressed his willingness to marry the victim, and also told her that he wanted to settle down in Bengaluru, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. When they got close, he informed the woman that he sent a parcel to India from the UK. Later, she got calls from Delhi Customs, GST office etc to pay Rs. 10.69 lakh as custom charges, GST, Anti-Terror fund,Income Tax etc, he said. “She transferred the money into a bank account only to realise that she was cheated,” he added. The arrested accused, identified as 21-year-old Mohd Hasim alias Pappu, contacted women after taking their details from the matrimonial sites. “He introduces himself as a person working in the UK and cheats them” Mr. Mohanty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/most-unsuitable-boy/article33967971.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP betraying State: Congress||Betrayal of Telangana by the ruling parties in the State and at the Centre, Telangana Rahstra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) respectively, is going on unabated since 2014, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged here on Monday. The two parties are sabotaging the State’s economy and ruining the careers of lakhs of youth. “They have done gross injustice with Telangana ever since they came to power in 2014,” he said adding that the wrong policies of the State and Centre pushed Telangana into a debt trap while eroding lakhs of jobs and future opportunities. Both the parties are responsible for turning Telangana into a crisis State so as to extract political benefits, he observed. Addressing a meeting of the office-bearers of all frontal organisations, departments and cells of TPCC at Gandhi Bhavan ahead of the elections to two Graduates’ Constituencies in the Legislative Council, Mr. Reddy, who is also MP from Nalgonda, said undesirable and imprudent spending of public money had pushed State into a debt trap, estimated to be about Rs. 3.5 lakh crore now. “On an average, the TRS government has been borrowing Rs. 50,000 crore every year at very high interest rate,” he said. The money is being spent mostly on projects that could fetch commissions and kickbacks for TRS leaders, the TPCC chief alleged adding that the future generations of Telangana would be forced to repay the debt with high interest. The TRS government is misusing the resources of Telangana to benefit the family of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said. Similarly, the BJP government at the Centre aggravated the situation by not releasing adequate funds for Telangana, he said. The TPCC chief asked the party leaders and workers to enlighten people about the damage being caused by TRS and BJP to Telangana. The situation could be changed only if Congress regains power, he said.  The victory of Congress in the two Graduates’ Constituencies of the Legislative Council and by-election to Nagarjunasagar Assembly Constituency would force TRS and BJP to mend their approach towards the people of Telangana, the senior Congress leader felt.  On an average, the TRS government has been borrowing Rs. 50,000 crore every year at very high interest rate. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, TPCC chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-bjp-betraying-state-congress/article33967947.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sickles recovered||Police on Monday recovered two sickles, allegedly used by the killers in lawyer couple murder case, from the waters of Sundilla-Parvati barrage of Kaleshwaram project in Manthani mandal. Earlier, two of the four accused held in the twin murders case admitted to interrogators that they had thrown the sickles used by them in the barrage after executing the couple. As the weapons used by the killers become crucial evidence, the police had brought in expert swimmers to recover the sickles from the waters of the barrage. For two days, the swimmers searched in the waters for the sickles and finally recovered them on Monday. The same were seized by the investigators to be sent to forensic experts for analysis. The sickles were recovered near gate nos. 53 and 54.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sickles-recovered/article33967982.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||116 fresh COVID cases on Sunday||Telangana on Sunday added 116 cases to its COVID-19 tally, touching 2,98,923. While 20,375 people were examined, results of 276 were awaited. The death toll stands at 1,634 with no new fatality reported. The new cases include 26 from Greater Hyderabad, 11 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy. No cases were recorded in eight districts including Wanaparthy, Nirmal, Mulugu and Narayanpet. Of the total cases, 1,902 are active while 2,95,387 have recovered. Till February 28 this year, a total of 87,21,026 samples have been put to test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/116-fresh-covid-cases-on-sunday/article33967950.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cases on the decline||The number of COVID-19 cases, which peaked in Telangana in mid-2020, is now on a decline. The downward trend is also observed regarding the number of samples being tested in a day as well as deaths due to the infectious disease. While 95 cases were recorded in March 2020, it increased to 943 in April. From there, the number of infections increased every month along with the number of tests. The surge was observed till October. In August, 62,911 cases were recorded, and went up to 65,903 in September — the highest monthly case-load in the State so far. The downward trajectory began in October. In January 2021, only 7,772 cases were recorded, which dropped to 4,336 in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cases-on-the-decline/article33967952.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 600 take part in half marathon||Over 600 people took part in the 12th edition of the annual Club Run 2021 organised by Hyderabad Runners in association with Gaudium Sportopia. The serene and peaceful atmosphere of Velimela village in Ramachandrapuram mandal of Sangareddy district was just the right backdrop for the half marathon (21.0975 km) and many participants recorded their personal best timings. The event was the first official run to be conducted after COVID-19 pandemic broke out. It was flagged off by Agriculture Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy and Gaudium Group chairman Nityananda Reddy. The event was organised in line with COVID norms, said Arun Kaliappan, race director. Meanwhile, the virtual 10K event saw participation of over 200 runners while 100 runners took part in the 5k event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-600-take-part-in-half-marathon/article33967960.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Biotech hails PM for taking Covaxin shot||Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech has welcomed the gesture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in taking the first dose of the indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine. “This has set a powerful example for all Indians to follow, which will go a long way in reducing vaccine hesitancy and building confidence in immunisation against the ongoing pandemic. We express our sincere gratitude to the Prime Minister for reposing his trust in Covaxin,” CMD Krishna Ella said on Monday. “We urge all fellow citizens to not hesitate from taking part in the COVID-19 immunisation programme so that the country can bring an end to this public health crisis,” he said in a statement. Covaxin is one of the two vaccines that were accorded emergency-use authorisation and is being administered since mid-January. Covishield or the vaccine of AstraZeneca being manufactured by Serum Institute of India is the other. CEO of Serum Institute Adar Poonawalla tweeted: Great to see Shri @narendramodi Ji leading from the front & getting vaccinated. In the interest of protecting our nation, I would urge the public to get vaccinated at the earliest, whether it be @SerumInstIndia’s vaccines or any of the other vaccines being developed in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bharat-biotech-hails-pm-for-taking-covaxin/article33967961.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three woman scientists honoured on Science Day||Three young woman scientists — M. Sai Kiran, DST Inspire Fellow from Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning, Anantapur, (Work on ‘Self-assembled PVA-based hydrogel beads for effective defluoridation of groundwater), Jagriti Singh, research scholar, Centre for Nanoscience and Engineering, IISc, Bengaluru (Work on ‘The Optical Wrestle: Why Is Black Silica Better than Black Silicon?) and S. Mamatha, research scholar, Centre for Ceramic Processing, ARCI, Hyderabad (Work on 3D printing of ceramics – An emerging technology) — bagged the top three prizes in the ‘Technology and Innovation Talks’ organized on ‘National Science Day’ by International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy & New Materials (ARCI) here. The contest was held as part of golden jubilee celebrations of Department of Science and Technology on virtual platform with about 68 contestants from all over country participating.  Eminent panel Scholars were evaluated based on a three-minute presentation on their area of research backed by two slides and demo videos from diverse topics. A panel of eminent professors and senior scientists chose the winners based on the novelty, scientific/technical content and relevance to societal needs. Earlier, CSIR-CCMB Director Rakesh K. Mishra delivered the ‘National Science Day’ talk ‘The Science, Development and Deployment of Vaccines’ where he spoke on the challenge, the exciting science, the rigour and practical aspect of deploying a usable vaccine in the current pandemic situation. Director of the ARCI G. Padmanabham urged the young researchers to elevate their curiosity not only in understanding the scientific phenomena but also the social circumstances in which they live. Demo videos He also released 10 “Science and Technology demo videos for students” based on the institute technology developments. These are to be circulated to schools (www.arci.res.in). Chairman of the National Science Day organizing committee P.K. Jain and ARCI senor scientist Pramod H Borse, also spoke, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-woman-scientists-honoured-on-science-day/article33967968.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed in road accident||In a case of hit-and-run, a man was crushed to death by an unidentified vehicle at Uppal on Monday morning. According to police, the accident took place around 7.30 a.m. near Uppal Metro Station. The victim, whose identity is yet to be known, was aged about 40 years. “He suffered severe injuries and died on the spot,” the investigators said, adding that they wrote to Hyderabad Metro Rail authorities to furnish CCTV footage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-in-road-accident/article33967969.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP govts. denying ITIR, jobs to youth: Congress||State Congress leaders alleged that Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao and IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao were maintaining a stoic silence on the issue of ITIR promised to the State although the BJP government at the Centre was trying to deny the project to the State. Speaking separately, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, AICC spokesperson D. Sravan alleged that the TRS was trying to deceive the youth in the State again ahead of the MLC elections by raking up the issues such as ITIR, filling vacancies and unemployment allowance. Mr. Uttam Reddy said the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) sanctioned by UPA government in 2013-14 had the potential to create over 50 lakh direct and indirect employment. However, neither the TRS government pursued it with the Centre nor the BJP government ever reviewed it to grant necessary funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-bjp-govts-denying-itir-jobs-to-youth-congress/article33967992.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Unused grenade found||An unused hand grenade was found by a shepherdess in the hillocks of Amistapur village near Mahbubnagar town on Monday morning. District Superintendent of Police Rema Rajeshwari said that Golla Sayamma, while grazing her sheep, stumbled upon a metal on the earth crust. Out of curiousity Sayamma started digging and recovered the object. Her son fearing it to be an explosive alerted police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unused-grenade-found/article33967973.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Speeding crane topples over, kills driver||A 26-year-old man died after a crane which he was driving accidentally fell on him at Gachibowli in the late hours of Sunday. According to the Police the victim, Pavan alias Anil Yadav from Balanagar, drove the crane at a high speed and rammed another crane moving in the same direction. As a result his vehicle turned turtle and he came under it and died on the spot, Gachibowli police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crane-topples-over-driver-killed/article33967972.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Minor lapse on part of driver no reason to dismiss insurance claim’||The Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission held that a minor lapse on the part of a vehicle driver is not liable for a claim to be dismissed, and directed an insurance company to reimburse Rs. 17.54 lakh. The Commission bench comprising president M S K Jaiswal and member Meena Ramanathan was dealing with a complaint filed by Ch Sudhakara Raju, a resident of Banjara Hills, against Bharati Axa General Insurance Co Ltd. The complainant stated that in September 2013 his Audi Q7 3.0 TDI car, purchased for over Rs. 60.21 lakh, was stranded in Jubilee Hills due to heavy rains when water overflowed from KBR National Park. The water entered the car’s engine, and it would not start. The vehicle was then towed to a workshop on the same night. When this was informed to the opposite party, it sent an appointed surveyor, and after inspecting the vehicle, reported ‘hydrostatic loss’ which was not covered by the insurance policy. ‘Improper inspection’ The complainant wrote to the opposite parties contending the outcome of the vehicle inspection as improper. After this, the complainant engaged the services of an IRDA surveyor who assessed the damage and noted that it was due to flood water entering the engine manifold, damaging its parts. The cost of repair was estimated at over Rs. 20 lakh. For their part, the opposite party denied all allegations, and maintained that except Rs. 53,108, no amount is payable by it, and that the damages to the vehicle are not insured. The opposite parties also contended that the driver of the vehicle, the complainant’s wife, was negligent and despite being instructed not to attempt to start the vehicle, did the opposite. The damage, it stated, was due to cranking of the engine after water entered the cylinder.  ‘Hapless situation’ After taking all submission into consideration, the Commission noted that while there was a ‘minor lapse’ on the part of the driver, ‘that by itself cannot be taken as a serious lapse on her part so as to deny the benefits of the insurance policy’. The Commission also stated that she was in a ‘hapless’ situation, and this should be looked in its totality. “Taking into consideration the above facts and circumstances and the natural human nature and the way in which people conduct themselves, we feel that it will be highly unjust, unfair and injustice to the complainant with the order so as to make her suffer for the act which she has admittedly committed as has been borne out from the letter Ex.A5. We feel that the interest of justice demands that this by itself cannot be taken as a ground for the insurance company to deny the claim of the complainant,” the order reads. The Commission also touched upon the appointment of surveyors by both parties in the case. Apart from directing the opposite party to reimburse Rs. 17.54 lakh as assessed by surveyors of the complainant, costs of Rs. 10,000 were also ordered. The time for compliance was set to four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-lapse-on-part-of-driver-no-reason-to-dismiss-insurance-claim/article33967977.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CEA Member visits TS-Transco office||Veera Mahender, Member (Economics & Commercial) of Central Electricity Authority (CEA) visited Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd (TS-Transco) head office in Vidyut Soudha here on Monday. Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Transco and TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao, CMD of Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy, Joint MD of TS-Transco C. Srinivasa Rao met the visiting CEA executive. The senior executives of Telangana power utilities felicitated Mr. Mahender, first person to hold the position of Member in CEA from Telangana. The CEA Member assured the Telangana officials all support from CEA in the implementation of various schemes in the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cea-member-visits-ts-transco-office/article33967979.ece
02 March 2021||R. AvadhaniERRAVALLI (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Drip system in 2,700 acres at villages adopted by CM||Narne Mallesh, a farmer in his 40s, has bought a filter and fixed it at his farm in Erravalli village of Markook mandal for the drip system being supplied by the sub-zone committee, to arrest any dust particles in the flow of water. He has previous experience of handling drip system at his field located at another place from the village, in about two-and-half acres. Mallesh is among the 1,200 farmers from Erravalli and Narsannapet villages in Markook mandal benefiting from the drip system being provided by the authorities free of cost. These two villages adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao are located in Gajwel constituency represented by him. The government has sanctioned about Rs. 48 crore as grant to implement the project on a pilot basis and it is aimed at inculcating the habit of adopting drip irrigation and reaping the benefits. The entire 2,733 acres in these two villages were divided into 14 zones, each zone comprising about 200 acres. The zones were again divided into four sub-zones. Each sub-zone has a chairman to monitor the drip water system. They have established a structure in each zone, from where the supply of water for each farm is automated and can be operated through computer system. “This is Israeli technology, the most advanced one, and for the first time is being used by the government. The valves of the drip irrigation in each field are connected to the system at the zone office. Water can be released to a particular filed after request by a farmer, from the control room. We can also supply fertigation water soluble to the fields,” J Nagender Reddy, Agriculture Officer, Markook, told The Hindu . A team of agriculture and horticulture officers have been campaigning in these two villages for the past few weeks and trying to convince farmers to go for drip system, stating that they can cultivate fields with less water. They are also being encouraged to go for vegetables and crops like keera and tomato. “There will be lot of advantage due to the drip system. We can provide irrigation and fertilizer at the root of the plant. My experience is good,” said Mr Mallesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drip-system-in-2700-acres-at-villages-adopted-by-cm/article33967997.ece
02 March 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Devotees throng Peddagattu jatara||The four-day biennial jatara of the Sri Lingamanthula Swamy and Goddess Choudamma atop the Durajpalli hillock, popular as Peddagattu jatara or Golla Gattu jatara, began on a grand note with devotees rushing from across the State and neighbouring States on Monday. The carrying of the ‘Devarapette’ or the divine box, which preserves the Yadava clan-deities — Lingamanthula Swamy, Choudamma, Pothuraju, Ganga and others — started late on Sunday night. Following special prayers, the darshan and the jatara was opened for visitors and devotees on Monday. Apart from the Telugu States, devotees travelled here from parts of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Although an official estimate on the number of visitors is yet to be announced, flow of tens of thousands of devotees was prominent all through the day.  Temporary shelter About 50 acres land was designated for parking purposes, and as seen through official drone visuals, numerous visitors were camped in makeshift tents in about two-kilometre radius of the hillock. Vehicular movement on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) abutting the Peddagattu was also regulated and diverted for smooth flow. Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav and local legislators joined the fete and offered special prayers. According to Mr. Reddy, the significance of Peddagattu jatara gained more significance after the separate State of Telangana was formed, and the credit was due to Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for sanctioning sufficient funds for the development of the temple and organization of the festival, he said. “The footfall is in several lakhs, which is more than our estimate. Round-the-clock arrangements for sanitation in the wake of COVID-19 are being followed as a priority. The jatara is a feast for the eye,” he described. The Yadava community will be indebted to Mr. Reddy for ensuring grand arrangements, Minister Talasani said and prayed for the prosperity of Telangana. The opening day saw countless devotees, celebration of music and dance, traditional sacrifice of sheep, women offering bonam in decorated baskets in the ‘gampala pradakshina’, and several village artistes displaying folk talents. Hundreds of souvenir shops, exhibition stalls, street plays and joy rides added energy to the atmosphere. On Tuesday, the Yadava priests will perform Chandrapatnam, the celestial wedding of the presiding deity, followed by Vratam and celebrations to conclude the jatara on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/devotees-throng-peddagattu-jatara/article33967949.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Glow around greenery||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/glow-around-greenery/article33967965.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Light and shadow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/light-and-shadow/article33968133.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Roadblock, Parliament gherao on cards as farmers bid to step up stir||While the protest at the Singhu border is going strong and the crowd has remained steady, talks are being held on how to take movement forward, said stage management committee members on Monday. A roadblock is being planned, said a member of the stage management committee and District Pradhan of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Kadian), Amrik Singh. Meetings lined up “A meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders was held on Sunday and another is expected to take place on Tuesday to talk about how to take the protest forward. A roadblock is being planned in the coming days to shake the government out of its slumber for us,” he said, adding that another possibility is Parliament gherao. “If the government doesn’t move forward, then parliament gherao can also be considered. A repeat of January 26 can be called in terms of crowd and not violence. Probably, if planned, the march will be on foot,” he said. Another member said donations have gone down to less than Rs. 1 lakh a day. “On most days, it’s around Rs. 70,000-Rs. 80,000. Very rarely it reaches Rs. 2 lakh. Before Republic Day, we used to get Rs. 5-Rs. 7 lakh, which further came down to Rs. 1-Rs. 2 lakh,” he said. He also said if they fall short of money, farmer leaders will arrange funds by themselves to keep the protest going. A major part of expenses is spent on medical bills of protesters, he said. “If any farmer has a major health problem at any of the three borders, the cost is borne by us,” he said. Mr. Singh said two main NGOs — Khalsa Aid and United Sikhs — have not contributed to the money collected by SKM for running the protest. They voluntarily work at the three sites for the protesters. Medical plans The makeshift hospital at the Singhu border is also planning to expand its area and add an in-patient department for admissions. They have also removed the divider which separated the pharmacy and the hospital. “We will add another space — in the form of a tent — to this hospital to be able to admit more patients. There will be tiles on the floor in that tent,” said Avtar Singh, who runs the hospital started by Life Care Foundation. He said they are also planning to shut the other hospital, which is about 2 km ahead, and merge into one. Facilities like cardiology, orthopaedic, gastroenterology, pulmonology, endocrinology, dermatology, urology among others will be made available in the new set-up.  A repeat of January 26 can be called in terms of crowd and not violence. Probably, if planned, the march will be on foot Amrik Singh Member of stage management committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-plan-parliament-gherao-roadblock-to-step-up-agitation/article33967707.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||At 85, this protester from Punjab polishes shoes at Singhu border||Nachhatar Singh, an 85-year-old protester from Ludhiana, has been polishing shoes for the past month at the Sindhu border. He has been stationed at the protest site since November 26 and his family is calling him back home. They are worried because of his age. ‘Will make a century’ Yet, Mr. Singh’s resolve is undeterred. “ 85 ka hun, century maarke jaunga [I am 85 and will complete a century], he said with a smile. Every day, Mr. Singh sits inside a tent where protesters come to clean their shoes. His designation is “Chief Maintenance Officer” while others in the tent are called “Shoes Maintenance Officers”. With visible enthusiasm, he polishes the shoes of his “customers” and is proud to be using an “organic” polish. “I don’t have a phone nor does anyone else in my family. I call on our neighbour’s number and they make me talk to my wife. She asks me to come home. I tell her that I won’t — very strictly. My son also says that I should come back but I have told him that I am doing my job and he should do his,” he said. Mr. Singh said he also celebrated his grandson Dilawar Singh’s birthday here behind the main stage on February 9 when he was visiting. For him, the protest started three months before November 26 because they were all carrying out rallies in their villages on two-wheelers. “When we came to Delhi, we thought it was only a two-day event but because of the government, we are still here,” he said. ‘All for my children’ Mr. Singh, who is fully aware of the new farm laws, said he is protesting for his children’s safe future. “I only have 1.5 acres of land. I don’t want my children to beg,” he said. He walks 2 km for the job and the same distance back to the tents where he is lodging along with the tractors from his village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/at-85-this-protester-from-punjab-polishes-shoes-at-singhu-border/article33967700.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi researchers develop technology to recycle e-waste||To deal with one of the fastest growing waste streams, researchers at Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi have developed a zero-emission technology to manage and recycle e-waste to wealth, the institute said on Monday. It said a team led by K.K. Pant and his research group in the Catalytic Reaction Engineering Laboratory at Chemical Engineering Department have adopted a methodology that uses e-waste as an “Urban Mine” for metal recovery and energy production. Researchers said using their method, e-waste is shredded and pyrolyzed to yield liquid and gaseous fuels, leaving behind a metal-rich solid fraction. On further separation using a novel technique, the leftover solid residue yields a 90-95% pure metal mixture and some carbonaceous materials. The carbonaceous material is further converted to aerogel for oil spillage cleaning, dye removal, carbon dioxide capture, and use in supercapacitors. The technology is an outcome of a Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, funded project and developed technology will cater to the need of “Smart Cities,” “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan,” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiatives of the government, IIT-Delhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-delhi-researchers-develop-technology-to-recycle-e-waste/article33967702.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Petition seeking demolition of over 40 buildings in south Delhi dismissed||The High Court on Monday dismissed a petition by an NGO, seeking demolition of more than 40 buildings on grounds of alleged unauthorised construction in south Delhi’s Deoli. The court noted that it looked like blackmailing litigation. An HC Bench also imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on petitioner NGO Prerna Ek Disha Foundation. “The so-called PIL looks like blackmailing litigation. The petition is dismissed with a cost of Rs. 1 lakh, to be deposited with the legal service authority,” the Bench said. The court said the counsel for the NGO has not argued anything on the legality of the construction and merely because some construction material is lying on the road, does not mean that it was illegal. “This can’t be a presumption of illegality of the construction. There is a wrong notion because the material is on road, the construction is illegal. The legality of the construction cannot be proved on the basis of photographs placed with the petition,” the Bench said. It said stringent and cogent evidence is required to prove the legality or illegality of a construction. The NGO had relied on various photographs showing construction material lying on the roads and alleged that it illegal construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/petition-seeking-demolition-of-over-40-buildings-in-south-delhi-dismissed/article33967692.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC relief for scribe over ‘defamatory’ RSS article||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a complaint filed by a man against a business daily and a journalist Mitali Saran over an article, which he claimed contained “some defamatory insinuations” against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said Lohitaksha Shukla, an advocate, has not been able to show as to how he is the “person aggrieved” in the present case. “..thus, the contents of complaint suffers from vices of illegality or infirmity,” the court said, adding: “...no hesitation to hold that the complaint in question is not maintainable and is liable to be dismissed”. Mr. Shukla had alleged that the article titled — The Long and Short of it — is not based on facts and contains some defamatory insinuations against RSS. He said the article had contents that “accused members of RSS being oppressive to Indians, mentally disturbed and disrespectful to Indian National Symbols ridden with psychosexual complexes, practitioners of discrimination based on caste and physically unfit”. Mr. Shukla also said being a member of RSS, his reputation has been adversely affected. On the other hand, Ms. Saran claimed her literary style involves using satire, irony and humour to comment on the latest political and social developments. She argued that Mr. Shukla has not established that he was authorised by the RSS to file the complaint on its behalf or that he holds any post in the RSS. The court said: “In the present case, Mr. Shuklahas not led any evidence to establish how his reputation was harmed as a result of the said article”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-relief-for-scribe-over-defamatory-rss-article/article33967693.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two including minor held for shooting at constable||A 21-year-old man has been arrested and a juvenile has been apprehended for allegedly shooting at a Delhi Police Constable in outer north Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy, the police said on Monday. DCP (Outer) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said that the accused youth has been identified as Yogesh Verma, a resident of Bakhtawarpur. The police said that the incident took place on February 25 evening, when Constable Sandeep and Bhupender of Bhalswa Dairy police station were at a police picket. The accused came on a motorcycle bearing a “defective” number plate. The policemen signalled them to stop. When the pillion rider tried to flee, the policemen tried to catch him and he fell down and then fired at Mr. Sandeep. The other accused also fired at Mr. Bhupender, who did not, however, sustain any injury, the police said. Mr. Singh said that late on Sunday, when the police tried to nab the accused acting on a tip-off, one of them opened fire at the police team. In retaliation, the police team also fired at the accused. During the cross-firing, the accused sustained injuries and were later sent to a hospital for treatment. The police said that both the accused have criminal history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-including-minor-held-for-shooting-at-constable/article33967935.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Restobars told to share locations using Google Maps||The Delhi Excise Department has directed owners of clubs, restaurants and hotels in the city to share the location of their establishments using Google Maps, a move aimed at preparing a digital database, officials said on Monday. The department said non-compliance of its directions will be viewed seriously. There are over 1,000 hotels, clubs and restobars in the national capital with excise licences to serve liquor to their customers. In a written communication, the department has asked the establishments to send information relating to their location using longitude and latitude. An official said the move will also help to know geographic locations of such establishments in a particular area. “It is digitally easy to find location of clubs, hotels and restaurants in a particular area. If we have a digital database, we can take decisions accordingly. Such database can also be utilised for excise policy in the coming months,” the official told PTI, adding that the move is part of excise reforms. Another official said there are some areas which have sufficient number of clubs and restaurants, but there are also other areas where such establishments are not in good numbers. Last month, the government had constituted a Group of Ministers (GoM) under Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia to examine the current system of excise duty administration and the recommendations of an expert committee on a new excise policy. Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Law Minister Kailash Gahlot are part of the GoM. It is examining all aspects of the current system of excise duty administration and will go through the report of the expert committee and the suggestions received from stakeholders and the public. Last week, the department had warned clubs, hotels and restaurants of strict action if they are found serving alcohol to customers from liquor bottles not bearing 2D bar-codes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/restobars-told-to-share-locations-using-google-maps/article33967694.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Court grants bail to man in R-Day violence case||A Delhi court on Monday granted bail to a man in a case related to the Republic Day violence during farmers’ tractor parade against the Centre’s three new farm laws, saying no specific role has been assigned to him. The court said the accused was not alleged to have attempted to kill or hurt the police personnel deployed. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat granted the relief to Ashish Kumar on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 15,000 with one surety of like amount in the case. The court said the ground of bail calls for balancing the paramount right of the individual, that is right to liberty, on one hand and right of the investigating agency to probe. “As per the case of the prosecution on January 26, 2021, applicant [Ashish] was detained at Chintamani Chowk since at around 12.50 p.m. around 500 protesters on tractors rally and cars were coming from Apsara Border flyover and they had broken the barricade in the violent manner. People driving tractors had tried to run over the police personnel. “However, there is no specific role assigned to the accused in as much as the accused himself is not alleged to have attempted to kill or hurt the police personnel deployed in law and arrangement duty,” it said in its order. It further said the best case of the prosecution was that the accused had participated in the said rally/unlawful assembly at the relevant time, thereby, attracting imputation under Section 149 of IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-grants-bail-to-man-in-r-day-violence-case/article33967695.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Toolkit case: Nikita Jacob moves court||Nikita Jacob, who is accused along with climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a “toolkit” on social media related to the farmers’ protest, Monday moved a Delhi court seeking anticipatory bail. The application moved by Ms. Jacob, who is charged with the case of sedition, is likely to come up for hearing Tuesday before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. She had got transit anticipatory bail from Bombay HC on February 17 with direction to approach the court concerned in Delhi, where the case is lodged. The court on February 23 had granted bail to Ms. Ravi who was arrested by the Delhi police from Bengaluru. The Sessions court on February 25 granted protection from arrest to another co-accused, Shantanu Muluk, till March 9, when it will hear his anticipatory bail application. Ms. Ravi, Mr. Muluk and Ms. Jacob were booked for alleged sedition and other charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/toolkit-case-nikita-jacob-moves-court/article33967696.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT asks DJB to act against sewage plant in Kondli||Following a plea seeking action against a sewage treatment plant operating in violation of norms in Kondli, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi Jal Board to take action. Noting that the DJB has “consistently failed” to take action, the NGT said that a fine of Rs. 5 lakh per month will be imposed on the CEO of the DJB if steps are not taken by May 31. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “Counsel for the DJB submits that requisite steps have still not been taken, but the same will be completed before the month of May, 2021.” “Even though for consistent failure of the DJB, we are inclined to award heavy costs. We defer this aspect till the next day with a direction that if the needful is not done even by May 31,the CEO, DJB, will be liable to pay cost of Rs. 5 lakh per month till compliance,” the Bench said.  The directions came when the panel was hearing a plea moved by a resident welfare association that sought remedial action against the plant in Kondli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-asks-djb-to-act-against-sewage-plant-in-kondli/article33967703.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||DTC gives nod to procure 300 AC low-floor e-buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) in its board meeting on Monday approved bids for the procurement of 300 AC low-floor electric buses. With the induction of these, in addition to 1,000 CNG buses, which are in the process of being procured, the DTC intends to achieve a total fleet strength of 5,060. According to the government, these 300 low-floor 12 meters BS-VI compliant AC buses will be equipped with facilities, including real-time passenger information systems, CCTVs, panic buttons, GPS and other facilities along with being differently abled friendly. They will, the government said, also be integrated with the newly built Command and Control Centre at Kashmiri Gate to ensure passenger safety, especially of women passengers. Earlier, the DTC had floated an open tender for the procurement of 300 low-floor 12 meters full electric AC buses in December 2020. Completion date These 300 electric buses after approval by the Cabinet will start arriving in October 2021 and the entire induction will be completed by February 2022, the government said. The public transporter has already issued Letters of Award for 1,000 low-floor AC buses (BS-VI compliant) and the buses will start arriving in May 2021 and the entire fleet of 1000 CNG buses is likely to be inducted by September 2021. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot later said, “With the arrival of these 300 electric buses, Delhi will take its first huge leap to its dream of a fully electric public transport in the city.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dtc-gives-nod-to-procure-300-ac-low-floor-e-buses/article33967698.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Green day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/green-day/article33967709.ece
02 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Compensation sought for wrongful confinement||Civil rights groups here have raised the issue of wrongful confinement of Lucknow resident Shahbaz Ahmad, who after spending over 12 years in jail, was acquitted in eight cases related to the Jaipur bomb blasts of 2008, but was rearrested in a ninth case in the same matter. The Rajasthan High Court had released Mr. Ahmad on bail last week. The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) has demanded payment of Rs. 1 crore as compensation to Mr. Ahmad, 48, for the loss of 12 years of his life and strict action against the police officers who had falsely implicated him in a “concocted case”. PUCL said Mr. Ahmad and his family had undergone an ordeal. “These years cannot be returned to Mr. Ahmad, but those who conspired to implicate him should get punishment under the criminal law and face disciplinary action,” PUCL-Rajasthan president Kavita Srivastava said here on Monday. Rearrested in 2019 The Anti-Terrorism Squad of Rajasthan police had rearrested Mr. Ahmad in December 2019 shortly after he was acquitted by a special court in the 2008 serial blasts cases. The arrest was made in connection with a bomb strapped to a bicycle parked in a market, which was defused by the police personnel before it could explode on May 13, 2008. Eight other ammonium nitrate-based bombs, packed with metal splinters, went off at different locations within a 2-km radius in the densely populated Walled City here, killing 71 persons and leaving about 200 injured. The trial in eight cases resulted in the conviction of four persons from Uttar Pradesh, but the case pertaining to the planting of unexploded bomb was not tried with the rest of the blast matters. The four convicted persons were awarded death penalty, while Mr. Ahmad was acquitted. Mr. Ahmad, a resident of Lucknow who was the first one to be arrested three months after the blasts, was charged with sending an email which claimed responsibility for the blasts on behalf of the Indian Mujahideen, but the court did not find evidence beyond doubt to connect him with the crime. ATS had claimed to have cracked the Jaipur blasts case after arresting Mr. Ahmad from his computer and career consultancy centre in Aminabad locality of Lucknow. He was referred to as the mastermind of serial blasts in Jaipur and elsewhere till the controversial Batla House encounter took place in Delhi on September 19, 2008, and some alleged IM operatives were arrested in Mumbai and Pune. Granting bail to Mr. Ahmad, Justice Pankaj Bhandari at the High Court’s Jaipur Bench expressed surprise at the fact that he was not arrested in the ninth case when he was “languishing” in jail. “I am using the term ‘languishing in jail’ because [the] petitioner remained in custody for 12 years and was ultimately found not guilty in all cases,” the Judge observed in his three-page order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/compensation-sought-for-wrongful-confinement/article33967936.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||Opposition walks out over govt. stance on development boards||The Maharashtra Budget session was off to a stormy start on Monday after the Opposition walked out of the Assembly protesting the government stand to wait till the appointment of 12 Council members from the Governor’s quota before making appointments to the Vidarbha and Marathwada statutory development boards. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the government was making an excuse to deny the under-developed Marathwada and Vidarbha regions their due share of development by not making the appointments. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was committed to their development and the budget that he was going to present in the next week would ensure adequate funds to these regions. As Mr. Pawar presented the supplementary demands worth Rs. 21,076.32 crore on the first day of the session, Mr. Fadnavis raised the issue of funds to these boards and asked why no appointments had been made. The Finance Minister said that the moment Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari cleared the appointment of 12 MLCs as recommended by the State Cabinet, the appointments to these boards would be announced. This led to uproar from the Opposition benches who alleged bias towards the two regions. “We want to establish the boards, but are waiting for the Governor’s approval for 12 MLCs,” Mr. Pawar said. To this, Mr. Fadnavis, who was supported by former Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, said, “You cannot play with the development of the two regions for 12 MLCs. This is our constitutional right.” “The statutory development boards are essential for these regions,” Mr. Mungantiwar said. The statutory development boards were created to ensure equitable distribution of funds for these regions which have lagged in development ever since they became part of Maharashtra. The boards, which have representatives from the legislature, get extension every five years; the previous tenure came to an end on April 30, 2020. The MVA government has sent a proposal to appoint 12 MLCs from the Governor’s quota which has been pending with Mr. Koshyari for approval for over five months. According to sources, appointments to the boards without filling the total capacity of the legislature may lead to legal problems. Congress MLA Nana Patole said that while these boards were essential, a white paper must be tabled on what financial allocations the previous BJP-led government had made for these regions during its tenure. This proposal was accepted by Mr. Pawar. Claiming that his request to the Finance Minister to make the appointments was not heard, Mr. Mungantiwar said that the Opposition was staging a walk-out. Mr. Pawar reiterated that there would be sufficient budgetary allocations for both the regions. “We have also sent a proposal of development boards for Konkan and north Maharashtra,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/opposition-walks-out-over-govt-stance-on-development-boards/article33967617.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. can cut taxes, reduce fuel prices, says Fadnavis||Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the MVA government was misleading people on fuel price hikes as it could cut taxes and provide relief. He said taxes imposed by the Centre on per litre of petrol came up to Rs. 70, which were paid to States in various ways, while the amount charged by the State was Rs. 27. “The state government can reduce the amount it charges and provide relief to the common man,” the former Chief Minister said. Taking a swipe at Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, Mr. Fadnavis said bars and pubs in the Sena leader’s Worli Assembly constituency remained open till late night despite COVID-19 curbs in place Statewide. “Aaditya himself is a champion of nightlife, which includes bars and pubs remaining open even after midnight. Though the Chief Minister has appealed to people to maintain social distancing, Worli area seems to be following his (Aaditya’s) intentions,” he said. Speaking on the resignation of minister Sanjay Rathod after the latter’s name was linked to the death of a woman in Pune, Mr. Fadnavis said verification of audio clips connected to the deceased must be verified. Speaking further on the case, the former CM said he also wanted clarification on the abortion of a woman in Yavatmal and who was behind it. Asked about Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole holding a cycle rally to protest the rising fuel prices, Mr. Fadnavis said the former might be “trying to seek credit of tax cuts on fuel as there is a buzz about possible slashing of taxes”. He also said the BJP would raise its voice against the rampant electricity disconnection drive undertaken by the MVA government as it was causing distress to people, especially farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-govt-can-cut-taxes-reduce-fuel-prices-says-fadnavis/article33967612.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||Overcrowding: won’t hear case, HC judge warns||Irked with overcrowding in the courtroom, a senior judge of the Bombay High Court on Monday warned of not taking up any case for hearing if social distancing norms were not followed. A Division Bench headed by Justice S.S. Shinde, which hears criminal cases, after seeing the crowd in his courtroom, asked staff to tell police officers, advocates, and litigants to wait outside. “Don’t crowd in court....or else we will discharge the entire board and not hear any case,” Justice Shinde said. He said overcrowding and not maintaining social distancing norms were in breach of the standard operating procedure laid down by the HC at the time of resumption of physical hearing amid the COVID-19 pandemic. “The standard operating procedure and social distancing is for everyone’s health and safety. We (judges) are sitting at a distance,” Justice Shinde said. He referred to the incident of 60 advocates testing positive for COVID-19 at Amravati district in Maharashtra. “Fortunately, we have not had any untoward incident here. We are going in the right direction and we don’t want to go back to hearing cases virtually,” Justice Shinde said. He asked everyone, including lawyers, to wear masks at all times. Justice Gautam Patel of the HC had last month issued a notice complaining of overcrowding in court and had directed everyone to strictly adhere to safety norms. Last week, Justice Prithviraj Chavan had refused to hear a case as the lawyer appearing in the matter had removed his mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/overcrowding-wont-hear-case-hc-judge-warns/article33967614.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||New fares for autos, taxis come into force in city||The new fares for CNG-run autorickshaws and taxis, envisaging an increase of Rs. 3 each in minimum rates, came into force in Mumbai on Monday, officials said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region has around 60,000 taxis and 4.6 lakh autorickshaws, including some petrol-run vehicles. The minimum fare for a distance of 1.5 km for taxis has increased from Rs. 22 to Rs. 25, while for the autorickshaws, it has gone up from Rs. 18 to Rs. 21, RTO officials said. Beyond this flag down minimum distance, passengers will have to pay Rs. 16.93 per km for taxis and Rs. 14.20 per km for autorickshaws, they said. The decision for the minimum fare hike by Rs. 3 was taken last week in a meeting of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority (MMRTA) which was chaired by the Maharashtra transport secretary. The fare increase has been calculated as per a formula devised by the four-member Khatua panel, and it entails a hike of Rs. 2.09 per km for taxis and Rs. 2.01 for autorickshaws, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/new-fares-for-autos-taxis-come-into-force-in-city/article33967615.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||MSCB case: Maharashtra objects to activist’s plea for CBI inquiry||The Maharashtra government on Monday opposed a petition filed by an activist seeking transfer of the probe into the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank scam allegedly involving Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar to the CBI. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale that based on the complainant Surinder Arora’s public interest litigation, filed in 2019, the High Court, in August that year, ordered the State Economic Offences Wing (EOW) to probe the case. “The EOW lodged an FIR and carried out investigation. On September 5, 2020, a closure report was submitted to the sessions court,” Mr. Kumbhakoni said. Mr. Arora has filed a protest petition in the sessions court challenging the closure report, which is pending for hearing, he said. “Hence, at this stage the petitioner cannot ask for transfer of probe to the CBI. We (government) have a preliminary objection to this petition,” the Advocate General said. The Bench directed him to file an affidavit and posted the matter for hearing on March 22. Mr. Arora last week filed a petition through his advocate Satish Talekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mscb-case-maharashtra-objects-to-activists-plea-for-cbi-inquiry/article33967613.ece
02 March 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Three including two Flipkart employees held for cheating||The Koparkhairane police have arrested two employees and one former employee of Flipkart for allegedly cheating the company by replacing electronic items and other valuables meant for delivery, with soaps and other items. The accused are an offload team leader in delivery section, Wajid Shakil Momin (24) from Ghansoli, a delivery boy Sanghpal Baburao More (29), a resident of Airoli, and former delivery boy Jayant Ugle (27) from Kamothe. The police received a tip-off that Mr. Momin used to order premium products on cash on delivery using a fake name and address. The product could not be delivered due to the wrong address and before sending it back to the company, the accused would take away the costly product, and replace it with soaps and other things. The product would then be returned to the company mentioning it as ‘wrong product’. “The company never realised that it was being cheated and thought the mistake occurred at its end. It is after we informed the company about the crime that it filed a complaint,” assistant police inspector Nilesh Yewale from Koparkhairane police station said. Suresh Mengade, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said during interrogation, the police found expensive phones in the possession of the three accused for which they had no bills. “On further questioning, they revealed their modus operandi,” he said. Nineteen mobile phones, tabs, watches, and cameras worth Rs. 8.24 lakh were seized from the accused. According to the police, the three had been operating for around one-and-a-half year, and prima facie, they have not sold anything in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-including-two-flipkart-employees-held-for-cheating/article33967618.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Senior citizens, ones with co-morbidities get first shot||COVID-19 vaccination for people aged 60 and above and those in the 45-59 age bracket with co-morbidities started in Delhi from Monday. While many senior citizens told The Hindu that the process was “smooth”, some complained that they had to wait for more than “four hours” and that there was no separate counter for senior citizens. Multiple hospitals said that they faced technical issues with the CoWIN software and that led to delays. Beneficiaries have the option to pre-register via CoWin 2.0 or Aarogya Setu app, or walk in at any of the registered vaccination sites, register and get vaccinated. Those with co-morbidities have to get a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner detailing their condition before registering. The vaccination drive was held in the city at 192 hospitals, out of which 136 are paid private hospitals and 56 are free government ones, according to the Delhi government. Want to travel Many beneficiaries said that they want to travel to meet their family members once they complete both the dozes of the vaccine and recalled how they lived in fear during the past one year. Some also said that the government should have started vaccination for senior citizens earlier and added that a lot of time had been “wasted”. Some people even changed hospitals after registration to avoid getting Covaxin vaccine. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that 308 centres were set up at 192 hospitals for vaccination. “There are 12-15 lakh people belonging to the age group of 60 and 2-3 lakh are from the age group of 45-59 with co-morbid conditions,” he said. Both pre-registration and walk-in registration facilities were available at most centres. While the 136 private vaccination centres will be allowed to charge up to Rs. 250 per person per dose, it is free at the 56 government hospitals. “Vaccination for general public started around 11 a.m. While people who had registered for vaccination online had come, walk-in registration without any prior booking was also available. A total of 80 people took the vaccine today,” said Chhavi Gupta, spokesperson of Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital. Also, 35 healthcare workers were administered the second dose of the vaccine at the hospital on Monday. At other hospitals vaccination was conducted for general public, healthcare workers, and front-line workers. A total of 71 people were vaccinated at the Tirath Ram Shah Hospital on Monday. “There were some glitches in the system in the morning,” an official at Lok Nayak Hospital said. Suresh Kumar, hospital medical director, said that both walk-in and online registration were being done at the hospital.The hospital did not officially share the number of beneficiaries, but it was less than 20, as per hospital sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/senior-citizens-ones-with-co-morbidities-get-first-shot/article33967610.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine portal faces glitches||Eager senior citizens waiting for their turn to register for COVID-19 vaccine on Monday had technology come in their way as the CoWIN portal showed errors or displayed a message that the server was busy. While the government claimed that over one million registrations has been done in the first few hours, many took to Twitter to express problems that they were facing with the portal. Constant battle With a move towards digitisation, teething problems have become common place and often, portals or apps are unable to deal with the volumes leading to disappointment and complaints. Sanchit Vir Gogia, founder and CEO of Greyhound Research, a digital and tech advisory, said that in a large country like India, to champion any large human-based programme like the vaccination drive is an expensive and time-consuming task that is a constant battle between time and availability. “In a situation like this we cannot wait too long and as soon as the application of website is even reasonably stable, you end up launching it and then scale it up further,” Mr. Gogia said. He added that it is a one-time use service and gives no merit to overburden resources. If someone cannot register themselves today, they will be able to do so tomorrow. However, he added that there was scope to do better which required both capital and time. Sanjeev Singh, founder and head of the Institute of Informatics and Communication, Delhi University, that recently developed the Open Book Examination system for Delhi University that received many complaints at the start, but was ultimately successful, says that sometimes developers cannot envisage all types of user cases particularly when there is so much diversity in user behaviour. “What is usually the case is that something needs to be delivered immediately and we do not have the time to test it out properly by launching a beta version or testing it on volumes as per standard practice,” Mr. Singh said. He said, for example, when Google started its email services, they ran it for about five-six years in the beta version to understand user behaviour and functionality, but here, due to time constraints, we develop a service because of its immediate need. Speaking about the experience of students facing glitches while taking their examinations, Mr. Singh said that it was developed overnight for such a huge number of users and was not experienced by anybody including the faculty or the students before its launch. “We got a lot of criticism that it was not working initially, and the reasons are diverse. But ultimately, it was a success and other universities have contacted us so that they can also use the system to conduct examinations,” Mr. Singh said. Pressure to roll out products to meet a deadline sometimes shifts the focus of developers towards delivering a product according to a client’s brief before testing whether it is user-friendly, says Jatin Ahuja, head developer at Iarani, a digital transformation agency. “User testing is the most important type of testing as when a developer is testing the application, they are unaware of how a user is going to use the product and the real problem starts there. The programming team can deliver a product but without testing, there are bound to be glitches,” Mr. Ahuja says. He adds that as a developer, he often insists on user testing and rolling out of a product in batches so that any problems that users are facing can be ironed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaccine-portal-faces-glitches/article33967603.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haryana govt. appeals to top court to resume mining in Aravali Hills||The Haryana government has appealed to the Supreme Court to permit it to resume mining in the Aravali Hills on the grounds that the pandemic had brought the State’s economy to a halt. The Supreme Court is slated to hear the petition on Thursday. Continued despite ban Mining in the region has been banned since 2002 under Supreme Court orders, unless expressly permitted by the Union Environment Ministry. However mining continued illegally. A 2018 report by Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee (CEC) said that 25 per cent of the Aravalli range has been lost due to illegal mining in Rajasthan since 1967-68. Vikrant Tongad, environmentalist and with the Social Action for Forest Environment told The Hindu that the Haryana government had proposed to allow mining activities in 600 hectares. Following the Haryana government’s move, Mr. Tongad filed his own petition on Monday requesting the court to allow him to “intervene” in the ongoing writ petition. The Aravali Hills spanning Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi are an ecologically sensitive zone but has for years borne the brunt of quarrying and environmental degradation. The consequences of this mining has been a destruction of aquifers, degradation as well as deforestation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-govt-appeals-to-top-court-to-resume-mining-in-aravali-hills/article33967608.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two people, including woman, held for snatching||A 20-year-old man, along with his woman accomplice, was arrested for allegedly snatching a mobile phone from a woman while she was waiting for an e-rickshaw near a mall in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri, the police said on Monday. The accused duo, Sidharth Malhotra, a resident of Uttam Nagar, and his accomplice Simran, a resident of Bindapur, are known as “Bunty-Bubli”, they said. With their arrest, the police claimed to have worked out two cases, including snatching. The matter was reported by a woman on Sunday. The woman was waiting for an e-rickshaw near a mall in Vikaspuri on February 26 when two people on a motorcycle suddenly arrived and the woman, who was a pillion rider, snatched her mobile phone and fled, the police said. With the help of the victim, the police team minutely inspected the crime scene and following inputs from their sources, the team intercepted both the accused with their motorcycle near Dhauli Pyau when they were again out to commit snatching, said Urvija Goel, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West). Both the accused have been arrested and the snatched mobile phone was recovered from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-people-including-woman-held-for-snatching/article33967606.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man killed in Delhi for objecting to rash driving||A man was allegedly killed and his brother sustained injury when they objected to a youth riding his two-wheeler rashly in Dwarka’s Bindapur here, the police said on Monday. A case was registered at Bindapur police station and three persons have been arrested, Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP (Dwarka), said. The arrested accused have been identified as Piyush Sharma (19) alias Kaku and his accomplices Sandeep Sharma (31) and Shiv Narayan (32), the police said, adding that the weapon of offence has been recovered. The incident took place on Sunday night when Suraj Prakash Singh (30) and his brother Chander (28) were on the way to a market. They objected to a man riding his motorcycle rashly. The two sides got into a heated argument and the accused called his accomplices and attacked the brothers with a knife, the police said. Suraj died during treatment and Chander is out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-killed-in-delhi-for-objecting-to-rash-driving/article33967605.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ex-civil defence official held for stalking woman||A 40-year-old man was arrested for allegedly attacking a Delhi Police constable and harassing a woman, the police said on Monday. The accused identified as Shivram, a resident of Sangam Vihar in south Delhi, was accused of abusing, molesting and misbehaving with the woman. She had filed a complaint against him at K.M. Pur police station on February 27. The accused allegedly threatened her of dire consequences and forced her to meet him, the police said. After receiving the complaint, sub-inspectors Komal and Sandeep Yadav and Constable Nehru rushed near INA circle where the accused had called the woman to meet, a senior police officer said. When Shivram saw the police, he jumped into a drain. Mr. Nehru chased him and Shivram hit him with a brick on his forehead. The accused was held and both he and Mr. Nehru were taken to AIIMS for treatment.Shivram used to work in Civil Defence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ex-civil-defence-official-held-for-stalking-woman/article33967607.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records ‘moderate’ air quality index||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida was in ‘moderate’ category on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. “Surface winds are moderate and forecast to increase and stay high for the next 48 hours. The intermittent lifting of local dust under the prevailing meteorological conditions continues to remain the dominating factor to influence the AQI adversely. Delhi’s AQI is forecast to stay within ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category in the next three days,” said a statement by government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The agency said that the day-time high surface wind speed, warmer temperature and elevated boundary layer height have improved the ventilation and dispersion substantially and are influencing the AQI positively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-records-moderate-air-quality-index/article33967600.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||City witnesses 175 new cases||The Capital witnessed 175 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,39,464, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. One death was reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 10,911. A total of 39,733 tests were done in a day. Of the total cases, 6,27,149 people have recovered and there are 1,404 active cases. The number of active cases has shown a slight increase over the past one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/city-witnesses-175-new-cases/article33967601.ece
02 March 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds more than 6,000 fresh cases||After nearly a week of witnessing single-day surges of more than 8,000 COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra reported a comparatively lower spike of 6,397 new cases on Monday. Likewise, recoveries, too, were comparatively higher than discharge figures in the last week, with 5,754 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. As many as 30 deaths pushed the toll to 52,184. The State’s active case tally stands at 77,618 while the total cases have reached 21,61,467. The cumulative recoveries have touched 20,30,458. However, the lower surge figure corresponds to relatively lesser samples being tested — around 63,000 — in the last 24 hours as opposed to the daily average of 80,000. “Of a total 1,63,46,358 laboratory samples tested thus far, 21,61,467 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.22%) have returned positive with over 62,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality had incrementally dipped to 2.41%. Pune district reported more than 850 new cases to take its total case tally to 4,10,699. As per the State Health Department figures, just a single death was recorded as the toll rose to 8,063. However, as per district authorities, the fatality count has climbed to 9,148 while the active case tally has surged past the 10,000-mark. Mumbai city recorded 855 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,26,772 of whom 8,294 are active. Four fatalities took the city’s toll to 11,479.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-more-than-6000-fresh-cases/article33967620.ece
02 March 2021||Yangon,||Suu Kyi hit with two new criminal charges||Ousted Myanmar civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi was hit with two new criminal charges in a court appearance via video link on Monday, a month after a military coup triggered relentless mass protests. Ms. Suu Kyi has not been seen in public since being detained on February 1, and her appearance came as demonstrators took to the streets again across the country in defiance of an escalation of deadly force by the junta. At least 18 people died on Sunday as troops and police fired live rounds at demonstrators in cities across Myanmar, according to the United Nations, which cited its own credible information. Ms. Suu Kyi, 75, was already facing obscure criminal charges for possessing unlicensed walkie-talkies, as well as violating coronavirus restrictions by staging a campaign event during last year’s election. She is now also accused of breaching communications laws as well as intent to incite public unrest, her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said. “We can not say for sure how many more cases Daw Aung San Suu Kyi will face in this period,” he told reporters in Naypyidaw. “Anything can happen in this country at this time.” Ms. Suu Kyi has reportedly been kept under house arrest in the capital of Naypyidaw, an isolated city that the military built during a previous dictatorship.  Hundreds of thousands of people have taken to streets regularly over the past month to oppose the coup. The military has steadily escalated the type of force used in trying to contain the uprising, beginning with tear gas and water cannons, and this weekend’s violence saw a major escalation as rubber bullets and live rounds were deployed. Despite Sunday’s bloodshed protesters were defiant — some citing a sense of duty to their children’s future. ‘Evil era’ “I’m here as a frontliner because I don’t want my son to grow up in this evil era,” a student called Eric told AFP, adding he had a 10-month-old baby. AFP independently confirmed 11 deaths in Sunday’s violence, although there were fears the toll could be much higher. There are no reports of deaths so far on Monday. ‘30 killed so far’ The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a reliable monitoring group, estimated that about 30 people have been killed by security forces since the coup on February 1. On Monday, protests erupted again in multiple cities across the country, with demonstrators in Yangon using bamboo poles, sofas and tree branches to erect barricades across streets. Security forces used stun grenades and tear gas, in parts of Yangon. In one clash broadcast live on Facebook and verified by AFP, unarmed protesters fled after a volley of shots were fired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suu-kyi-hit-with-two-new-criminal-charges/article33967273.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||China appoints veteran PLA border General to NPC panel||A veteran Chinese General who oversaw the military’s border command during a turbulent period in relations with India was on Sunday appointed to the top parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, a move seen as a post-retirement reward. General Zhao Zongqi, who turned 65 last year and handed over the leadership of the military’s Western Theatre Command, its biggest military command responsible for the India border, will serve as the vice-chairman of the National People’s Congress (NPC) special committee on foreign affairs. The announcement came ahead of the annual convening of the NPC, which is China’s Communist Party-controlled and largely ceremonial legislature, on March 5. The NPC has ten special committees, whose role is to “research, deliberate, draw up bills or proposals related to their fields” and “assist the NPC and its Standing Committee in legislation, supervision and other areas.” As a member of the foreign affairs committee, which is headed by former executive vice foreign minister and diplomat Zhang Yesui, the retired General can put forward policy proposals and bills for the legislature to pass. The NPC convenes every year and approves policies, including an annual government work report that sets the policy agenda, as well as the defence budget for the military. Wider deployment Among the proposals that it will debate next week is one calling for a wider deployment of more advanced drones along border areas, with a legislator proposing the move in the wake of last year’s clash between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Hou Yun, commander of a border defence regiment with the PLA Tibet Military Command who is among the military’s NPC delegates, told State media he will submit a proposal “suggesting that China should enhance border management and control by deploying more smart equipment like drones, as his experience and research indicate huge room for improvement despite the wide use of such devices” by the military. The June 15, 2020 clash in the Galwan Valley has been among the most widely discussed subjects ahead of this year’s session, in the wake of the PLA’s announcement on February 19, honouring five soldiers, four of them posthumously. General Zhao retired from the PLA last year and handed over the reins of the Western Theatre Command, which he has led since its formation in February 2016, when President Xi Jinping put in place sweeping reforms consolidating the seven military regions into five commands with the aim of increasing jointness and integration between different services. He was in charge during the 2017 Doklam crisis and also during the current tensions along the LAC which erupted in early May. He has been replaced by Zhang Xudong, who has no prior experience in the Western Theatre, Tibet or Xinjiang, having spent much of his career in the northeastern Shenyang Military Region (now under the Northern Theatre Command) and since 2017 as the Commander of Central Theatre Command, which is responsible for the security of the capital, Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-appoints-veteran-pla-border-general-to-npc-panel/article33967266.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. to keep hard line on China trade||The Biden administration’s trade agenda will make pandemic recovery a top priority and focus on the American worker, according to the 2021 President’s Trade Agenda and 2020 Annual Report, an annual document submitted by the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) to Congress. The administration will push for labour standards in its trade agreements, negotiate environmental standards and address China’s “coercive and unfair” trade practices, the document said. Impact on workers “The Biden Administration will review past trade policies for their impacts on, and unintended consequences for, workers,” it said. “Workers will have a seat at the table as the Biden Administration develops new trade policies that promote equitable economic growth by including strong, enforceable labor standards in trade agreements that protect workers’ rights and increase economic security. The Administration will engage allies to secure commitments to fight forced labor and exploitative labor conditions, and increase transparency and accountability in global supply chains,” the report said. The Biden administration’s trade priorities will also include negotiating and implementing “strong environmental standards”. It will also seek to promote equitable economic growth through trade. The impact of trade policy on racial minorities within the U.S. will also be a priority. The new administration is also likely to follow an aggressive agricultural trade policy. “The trade agenda will seek to expand global market opportunities for American farmers, ranchers, food manufacturers, and fishers and will defend our producers by enforcing global agricultural trade rules,” the report said. Take on China China’s “coercive and unfair trade practices harm American workers, threaten our technological edge, weaken our supply chain resiliency, and undermine our national interests”, the report said. “The ongoing comprehensive review of U.S. trade policy towards China is integral to the development of the Administration’s overall China strategy,” it says, committing to using all tools available to counter practices it calls unfair and harmful to the U.S. Addressing human rights abuses against the Uighurs and others will be a top priority for the administration, as per the report. It will also collaborate with allies to address the market distortions created by industrial overcapacity issue. “Key sectors range from steel and aluminum to fiber optics, solar, and other sectors where the Chinese Government has been a key contributor,” the report said. Reforms at WTO The U.S. will work with allies to “ implement necessary reforms to the World Trade Organisation’s (WTO) substantive rules and procedures to address the challenges facing the global trading system, including growing inequality, digital transformation, and impediments to small business trade”, the report said. “The Administration will work with allies and like-minded trading partners to establish high-standard global rules to govern the digital economy, in line with our shared democratic values. Where gaps exist in international trade rules, the United States will work to address them, including through enhanced cooperation with our partners and allies,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-keep-hard-line-on-china-trade/article33967852.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese scribe charged under new law for Galwan comments||A Chinese investigative journalist and blogger on Monday became the first person charged under a new criminal law banning the “defaming of martyrs”, for his comments questioning the government’s account of the clash with India in Galwan Valley last year. Qiu Ziming (38), an investigative journalist formerly with The Economic Observer , was arrested on February 20 in Nanjing, where he lives, after raising questions a day after China’s announcement declaring honours for five soldiers, including four awarded posthumously, eight months after the June 15, 2020 clash. In messages to his 2.5 million followers on the Chinese Twitter-equivalent, Sina Weibo, Mr. Qiu suggested the fatalities would have been higher because as per the official account, some of the soldiers died coming to the aid of troops in difficulty, who, in his view, would have suffered losses as well. Mr. Qiu also asked why India had, in contrast, promptly recognised the 20 Indian soldiers who died, which, he suggested, meant that “in India’s view they won and paid a lesser price”. His account on Weibo was subsequently suspended. On Monday, Mr. Qiu was charged “for violating the law on defaming martyrs’ honour and reputation”. According to State media, this was the first reported case of anyone being charged under the law, which calls for a fixed-term imprisonment of not more than three years. While China had in 2018 passed a law banning people from insulting martyrs, the civil law was added as an amendment to China’s criminal law which took effect on March 1. At least 7 detained This was among 22 new clauses added to the law, the Communist Party-run Global Times reported, with others relating to attacks on police officers and acts disturbing public transportation. Mr. Qiu is among at least seven people who have been detained by police in China for “smearing” the military since the February 19 announcement honouring the five Chinese soldiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-scribe-charged-under-new-law-for-galwan-comments/article33967267.ece
02 March 2021||Paris,||Former French President Sarkozy gets 3-year jail term for corruption||Former French president Nicolas Sarkozy was found guilty of corruption on Monday and handed a three-year prison sentence, in a ruling that deals a major blow to any lingering political ambitions. The sentence includes two years suspended and the remaining one year would be converted into a non-custodial sentence, meaning it is unlikely Sarkozy will end up behind bars over this case. He is almost certain to appeal and remains free, with no arrest warrant issued, but he faces several other corruption investigations over campaign financing and alleged influence peddling. The sentence for seeking to illegally influence a judge is the latest twist in the tumultuous political career of the 66-year-old who remains a favourite for many on the right for his combative style and tough talk on crime and immigration. The conviction is likely to undermine any attempted comeback to frontline politics, an ambition he has denied, but which has been promoted by many supporters ahead of 2022 presidential elections. Wearing a dark suit and tie, Mr. Sarkozy showed no emotion as the sentence was read out and he left court without commenting to waiting journalists before heading to his private office in central Paris. ‘Senseless witchhunt’ “What a senseless witchhunt, my love Nicolas Sarkozy,” his wife, former supermodel and singer Carla Bruni, posted on Instagram, next to a picture of the couple embracing. “The fight goes on, the truth will come out. #injustice.” Only one other modern French President, Mr. Sarkozy’s political mentor Jacques Chirac, has been convicted of corruption. Chirac, who did not attend proceedings in 2011 due to ill health, received a two-year suspended sentence over the creation of ghost jobs at the Paris city hall to fund his party when he was Mayor. The verdict on Monday related to a case of influence peddling and corruption, one of at least four separate investigations into Mr. Sarkozy. It centred on allegations that the former head of state offered to help a judge obtain a desirable job in Monaco in 2014 in exchange for information about an inquiry into his campaign finances. ‘Not the slightest act’ The former President told the court during the trial he had “never committed the slightest act of corruption”. Prosecutors called for him to be jailed for four years and serve a minimum of two, and asked for the same punishment for his co-defendants — lawyer Thierry Herzog and the judge Gilbert Azibert, who were also convicted. While reading out her sentence, Judge Christine Mee said Mr. Sarkozy, who was “guarantor of the independence of the judiciary, used his status as a former president to favour a magistrate who had served his personal interests.” The charges carried a maximum sentence of 10 years and a fine of one million euros ($1.2 million). On March 17, Sarkozy is scheduled to face a second trial over accusations of fraudulently overspending in his failed 2012 reelection bid. He has also been charged over allegations he received millions of euros from Libyan dictator Moamer Kadhafi for his 2007 election campaign. And in January, prosecutors opened another probe into alleged influence-peddling by Sarkozy over his advisory activities in Russia. The guilty verdict on Monday is a further blow to Sarkozy’s centre-right allies in the Republicans party who are struggling to coalesce around a single candidate ahead of presidential elections next year. Polls currently show centrist President Emmanuel Macron edging the election, followed by far-right leader Marine Le Pen. Mr. Sarkozy and Mr. Herzog were found guilty of trying to bribe Judge Azibert over an inquiry into claims the former leader had received illicit payments from L’Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt during his successful 2007 presidential campaign. The state’s case was based on wiretaps of conversations between Herzog and Mr. Sarkozy. Mr. Sarkozy’s lawyer Jacqueline Laffont lashed out at the flaws and “emptiness” of the prosecutor’s accusations, with the defence also claiming that the tapped conversations had been just “chats between friends”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ex-french-president-sarkozy-sentenced-to-jail-for-corruption/article33967269.ece
02 March 2021||Orlando,||Trump hints at 2024 run for presidency||Donald Trump told conservatives Sunday he was considering running for president again in 2024, as he reasserted dominance over the Republican Party and warned of a “struggle” for America’s very survival. Echoing the grievance politics of his 2016 campaign and the harsh rhetoric of his one-term presidency, the 74-year-old fired up an enthusiastic crowd at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Orlando. In a keynote speech — his first since leaving the White House on January 20 — he repeated his false claims that he won the election instead of President Joe Biden, and hammered establishment Republicans who voted against him in the latest impeachment drama. Standing ovation But while he teased his future plans, he left the crowd guessing about whether he will challenge Mr. Biden in a rematch. “With your help we will take back the House, we will win the Senate, and then a Republican President will make a triumphant return to the White House — and I wonder who that will be?” Mr. Trump said to a raucous cheer. “Who knows?” he boomed about his potential plans. “I may even decide to beat them for a third time, OK?”  At CPAC, he walked on stage to revel in a lengthy standing ovation by cheering loyalists, the vast majority maskless despite the coronavirus pandemic. Like he did so often during his two campaigns, he painted a pitched battle against as Democrats’ “socialist” agenda to remake the nation. “We’re in a struggle for the survival of America as we know it,” Mr. Trump said. “This is a terrible, terrible, painful struggle.” Mr. Trump also put to rest the rumours that he might create a new political party. “I am not starting a new party,” Mr. Trump said. “We have the Republican Party. It’s going to unite and be stronger than ever before.” Mr. Trump as expected took swipes at Mr. Biden, saying the Democrat just concluded a “disastrous” first month in office. In his 90-minute speech he attacked immigrants, slammed “cancel culture,” criticized Mr. Biden policies on climate change and energy, and repeated his false claims that “illegal” actions by Democrats had cost him the election. ‘Get rid of them’ But he also took aim at Republicans he feels betrayed him — a strong signal that he will seek to help oust them in upcoming elections. He called out by name the 10 Republicans who voted to impeach him in the House of Representatives, and the seven Republicans who voted unsuccessfully to convict him in the Senate. “Get rid of them all,” he seethed, while the crowd jeered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-hints-at-2024-run-in-key-speech/article33967275.ece
02 March 2021||Jerusalem,||Netanyahu blames Iran for ship attack||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday accused Iran of attacking an Israeli-owned ship in the Gulf of Oman last week, a mysterious explosion that further spiked security concerns in the region. Without offering any evidence to his claim, Mr. Netanyahu told Israeli public broadcaster Kan that “it was indeed an act by Iran, that’s clear.” “Iran is the greatest enemy of Israel, I am determined to halt it. We are hitting it in the entire region,” Mr. Netanyahu said. Iran promptly dismissed the charges. The blast struck the Israeli-owned MV Helios Ray, a Bahamian-flagged roll-on, roll-off vehicle cargo ship, as it was sailing out of the West Asia on its way to Singapore on Friday. The crew was unharmed, but the vessel sustained two holes on its port side and two on its starboard side just above the waterline, according to American defence officials. The ship came to Dubai’s port for repairs on Sunday, days after the blast that revived security concerns in Mideast waterways amid heightened tensions with Iran. Iran has sought to pressure the U.S. to lift sanctions on Tehran as President Joe Biden’s administration considers option for returning to negotiations with Iran over its nuclear programme. Mr. Biden has said repeatedly the U.S. would return to the nuclear deal between Tehran and world powers that his predecessor, Donald Trump, withdrew from in 2018 only after Iran restores its full compliance with the accord. The explosion on the Israeli-owned ship last week recalled the tense summer of 2019, when the U.S. military accused Iran of attacking several oil tankers in the Gulf of Oman with limpet mines, designed to be attached magnetically to a ship’s hull. Tehran has denied the accusations that it was behind the limpet mine attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/netanyahu-blames-iran-for-attack-on-cargo-ship/article33967270.ece
02 March 2021||ISLAMABAD,||AS--Pakistan-Qatar-Gas Deal||Pakistan’s landmark, new deal with Qatar for liquefied natural gas at lower rates will save Islamabad a total of about $3 billion over the next 10 years, an adviser to the Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Monday. The agreement, signed last Friday, will save the state $317 million annually due to the reduced price of the gas compared to the 2015 agreement between the two countries, according to Nadeem BabarMr. Khan's adviser on petroleum. This “will result in the lowering of the overall cost of liquefied natural gas” imported from Qatar, Mr. Babar said. Under the agreement, which comes into effect in January 2022, Pakistan will import liquefied natural gas — or LNG — from Qatar at a reduced price of about 31%.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-pakistan-qatar-gas-deal/article33967271.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The vital but delicate task of reviving the Iran deal||Of all the foreign policy challenges facing the Joe Biden administration, none is more critical than salvaging the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA, or the Iran nuclear deal) that has been unravelling over the last three years when Donald Trump unilaterally discarded it. It also seems the most straightforward because Mr. Biden has consistently advocated a return to the JCPOA provided Iran returns to full compliance; Iran has always reiterated its commitment to the JCPOA maintaining that the steps it took are reversible as long as the United States lifts the sanctions imposed by the Trump administration since 2018. And yet, it is complicated and time is running out as both Iran and the U.S. struggle to overcome the impasse. U.S. policy reversal The JCPOA was the result of prolonged negotiations from 2013 and 2015 between Iran and P5+1 (China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union, or the EU). It happened, thanks to the back channel talks between the U.S. and Iran, quietly brokered by Oman, in an attempt to repair the accumulated mistrust since the 1979 Islamic revolution. Former U.S. President Barack Obama described the JCPOA as his greatest diplomatic success. Iran was then estimated to be months away from accumulating enough highly enriched uranium to produce one nuclear device. The JCPOA obliged Iran to accept constraints on its enrichment programme verified by an intrusive inspection regime in return for a partial lifting of economic sanctions. Faced with a hostile Republican Senate, Mr. Obama was unable to get the nuclear deal ratified but implemented it on the basis of periodic Executive Orders to keep sanction waivers going. Mr. Trump had never hidden his dislike for the JCPOA calling it a “horrible, one sided deal that should have never, ever been made”. After ranting about it for a year, he finally pulled the plug on it in May 2018 and embarked on a policy of ‘maximum pressure’ to coerce Iran back to the negotiating table. The U.S. decision was criticised by all other parties to the JCPOA (including the European allies) because Iran was in compliance with its obligations, as certified by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). For the first year after the U.S. withdrawal, Iran’s response was muted as the E-3 (France, Germany, the U.K.) and the EU promised to find ways to mitigate the U.S. decision. But by May 2019, Tehran’s ‘strategic patience’ was wearing out as the anticipated economic relief from the E-3/EU failed to materialise. As the sanctions began to hurt, Tehran shifted to a strategy of ‘maximum resistance’. The unravelling of the JCPOA On the nuclear front, beginning in May 2019, Iran began to move away from JCPOA’s constraints incrementally: exceeding the ceilings of 300kg on low-enriched uranium and 130 MT on heavy-water; raising enrichment levels from 3.67% to 4.5%; stepping up research and development on advanced centrifuges; resuming enrichment at Fordow; and violating limits on the number of centrifuges in use. Finally, in January 2020, following the drone strike on Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps commander Gen. Qasem Soleiman, Tehran announced that it would no longer observe the JCPOA’s restraints, though its cooperation with the IAEA would continue. Tensions rose as the U.S. pushed ahead with its unilateral sanctions, widening their scope to cover nearly all Iranian banks connected to the global financial system, industries related to metallurgy, energy and shipping, individuals related to the defence, intelligence and nuclear establishments and even senior political leaders including the Supreme Leader and Foreign Minister Javad Zarif. By end-2020, the U.S. had imposed nearly 80 rounds of sanctions targeting close to 1,500 individuals and entities. Events in Iran This came on top of COVID-19 that affected Iran badly, which had over 1.6 million infections and more than 60,000 deaths. The Iranian economy contracted by 7% in 2019 and another 6% in 2020. In mid-2020, Iran was shaken by a series of unexplained fires and blasts at a number of sensitive sites including one at the Natanz nuclear facility and another at Khojir, a missile fuel fabrication unit. The damage at Natanz, described as ‘sabotage’, was significant, leading Tehran to announce that it would be replaced by a new underground facility. Last November, Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a senior nuclear scientist and head of the Research and Innovation Organisation in the Iranian Defence Ministry was killed outside Tehran in a terrorist attack amid rumours of external intelligence agencies’ involvement. Days later, Iranian Parliament, dominated by the conservatives, passed a bill seeking enrichment to be raised to 20%, acceleration of deploying new cascades and suspending implementation of some of the special inspection provisions with the IAEA within two months if sanctions relief was not forthcoming. No appetite for talks Clearly, Mr. Trump’s policy may have provided comfort to Israel’s leader Benjamin Netanyahu and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, but it failed to bring Iran back to the negotiating table and only strengthened the hardliners. Iran has suffered and there is no appetite for more negotiations. The E-3’s promised relief Instrument in Support of Trade Exchanges (INSTEX), created in 2019 to facilitate limited trade with Iran has been a disappointment; its first transaction only took place in March 2020. EU-Iran trade fell from €18 billion in 2018 to less than a third in 2019 and dropped further last year. A recent IAEA report has confirmed that 20% enrichment had begun as had production of uranium metal at Isfahan. However, a recent visit by IAEA Director-General Rafael Grossi to Tehran enabled a ‘technical understanding’ to postpone Iran’s withdrawal from the Additional Protocol (that it had voluntarily accepted in 2015) by three months. Moreover, Iranian elections are due in June and it is likely that President Hassan Rouhani’s successor may not be from the ‘moderate’ camp. Though the nuclear dossier is controlled by the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, he too had to wait for the moderate Rouhani/Zarif combine to be elected in 2013 for the JCPOA negotiations to commence. If the U.S. waits for Iran to return to full compliance before lifting sanctions or Iran waits for the U.S. to restore sanctions relief before returning to full compliance, it can only lead to one outcome — the collapse of the JCPOA with Iran going nuclear like North Korea; an outcome that would create major reverberations in the region and beyond. Only good intentions will not be enough to overcome this impasse. Overcoming the impasse The Biden administration has made a good start by appointing Robert Malley as the U.S. Special Envoy for Iran but he will need help. Positive steps along multiple tracks are necessary for creating a conducive atmosphere. Release of European and American nationals currently in custody in Iran would help. Clearing Iran’s applications to the International Monetary Fund for COVID-19 relief and for supply of vaccines under the international COVAX facility can be done relatively easily. Oman’s quiet facilitation helped create a positive environment for the JCPOA. After the Al Ula summit, Qatar and Kuwait too are well placed to play a diplomatic role and together, they can urgently explore the possibilities for forward movement in Yemen, with help from the EU and the UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy, Martin Griffiths. The E-3/EU need to fast track deals worth several hundred million euros stuck in the INSTEX pipeline, with a visible nod from the U.S.. Not all U.S. sanctions can be lifted instantly, but reversing Mr. Trump’s Executive Order of May 8, 2018 is possible as also removing sanctions on Iranian political leaders; both would send a positive signal. If not with Iran, the U.S. should share with the E-3/EU a 45-60 day time frame for progressive restoration of sanctions relief. Meanwhile, Iran needs to refrain from any further nuclear brinkmanship. The IAEA and the E-3/EU should work on a parallel reversal of steps taken by Iran to ensure full compliance with the JCPOA. Brussels has long wanted to be taken seriously as an independent foreign policy actor; it now has the opportunity to take a lead role. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-vital-but-delicate-task-of-reviving-the-iran-deal/article33967253.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The rush to appropriate icons||When mainstream politics becomes recklessly instrumental, nothing is spared; even great idols and cultural symbols are trivialised through a process of appropriation in order to manipulate people’s emotions. In the campaign to the Assembly elections in West Bengal, we have been witnessing the competitive game of demonstrating one’s affinity with the icons of Bengal, such as Swami Vivekananda and Rabindranath Tagore. The Bharatiya Janata Party is at pains to demonstrate that it is not a north Indian party; and even if it loves to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, it understands what the average Bengali bhadralok regards as his ‘cultural capital’. No wonder the leaders of the party, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, often express their close ‘attachment’ to Vivekananda, Tagore and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Bhadralok consciousness This symbolic politics of cultural appropriation cannot be adequately understood without looking at the consciousness of the Bengali bhadralok. Possibly, this consciousness has not yet been able to come out of its attachment to lost glory. The colonial encounter, the birth of the new intelligentsia, the nuanced conversation with the West or its ‘Enlightenment’ philosophies, and the rigorous process of inner churning led to what is generally regarded as the ‘Bengal Renaissance’. In a way, from Raja Ram Mohan Roy to Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, from Bankim Chandra Chatterjee to Tagore, or from Swami Vivekananda to Sri Aurobindo, Bengal witnessed its cultural fineness in the 19th and early 20th century. Possibly, the likes of Satyajit Ray or Amartya Sen sought to carry this legacy forward in contemporary times. However, the harsh reality is that because of the trauma of Partition, the division of Bengal, the influx of refugees, economic decline and widespread social unrest, Bengal began to lose much of its cultural aura in independent India. In fact, this fall led to the bhadralok fixation on 19th century Bengal, and associated nostalgia. Consequences of a fixation This fixation led to a mechanised process of ritualisation; instead of a living and organic engagement with Vivekananda and Tagore, people reduced them to objects of worship. It would not be an exaggeration to say that average Bengalis often equate spirituality with routine visits to Belur Math or the Dakshineswar Kali temple and buying a couple of pocketbooks containing the messages of Vivekananda. Likewise, the middle class from Kolkata occasionally visits Shantiniketan, reduces it to a tourist spot, and uses Rabindrasangeet as some sort of ritualistic mantras. Not only that. A Bengali child, as I recall from my own experiences, often grows up with a belief that Bose was the ultimate icon of the freedom struggle and both Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru were not nice to him. In fact, no political party in Bengal, be it the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or the Trinamool Congress, is free from this cultural politics. The BJP too seems to have understood this Bengali weakness; it is seeking to demonstrate that it can quote selectively from Vivekananda, appreciate Tagore’s paintings, and glorify Netaji’s heroism. Amid this ‘invocation’ of Vivekananda and Tagore, we see the manifestations of ugly politics. The language of this politics is toxic; the continual classification of ‘Hindu’ and ‘Muslim’ votes pollutes the collective psyche; and as everything becomes a utilitarian transaction, nothing is impossible — a politician in the Trinamool yesterday joins the BJP today; or a ‘leftist’ becomes a militant nationalist. While Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee seems to be becoming angrier and more restless with every passing day, Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah have begun to visit West Bengal quite frequently. Amid all this, there is no creative breakthrough or critical reflection. For the political class, Vivekananda and Tagore are just names; there is no honest engagement with their lives. Misfits in the world of Hindutva What is quite absurd is that the proponents of Hindutva — an ideology of hyper-masculine nationalism — are trying to possess Tagore. Imagine Tagore’s sublime prayers in Gitanjali , his poetic universalism, his rhythmic engagement with the abundance of nature, and his tender, feminine and spiritually enriched aesthetic sensibilities. Imagine Tagore’s profound reflections on the dangers of hyper-nationalism and the resultant psychology of violence. Imagine some of the characters Tagore created in his novels — Gora with his existential quest and realisation of India as a maternal/inclusive space without walls of separation; Nandini with her feminine grace questioning the gigantic/hyper-masculine machine; and Nikhilesh seeing the dangers of communalisation of politics in the name of nationalism. Imagine Tagore nurturing the art of Nandalal Bose, conversing and debating with Gandhi, and experimenting with a kind of education that expands one’s horizon and nurtures the aesthetics of living. The politics that the proponents of Hindutva practise is the negation of almost everything Tagore stood for. Likewise, it is important to realise that Swami Vivekananda, despite his saffron and visibly ‘Hindu’ look, cannot be fitted into the discourse of Hindutva. The monk sought to activate the conscience of a defeated nation, pleaded for “muscles of iron, nerves of steel and gigantic will”, celebrated the idea of a resurgent nation with a ‘soul’, and created an organisation of monks for social/spiritual work. But there is hardly any similarity between this project and what the likes of V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar sought to create. After all, Vivekananda’s message was that of Upanishadic oneness and ‘practical Vedanta’ — an engaged religiosity that is not indifferent to the plight of the subaltern, or a religiosity that seeks to arouse the potential we all carry. Possibly, a hermeneutic engagement with the radical monk would inspire us to spread the message of love and altruistic action, not hatred and exclusion. Who will educate our noisy politicians? We are living at a time when lies are transformed into gospels of truth, words have lost their meaning, political speeches have become mere rhetoric, and democracy has been reduced to election mathematics. It is perhaps futile to expect anything higher or nobler from the political class. But then, the question is whether average Bengalis are really ready to have a deep engagement with Vivekananda and Tagore. Or will they continue to reduce these figures into just brands for a false cultural pride? Avijit Pathak is Professor of Sociology at the Centre for the Study of Social Systems, School of Social Sciences, JNU, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-rush-to-appropriate-icons/article33967260.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A loan waiver rain and a State fiscal capacity drought||The Government of Tamil Nadu, in early February, announced a waiver for farm loans from cooperative credit societies to the extent of Rs. 12,100 crore. There is now a clamour to include the farmers’ loans from banks as well in this scheme and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has also promised to waive farm loans and jewel loans within certain limits. The DMK has also announced that it would waive educational loans from banks and loans of self-help groups from cooperative societies if voted to power in May 2021. It could likely be followed by a series of loan waivers for weavers and small traders, interest subvention, subsidised electricity and a host of open ended subsidies in the election manifestos. (A waiver of jewel loans from cooperative societies up to eight grams was also announced, citing novel coronavirus pandemic distress, but given its scale, it does not come under the purview of this article.) What is of interest is the fiscal capacity of the Tamil Nadu government to implement these schemes and the opportunity costs of such schemes. There has been special interest in the media to discuss the implications of the speech of the Tamil Nadu Finance Minister, on February 23, introducing the Interim Budget 2021-22 (https://bit.ly/3uHb8W7). The Budget speech is only a statement of intent, as the real Budget is the passage of finance and appropriation bills in the Assembly followed by the assent of the Governor. It is obvious that the vote-on-account, probably for the first two months of the fiscal 2021-22, passed after the presentation of the Interim Budget 2021-22 alone needs to be considered for any practical purpose. That vote-on-account is not in the public domain; however, it is only a simple two-month projection of revenue and expenditure based on the Budget 2020-21 passed in the Assembly last year. Therefore, any discussion on the Finance Minister’s speech introducing the Interim Budget 2021-22 shall remain an academic exercise and a political discourse to affect the full Budget for 2021-22 that will be presented by the new government after the 16th Legislative Assembly election is held. No support to PSUs In this context, delving into the fiscal indicators and finding out the fiscal capacity of the Government of Tamil Nadu to finance subsidies in the ensuing years are apt. The opportunity cost of squeezing the Budget to finance subsidy is the lack of direct budgetary support to public sector undertakings (PSUs) that provide public utilities.  Subsidies increase revenue expenditure, and without corresponding increase in tax and non-tax revenue for the government, the revenue deficit should naturally increase. Though every year the government claims that the revenue deficit ratio and fiscal deficit ratio are within statutory limits, the desirability and sustainability of debt have yet to be examined. Revenue deficit ratio The farm loan waiver announced in 2016 has been provided the funds in the subsequent five Budgets. In spite of this, the revenue deficit ratio was around 1.5 in the three-year period, 2017-20. During the same period, the all States’ average revenue deficit ratio was around 0.4, it was a near revenue balance in Karnataka and Telangana, and it was more than 2 in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. The cause for the elevated revenue deficit ratio in Tamil Nadu has been the increasing primary deficit ratio from 0.9 to 1.3. Primary deficit is the revenue deficit net of interest payments and the implication is that the government is unable to contain recurring expenditure such as subsidies and other discretionary expenditures within the limits of recurring non-debt revenue. So, the primary deficit ratio is the leading indicator for the revenue deficit ratio to follow and increasing primary deficit is the surest route to higher revenue deficit and unsustainable debt servicing in future. In the immediate pre-COVID-19 period, the trends in the revenue account summarised in the two deficit ratios show that there is little fiscal room to increase expenditure for new schemes. Obviously, the next question is this: what is the possibility for increasing the recurring revenue? When we move to a rule-based fiscal policy that includes harmonisation of commodity taxation and restriction of deficit ratios, higher economic growth and tax elasticity alone can help us. But this is a long-term solution and politics suffers from short sight in economic policy visualisation. Moreover, the trend in Tamil Nadu’s own tax revenue has not been buoyant in recent times and COVID-19 has further reduced tax buoyancy. We have little hope in the central government’s benevolence to support Tamil Nadu, if we believe the Finance Minister’s lament about declining central transfers both in the share in central taxes and grant-in-aid — tied or untied. Extra-budgetary transactions What is the opportunity cost of this public benevolence? We need to examine the extra-budgetary transactions for this. In general, PSUs offer public utilities, which otherwise should be directly provided by the government. It is important that the government provide adequate direct budgetary support to PSUs if they price the public utilities below the unit cost. The adequacy and quality of public utilities depend on the financial health of these PSUs. But in the absence of direct budgetary support, we can fix the financial sickness of PSUs to be a symptom of a fiscal tumour. For instance, in 2017-18, (the latest year for which we have the data), the total stock of borrowings of PSUs was Rs. 1,67,844 crore, interest payment was Rs. 14,043.03 crore, while incurring a loss of Rs. 17,423.56 crore. A case in point is the example of the Road Transport Corporations, which incurred a loss of Rs. 5,503.36 crore and interest payment of Rs. 1,017.83 crore over the borrowings of Rs. 7,160.91 crore. Almost all the PSUs should have incurred massive losses and amassed unserviceable debt during the COVID-19 period — and this will accelerate in the couple of years to come. If we add to this the PSUs borrowings and interest payments to the government’s debt and interest payments, the fiscal situation is unnerving. The lack of fiscal space and opportunity cost of expenditure profligacy of the State show that politicians only think ‘in the long run we are all dead’ and ‘let us achieve short-run electoral victories by showing the low hanging fruits of subsidies’ modes. R. Srinivasan is Professor, Department of Econometrics, University of Madras||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-loan-waiver-rain-and-a-state-fiscal-capacity-drought/article33967255.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||An unusual new media code||This week, the Australian Parliament passed a world-first law targeting Google and Facebook. The lead up to the bill pitted the government against two of the world’s largest corporations and the discussion reached the world’s top leaders: the U.S. President weighed in and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison discussed it. At the peak of the crisis, Facebook blocked all Australian users from posting or viewing any news on the platform. The law matters because it is likely to be copied by countries around the world, but there are some limitations to what has been agreed in Australia and opportunities for others to try alternative solutions. Intent of the law So, what is the law all about? The Mandatory Bargaining Code is an unusual piece of policy. It attempts to address two problems in one hit: how to tax large, multinational technology companies; and how to ensure that Australia maintains a strong, independent media. The code’s solution is to mandate transfer payments from the tech companies to news media organisations. At this point you could be forgiven for thinking: ‘But isn’t Australia a market economy?’ And that’s one of the most perplexing aspects of the new law. What it effectively does is require one industry to pay money to an unrelated industry. This is like forcing computer manufacturers to sustain typewriter manufacturers. The underlying assumption is that Google and Facebook derive benefit and revenue by helping users access links to news stories. That is true to an extent, but by that logic every single business that receives a referral from a platform should be paid for it. If I searched the menu of a local restaurant, Google would have to pay that restaurant for my action. That model ignores the benefit businesses derive from the referral business, creates odd incentives and is not scalable. The other unusual feature of the law is that it doesn’t apply to any company. The intention behind the legislation was to use it as a threat rather than to have it actually apply to the companies. In this respect it’s a little like a democratic version of a shakedown. If the companies don’t agree to pay news media outlets enough money in private deals, they face the risk of being designated by the Minister and forced to abide by the code. The code’s mandatory provisions are so onerous that the tech companies are highly incentivised to make generous payments to media companies to avoid the provisions. The payments agreed to in private deals can easily exceed revenue actually generated by the platform from displaying the news links. This is because the amounts they would be forced to pay under the code would likely be far higher, so it is better to overpay outside the scheme than risk falling under it. As you might suspect, a law that proposes giving news organisations money for doing nothing new was received well among news businesses. Politically, it was an astute way to go after the tech giants because there was not a dissenting voice to be heard in the Australian mainstream media. The downside was that it meant there was little exploration of alternative policy approaches, or some of the longer-term consequences of the code. Alternatives Some might say, that might be true, but a strong independent media is the lifeblood of democracy and the tech companies need to pay more tax, so if a clunky policy solution is the price of getting there, I’m okay with that. There is no doubt that societies around the world need to ensure they can sustain strong, independent news media. There are also lots of reasoned policy discussions on the best way to tax digital service companies. So, what are the alternatives? A former Australian Prime Minister has mounted the public case that a tax on digital advertising would be a better way to go. This could cover all online advertising or just advertising platforms of a certain size. That would provide a scalable way to tax the platforms without creating the precedent of having one industry subsidising another. On the issue of supporting news media, the new Australian law has one advantage in that it removes government from the role of deciding which outlets get cash injections. This removes the obvious conflict that government would have to hand out money to the least critical news outlets, defeating the whole purpose of the exercise. But as many governments that fund public broadcasters have learnt through bitter experience, there are effective ways of funding independent journalism at arm’s length. The law is understandably going to be of great interest to media organisations everywhere, keen to copy their Australian counterparts and fill their coffers with some tech company cash. But it would be a shame if the rush for cash got in the way of a discussion of other approaches that could be explored. Fergus Hanson is the Director at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute and the author of ‘Internet Wars’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unusual-new-media-code/article33967262.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Master and the roster||The Supreme Court recently laid to rest the proceedings inquiring into a conspiracy to threaten the independence of the judiciary on the basis of sexual harassment allegations against the former Chief Justice of India (CJI), Ranjan Gogoi. After two years, the proceedings remained inconclusive. Singular power This was a missed opportunity, for it failed to recognise that if recent experiences are anything to go by, the threat to judicial independence comes from a source closer to home. This is the singular power of the CJI as the Master of the Roster – i.e., the vesting of exclusive discretion in the Chief Justice to constitute benches and allocate cases. In fact, this power lay at the heart of the controversy surrounding the proceedings the Court has now closed. It enabled Justice Gogoi to institute suo motu proceedings despite being an accused; label the case as a matter of judicial independence; and preside over it. From the standpoint of judicial independence, the Master of the Roster power makes the CJI’s office a high stakes one. It makes the CJI the sole point of defence of the Court against executive interference. However, this has a flip side. With the CJI as the sole Master of the Roster, any executive seeking to influence the Supreme Court needs only a pliant CJI. In other words, a pliant Master of the Roster carries the danger of producing a pliant Court. This power is predicated upon the CJI’s seniority in the top court and the resultant presumption of propriety. However, B.R. Ambedkar had forewarned the Constituent Assembly: “…after all, the Chief Justice is a man with all the failings, all the sentiments and all the prejudices which we as common people have”. Yet, the Supreme Court has been reluctant to dilute this power. In Asok Pande v. Supreme Court of India (2018), a three-judge bench of the Court held that Master of the Roster is the CJI’s exclusive power. Thereafter, a two-judge bench in Shanti Bhushan v. Supreme Court of India (2018) rejected the plea that the Master of the Roster should be interpreted as the collegium. Therefore, while the CJI’s other powers such as recommending appointments to constitutional courts are shared with other senior judges, the power of Master of the Roster is enjoyed without scrutiny. Justice Gogoi finds himself in a unique position of being both a vocal critic of this power and also championing its execution. Despite levelling allegations of favouritism in how CJI Dipak Misra allocated cases, through the judges’ press conference, Justice Gogoi’s tenure as CJI did not prove much different. Apart from hearing many sensitive cases such as Ayodhya and Rafale himself, he also used this power to ignore conflict of interest when he presided over the proceedings on sexual harassment allegations against him. Judicial reforms Reforms in the Indian judiciary have been a continuing project, mostly responding to crises of the time. Hence, when Indira Gandhi as Prime Minister ordered punitive transfers of High Court judges and superseded judges to appoint the CJI, the Supreme Court formulated the collegium system in response. However, this system has failed to keep executive interferences at bay from the Supreme Court. This is for two reasons: first, as Justice Gogoi’s case shows, there is an attractive lure of post-retirement jobs; and second, as the privilege of Master of the Roster shows, the CJI’s allocation of cases is an unchecked power. The continuing project of judicial reforms should then address these two issues. A cooling-off period between retirement and a post-retirement appointment has often been suggested as a way to deal with the first problem. For the second, the power of Master of the Roster needs to be diversified beyond the CJI’s exclusive and untrammelled discretion. Whether these should vest with a larger cohort of serving judges is an issue that invites public debate and introspection within the institution of the Supreme Court. Pranav Verma is an LLM candidate at the University of Cambridge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/master-and-the-roster/article33967263.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||High stakes||Assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and the Union Territory of Puducherry will be taking place in changed circumstances. Polls will begin on March 27, with the results on May 2. Politics in these regions is not the same as it was five years ago. The BJP’s unrelenting pursuit of influence has unsettled conventional calculations in all these areas that are outside the core of the party’s traditional catchment area. In 2016, of the 824 seats in the fray, the BJP had won only 64 but it emerged as the ruling party in Assam. It hopes to retain power in Assam and win West Bengal, besides expanding its influence in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. In 2016, the BJP had won only three seats in West Bengal, but its rise was dramatic in the 2019 Lok Sabha election when it won 18 of the 42 seats and 40.64% of votes. The BJP’s performance in West Bengal will be the most eagerly watched aspect in these elections. The significant strength of Muslim voters in West Bengal is often cited as a demographic barrier for the Hindu nationalist party, but communal politics works best in areas where minorities mobilise in significant proportions. Assam and Kerala too have minority populations that are formidable in elections, and there are plausible combinations that could work to the BJP’s advantage. In Assam, the BJP’s twin agenda of the CAA and the NRC is a double-edged sword, and their electoral potency will be on test. What will matter most is the level of disenchantment with the ruling parties, and the alternative governance platform on offer. The underperformance of the Congress in the DMK-led alliance contributed to a consecutive victory for the AIADMK in 2016, a rarity in Tamil Nadu. With the passing of Jayalalithaa and M. Karunanidhi, Dravidian politics is at the crossroads and the BJP is looking for an opening. In Kerala, the LDF is hoping to retain power for a second consecutive term, contingent on a slide of the Congress. Such a scenario would also mean significant gains for the BJP. Across these places, regional parties are in general on the back foot. In Assam, the AGP is reduced to irrelevance and new outfits with a narrow focus have emerged. As the BJP raises its stakes, concerns that the Centre might play a partisan role in these elections are already high. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has termed the phasing out of polls in the State into eight segments a conspiracy to unseat her. The Election Commission must scrupulously play its role as an impartial umpire. There are also disturbing signs that communal polarisation could be higher, particularly in Assam and West Bengal. There could be some defining trends emerging from this round of elections, with long-term implications for politics in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/high-stakes/article33967248.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Cold comfort||To Islamabad’s deep disappointment, the Paris-based 39-member Financial Action Task Force has decided once again to keep Pakistan on its “grey list” of countries under “increased monitoring”, giving it another three months to complete its commitments. After being removed from that list in 2015, Pakistan was put back on it in June 2018, and handed a 27-point action list to fulfil. On Thursday, FATF President Marcus Pleyer announced that although Pakistan has made “significant progress”, it had three remaining points of the 27 that were only partially addressed, notably all in the area of curbing terror financing. The body listed the remaining tasks: demonstrating terror-funding prosecution is accurate, effective and dissuasive, and thoroughly implementing financial sanctions against all terrorists designated by the UN Security Council, which include LeT founder Hafiz Saeed, JeM chief Masood Azhar, other leaders of terror groups in Pakistan, and those belonging to al Qaeda. Pakistan’s former Interior Minister Rehman Malik has protested the decision most vociferously, even suggesting that the FATF should be taken to The Hague, given that other countries that have completed nearly all the points on their task lists have been dropped from the grey list. He also cited a recent report that calculated Pakistan has lost $38 billion because of its time on the grey list (2008-2015 and 2018-the present). It is cold comfort for Islamabad that the FATF chief also ruled out downgrading Pakistan to the “blacklist”, as he said that Pakistan has made progress on its commitments and this is not “the time” to contemplate the extreme step — this would mean enhanced sanctions and restrictions, as Iran and North Korea face at present. Mr. Pleyer advised Pakistan to complete the remaining tasks by June 2021, when the FATF will meet again to vote on the issue. The FATF decision coincides with the first signs of a thaw between India and Pakistan since 2016. The decision of the Directors General of Military Operations, also on Thursday, to strictly observe the ceasefire agreement at the LoC, and revelations in the media, which have not been contradicted by the government, that National Security Adviser Ajit Doval has been in touch with senior officials including the Pakistan Army Chief, are both significant. The joint statement also commits to resolving “core issues” that lead to violence between the two sides, indicating more dialogue between India and Pakistan could be on the cards; there are no political, trade, cultural ties at present. Pakistan’s next steps on the FATF directive to successfully prosecute terrorists and terror financers identified by the grouping are in its own interests. Any proposed New Delhi-Islamabad engagement in the next few months would get a much-needed boost if Pakistan traverses this ‘last mile’ on the FATF grey list, addressing India’s main grievance on cross-border terror that emanates from its soil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cold-comfort/article33967249.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Riot at Howrah Railway Station||Calcutta, March 1: Further details of last evening’s riot at Howrah Station go to show that all local and main line train services were suspended for over six hours and traffic was disorganised for several hours causing great inconvenience to passengers. After a local passenger left Howrah at five and before she had proceeded half a mile the strikers bombarded the train with brick bats. The European driver and Indian fireman were hit and the train was stopped. Two European ladies and thirty Indian passengers were injured. The mob then attacked the power-house and the various cabin signal-boxes and points connected with the working of Howrah cabins and damaged them considerably. The strikers also set fire to the Ticcapara Railway gate which was practically destroyed. They cut telephone and telegraph wires and tore up part of the line on the Bengal Nagpur Railway. One pilotman who refused to stop work and was badly handled by the rioters is missing. A good many windows, lamps, etc. were broken but no material damage was done to rolling-stock or permanent way or cabins. On arrival of the police force, two hundred Gurkhas and a contingent of the East Indian Railway Volunteer Corps the mob dispersed. Troops are guarding the line between Howrah and Uttarparah while the Howrah Station yard and its approaches are guarded by police and Volunteers. By 9-30, the situation was within hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/riot-at-howrah-railway-station/article33967256.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Elephant comes to poll booth||A mahout, who took his baby elephant with him to a booth in the Saidapet constituency in the City [Madras, March 1], was turned back by the police. Urchins in the locality, clustering noisily around the animal, and its keeper distracted voters for a time. The mahout came to the booth and cast his vote after leaving the elephant at a nearby temple. “Rahu kalam”, the 90-minute period observed as inauspicious by the people, kept queues thin till nine in the morning in some areas of the City. An 85-year-old woman, who arrived at a City polling station riding piggy back on her grandson, found to her dismay that her age was given in the electoral roll as 38. She was allowed to vote after she had convinced the polling officials that the error was not of her making.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/elephant-comes-to-poll-booth/article33967257.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘NSE glitch cost India immensely’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday that the recent technical glitch at the National Stock Exchange (NSE), which led to trading being halted for several hours on the bourse, had cost India ‘immensely’. She called for a look at the interoperability norms in payment systems to ensure seamless payments. The NSE had halted trading on its platform just before noon on February 24, and informed market participants at 3:17 p.m. that trading would resume from 3:30 p.m. for extended hours. “Seamlessness of payments is important… it may not be contextual, but even where complete foolproof systems are laid, you find that in the NSE a couple of days when there was a glitch. A kind of technology-driven glitch which nobody could have anticipated, but that glitch has cost us immensely and lessons are being learnt,” she said. Her comments, made at an event to mark the 45th Civil Accounts Day hosted by the Controller General of Accounts, assume significance as the markets watchdog had said its interoperability framework allowed traders to continue transacting on other stock exchanges when the NSE halted trading. “Maybe that was an issue of interoperability between the two exchanges, but that is the kind of thing where seamless digital payments is the goal we have to aspire for,” the Minister said, stressing that the NSE case was an example of the challenges that technology-driven platforms could face. On February 25, the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had clarified that ‘despite the trading halt, the framework of interoperability facilitated market participants to continue their transactions at other stock exchanges... allowing them to seamlessly trade/square off their existing positions’. “SEBI has already advised NSE to... carry out a detailed root-cause analysis of the trading halt and also to explain the reasons for trading not migrating to the disaster recovery site,” it had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nse-glitch-cost-india-immensely/article33967227.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Most women miss pay raise due to gender’||About 85%, or four in five working women in India believe they have missed out on a raise, promotion, or work offer because of their gender, according to a new report by LinkedIn. As per the ‘The Opportunity Index 2021’ report, this average stands at 60% for the Asia Pacific (APAC) region. “A deeper analysis shows that more women in India have experienced the impact of gender on career development when compared to the APAC region,” as per the LinkedIn report. “While 66% of the people in India feel that gender equality has improved compared to their parents’ age, India’s working women still contend the strongest gender bias across Asia Pacific countries,” it said. The survey, conducted in January, saw participation from more than 10,000 respondents across the APAC region. It covered 2,285 respondents in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/most-women-miss-pay-raise-due-to-gender/article33967230.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Spectrum auction sees bids worth Rs. 77,146 crore||The government on Monday received bids worth Rs. 77,146 crore on the first day of the auction for telecom airwaves, exceeding its own pre-bid estimates of about Rs. 45,000 crore. The auctions, taking place after almost five years, saw participation from the three private players — Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea — who bid for 849.20 MHz on the first day out of a total of 2,308.80 MHz put up for sale. Airwaves worth Rs. 3.92 lakh crore have been put up for sale across 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz frequency bands. However, during the four rounds of bidding that took place, no bids were received for the premium 700 MHz band as well as the 2500 MHz band. While the bidding would continue on Tuesday, it is likely to conclude after another two rounds. Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said as of 6 p.m., the winning bids had totalled Rs. 77,146 crore. “We had anticipated that only three players would participate and they had to renew their spectrum. Our expectation was for bids worth Rs. 45,000 crore, which has been exceeded. It is a matter of assurance,” Mr. Prasad said. He added that the auctions were being held in the background of the pandemic that had impacted the entire economy. “There was stress, we cannot deny that. But, inspite of that, the auctions are showing encouraging results,” he said. Telecom Secretary Anshu Prakash added that at the end of day 1, of the available spectrum, 65% had been sold in 800 Mhz band, 38% in 900 MHz band, 41% in 1800 Mhz band, 9% in 2100 MHz band, and 89% in 2300 MHz band.   Replying to a query on 5G auction, the Minister said, “We should be coming out with an ecosystem for 5G trials very soon. “We will be sharing more details at an appropriate time for 5G auctions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spectrum-auction-sees-bids-worth-rs-77146-crore/article33967232.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad,||BPCL to sell Numaligarh refinery stake for Rs. 9,876 cr.||Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) has decided to sell its entire 61.65% stake in Numaligarh Refinery (NRL) for nearly Rs. 9,876 crore to a consortium of Oil India (OIL) and Engineers India (EIL) and the Assam government. In the event of the State government, which holds 12.35% stake in NRL and has the right of first offer, deciding against acquiring the shares being offloaded, the consortium of the two companies will be the buyer. The share purchase agreement, with the buyers, will be entered into after BPCL shareholders approve the stake sale. The transaction is expected to be completed within a month of obtaining all requisite approvals, BPCL informed the stock exchange on Monday. The development assumes significance as the Centre had decided to delink NRL ahead of the proposed divestment of BPCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bpcl-to-sell-numaligarh-refinery-stake-for-rs-9876-cr/article33967235.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maruti, Tata Motors post double-digit growth||Leading car makers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai and Tata Motors reported robust sales growth in the domestic market in February as the demand for personal mobility amid the COVID-19 pandemic continued to drive the market. The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) said domestic sales increased 11.8% to 1,52,983 units last month, from 1,36,849 units in February 2020. Hyundai Motor India reported a 29% increase in domestic sales at 51,600 units as against 40,010 units in February 2020. Tata Motors passenger vehicle sales surged more than twofold to 27,225 units in the domestic market last month. Others, including Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM), Mahindra & Mahindra and Honda Cars India, also reported strong wholesale dispatches to dealers last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-tata-motors-post-double-digit-growth/article33967238.ece
02 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘India usage 2nd-highest for Webex’||Networking firm Cisco said its video meeting platform Webex has seen the second-highest usage in India, after the U.S., over the last few months. On average, Webex — which competes with Zoom, Google Meet and Microsoft Teams and which has its second-largest user base in India, after the U.S. — has had more than 11 million India-origin meetings a month and over 80 million participants. It has seen active sign-ups from financial services, ITeS and the public sector, said Sameer Garde, president, Cisco India & SAARC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-usage-2nd-highest-for-webex/article33967225.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Domestic air traffic slowly recovering’||Domestic air traffic is likely to return to pre-COVID-19 levels by financial year 2023 and international air traffic by 2024, as per rating agency ICRA’s forecast. It said the domestic passenger traffic had shown a gradual recovery supported by an increase in aircraft capacity permitted by the Union government, while international traffic continued to remain subdued on account of travel-related restrictions. As a result, domestic passenger traffic reached 61%, and international traffic 23% of pre-COVID-19 level in January, ICRA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/domestic-air-traffic-slowly-recovering/article33967226.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST collection rose 7% in Feb. to Rs. 1.13 lakh cr.||Gross GST collections in February grew 7% year-on-year to Rs. 1.13 lakh crore, marking the third consecutive month of the collections crossing Rs. 1.1 lakh crore. Revenues from goods imports grew 15% in the month and revenues from domestic transactions (including import of services) expanded 5% over February 2020, the Finance Ministry said. Terming the improved collections ‘a clear indication of the economic recovery and the impact of various measures taken by tax administration to improve compliance’, the Ministry pointed out that GST revenues had crossed Rs. 1 lakh crore ‘fifth time in a row post pandemic’. Among the major States, Odisha saw the highest surge in GST revenues of 20% in February, followed by 14% in Gujarat, 12% in Jharkhand, 10% in West Bengal and Rajasthan, and Tamil Nadu recording a 9% growth. “A favourable base effect is likely to result in the CGST collections expanding by 18-23% in March 2021,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-collection-rose-7-in-feb-to-rs-113-lakh-cr/article33967228.ece
02 March 2021||Chennai,||Daimler adds 3.3% market share in 2020||Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV) has posted a 3.3% rise in domestic market share to 9.1% for the calendar year 2020 despite the pandemic and economic downturn. DICV said it was able to outperform the Indian commercial vehicle market and emerge from 2020 with significant increases in both domestic sales (46%) and incoming orders (almost 150%) during the fourth quarter. “DICV continues to transform the Indian CV industry with our made-for-India BharatBenz brand,” said MD & CEO Satyakam Arya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/daimler-adds-33-market-share-in-2020/article33967233.ece
02 March 2021||Mumbai,||Credit demand may almost double to 9-10% in FY22: Report||On the back of timely government and regulatory measures this fiscal, which helped the economy to recover faster than expected, bank credit is seen growing 400-500 bps to 9-10% in FY22, according to a Crisil report. In the current fiscal, bank credit is expected to rise 4-5%.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credit-demand-may-almost-double-to-9-10-in-fy22-report/article33967236.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Foresight Group among multiple bidders for Shipping Corp privatisation||London-based shipping firm Foresight Group is among the multiple bidders who have put in preliminary bids for buying the government's entire stake in Shipping Corporation of India, sources said. The government is selling its 63.75% stake along with the transfer of management control.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/foresight-group-among-multiple-bidders-for-shipping-corp-privatisation/article33967850.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Power consumption grows marginally by 0.88 pc in February||India’s power consumption grew 0.88% in February at 104.73 billion units (BU) due to a slight rise in temperature in the month, official data showed. Power consumption in February 2020 was 103.81 BU, according to data from the Power Ministry.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-consumption-grows-marginally-by-088-pc-in-february/article33967240.ece
02 March 2021||Kolkata,||Haryana cruises past Bengal||Chaitanya Bishnoi and Shubham Rohilla scored fine half-centuries as Haryana notched up a five-wicket win over Bengal in its last Elite Group E match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy at the Eden Gardens here on Monday. Bengal, put in, was bundled out for 177. Haryana reached the target with 6.3 overs to spare. Most of the Bengal batsmen paid the price for poor shot selection. Abhimanyu Easwaran and Ritwik Roy Chowdhury were dismissed cheaply by Sanjay Pahal. Anustup Majumdar (31, 44b, 3x4) was caught on the onside boundary off left-arm spinner Ashok Sandhu, while Abhishek Raman and Shahbaz Ahmed were bamboozled by off-spinner Jayant Yadav. Bengal was in dire straits at 85 for five in the 24th over. Suvankar Bal (54, 67b, 3x4, 1x6) showed patience to get his maiden fifty. He joined hands with Arnab Nandi (30, 43b, 2x4) to collect 40 runs. Pahal captured three wickets, while Ajit Chahal, Jayant and Sandhu picked up two wickets apiece. Haryana wrapped up the Bengal innings in 45.1 overs. Haryana’s left-handed openers, Bishnoi (57, 59b, 10x4) and Rohilla (50, 77b, 6x4), played contrasting knocks to get 77 runs and lay a solid platform. Bishnoi excelled with his timing and placement all-around the park, while Rohilla held steady before opening up to take Haryana close to victory. Shahbaz scalped three, but could not prevent Haryana from securing four points. Both sides finished with eight points apiece.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryana-cruises-past-bengal/article33967689.ece
02 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||The story behind Akshar turning Axar||His variation, especially the arm-ball, has bamboozled the England batsmen in the ongoing series, but the spelling of his name has been a mystery ever since Axar Patel became an IPL sensation in 2014. To unravel the mystery, one has to travel to his home-town Nadiad, a 90-minute drive away from Ahmedabad. While the left-arm spinner has preferred to spell his name across social media platforms as “Akshar”, official records, including the BCCI’s, reflect it as Axar. Contrary to what has been widely reported, Akshar became Axar due to a nurse’s error at the clinic at the time of his birth. “He was born in Anand (a town famous for milk products) and the nurse issued the hospital certificate for birth registration spelling it as ‘Axar’. That’s how it stuck to him,” says mother Priti, who during Axar’s teens was hesitant to let her son pursue cricket due to fears of his getting injured. Didn’t the family — which has a convenient one-storied bungalow in a nondescript locality of the town where Axar’s and his uncle’s families reside together — feel the need to get his name in the official records changed at some stage to clear the confusion? “How did it matter back then? We didn’t know he would go on to become such a big cricketer. Otherwise we would have definitely got it changed,” says Sanship, an elder cousin of the southpaw. Axar, during his exploits in the pink-ball Test, said that a freak injury had meant he had to stop bowling left-arm pace and turn to spin. Sanship reveals it wasn’t an on-field injury that caused the turnaround. “He was playing in the fields as a schoolkid and hurt his left shin with a sickle. Since then, he could never bowl fast with a run-up,” says Sanship. But it was another injury in his first season of playing with the hard ball that forced his mother to start opposing her son’s love for cricket. “A ball hit him in the eye, and me and his nani (maternal grandmother) thought he shouldn’t risk such injuries playing cricket,” Priti recalls. It took Axar’s father Rajesh a lot of time to change the minds of the mother and grandmother, ensuring the youngster’s love for cricket didn’t come to an abrupt halt. Due to domestic reasons, the family couldn’t watch Axar at the stadium last week. To attend fourth Test “But all of us will definitely travel to Motera and watch him in action [in the fourth Test]. Just can’t wait for it,” says an elated Rajesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-story-behind-akshar-turning-axar/article33967337.ece
02 March 2021||JAIPUR,||Delhi makes knockouts in style||Himmat Singh lived up to his name on Monday. He showed plenty of himmat (courage) and skills to guide Delhi to an eight-wicket victory over Rajasthan in a crucial Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day match. Thanks to his unbeaten 117 (96b, 13x4, 1x6) and his 183-run stand for the unbroken third wicket with Nitish Rana (88 n.o., 75b, 12x4, 1x6), Delhi not just posted its fourth win of Group-D, with 5.2 overs to spare, but clinched a place in the knockout phase as well. A 51-ball 78 from Arijit Gupta (78, 51b, 7x4, 4x6) and opener Manendar Singh’s 73 (98b, 5x4, 1x6) were the highlights of the Rajasthan innings, which ended at 294 in 48.2 overs. Seamers Simarjit Singh and Pradeep Sangwan took seven wickets between them. Delhi will now play the Plate winner Uttarakhand in the playoff for the last quarterfinal spot. Mumbai, which crushed Himachal Pradesh by 200 runs, finished on top of the group. Shreyas Iyer’s men won all their five matches to qualify directly for the quarterfinals. The skipper, for once, had a forgettable match with the bat though, as he made just two before becoming one of the four victims of pacer Rishi Dhawan. Mumbai was in considerable bother at one stage, with the score reading 49 for four. But fine knocks from Shardul Thakur (92, 57b, 6x4, 6x60), Suryakumar Yadav (91, 75b, 15x4) and wicket-keeper Aditya Tare (83, 98b, 6x4, 1x6) helped the former champion make 321 for nine. In reply, Rajasthan was bowled out for 121, with spinners Prashant Solanki and Shams Mulani sharing seven wickets. In the day’s other match in the group, Maharashtra, riding on hundreds from Yash Nahar and Ankit Bawane, thrashed Pondicherry by 137 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-makes-knockouts-in-style/article33967623.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Vote for Sportstar Aces Awards 2021 Giants of the Decade Special||The Sportstar Aces Awards 2021 celebrate consistency in performance and impact of sports stars in the decade between 2011 and 2020.  The nominees:   SPORTSMAN OF THE   DECADE (TEAM SPORTS)   Sunil Chhetri (Football): Named an ‘Asian Icon’ by the Asian Football Confederation, he is the National team’s most-capped player (115) and the second-highest goal-scorer (72) among active international footballers, behind Cristiano Ronaldo (102).  Sardar Singh (Hockey): One of the most-capped international hockey players (314), he led the country for almost eight years after getting the chance for the first time in 2008 when he was just 22, one of the youngest to captain India.  Manpreet Singh (Hockey): Right from his debut in 2011 at the age of 19, he has been an integral part of the country’s growth (India is now ranked No. 4 in the world). The midfielder has proved to be a worthy successor to Sardar.  SPORTSWOMAN OF THE DECADE (TEAM SPORTS)   Savita Punia (Hockey): With more than 200 caps, the 30-year-old goalkeeper is one of the senior-most members in the team. She has been involved in almost every major success for India in the last decade.  Rani Rampal (Hockey): She was only 15 when she took the field at the 2010 World Cup and has been part of every Indian side since, winning a record 241 caps so far. She is the first woman hockey player — and only the third from the sport — to get the Khel Ratna.  Bala Devi (Football): In 2020, she made history by becoming the first Indian woman to sign a professional contract with a foreign club when she joined Scottish side Rangers. She has tasted plenty of success in National colours.  SPORTSPERSON OF THE DECADE (MOTORSPORTS)   Gaurav Gill: He is India’s best-known face in the world of rallying. In 2019, he became the first motorsports athlete to be awarded the Arjuna for his National and APRC performances.  K. P. Aravind: The Bengaluru rider became the second Indian after C.S. Santosh to complete the Dakar Rally when finished 39th in the 2019 edition. He has won 17 National titles.  Narain Karthikeyan: The first Indian in Formula 1 — he drove for Jordan in the 2005 season — he returned after a six-year break and competed in nine races for Hispania Racing. He is now competing in the Super Formula and Super GT categories in Japan.  CLUB OF THE DECADE   Mumbai Indians: If consistency is the yardstick for success, few can match Mumbai Indians. It has won five IPL titles in eight years. In addition, MI has contributed to shaping Indian talent, including the likes of Jasprit Bumrah and Hardik Pandya.  Patna Pirates: It has been the most successful franchise in the brief history of the Pro Kabaddi League, its three titles coming in successive seasons between 2016 and 2017.  Bengaluru FC: Ever since it came into existence in 2013, it has been Indian football’s leading light. With two I-League titles, two Federation Cups, one ISL crown and one Indian Super Cup, it is the most successful Indian football club of the last decade.  SPORTSMAN OF THE   DECADE (INDIVIDUAL OLYMPIC SPORTS)   Sushil Kumar (Wrestling): He is the first Indian to claim two Olympic medals in individual sports and the only Indian wrestler to win a world crown. His hat-trick of top podium finishes at the Commonwealth Games (2010, ’14 and ’18) is another first in Indian sport.  Vijay Kumar (Shooting): The pistol king of Indian shooting bagged a silver at the 2012 London Games. He was awarded the Khel Ratna in 2012.  Gagan Narang (Shooting): Gagan shot a bronze in the 10m air rifle event at London 2012. He is also a recipient of the Khel Ratna.  SPORTSWOMAN OF THE DECADE (INDIVIDUAL OLYMPIC SPORTS)   Mary Kom (Boxing): ‘Magnificent’ Mary is the icon of Indian women's boxing. She is the most decorated boxer in World Championships history with eight medals (six gold, one silver and one bronze).  Mirabai Chanu (Weightlifter): She won a silver in the women’s 48kg at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games. After a forgettable trip to the Rio Olympics in 2016, she bounced back to clinch the World title in Anaheim, USA, in 2017.  Sakshi Malik: The first Indian woman wrestler to clinch a medal at the Olympic Games (bronze, 2016 Rio), she went on to bag another bronze at the 2018 Commonwealth Games. Fans can cast their votes on sportstar.thehindu.com/aces-awards/popular-awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vote-for-sportstar-aces-awards-2021-giants-of-the-decade-special/article33967353.ece
02 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Pranay, Vaishnavi take honours||Pranay Prashant Shettigar defeated Asmit 15-21, 21-19, 21-18 and K. Vaishnavi put it across T. Surya Charishma (Vij) 17-21, 21-14, 21-15 in the boys’ and girls’ under-17 finals of the Chetan Anand Badminton Academy sub-junior badminton tournament here on Monday.  The results (finals:)   Boys: U-13: Y. Nikhil Prakash (Neravatj Academy) bt K. Mahendra Verma (BBBA) 21-14, 21-9.   Doubles: Arjun Tanaji Birajdar & Aryan Tanaji Birajdar (BBBA) bt K. Mahendra Verma & K. Srikar Praneeth (BBBA) 21-13, 21-19.   U-15: V. Pranav Vallathor bt T. Gnana Dattu (CABA) 21-12, 21-9.   Doubles: A.R. Rohan Kumar & I. Varshith Sri Sai (BBBA) bt Mayank Siwach & T. Gnana Dattu (CABA) 21-17, 21-17.   U-17: Pranay Prashant Shettigar (BBBA) bt Asmit (ASIAN) 15-21, 21-19, 21-18.   Doubles: Shaik Numair & T. Rahul Azaad (BBBA) bt G. Manikanta & P. Yudhajit Reddy (BBBA) 21-8, 24-22.   Girls: U-13: P.L.Supriya Rao (NBA) bt Ayati Dubey (ASIAN) 21-15, 21-17.   Doubles: P. Jaahnavi Sai & Praanjala Nisarga (PGBA) bt Himabindu & Y. Renushri Syamalarao (PGBA) 21-10, 21-13.   U-15: N. Deepshika (Club Sportigo) bt B. Prashansa (CABA) 16-21, 21-16, 21-16.   Doubles: G. Poojitha Suchitra & R. Padmini Reddy (Guntur) bt Avantika Anil Khadikar & Skideep Kour (BBBA) 21-10, 21-14.   U-17: K. Vaishnavi (BBBA) bt Tamiri Surya Charishma (Vij) 17-21, 21-14, 21-15.   Doubles: D.V. Laya & D.V. Shruthi Suchitra bt K. Vaishnavi & M.S. Eshita (BBBA) 21-17, 18-21, 21-16 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranay-vaishnavi-take-honours/article33967937.ece
02 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KSEB hopes for strong comeback||Former champion Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is making a comeback to the Kerala Premier League (KPL) after four years. KSEB won the title in 2017 but surprisingly didn't compete the next year. The financial liability which the KPL placed on the participating teams was one reason for KSEB to stay away from the event. Short-term sponsor However, the team has now found a short-term sponsor in Qatar-based Madre Group and the club accepted Kerala Football Association’s invitation to take part this season. KSEB is drawn in Group-B along with Kovalam FC, United FC, Kerala Blasters, Golden Threads and MA College. “It is a tough group. Usually the club teams lift their performance when they play against the department sides and we expect good fight from our rivals. The pandemic has affected our preparation. “The stadiums are still closed and we were forced to train on turf pitches. We played a couple of practice matches against local sides and the team has a settled look,” said KSEB coach P.B. Ramesh. Enough talent Jobby Justin, V.V. Surjith, Rakesh, Alex and Prince Paulose will be missing from the side which won the title in 2017. However, Ramesh felt that his side had enough talent to win the title again. “We will miss those players but we have Santosh Trophy stars like Mohammed Parakottil, Ajmal and Francis and experienced players like Sajeer Khan and Eldhose. “We have done pretty well in the tournaments that we competed before the outbreak of the pandemic. I have belief in my boys and I hope they will rise up to the occasion in the KPL,” said Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kseb-hopes-for-strong-comeback/article33967625.ece
02 March 2021||Chennai,||Team MRF ropes in Italian legend Andreucci||Team MRF Tyres on Monday announced the signing of Paolo Andreucci, 11-time Italian rally champion, to compete in the 2021 Italian Gravel Championship (CIR-Terra). Andreucci’s car, a Citroen C3 Rally 2, will run on the latest generation of MRF Tyres. The Italian, who has more than 20 years of experience, will also take on the mantle of tyre development for the Indian company along with Fiore Brivio — renowned for his rally tyre development. Important role Team MRF Tyres has an aggressive 2021 testing schedule and Andreucci is expected to play an important role in this programme. MRF Tyres vice-chairman & managing director Arun Mammen said, “We are proud of how competitive Team MRF Tyres was in the 2020 European Rally Championship season. Everyone at MRF Tyres is working hard and we are happy to be present competitively on a world stage like this. “To be able to attract an 11-time national champion to MRF Tyres speaks about our commitment to rallying in Europe and the continued development of our rally tyre.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-mrf-ropes-in-italian-legend-andreucci/article33967242.ece
02 March 2021||Los Angeles,||Woods touched by sartorial tribute||Tiger Woods, recovering in hospital after surgery for serious leg injuries suffered in a car smash, tweeted thanks on Sunday for a show of support from fellow pro golfers. “It is hard to explain how touching today was when I turned on the tv and saw all the red shirts,” the 15-time Major champion said in a tweet. “To every golfer and every fan, you are truly helping me get through this tough time.” Several golfers at the WGC-Workday championship in Bradenton and quite a few at the LPGA event in Orlando took the course for their final rounds wearing Woods’ signature Sunday colours of red and black. The PGA Tour tweeted a picture of the maintenance staff at its Puerto Rico Open on Sunday all turned out in red and black. Former World No. 1 Rory McIlroy, Tommy Fleetwood and Tony Finau at the WGC and Phil Mickelson at a PGA Tour Champions event were some of the players wearing Woods’ iconic colour combo. “I guess for us it’s just a gesture to let him know that we’re thinking about him and we’re rooting for him,” McIlroy said. “He’s got a huge recovery ahead of him. But I think (it’s) just for everyone to show their appreciation for what he means to us out here. “If there was no Tiger Woods, I just think the Tour and the game of golf in general would be in a worse place. “He’s meant a lot to us, he still does mean a lot to us and I think that was just a little way to show that.” Collin Morikawa, who lifted the trophy, said. “I don’t think we say thank you enough, so I want to say thank you to Tiger.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/woods-touched-by-sartorial-tribute/article33967397.ece
02 March 2021||LONDON,||An incredible achievement by Mumbai City in ISL, says Guardiola||Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola on Monday described sister club Mumbai City FC’s feat of topping the Indian Super League (ISL) points table and booking a spot in the AFC Champions League (ACL) as “an incredible achievement”. On Sunday, Mumbai City defeated ATK Mohun Bagan 2-0 in the final league encounter of the ISL to win the League Winners’ Shield and book a place in the ACL for the next season. “Congratulations to everyone. Incredible achievement. Big achievement for City Football Group. Congratulations to everyone, manager Lobera. Very happy,” tweeted Guardiola. Mumbai City FC, coached by Sergio Lobera, is one of the eight clubs worldwide whose majority stakes are owned by City Football Group (CFG). Manchester City, a top side in the English Premier League, is the flagship club of the CFG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incredible-mumbai-city/article33967400.ece
02 March 2021||Nur Sultan (Kazakhstan),||Ramkumar advances||Ramkumar Ramanathan beat Hugo Grenier of France 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 to enter the second round of the $156,240 Challenger tennis tournament here on Monday.  The results:   $156,240 Challenger, Nur Sultan, Kazakhstan:   First round: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Hugo Grenier (Fra) 6-4, 3-6, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-in-second-round/article33967860.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Riya gets top billing||Riya Bhatia will lead a bunch of Indian girls as the top seed in the title hunt of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament which begins here on Tuesday. The 354th-ranked Riya will open against wild card entrant Yubarani Banerjee. Third seed Rutuja Bhosale and fourth seed Zeel Desai have proven credentials at this level. They will be joined by national champion Sowjanya Bavisetti and four-time national champion Prerna Bhambri among others.   The results (qualifying, third & final round): Smriti Bhasin bt Bela Tamhankar 6-2, 6-2; Farhat Aleen Qamar bt Ayushi Singh 6-1, 6-1; Akanksha Nitture bt Snehal Mane 6-2, 6-4; Nidhi Chilumula bt Arthi Muniyan 7-6(4), 6-3; Sai Samhitha bt Rishika Sunkara 6-2, 6-4; Sharmada Balu bt Kashish Bhatia 6-4, 6-4.   Second round: Bela bt Emma van Poppel (Ned) 7-6(11), 6-2; Smriti bt Prapti Soni 6-3, 6-3; Ayushi bt Aditi Sinha 6-4, 6-1; Farhat bt Pooja Ingale 6-2, 6-1; Snehal bt Priyanshi Bhandari 6-1, 6-4; Akanksha bt Sanya Yadav 6-0, 6-0; Nidhi bt Jigyasa Narsinghani 6-0, 6-0; Arthi bt Anaam Almas 6-3, 6-2; Sai Samhitha bt Sai Dedeepya 6-0, 6-0; Rishika bt Aayushi Tanwar 6-1, 6-3; Kashish bt R. Pratyusha 6-1, 4-6, [10-8]; Sharmada bt Sonashe Bhatnagar 6-3, 7-6(4).   The seedings: 1. Riya Bhatia, 2. Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou), 3. Rutuja Bhosale, 4. Zeel Desai, 5. Irina Khromacheva (Rus), 6. Sowjanya Bavisetti, 7. Pia Lovric (Slo), 8. Adrienn Nagy (Hun) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-gets-top-billing/article33967931.ece
02 March 2021||Hyderabad:,||Smashing Blue claims Beacon Plate||Smashing Blue, piloted by Akshay Kumar, won the Beacon Plate, the chief event of Monday’s Hyderabad races. The winner is owned by Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy. R.H. Sequiera trains the winner. Trainer Sequeira saddled two more winners, while Akshay Kumar rode three winners on the day.  1. DREAM GIRL PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): ALL TIME LEGEND (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Key To Time (Suraj Narredu) 2, Rivadavia (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Hot Seat (Arshad Alam) 4. 1, 3/4 and Nk. 1m, 13.98s. Rs. 10 (w), 6, 9 and 14 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 23, FP: 49, Q: 34, Tanala: 367. Favourite: All Time Legend. Owner: Mr. N.V. Rohin Kumar. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  2. BALLERINA STAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): LAGOS (Suraj Narredu) 1, House Of Diamonds (Akshay Kumar) 2, Certitude (Trevor) 3 and Amyra (Afroz Khan) 4. Not run: Zamora. Nk, 2 and 3/4. 1m, 12.41s. Rs. 15 (w), 7, 5 and 5 (p). SHP: 12, THP: 16, FP: 28, Q: 12, Tanala: 52. Favourite: House Of Diamonds. Owners: Mr. Donald Anthony Netto & Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: D. Netto.  3. DREAM GIRL PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): KINGSTON (Nakhat Singh) 1, Able Love (Kiran Naidu) 2, Muaser (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Starwalt (Trevor) 4. Not run: Gregor Clegane and Burano. 3-1/4, 1/2 and 3-1/4. 1m, 13.48s. Rs. 16 (w), 7, 6 and 6 (p). SHP: 16, THP: 23, FP: 52, Q: 39, Tanala: 325. Favourite: Starwalt. Owners: M. A. M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  4. BALLERINA STAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): THE SPECIAL ONE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Once More (Nakaht Singh) 2, Incredulous (R.S. Jodha) 3 and Max (Afroz Khan) 4. Hd, Hd and 1. 1m, 13.07s. Rs. 29 (w), 11, 13 and 9 (p). SHP: 46, THP: 53, FP: 599, Q: 185, Tanala: 2,766. Favourite: Her Legacy. Owners: Mr. G. Anil, Mr. M. Madhukar & Mr. Vijay Anand Jangiti. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  5. RED KNIGHT PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): LAMHA (Abhay Singh) 1, Castlerock (Ashad Asbar) 2, Fashion Universe (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Always Success (Trevor) 4. 3, 1 and Hd. 1m, 39.69s. Rs. 53 (w), 18, 10 and 10 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 24, FP: 766, Q: 490, Tanala: 3,143. Favourite: Queen Daenerys. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  6. BEACON PLATE (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): SMASHING BLUE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Your Forever (P. Gaddam) 2, Long Range (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Happy Together (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1-1/2, 1 and Sh. 1m, 12.42s. Rs. 7 (w), 5, 30 and 38 (p). SHP: 139, THP: 117, FP: 201, Q: 177, Tanala: 3,365. Favourite: Smashing Blue. Owners: Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  7. SIR BRUCE PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SCRAMJET (Trevor) 1, Blissful (Akshay Kumar) 2, Gusty Note (Suraj Narredu) 3 and Augenstern (Afroz Khan) 4. 2-1/2, 3-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 12.43s. Rs. 10 (w), 8, 9 and 8 (p). SHP: 21, THP: 36, FP: 39, Q: 21, Tanala: 104. Favourite: Scramjet. Owners: United Racing and Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  8. BUSINESS TYCOON PLATE (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): DESTINED TO BE (Akshay Kumar) 1, A Hundred Echoes (Trevor) 2, Hip Hop (Nakhat Singh) 3 and N R I Gift (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 2, 2 and Nk. 1m, 28.25s. Rs. 28 (w), 9, 8 and 28 (p). SHP: 27, THP: 60, FP: 150, Q: 66, Tanala: 2, 627. Favourite: Forever Bond. Owners: Mr. Tekula Chandra Reddy & Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 11,276 (35 tkts.) and 30%: 955 (177 tkts.). Treble: (i) Rs. 743 (52 tkts.), (ii) 3,944 (6 tkts.), (iii) 127 (647 tkts). Mini Jackpot: Rs. 31,697 (1 tkt.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smashing-blue-claims-beacon-plate/article33967243.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,||Has Varun cleared the fitness test?||Mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy’s participation in the upcoming five-match T20I series against England, beginning in Ahmedabad on March 12, appears to be in some doubt. Varun underwent the Yo-Yo test and the newly introduced 2-km time trial in Bengaluru recently, but, according to reports, the physical examination did not go too well for the Chennai lad. When contacted by The Hindu , Varun said, “Yes, I did both the tests, but I have not been told about the results so far.” The benchmark for Yo-Yo has been raised to 17.1 from 16.1 from this season. And pacemen have to run the 2-km time trial in 8 minutes and 15 seconds; the rest have to do it in 8 minutes and 30 seconds. Varun, who shone for the Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL with his variations, had to pull out of the tour of Australia — he was named in the T20 squad — because of fitness concerns. The Indian team management, it is learnt, is keen on trying out Varun ahead of World Twenty20 because of the variety and the mystery element he brings to the table. But then, Varun needs to clear the fitness roadblocks to pursue an India career, which has been his dream.  The benchmark for Yo-Yo has been raised to 17.1 from 16.1 from this season||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/has-varun-cleared-the-fitness-test/article33967891.ece
02 March 2021||INDORE,||Sayali and Hansini reign supreme||Maharashtra’s Sayali Wani and M. Hansini of Tamil Nadu Table Tennis Association bagged the sub-junior and cadet girls’ titles respectively in the UTT-82nd National championships here on Monday.  The results:   Girls, sub-juniors: Final: Sayali Wani (Mah) bt Suhana Saini (Har) 11-8, 7-11, 14-12, 5-11, 8-11, 11-7, 12-10   Semifinals: Suhana bt Taneesha Kotecha (Mah) 11-6, 11-9, 11-5, 7-11, 5-11, 14-16, 11-6; Sayali bt Pritha Vartikar (Mah) 11-7, 11-6, 11-4, 11-6.   Cadets: Final: M. Hansini (TNTTA) bt Ananya Muralidharan (TTTA) 11-6, 8-11, 11-5, 9-11, 11-5, 11-9.   Semifinals: Hansini bt Sanchari Chakrabarty (Ben) 11-7, 12-10, 13-11, 11-4; Ananya bt Prisha Goel (Del) 11-5, 8-11, 6-11, 11-3, 12-10, 11-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sayali-and-hansini-reign/article33967245.ece
02 March 2021||New Delhi,||Richards slams critics of India’s spin-friendly tracks||West Indian batting legend Viv Richards is not amused with past and present English cricketers “moaning and groaning” about the spin-friendly pitches in India and said the visitors did not prepare well for the challenge. The newly-laid Motera track in Ahmedabad became a subject of debate after India crushed England inside two days in the third Test to go 2-1 up in the four-match series. The severe criticism came from former England captains like Michael Vaughan and a section of the British media. All the chatter has not gone down well with Richards. “I’ve been asked questions recently about the Test matches played in India, the second and third, against England. “And I am a little confused about the question really because there seems to be a lot of moaning and groaning about the wicket that they were playing on,” Richards said in a video posted on his Facebook page. “I just felt that the ones who are moaning, in my opinion, should realise that there are times that you’re going to get a seaming track, a ball that is basically jumping off a good length and everyone thinks that’s a problem for batters,” he reasoned. It’s all about that The 68-year-old pointed out that playing in India has mostly been about tackling quality spinners and that England may not have done their homework properly ahead of the tour. Weighing in on the debate, the batting great said, “... But now you’ve seen the other side, and this is why I think it was given the name Test match cricket, because of the test of the mind and will and everything else that goes with it when you’re competing. “And the complaints have been that the wicket is spinning too much and all that sorts of stuff. This is another side of the coin guys. “People seem to forget that if you’re going to India, you should expect that. You are going to spin land. You should basically prepare yourself to know what you’re going to encounter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/am-confused-about-moaning-and-groaning-about-the-pitch-richards/article33967340.ece
02 March 2021||Vila-real,||Vital win takes Atletico five points clear||LaLiga leader Atletico Madrid secured a vital 2-0 win away to Villarreal on Sunday to reaffirm its title ambitions following a difficult run of results. Alfonso Pedraza’s own goal and Joao Felix’s strike gave it full points. Diego Simeone’s side was smarting from twin defeats to Levante and Chelsea but went ahead in the 25th minute courtesy of an Alfonso Pedraza own goal following a goalmouth scramble. Record signing Joao Felix came off the bench to double the lead in the 69th on the volley. A first win in four games in all competitions moved Atletico on to 58 points after 24 games, five clear of second-placed Barcelona. A Curtis Jones strike and a Kean Bryan own goal gave Liverpool a 2-0 win over Sheffield United on Sunday as the Reds snapped a run of four straight PL defeats.  Chelsea missed a chance to regain its place in the Premier League’s top four as it dominated Manchester United but had to be content with a 0-0 draw at Stamford Bridge. Inter Milan moved seven points clear at the top of Serie A as Romelu Lukaku scored after 32 seconds and bagged an assist in a 3-0 win over mid-table Genoa.  The results:   LaLiga: Villarreal 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Pedraza 25-og, Felix 69); Celta Vigo 1 (Murillo 90+4) drew with Real Valladolid 1 (Orellana 70); Cadiz 0 lost to Real Betis 1 (Juanmi 84); Granada 2 (Quina 31, Puertas 79) bt Elche 1 (Boye 40).   Premier League: Chelsea 0 drew with Manchester United 0; Sheffield United 0 lost to Liverpool 2 (Jones 48, Bryan 64-og).   Serie A: Crotone 0 lost to Cagliari 2 (Pavoletti 56, Joao Pedro 60-pen); Udinese 1 (Nestorovski 86) bt Fiorentina 0; Inter Milan 3 (Lukaku 1, Darmian 69, Sanchez 77) bt Genoa 0; Napoli 2 (Mertens 34, Politano 66) bt Benevento 0; Roma 1 (Veretout 50) lost to AC Milan 2 (Kessie 43-pen, Rebic 58).   Bundesliga: Mainz 0 lost to Augsburg 1 (Hahn 25); Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Bailey 70) lost to Freiburg 2 (Demirovic 50, Hoeler 61) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vital-win-takes-atletico-five-points-clear/article33967382.ece
02 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Churchill edges 10-man Gokulam, tops the first phase||Churchill Brothers clinched the top spot in the first phase of the I-League, downing 10-man Gokulam Kerala FC 3-2 in the final round match at the Kishore Bharati Stadium on Monday. For Churchill, Luka Majcen found the target twice while Kingslee Fernandes scored once.  Gokulam made a late comeback with Philip Adjah and Jithin M.S. scoring once each, but failed to pick up a point from the contest. The Kerala outfit was reduced to 10 men in the 30th minute when Vincy Barretto was ejected after a direct red card. Churchill remained the only unbeaten side (six wins, four draws) and finished on top with 22 points from 10 matches. Roundglass Punjab FC, which beat NEROCA FC 1-0 in its final outing later in the evening, took the second spot with 18. Real Kashmir FC claimed the third spot with 17 points, while there was a three-way tie between Mohammedan Sporting, Gokulam and TRAU FC who ended up with 16 points each. Sporting took the fourth spot on better head-to-head record while Gokulam and TRAU completed the top six who will play in a round-robin format to decide the champion. The bottom five — Aizawl FC, Sudeva Delhi FC, Chennai City FC, NEROCA and Indian Arrows — will figure in the relegation round.  The results: Gokulam Kerala FC 2 (Philip Adjah 80, Jithin M.S. 90+2) lost to Churchill Brothers 3 (Luka Majcen 26, 87-pen, Kingslee Fernandes 53).   NEROCA FC 0 lost to Roundglass Punjab FC 1 (Papa Diawara 65).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/churchill-tops-the-first-phase/article33967389.ece
02 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manisha in fifth place||Manisha Keer shot three rounds of 23 to be in the fifth place, three points behind the leader Ekaterina Subbotina (72) of Russia on the opening day of women’s trap in the shotgun World Cup in Cairo on Monday. Rajeshwari Kumari (62) and Kirti Gupta (61), however, had one bad round each in slipping to the 17th and 19th spots in a field of 23 shooters. They have two more rounds to salvage their position. In men’s trap, Prithviraj Tondaiman also had three identical rounds of 23. Asian Games silver medallist Lakshay Sheoran recovered after 21 in the first round with two rounds of 23. Olympian Kynan Chenai had two rounds of 22 in a strong field featuring 52 shooters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manisha-in-fifth-place/article33967404.ece
02 March 2021||Doha,||Desai, Batra post wins||Manika Batra and Harmeet Desai made an impressive return to the international circuit by registering victories in their respective qualifying round-2 matches at the World Table Tennis Contender series on Monday. Batra registered a 12-10, 14-12, 11-8 victory over Spain's Sofia-Xuan Zhang in women's singles, while World No. 73 Desai notched up an easy 11-5, 12-10, 11-6 win over compatriot Anthony Amalraj to progress to the third round of the men's singles qualifiers. The season-opener is also the first international tournament Indian players are participating in after the coronavirus-forced break. Sutirtha Mukherjee, Mudit Dani and Diya Chitale suffered defeats in their singles qualifying round matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/desai-batra-post-wins/article33967406.ece
02 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Myneni begins as top seed||Davis Cupper Saketh Myneni will start as the top seed, against qualifier Ishaque Eqbal, in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament starting at the tennis arena of the Mohammed Shahid Hockey Stadium Complex in Gomti Nagar from Tuesday. Sidharth Rawat and Manish Sureshkumar are the only other Indians to be seeded in the draw. Meanwhile, former national champion and Olympian Vishnu Vardhan returned home to Hyderabad, after his father passed away on Sunday from a cardiac arrest.  The seedings:   1. Saketh Myneni, 2. Sidharth Rawat, 3. Aidan Mchugh (GBr), 4. Jonathan Mridha (Swe), 5. Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr), 6. Oliver Crawford (USA), 7. Manish Sureshkumar, 8. Luca Castelnuovo (Sui).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/myneni-begins-as-top-seed/article33967690.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Boundless generosity||Azhwars have been blessed to have the mystic vision of the transcendent Lord and their hymns are replete with their spontaneous and joyous experience of the Lord’s unique attributes, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. For instance, in the hymn Periya Tiruvandadi, Nammazhwar tries to enter into the Lord’s mind and he is able to visualise His magnanimity and boundless generosity to all jivatmas. In many verses he adopts the conversation mode to address the Lord directly. In one such verse, Azhwar, seeing the Lord’s eyes that appear red, guesses that this is owing to His compassion to those devotees who have no desire for anything else and seek Him for His sake alone. He states that the Lord is naturally overtly partial to such devotees who seek Him with the aim of highest Purushartha, moksha. This echoes the Gita statement about the different types of seekers, such as those in distress or those desiring wealth, or some others wishing to attain the kaivalya state of atma anubhava. No doubt, He grants all these special requests. But there is yet another devotee who, being a jnani at heart, constantly yearns only for Him. The Lord says that such a devotee is very dear to Him. So Azhwar surmises that He is always thinking of what more can be done to such devotees. Interpreters in this context draw attention to the way Krishna feels indebted to Draupadi. When she had to fight the humiliation meted out to her, she had resorted to Krishna as the sure protector and had surrendered to Him. While no one could help, including her husbands, the Lord sent timely help. But what is more astonishing is that since then, Krishna continues to feel that He has not done enough and wishes to do something more in response to her surrender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boundless-generosity/article33967332.ece
02 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sodhi rallies to stun Ganguly||Qualifier Saheb Sodhi recovered from the brink of defeat to beat seventh seed Anargha Ganguly 2-6, 7-6(3), 6-2 in the boys’ first round of the ITF grade-4 tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex on Monday.  Other results (first round): Boys: Nishant Dabas bt Sarthak Gandhi 6-4, 6-4; Maanav Jain bt Albert Segura Onichtchenko (Esp) 6-1, 6-2; Sebastien Cauhape (Bel) bt Manish Yadav 6-2, 6-3; Sanjith Devineni (USA) bt Daksh Agarwal 6-1, 6-0; Kartik Parhar bt Navya Verma 6-2, 6-3; Deep Munim bt Aarav Samrat Hada (Nep) 7-5, 6-2; Dhruv Tangri bt Nithlan Eric 6-3, 6-4; Denim Yadav bt Sarthak Arora 6-4, 6-2; Yuvan Nandal bt Aki Zuben Rawat (Nep) 6-0, 7-5; Chirag Duhan bt Kartik Saxena 6-1, 6-2; Aayush Bhat bt Aditya Chauhan 6-1, 6-1; Agriya Yadav bt Yashvardhan Singh 6-2, 6-4; Nyo Van Dyck (Bel) bt Rushil Khosla 2-6, 6-4, 6-1; Aman Dahiya bt Bushan Haobam 6-0, 6-2.   Girls: Sarah Dev bt Flo Helsen (Bel) 6-4, 7-5; Sanvi Ahluwalia bt Naga Roshne 6-2, 6-0; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Saina Deshpande (USA) 6-2, 6-4; Shruti Ahlawat bt Radhika Vasudeva 6-1, 6-1; Camilia Samel Druz (Fra) bt Diva Bhatia 6-0, 6-1; Navya Vadlamudi (USA) bt Lakshmi Prabha 6-0, 6-3; Suhitha Maruri bt Kavya Khirwar 6-7(4), 6-2, 6-3; Rutuja Chaphalkar (USA) bt Lakshanya Vishwanath 6-1, 7-5; Anjali Rathi bt Maitree Diksha Rout 6-3, 6-4; Gargi Pawar bt Aarni Reddy Yellu 6-1, 6-1; Reshma Maruri bt Sanjana Devineni (USA) 6-1, 6-0; Riya Uboveja bt Mirthe Moens (Bel) 6-2, 6-1; Hetvee Chaudhari bt Vanya Arora 6-4, 6-1; Deepshika Sriram bt Amina Salibayeva (USA) 6-1, 6-1; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Kanika Sivaraman 3-6, 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sodhi-rallies-to-stun-ganguly/article33967691.ece
02 March 2021||CHENNAI,||CSK camp from next week||Chennai Super Kings will begin preparations for the 14th edition of the Indian Premier League from next week at the M.A Chidambaram Stadium. The proposed camp is set to begin from March 10 or 11 with largely domestic Indian players who have no other professional commitments. Skipper M.S. Dhoni too is expected to be in the city from next week as the former three-time champion team hopes to get back to form after finishing seventh last year in the competition held in the UAE. It was the first time the team did not reach the playoffs of the IPL as it struggled with an ageing squad and a lack of batting firepower. In the recently concluded IPL auctions, the team signed players like Moeen Ali, K. Gowtham, Cheteshwar Pujara and also traded in Robin Uthappa from Rajasthan Royals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-camp-from-next-week/article33967883.ece
02 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Pandey, Gowtham for knockouts||Karnataka received a big boost ahead of the Vijay Hazare Trophy knockout stages with the inclusion of key players Manish Pandey and K. Gowtham, the Karnataka State Cricket Association announced here on Monday. While batsman Pandey has made a full recovery from injury, all-rounder Gowtham has been released from his duties as an Indian team nets bowler. Pandey and Gowtham replace D. Nischal and Shubhang Hegde respectively in the Karnataka squad. Karnataka topped Elite C with four wins in five matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pandey-gowtham-for-knockouts/article33967661.ece
02 March 2021||KOZHIKODE:,||Basil Thampi replaces Sanju||Basil Thampi has replaced injured Sanju Samson in Kerala’s squad for the knockout stage of the Vijay Hazare Trophy.  The team: Sachin Baby (captain), Rohan S. Kunnummal, Mohammed Azharudeen, Vishnu Vinod, Robin Uthappa, Salman Nizar, Vatsal Govind, Jalaj Saxena, Akshay Chandran, Vinoop S. Manooharan, Sijomon Joseph, S. Midhun, N.P. Basil, M. Arun, M.D. Nidheesh, M. Sreroop, S. Sreesanth, F. Fanooz, K.G. Rojith and Basil Thampi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/basil-thampi-replaces-sanju/article33967624.ece
02 March 2021||LONDON,||Trescothick is England’s batting coach||Former England opening batsman Marcus Trescothick has been named batting coach of the senior men’s team, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said on Monday. Trescothick, who played 76 Tests for England, will step down as assistant coach of Somerset to take up his new role. Former New Zealand off-spinner Jeetan Patel has been named spin bowling coach and youth team head coach Jon Lewis has been promoted to the role of the senior team’s pace bowling coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trescothick-is-englands-batting-coach/article33967857.ece
02 March 2021||Madrid,||Police raid Barcelona’s stadium||Spanish police detained several people after raiding Barcelona’s stadium on Monday in a search and seizure operation. The operation was related to last year’s “Barçagate,” in which club officials were accused of launching a smear campaign against current and former players who were critical of the club and then-president Josep Maria Bartomeu. Police said detentions were made but did not say who or how many people were taken into custody. The club said authorities were at the team's headquarters but did not provide any more detail. Spanish media said Bartomeu and other former club officials were among those detained. A text message sent to Bartomeu was not immediately answered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/police-raid-barcelonas-stadium/article33967381.ece
02 March 2021||Paris,||Djokovic ties Federer’s record||Novak Djokovic matched Roger Federer's all-time record for the most weeks as ATP World No. 1 on Monday, holding the top spot for the 310th week. Djokovic's ninth Australian Open title last month ensured the 18-time Grand Slam champion would surpass Federer's record. The Serb reclaimed the top ranking from Rafael Nadal in February 2020 and finished as year-end number one for the sixth time, tying the mark set by Pete Sampras. This is Djokovic's fifth different stint atop the rankings.   Top 10 (March 1): 1. Novak Djokovic (Srb) 12,030 pts; 2. Rafael Nadal (Esp) 9,850; 3. Daniil Medvedev (Rus) 9,735; 4. Dominic Thiem (Aut) 9,125; 5. Roger Federer (Sui) 6,630; 6. Stefanos Tsitsipas (Gre) 6,595; 7. Alexander Zverev (Ger) 5,615; 8. Andrey Rublev (Rus) 4,609; 9. Diego Schwartzman (Arg) 3,480; 10. Matteo Berrettini (Ita) 3,480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-ties-federers-record/article33967405.ece
02 March 2021||Doha,||Winning return for Sania||Sania Mirza reached the doubles quarterfinals of the Qatar Total Open with Slovenian partner Andreja Klepac here on Monday. The pair won 6-4, 6-7(5), [10-5] against Nadiia Kichenok and Lyudmyla Kichenok of Ukraine in the opening round of the WTA 500 tournament. It was Sania's first match in 12 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winning-return-for-sania/article33967858.ece
02 March 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Lakers blow out Warriors||LeBron James scored 19 points and had plenty of time to sit back and enjoy the Los Angeles Lakers’ 117-91 NBA victory over Golden State Warriors on Sunday. James, playing in his 1,300th regular-season game, added six rebounds, four assists, two steals and two blocked shots in just 24 minutes on court. He sat out all of the fourth quarter along with the rest of the starters from both teams as the Lakers closed out what had become a tough February with a dominant victory despite the continuing absence of star forward Anthony Davis. Also winning easily was Memphis Grizzlies, who trounced the slumping Houston Rockets 133-84. Drama There was plenty of drama in Boston, where forward Jayson Tatum drove for two baskets in the final 15 seconds to lead the Celtics to a 111-110 come-from-behind win over Washington Wizards. Tatum scored 31 points and the Celtics withstood a 46-point performance from Washington's Bradley Beal to complete their first back-to-back wins since January.   The results: Timberwolves 99 lost to Suns 118; Pistons 90 lost to Knicks 109; Heat 109 bt Hawks 99; Kings 126 lost to Hornets 127; Rockets 84 lost to Grizzlies 133.   Celtics 111 bt Wizards 110; Lakers 117 bt Warriors 91; Bucks 105 bt Clippers 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakers-blow-out-warriors/article33967402.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 07:52 IST,||Sudoku — March 2, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-2-2021/article33968285.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||All aboard the hockey express||Sundeep Kishan considers his maiden production Ninu Veedni Needanu Nene (2019) as the beginning of a fresh phase in his career. He was on the lookout for stories that would rejuvenate him as an actor. When he chanced upon the Tamil sports drama Natpe Thunai (2019) starring Hip Hop Thamizha, he wanted to tweak it and remake it in Telugu. “We don’t often get characters that challenge us both physically and emotionally. For a sports film, you have to give it your all,” says Sundeep.  A1 Express , scheduled to release on March 5, is the first hockey-based story in Telugu cinema and stars him along with Lavanya Tripathi. The story is based on Natpe Thunai and Sundeep says around 50% has been reworked: “We retained the core emotions and as we had scope to improvise, we made an effort to put forth a visually and technically better film than the original.” The film is directed by debutant Dennis Jeevan Kanukolanu, whom Sundeep has known for a few years: “I keep myself updated about new talent — potential directors and technicians. Dennis and cinematographer Kavin Raj are great talent to watch out for. We have 14 new technicians and we haven’t followed traditional norms of filming the sports sequences, including the camera angles and placement.” Sundeep says despite the popularity of sports dramas, many film units hesitate to explore the genre, given the rigorous routines involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-aboard-the-hockey-express/article33967579.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Where endurance need not be a choice||“The pain we feel is real. It is not in the head,” says Dr Deepak Ravindran who is set to launch his book The Pain-Free Mindset (published by Vermilion) shortly. Presently the Lead for Pain Medicine in Royal Berkshire Hospital, Reading and Berkshire Healthcare Foundation Trust in Reading, UK, Deepak helped develop and lead the Longcovid (Post COVID) Service for the county of Berkshire. After he found himself giving 20-30 speeches and talks to general practitioners and allied health care professionals on pain management, Deepak realised the need to pen it all down. “There is a huge knowledge gap amongst healthcare professionals and the public when it comes to understanding and treating pain because we are going by a 400-year-old medical model which is flawed and outdated, according to the latest advances in neuroscience. My book addresses that failed model and presents a more hopeful way forward,” says this alumnus of Hyderabad Public School and Little Flower Junior college, Hyderabad. Over an email interview Deepak unravels the many variants of pain, its management and what the book has to offer. Can you elaborate on the title of the book?  The Mindset is both an acronym and an indication of a need to reframe our way of thinking rather than just believing that it is “all in the mind”. The pain that we feel is very real. It is not in the head. However, the pain we often refer to is a complex output rather than just coming from a part of the body. I want to introduce to the general public this word called nociception, which is the sensation produced by released chemicals when we get injured/hurt physically. If we learn that there is a difference between nociception and pain then we automatically become aware of so many equally powerful methods to overcome pain with fewer side effects. One of the biggest mindset shifts that the general public and healthcare fields have to make (and are starting to make) is that pain is an evolutionary mechanism of protection and not a sign of danger. How is longcovid (post COVID) treatment different from other viruses? Longcovid is a very different condition to present known viral diseases. We generally understand that some viral infections can leave people with post-viral fatigue syndrome. Longcovid is thought of being four different kind of problems — there are those who have been in ICU/hospital and been very sick; those with long-standing organ complications, the group with post-viral fatigue and finally, the large group of people with fluctuating symptoms coming from different organ systems that don’t seem to have a satisfactory explanation right now. Has pain endurance and management been more of a challenge with the pandemic?  In the UK and the US, it has been difficult to see the primary care doctor because of restrictions and lockdown. In India, things are much better, but the choices are endless and often it is restricted to mainstream options like surgeries because we are told that every pain can be seen on a scan and can be fixed which is unfortunately not true. During the pandemic, people have been more cautious to go to hospitals and have been looking and reading around other options to self-manage. And the Internet can be a very confusing and worrying place for someone in pain. This is where my book can make a difference in showing the positive aspects and can aid self-management and support in an evidence-based fashion. How different is an anaesthetist from a pain doctor? Is pain medicine gaining ground now globally?  In the UK and EU and generally in the US and Australia, most pain docs have a background PG training in anaesthesia and then super specialise in Pain Medicine. The US is more advanced in having other specialities as well as taking up pain medicine. In India, most pain doctors will have an anaesthesia background. Pain Medicine is an established speciality in most countries.  World over, most pain doctors have a background in anaesthesia and then specialise in Pain Medicine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/where-endurance-need-not-be-a-choice/article33967581.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Making a difference||For playwright and director KS Karuna Prasad and his team at Koothu-P-Pattrai (founded by N Muthuswamy in 1977), a Chennai-based experimental theatre group, their latest production, Anju Panch (Five Punch) in Tamil, was a complete shift from their usual plays. For the first time, Koothu-P-Pattrai has come up with a children’s play based on the tales of Panchatantra , and was staged for a week in the city. Prasad, who was trained by N Muthuswamy, has directed over 25 plays. “With 36 years of experience in theatre, I envisaged an exclusive production for children in the age group of five to 15. I chose the theme from Panchatantra . Since it is a fairy tale, even plants and animals converse with humans. As the target audience were kids, it also is the best way to convey moral values,” he says.  Anju Punch is an adaptation of selected stories from Panchatantra and deals with five different stories, over 80 minutes. The interactive play begins with the narrator introducing each segment and later conveys the moral of the story. “I approached this project with a two-pronged idea,” says Prasad, adding, “I decided to use masks for this production. Therefore, now the challenge for actors was that, they could not show their facial expressions. However, they conveyed the essence through body movements and by performing specific character traits of the animal they were portraying. The actors had to transform into the animal and also wear animated masks, which were designed to allow jaw movements.” The play, which was supposed to be staged in March last year, was stalled due to the pandemic. It was finally brought to an audience at The Spaces, Besant Nagar, last week. “I am glad that the play got delayed. We have had the opportunity to cheer up the children with a live performance after being confined to homes for such a long period. The pandemic scare has affected the young and the old. More importantly, it has affected children who are now exposed to smartphones,” says Karuna, adding, “The play is not only for children, but for the child in every adult.” Koothu-P-Pattarai plans to stage the play in schools across the city and gradually take it to other parts of the State. “I believe that such playful and animated performance will appeal to children between the age group five and 15. Since it is an interactive play, the children would shed their inhibitions and come forward to participate. That is how learning takes place,” he adds.  Beneath the mask The expressive masks for Anju Punch were designed by Aazhi E Venkatessin, guest lecturer, department of drama, Tanjore Tamil University. “Karuna approached me last year with this mask project and I was fascinated by the varied expressions that I could bring out in the mask. I began to attend rehearsals in order to understand the characteristics of each animal that was being portrayed.” Koothu-P-Pattarai has a stylised way of performing and Venkatessin had to keep their style into consideration while making the masks. It had to be light, flexible and more importantly, within the budget. A combination of thermo and MM foam sheets were used to make these masks. The biggest challenge, however, was designing masks with animation (jaw movement) in order to make it entertaining for the audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/making-a-difference/article33967577.ece
02 March 2021||March 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Tales from the hills||Filmmaker Nithin Lukose grew up listening to his grandmother narrate stories of people in the highlands of Wayanad. “My family moved here from Kottayam in the early 1950s. Her stories were about the hardships of the people who migrated in that era,” he says. These tales are the inspiration for him to make his début Malayalam feature film, Paka: The River of Blood . The movie is set in Wayanad and is about the feud between two families that has lasted generations.“The place and the Orattu river there play very important roles in the film. As I am familiar with the place, choosing this as my setting felt right,” he says. It took him one year to finish the writing; shooting was done in early 2020 just before the country went into lockdown. While the lead roles are played by actors Basil Poulose, Nithin George and Vinitha Koshy, most of the other cast are local people. “I organised a two-month-long acting workshop. It was great to see them transform into character in front of the camera,” he adds. Nithin is an alumnus of the Film and Television Institute of India and has been working as a sound designer for the past five years. “After my course, I interned with Resul Pookutty, where I learnt the nuances of sound and about the latest technologies,” he says. He has worked with films such as Titli (Kannada), Ambili (Malayalam) Mallesham (Telgu) and Dibakar Banerjee’s upcoming film Sandeep Aur Pinki Faraar. He also worked on a documentary on the Dalai Lama by Hollywood director Bennet Miller. “Raj Rachakonda, the director of Mallesham produced Paka: The River of Blood ,” he says, adding that it was  one of the five films selected in the Work in Progress Lab category of the NFDC Film Bazaar held online in January. There it received the Prasad Lab DI Award and Moviebuff Appreciation Award. “My film was still in the making and I presented my rough cuts to the editors. To receive an award at such an early stage is an honour.” Nithin says that such platforms help get global attention for upcoming filmmakers. “It allows us to show our film to eminent filmmakers from around the world. This year’s mentors in the NFDC Film Bazaar included film and television producer Philippa Campbell, film critic Derek Malcolm, director Marco Muller, etc. Their suggestions and guidance helped me polish the film. It was also watched by Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Anurag Kashyap and Resul Pookutty, all of them gave me positive feedback.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-from-the-hills/article33967584.ece
02 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Din in Punjab House as Akalis, AAP oppose Governor’s address||Noisy scenes were witnessed in Punjab Assembly on Monday as Opposition members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) raised slogans surrounding farmers’ issue during the Governor’s address on the first day of the Budget Session. As Governor V.P. Singh Badnore started to deliver his speech, members of SAD shouted slogans against the farm laws and stormed into the well of the House. SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who led the party MLAs, wanted to know why the Governor had not given his assent to the Bills passed last year by Punjab Assembly, which rejected the three farm laws of the Centre. The AAP MLAs shouted slogans against the ruling Congress government, accusing it of not fulfilling its promises and termed the Governor's address as “bundle of lies”. Mr. Majithia, talking to journalists, said their protest inside and outside the House has also exposed the double-speak of the Congress Party. “The Governor has been sitting on the Bills and not giving his assent, which is an insult to the Punjabis. The Punjab Congress indulged in a farcical protest against the Governor outside the House today against spiralling prices of fuel and then laid out a red carpet for him to deliver his address to the House. Congress should have protested against the Governor. We had appealed to the Congress to launch a joint protest against the Governor on farm laws issue, but they didn’t protest,” he said. Leader of Opposition and AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema said every year Chief Minister Amarinder Singh writes a speech for the Governor and he just reads it out in the Assembly, propagating the lies of the government. “The Congress was a party of lies, which had betrayed the people of Punjab. We have been exposing the poor performance of the Captain’s government in the Vidhan Sabha and in the court of the people,” he told reporters.  Cycle rally AAP MLAs also staged a ‘cycle rally’ to protest against alleged unfulfilled promises of the Congress government. The rally was held from MLA hostel to the state Assembly complex. Leaders and workers of SAD held a rally at a local ground here, and later ‘marched’ towards the State Assembly. They were stopped by the police whenparty members attempted to break barricades and move towards the Assembly complex .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/din-in-punjab-house-as-akalis-aap-oppose-governors-address/article33967596.ece
02 March 2021||Guwahati,||Rights forum seeks proper legal aid for those left out of NRC||A human rights organisation has approached the Gauhati High Court seeking proper legal aid for those left out of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam. The Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) petitioned the court after its survey of 10 District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) establishments revealed they were understaffed with under-trained para legal volunteers and poor infrastructure. Monitored by the Supreme Court, the NRC published on August 31, 2019 had left out 19.06 lakh of the 3.3 crore applicants in Assam. A majority of those excluded are believed to be Bengal-origin Muslims, Bengali Hindus and Gorkhas. CJP secretary Teesta Setalvad said her organisation was involved in correspondence with the National Legal Services Authority and the Assam State Legal Services Authority (ASLSA) from April-November 2020. The communication was related to the Ministry of Home Affairs’ statement on August 20, 2019, that legal assistance would be provided to the NRC-excluded people who need it.  ASLSA assurance The ASLSA in November 2020 responded by saying it has enough machinery to deal with any action taken by the government with regard to the NRC and that legal camps would be organised after rejection slips are handed out to the 19.06 lakh people explaining why they were not included in the list. “But the ASLSA letter also revealed that only two taluk-level legal services authorities are functioning in a State that has 78 taluks,” the CJP said. The NGO subsequently contacted the DLSAs in the 10 districts and found they have 273 active advocates appointed for legal aid and 333 para legal volunteers whose educational qualifications varied from district to district. “But no training on citizenship, immigration, NRC, Foreigners’ Act and related issues was provided in any of these 10 DLSAs,” the CJP said. The High Court has issued notices to the authorities concerned and fixed April 5 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rights-forum-seeks-proper-legal-aid-for-those-left-out-of-nrc/article33967597.ece
02 March 2021||Patna,||Free COVID-19 vaccine for all in Bihar: Nitish||After getting his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccination at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna on his birthday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday declared that everyone in the State would get free vaccine at government hospitals and identified private hospitals across the State. “Today I got the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination and after 28 days will take another dose on March 31. As we had decided earlier, everyone in the State will get the vaccination free of cost in government and identified private hospitals,” Mr. Kumar told media persons after his immunisation. Apart from the two Deputy CMs of the State — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi — Cabinet Ministers Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Vijay Kumar Choudhury too got the vaccination. Mr. Kumar also urged people to inoculate themselves against COVID-19. Asked how he was feeling after receiving the first dose of vaccine, Mr Kumar said, “I’m returning with good health as I had come”. Earlier in December last year, the State government had approved a proposal to provide free COVID-19 vaccines to all.  Jab for legislators Later, Bihar’s Health Minister Mangal Pandey said State legislators, too, would be given vaccinations soon. The State government has made arrangements at all government hospitals, district hospitals, primary health centres and 50 private hospitals for people over 60 years of age or those younger but with co-morbidities to get the vaccine free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-in-bihar-nitish/article33967598.ece
02 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab Cong. stages protest against Centre||The Punjab Congress onMonday staged a protest here against the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of letting the prices of essential commodities spiral. Congress members started a ‘protest march’ from MLA hostel towards the Governor House. They were, however, stopped by the city police outside the MLA hostel ahead of the Governor House, where the Congress members shouted slogans against the Central government, accusing it of “crushing the poor.” State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said the BJP had garnered votes of the poor in the name of development but has completely forsaken them now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-cong-stages-protest-against-centre/article33967594.ece
02 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to raise income of poor families||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Monday said to uplift the economic status of the poor in the State, the government has set a target to increase the ‘family income’ of about 1 lakh families, who are having the lowest income, to at least Rs. 1 lakh per annum. The process to identify such families through surveys has already started, which is likely to be completed by the end of this month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-to-raise-income-of-poor-families/article33967599.ece
