06 March 2021||New Delhi,||SC says new rules to regulate OTT platforms lack teeth||The Supreme Court on Friday said the government’s new rules to regulate OTT (over-the-top) platforms lacked teeth to punish violators or to screen offensive content, even as it protected Amazon Prime Video India commercial head Aparna Purohit from arrest in theTandavweb series row. “We went through your Information Technology [Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code] Rules of 2021... These are merely guidelines. There is no provision for punishment or fine... What is the mechanism to control and regulate these platforms?” Justice Ashok Bhushan, heading a Bench, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mr. Mehta agreed to consider drafting new regulations or even legislation to address the concern raised by the court. “We can come out with it... We can come out with a draft and place it before the court,” he stated. ‘No effective mechanism’ The court order said the new rules were “more in the nature of guidelines” and there was “no effective mechanism for screening or to take appropriate action” against violators. The court said the assurance given by Mr. Mehta to it that the government would consider taking “appropriate steps” for any “further regulations/legislation” as seen as fit. The Bench ordered that the regulations/legislation, once done, should be placed before the court. During the hearing, Amazon, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, complained about an oral remark made by Justice Bhushan that some films featured on OTT platforms had pornographic content. Mr. Rohatgi said the remark had been picked up by the media and bandied about. “Amazon does not show pornography,” he said. Mr. Mehta intervened to say that Justice Bhushan did not mean “pornography” literally but meant that some content was “almost pornographic”. “But Mr. Mehta, I can show you 10,000 movies on Amazon, there is no pornography in any of them. I myself watch these movies in the evenings... These are great movies,” Mr. Rohatgi exclaimed. Justice Bhushan intervened, saying the court never meant that the movies shown were not great. “We are not saying great movies are not shown...” he remarked. Turning to the specific case of Ms. Purohit, Mr. Rohatgi submitted that she was only an employee and was ready to cooperate with the investigation. He submitted that two offending scenes in Tandav had already been removed. The court issued notice on her plea for bail and directed that the police should not arrest her as long as she cooperates with the investigation. into complaints that the web series ridicules Hindu gods and the country’s political power corridors. Ms. Purohit had approached the top court against the Allahabad High Court decision to deny her anticipatory bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-says-new-rules-to-regulate-ott-platforms-lack-teeth/article34001839.ece
06 March 2021||DHARMAPURI / SALEM,||‘AIADMK complicit in BJP’s policies’||The AIADMK was complicit in the BJP’s hate policies and other crimes and therefore deserves to be shown out in the Assembly election, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in Dharmapuri on Friday. This is a crucial election coming at a time when there is an all-around attack on the people, their livelihoods, and the Constitution under the BJP. That was the reason the BJP and its ally, the AIADMK that was complicit in its crimes, needed to be defeated, he said. MSMEs decimated Before the COVID-19 pandemic, there was high unemployment, recession, and retrenchment exacerbated by demonetisation and GST. The nationwide lockdown decimated the informal sector, MSMEs, with over 15 crore jobs lost during the period. Under the AIADMK, “blindly chiming to the tune of the BJP”, Tamil Nadu had become the worst indebted State in the country. “Every newborn in Tamil Nadu was born with a debt of Rs. 60,000,” he quipped. Mr. Yechury alleged that despite doing the BJP’s bidding, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami or his deputy O. Panneerselvam got just Rs. 6,000 crore as cyclone relief though it asked the Centre for Rs. 1.60 lakh crore. The entire working class was on a war path against the Modi government, Mr. Yechury said. There were struggles against the dismantling of the labour laws, farm laws, and privatisation of the public sector units. Earlier, he told journalists in Salem that the BJP was facing an uphill task in all poll-bound States including Assam where the party was in power. According to him, the credibility of the Left is definitely growing and it is the Left that stuck to its principles and ideology. Tamil Nadu needs a change and the best opportunity for it is under the leadership of the DMK, he said. On the recent fall of the Congress government in Puducherry, he said, “BJP has formed governments with just three MLAs, their upper hand is money not people’s support.” Besides, central agencies like Enforcement Directorate and CBI are used. The eight-phase elections in West Bengal was to help the BJP since it did not have any prominent leader there. Mr.Yechury charged that even COVID-19 vaccination was a political programme for Mr. Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-complicit-in-bjps-hate-policies-says-yechury/article34001955.ece
06 March 2021||Kochi,||Currency smuggled at behest of Kerala CM: Customs Dept.||The Customs Department has informed the Kerala High Court that Swapna Suresh, one of the prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, has said that the smuggling of foreign currency was carried out at the instance of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Assembly Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan. The Customs has registered a case in connection with the alleged smuggling of dollars worth nearly Rs. 1.3 crore by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate, Thiruvananthapuram, to the United Arab Emirates. Besides Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, are accused in the case. ‘Close links’ Sumit Kumar, Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Kochi, submitted in a statement that Swapna had also made a “shocking revelation” of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s close connection with the previous Consul General of UAE and the illegal monetary transactions. The statement was filed in response to a petition filed by the State government challenging certain remarks in the order of the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) Court, providing security to Swapna, now housed at the women’s Prison and Correctional Home, Attakulangara, Thiruva- nanthapuram. The Customs Commissioner pointed out that Swapna had made the revelations about the Chief Minister, the Assembly Speaker and three Ministers in the State cabinet. She had also revealed the involvement of high-profile persons and the kickbacks received by them from various deals. She was aware of all these transactions and was a witness to them as she was well versed in Arabic and had acted as translator in these deals, the Commissioner alleged. Sivasankar as conduit The role of Sivasankar in acting as a link between the high profile politicians of Kerala and the UAE Consulate officials, as well as some others, and in coordinating the illegal financial dealings under the cover of various activities and projects of the government was also allegedly revealed by her. These remarks were made in the confidential statements given before the magistrate court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/currency-smuggling-carried-out-at-behest-of-kerala-cm/article34001837.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader hints at softening of stand||As the farmers’ protest completed 100 days on the borders of Delhi, senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal said the movement “should not be taking a hard stance on all the issues”. There needs to be “space for discussion” even on the demand to repeal three contentious farm reform laws, he said. However, in an interview withThe Hinduon Friday, the veteran Punjab leader added that with expectations having been raised among the people, it would now be difficult for union leaders to back down from their initial positions. Reflecting on the lessons learnt from the last 100 days which can be applied to the future of the movement, Dr. Pal indicated that there should have been more clarity regarding realistic expectations. “I think we should not be taking a hard stance on all the issues. For example, on the issue of MSP, what I think is that we did not discuss it in our movement so intensively or in so much detail. We should try to get all these things about our issues in detail, so that the leadership level and everybody tries to understand what we are demanding and how much we can get,” he said. Asked whether there was space for such nuance regarding the demand for repealing the three laws as well, Dr. Pal said, “There will be and there should be some space for discussion.” However, he added that he was “not yet in a position to say” what options could be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/samyukt-kisan-morcha-leader-hints-at-softening-of-stand/article34002508.ece
06 March 2021||Mangaluru,||7 held in two more ragging cases in city||Four students of Srinivas Engineering College and three students of Yenepoya Degree College have been arrested in two separate cases of ragging reported in the city. The arrested engineering students have also been accused of assaulting a lecturer of the college. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar while briefing presspersons here on Friday have given the names of the engineering college students as K.U. Shamil, Mohammed Bazil, Sambram Alva, and Ashwin Johnson. Mr. Kumar gave the names of the Yenepoya College students as Mohammed Aadil, hailing from Kannur, Kerala, Rizan Riyas from Kozhikode, and Mohammed Nizamuddin from Kannur, Kerala. The Commissioner said that the four students of the engineering college have been accused of assaulting Karthik Shetty, a first year engineering student, on February 26. He was asked to wear a particular type of dress and threatened against visiting a particular department in the college. When their conduct was questioned, the students assaulted Praveen, a lecturer from the college’s Chemistry Department. Following an inquiry, the dean placed the students under suspension and filed a complaint with the Surathkal police. A separate complaint was filed by Mr. Praveen, he said. The city police chief said three students of Yenepoya College, who are in the college’s hostel in Jeppu, went to the rooms where nine first-year BBA students stayed in Simon Lane, near Pumpwell Junction, on Thursday evening. The accused students forced five first-year students to shave off their moustache and asked all the nine to cut their hair by Friday evening. They threatened nine students against roaming in the area and speaking with girls. The nine students were made to prepare tea for the three seniors. Following complaint by the harassed students, the Kankanady police arrested the three students, he said. Apart from invoking provisions under the Indian Penal Code, the seven students have been booked under Section 116 of Karnataka Education Act, Mr. Kumar said. Earlier two ragging cases were reported in the city in January and February and the police arrested 20 students in those cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-held-in-two-more-ragging-cases-in-city/article34002600.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Restrictions on entry from Kerala to be modified||The State government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that it was contemplating modifying the guideline imposing restrictions on people entering Karnataka from Kerala by road. A submission in this regard was made by the government counsel before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by B. Subbaya Rai, a Mangaluru-based advocate. The petitioner had complained that 23 out of a total of 27 roads connecting the two States are closed in view of the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Kerala though there is no travel restriction between the States in the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Counsel for the Union government clarified to the Bench that the MHA’s guideline removing all restriction on travel between the States are in force as notified in January 2021 and the States have to keep the roads open. As COVID-19 negative report is mandatory for people entering from Kerala as per Karnataka’s guideline, the Bench orally said that Karnataka government can create infrastructure for checking for COVID-19 reports as the roads cannot be closed per the MHA’s guidelines. As government counsel sought time to inform the court on modification, the Bench adjourned further hearing till March 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-on-entry-from-kerala-to-be-modified/article34002603.ece
06 March 2021||Chennai,||AIADMK gives 20 seats to BJP; CM to contest from Edappadi||In a late night development, the ruling AIADMK signed a pact with the BJP, allotting it 20 Assembly seats and the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha (bypoll) constituency for the April 6 election. Earlier in the day, the DMK sealed a deal for six seats with the CPI, the fourth ally to sign a seat-sharing agreement. The Kanniyakumari vacancy was caused by the death of Congress MP H. Vasanthakumar. The seat-sharing agreement in the ruling camp was signed by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator of the AIADMK, C.T. Ravi, national general secretary of the BJP in-charge of Tamil Nadu, and L. Murugan, BJP Tamil Nadu president. “It has been decided that the AIADMK and the BJP will be part of an alliance to face the Assembly poll on April 6. Based on an agreement reached between the AIADMK and the BJP today [Friday], it has been decided to allot 20 seats to the BJP under the alliance led by the AIADMK,” the statement said. The announcement comes after multiple rounds of talks between the two parties, with Home Minister Amit Shah himself holding talks with the top two leaders of the AIADMK after his visit to Puducherry on Sunday. In another development, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, his deputy O. Panneerselvam and four others figured in the AIADMK’s first list of candidates for the Assembly election released on Friday. Mr. Palaniswami will be trying his luck again from Edappadi, his home constituency. He was elected from the seat in 1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016. Mr. Panneerselvam has been nominated from Bodinayakanur, from where he was elected in 2011 and 2016. On two other occasions, he represented Periyakulam. Ministers D. Jayakumar and C.Ve. Shanmugam have been chosen for their respective constituencies of Royapuram in Chennai and Villupuram. This will be the seventh time that Mr. Jayakumar is being fielded from Royapuram. He lost only in 1996. Two others — S.P. Shanmuganathan and S. Thenmozhi — have been fielded from their constituencies of Srivaikuntam and Nilakkottai (reserved). A senior office-bearer said the six nominees represented a good mix of communities — Vellala Gounder, Mukkulathor, Meenavar, Vanniyar, Nadar and the Scheduled Caste. Another functionary said the remaining candidates would be announced by Tuesday. At Anna Arivayalam, DMK president M.K. Stalin and CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan signed the agreement. “We held talks in a cordial manner to ensure the victory of the Secular Progressive Alliance, led by the DMK,” Mr. Mutharasan said. Between the number of seats and idealism, the latter was important in this election as the objective was to prevent sectarian forces from entering Tamil Nadu. The DMK is yet to finalise seat-sharing with the CPI(M) and the MDMK, while talks with the Congress have remained inconclusive. The CPI(M) has convened its secretariat meeting for Saturday. The issue of seat-sharing will be discussed at the meeting, to be attended by general secretary Sitaram Yechury. Likewise, the MDMK’s high-level committee will meet to decide on the offer of seats made by the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-gives-20-seats-to-bjp-cm-will-contest-from-edappadi-again/article34002469.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks reopening of Nizamuddin centre||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted time to the Centre, city government and the police to respond to a plea seeking to reopen the Nizamuddin Markaz (centre), which has been locked since March 31 last year after several people who attended a religious congregation there contracted COVID-19. The HC asked the authorities to submit their respective stand on the plea by Delhi Waqf Board within 10 days and posted the case for further hearing on March 24. The court had already issued notices to the authorities on the plea in February, but Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing the State and police, sought time to submit the status report. The Centre’s counsel also sought some more time to submit its response. The Board, represented by senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, contended that even after the Unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the centre — comprising Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and its attached hostel — continues to be locked. ‘Discontent growing’ The Board said it had on February 16 this year given a representation to the authorities to reassess the necessity of keeping the premises locked and asked for the locks to be removed from the Waqf premises. It said no action has been taken so far on the representation. It further contended that even if the premises were part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it “under lock as an out-of-bounds area” was a “primitive method” of conducting an inquiry. The Board said that “putting the property under lock for an indefinite period is not only interfering with the statutory rights of the Waqf Board, causing difficulty at various levels to the people who are directly interested in the waqf property, but discontent is also growing among members of the Muslim community at large”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-seeks-reopening-of-nizamuddin-centre/article34002511.ece
06 March 2021||KALABURAGI,||MSP Dilao campaign launched in Kalaburagi||A day before the 100th day of the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, Swaraj Abhiyan and Jai Kisan Andolan leader Yogendra Yadav, along with a few Samyukt Kisan Morcha members that had been leading farmers’ agitation in Delhi, flagged off the MSP Dilao (get us MSP) campaign in Kalaburagi on Friday. Before launching the campaign, Mr. Yadav, along with former MLA B.R. Patil, farmers’ leaders Satnam Singh, Chamarasa Malipatil, Badagalpur Nagendra, H.V. Diwakar, U. Basavaraj, women leader K. Neela, Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Amarnath Patil, Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission’s former chairman Prakash Kammaradi and others, visited a few trading units at the APMC and enquired the prices of different farm produce to compare them with the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the government. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi often says that MSP was, is, and will be in force. It is a blatant lie. As a matter of fact, MSP was, is, and will be there only on paper. The government simply announces MSP and procures a small quantity of the produce forcing the farmers to sell the rest of the quantity in the open market at much below the MSP. This nationwide MSP Dilao campaign, which we have launched in Karnataka, will proceed through Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, and other States. In this campaign, farmers who bring their crops to APMC will demand Mr. Modi to give MSP to their crop,” Mr. Yadav said, addressing an assembly of farmers, mostly women, at the APMC yard. Mr. Yadav also strongly demanded that the government give legal status to MSP so that farmers could get the guaranteed fair price to their crops as a right. “Then if the government fails to provide MSP, they will then move the court to get it. In 2011, when Mr. Modi was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, he strongly demanded legal status to MSP and now, when he became the Prime Minister, he is not ready to implement his own demand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/msp-dilao-campaign-launched-in-kalaburagi/article34001965.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. polls: CM, Deputy CM in AIADMK first list||The ruling AIADMK on Friday announced its first list of candidates for six constituencies. Chief Minister and co-coordinator of the party, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, will be trying his luck again from his home constituency of Edappadi. He has been elected from this seat four times: 1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016. Deputy Chief Minister and coordinator of the party, O. Panneerserlvam, has been nominated for Bodinayakanur, from where he got elected in 2011 and 2016. On two other occasions, he represented Periyakulam. Two Ministers – D. Jayakumar and C.Ve. Shanmugam – have been chosen for their respective constituencies of Royapuram in Chennai and Villupuram. This will be the seventh time that Mr. Jayakumar is being fielded from Royapuram. He lost only once, in 1996. Two others – S. P. Shanmuganathan and S. Thenmozhi – have been fielded from their present constituencies, Srivankuntam and Nilakottai, which are reserved for Scheduled Castes. A press release of the party stated that the names of the candidates were recommended by the high-level administrative committee. ‘Mix of communities’ A senior office-bearer of the party said the first list of nominees represented a good mix of communities — Vellala Gounder, Mukkalathor, Meenavar, Vanniyar, Nadar and the SC. The release of the list was made, keeping in mind the “auspiciousness” of the day. The list was made public, even as the ruling party had not yet finalised seat sharing-arrangement with its prospective allies, barring the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK). Another functionary of the ruling party said the remaining candidates would be named by the party by Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-polls-cm-deputy-cm-in-aiadmk-first-list/article34002513.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CM launches AP Fact Check website, Twitter account||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday launched ‘AP Fact Check’ website and Twitter account, which are intended to counter fake news being spread against the government by some vested interests. He said the government would condemn the malicious content through the above platforms, duly backed by evidence. He said the authorities should take action against those waging false propaganda, which was damaging the reputation of individuals and the system. “No one should do things that mislead systems,” he stated. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, Adviser (Communications) G.V.D. Krishnamohan, Information Commissioner T. Vijaykumar Reddy, DIG (Technical Services) G. Palaraju and AP Digital Corporation VC & MD Chinna Vasudeva Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-launches-ap-fact-check-website-twitter-account/article34001780.ece
06 March 2021||Shiv Sahay Singh Kolkata,||Mamata to contest from Nandigram||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced candidates for 291 of the 294 Assembly seats in the State. The Trinamool Congress chairperson said she would contest from Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district. “I will contest from Nandigram, I had given my word and will stick to it,” she said. She made it clear that she would not contest in Kolkata’s Bhawanipur seat, which she had represented for the past two terms. All sections of society The party’s candidates’ list comprises women, youth, film stars, sportspersons and retired bureaucrats. Ms. Banerjee said all sections of society had been given priority, including women and young and old, and different castes and communities. A closer look at the candidates’ list signals that the Trinamool Congress has focused on winnability. The list includes 51 women (18%), 79 Scheduled Caste (27%) and 17 Scheduled Tribe (6%) candidates. Ms. Banerjee said there were 42 Muslim candidates (14%), and 19 candidates (7%) from the Other Backward Classes. A comparison of the list with the nominees the party fielded in 2016 shows that the number of women candidates has increased from 45 in 2016 to 51 in 2021 but there has been in the drop in the number of Muslim candidates. It went down from 57 in 2016 to 42 to 2021. Around 27 sitting MLAs have not received a ticket. Ms. Banerjee said the party had decided not to field anyone above 80 years because of COVID-19. The party would set up a ‘Bidhan Parishad’ to accommodate senior leaders who are not contesting. Finance Minister Amit Mitra and Minister for Technical Education Purnendu Bose will not contest. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha will announce names for the remaining three seats of the Darjeeling hills. Former Indian cricketer Manoj Tiwari will contest from Shibpur in Howrah district and filmmaker Raj Chakraborty from Barrackpore. Actor Kanchan Mullick will contest from Uttarpara and actor Ladlee Moitra from Sonarpur Dakshin. Power Minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay will contest from Bhawanipur and journalist Vivek Gupta from Jorasanko.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-to-contest-from-nandigram/article34001873.ece
06 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra economy to contract by 8% in FY21||The novel coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown has taken a heavy toll on the State’s economy which is expected to shrink by 8% in 2020-21 as against a rise by 5% in the previous fiscal, according to the Economic Survey 2021 presented in the Assembly on Friday. Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar tabled the survey in the Assembly, while Minister of State for Finance Shambhuraj Desai presented it in the Council. The Budget will be presented on Monday. According to the survey, Agriculture & Allied activities is expected to grow by 11.7%, while Industry and Services sectors are expected to contract by 11.3% and 9% respectively. The Manufacturing and Construction sectors were hit hardest and are expected to shrink by11.8% and 14.6% respectively, due to which Industry sector’s growth is expected to contract by 11.%. Due to the hard impact of pandemic situation mainly on trade, repairs, hotels & restaurants and transport sectors, Services sector is expected to shrink at 9%. To revive the worst-hit hospitality sector hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic, the State has decided to classify it as an industry As per the advance estimates, nominal Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for 2020-21 is expected to be Rs. 26,61,629 crore and real GSDP is expected to be Rs. 19,62,539 crore. Per capita income in the State during 2020-21 is expected to fall to Rs. 1,88,784 compared to Rs. 2,02,130 as per first revised estimates for 2019-20. The debt stock of the State comprises accumulated unpaid loans and other liabilities on the State. The debt stock is expected to be Rs. 5,20,717 crore as per 2020-21 (BE), which is 19.6% of GSDP. The revenue deficit is likely to be Rs. 9,511 crore compared to the revised estimates of Rs. 31,443 crore for 2019-20. The fiscal deficit is Rs. 54,618 crore, the report said. Since the inception of Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karjamukti Yojana 2019 benefit of Rs. 19,847 crore has been given to 31.04 lakh beneficiary farmers upto January, 2021. Installed capacity of generating electricity as on March 31,2020 and electricity generated during 2019-20 in the State was highest in the country. The State ranks fourth in terms of installed capacity of renewable energy and ranks second in consumption of major petroleum products during 2019-20. The survey said the unemployment rate in January to March 2020 was 5.6% as compared to 5.2% in October to December 2019. Total FDI inflows up to September 2020 was Rs. 27,143 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-economy-to-contract-by-8-in-fy21/article34002618.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,||COVID-19 clusters in two govt. schools||Two teachers and seven students from a government high school at B. Narayanapura in K.R. Puram in Bengaluru and another 15 students from a school at Kalagi town of Kalaburagi have tested positive for COVD-19. In a first, the Bengaluru civic body declared the high school as a cluster and sealed it. It will remain closed for 14 days, and physical classes will resume once an all-clear is given, said civic officials. The Kalaburagi school too is closed. A residential complex in Chikkalasandra in Vasanthapura ward was also declared a cluster after eight people contracted COVID-19. Four cases were first reported on February 25, following which the BBMP tested the primary and secondary contacts of all residents. In the school in Bengaluru, two teachers had tested positive for COVID-19 on February 27, following which 160 of 188 students were also tested. Of these, the reports of seven students came back positive, though they remain asymptomatic, said officials. Six of them could not be placed under home quarantine and were shifted to K.R. Puram General Hospital. As many as 66 primary contacts and 53 secondary contacts have been traced so far, said officials, adding that the remaining 28 students will also be tested. According to education officials, primary school students and staff whose school is in the adjoining area were also tested on Monday and Tuesday. The entire school has been sanitised and all the necessary COVID-19 protocol has been followed, a senior official of the department said. A report has been sent to the Primary and Secondary Education Minister and the officials of the Department of Public Instruction. A teacher told The Hindu that it was possible her colleague contracted the infection during the commute to the school. “Almost all of us travel to school using public transport and are at the risk. Therefore, it is important that the government considers us as frontline workers and vaccinates us at the earliest,” said the teacher. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar had in fact written to the Central government and asked them to consider teachers as frontline workers and vaccinate them. At Kalagi school in Kalaburagi, all those who tested are asymptomatic. Most of the students are from hamlets, and are migrants who returned from Mumbai. Sources in Kalgi said some of the families attended a marriage party on February 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-clusters-in-two-govt-schools/article34002436.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,||Customs summons Sreeramakrishnan||The Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate has issued notice to Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan asking him to appear before it on March 12 in connection with the probe into a foreign currency smuggling case involving officials of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The Central agency had quizzed K. Ayappan, assistant private secretary to Mr. Sreeramakrishnan, in January based on the alleged statement by Swapna Suresh, one of the prime accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, that he was aware of the dollar smuggling. The Customs had earlier received legal opinion that it could interrogate the Speaker in a case registered under the Customs Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/customs-summons-sreeramakrishnan/article34002572.ece
06 March 2021||Patna,||9 get death sentence for Bihar hooch tragedy||Nine persons were sentenced to death and four women to life imprisonment by Gopalganj additional district judge-2 Luv Kush Kumar on Friday after they were convicted in the Khajurbanni locality hooch tragedy. Nineteen persons died and six others lost their eyesight in August 2016 after consuming illicit liquor in Bihar, which has implemented prohibition. “Fourteen persons had been named as accused in the case. One of them died during trial,” said Special Public Prosecutor Ravi Bhushan Srivastava. Those sentenced to death in the case are Chhathu Pasi, Kanhaiya Pasi, Nagina Pasi, Lalbabu Pasi, Rajesh Kumar, Sanoj Kumar Pasi, Sanjay Pasi, Ranjit Chaudhary and Munna Chaudhary. The women accused are Laljhari Devi, Kailasho Devi, Indu Devi and Rita Devi. The State government had announced Rs. 4 lakh compensation to members of the victims’ family. Along with main accused Nagina Pasi, 13 others were named as accused in the case. As soon as the court pronounced the sentences, most of the accused persons and their family members began wailing. “We will move the Patna High Court against the judgment,” said Ved Prakash Tiwari, the lawyer representing the accused. Policemen dismissed In June 2020, 21 policemen — three sub-inspectors, five assistant sub-inspectors and 13 constables — were dismissed in connection with the hooch tragedy. The incident occurred four months after Bihar enforced the new Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016, banning trade and consumption of liquor, in Manjha block of Gopalganj district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-get-death-sentence-for-bihar-hooch-tragedy-life-term-for-4/article34001868.ece
06 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Farmers cannot be left at mercy of market forces’||“During the pandemic, we were advised to cover our mouth and nose, but it seems the BJP people covered their eyes and ears as well. That’s why they could not see the plight of the farmers and listen to their demands,” said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday. He was addressing a kisan panchayat in Tappal area of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. This was the first such panchayat held by the party against the contentious farm laws. These laws, Mr. Yadav said, were made by those who have never done farming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-cannot-be-left-at-mercy-of-market-forces/article34002509.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Running for the nation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/running-for-the-nation/article34001875.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Railways can’t deny relief to victims in crowded trains’||Railways cannot deny payment of a fair and reasonable compensation to passengers who die or suffer injuries because they had no choice but to travel standing near the entrance to the coaches in electric multiple units (EMUs) ,the Madras High Court has ruled. Justice S.M. Subramaniam held that the compensation could be denied only if the passengers deliberately get hurt or commit suicide. However, if the accident occurs due to overcrowded trains, then the Railways would be vicariously liable to compensate. The verdict was passed while ordering a compensation of Rs. 8 lakh with 6% interest to the family of a daily wager who died on April 28, 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railways-cant-deny-relief-to-victims-in-crowded-trains/article34002715.ece
06 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||More Myanmar nationals take refuge in Mizoram||Villagers in Mizoram’s border districts said more than 100 people have crossed over from Myanmar to escape a military crackdown there. Local authorities have, however, confirmed the arrival of 23 people who fled the Tatmadaw – as the Myanmar military is called – that took control of the country following a coup on February 1. At least 50 people have been killed in clashes with the army since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-myanmar-nationals-take-refuge-in-mizoram/article34002059.ece
06 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Forest fires continue to rage in Odisha||At a time when raging forest fire in Similipal Biosphere in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district continued to cause concern among wildlife activists, large forest tracts have been found affected by fire in other parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forest-fires-continue-to-rage-in-odisha/article34002060.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||HC initiates plea on traffic jams due to stirs||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday suo motu initiated a PIL petition on huge traffic jams caused due to frequent protests, demonstrations and rallies held on public roads in the heart of the city, resulting in severe hardship to the citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-initiates-plea-on-traffic-jams-due-to-stirs/article34002438.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Budget allocation likely to be over Rs. 65K crore’||The Aam Aadmi Party government is likely to present a budget with allocations over Rs. 65,000 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal, making it the highest allocation by any Delhi government since its first-ever session in 1993, sources said on Friday. The budget is likely to focus primarily on the health and education sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/budget-allocation-likely-to-be-over-rs-65k-crore/article34002506.ece
06 March 2021||Jaipur,||25 students of Rajasthan govt. school test positive||Twenty-five students, a teacher and two employees of a government boarding school for visually impaired children in Rajasthan’s Udaipur city tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The school campus and the nearby localities were declared as “containment zone” and sanitisation work was started in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-students-of-rajasthan-govt-school-test-positive/article34002507.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Dharna washes out second day of session||The second day of the Budget session of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Friday was washed out as the principal Opposition, Congress, continued its protest opposing the debate on ‘one nation, one election’ and also demanding revocation of suspension of its member B.K. Sangameshwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharna-washes-out-second-day-of-session/article34002601.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Entry restrictions to be modified||The State government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that it was contemplating modifying the guideline imposing restrictions on people entering Karnataka from Kerala by road. A submission in this regard was made by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/entry-restrictions-to-be-modified/article34001967.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Dharna washes out second day of session||The second day of the budget session of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Friday was washed out as the principal Opposition, Congress, continued its protest opposing the debate on ‘one nation, one election’ (ONOE) and also demanding revocation of the suspension of its member B.K. Sangameshwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharna-washes-out-second-day-of-session/article34001968.ece
06 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Farmers can’t be left at mercy of market forces’||“During the pandemic, we were advised to cover our mouth and nose, but it seems the BJP people covered their eyes and ears as well. That’s why they could not see the plight of the farmers and listen to their demands,” said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday. He was addressing a kisan panchayat in Tappal area of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-cant-be-left-at-mercy-of-market-forces/article34002657.ece
06 March 2021||Jaipur,||25 students of Rajasthan govt. school test positive||Twenty-five students, a teacher and two employees of a government boarding school for visually impaired children in Rajasthan’s Udaipur tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The school and the nearby localities were declared as “containment zone” and sanitisation work was started in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/25-students-of-rajasthan-govt-school-test-positive/article34002658.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||No titans to skipper, but not any ship in storm||Tamil Nadu, known for Dravidian duopoly, is now facing a new round of intense electoral battle between the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) without their stalwarts, Jayalalitha and Karunanidhi, respectively. And a new dimension in this election is the aggressive efforts by the BJP to make inroads into the State’s politics. There are players too in the fray such as Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of Kamal Haasan, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by T.T.V. Dhinakaran and Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) of Seeman. They, however, are likely to occupy a portion of the space available for formations other than those led by the two major parties. In the 2016 Assembly election, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), the six-party Makkal Nala Kootani (People’s Welfare Front), the BJP and the NTK together netted 15.3% of the votes polled. With V.K. Sasikala, Mr. Dhinakaran’s aunt and  aide of Jayalalithaa, opting to step aside from active politics, the three-year-old party, which secured a vote share of 5.25% in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, appeared to have suffered a setback. Unlike in 2016, the AIADMK is contesting as the dominant constituent of a multi-party coalition. After Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, the AIADMK gravitated towards the BJP, with which Jayalalithaa maintained a respectable distance between 2014 and 2016. The two parties, along with others, including the PMK and the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), went to the 2019 Lok Sabha election together and met with disastrous results. The alliance could get one seat. The “anti-Modi” factor was cited as a major reason for the debacle. The composition of the AIADMK-led front now may undergo changes with the ruling party’s talks with the DMDK having failed to yield any tangible result. As of now, the seat-sharing process has been completed only in respect of the PMK, which has been allotted 23 seats. Though the seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP has not yet been finalised, the AIADMK is expected to give around 25 seats. Palaniswami factor There is a grudging acknowledgement among Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s critics that he has made use of the COVID-19 pandemic to showcase himself as an able administrator, though all the hard work has been, according to the critics, accomplished by the bureaucracy. Positioning himself as a farmer, he has taken several steps to woo voters in rural areas. The waiver of crop loans, totalling Rs. 12,110.75 crore taken from cooperative institutions, was among the policy announcements made a few weeks prior to the announcement of the election dates. DMK president M.K. Stalin is banking on the core vote base of his party, the arithmetic strength of the coalition being headed by him and the anti-incumbency against the AIADMK. Essentially, these factors played a big role in the 2019 Lok Sabha election when the DMK-led alliance registered a landslide, bagging 38 seats with a vote share of around 53.3%. Mr. Stalin and his colleagues have been highlighting, what they consider, several shortcomings of the Palaniswami government on a host of areas, including the handling of the COVID-19 management. Two tragic events in Thoothukudi district in the last couple of years involving the death of 12 persons in police firing and a father-son duo in custody; alleged corruption; a sex abuse scandal in Pollachi and loss of livelihood opportunities due to the pandemic are some of the issues that are being flagged by the DMK. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s recent visits to the State should help in consolidating the DMK’s support base. The DMK has not completed seat-sharing. What is keenly watched is whether there will be a “spoiler”, just as the Makkal Nala Kootani did for the DMK last time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-titans-to-lead-but-not-any-ship-in-storm/article34001743.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Customs affidavit stokes political fires in Kerala||The Customs ‘revelation’ in the Kerala High Court that gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had “stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of Hon'ble Chief Minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) and Hon'ble Speaker (P. Sreeramakrishnan)” threatens to strain the Centre-State relations further. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has seen a political plot to tarnish the government ahead of the Assembly polls. LDF activists would lay siege to Customs offices in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode on Saturday. The government had upped the ante in its political stand-off with the Centre by announcing that Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) officials would not answer the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) summons on Friday. ‘Parroting BJP charges’ The CPI(M) State secretariat said the Centre’s disinformation would not befool voters. The Central agencies had in various sworn depositions merely parroted the allegations raised by the BJP and the Congress. They had no shred of evidence against the government. The LDF’s governance record and its progressive agenda moored to welfarism, development and secularism had resonated among voters. The Congress and the BJP's baseless charges against the government sounded like the incoherent ramblings of a paranoid, the CPI(M) said. The Congress seemed to stoke the political bushfire ignited by the Customs’ contentious affidavit in the High Court. It would agitate across the State from March 6 demanding Mr. Vijayan’s resignation on the charge of treason. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the ED’s case against KIIFB and the Customs’ sworn statement had validated the UDF’s charges against the government. Congress State chief president Mullappally Ramachandran termed the charges grave. ‘Will end up in jail’ In a play on LDF’s election slogan, BJP State president K. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan and his enablers in the government would “surely end up in prison and not in government.” Sabre-rattling by the CPI(M) would not deter the Central law enforcement from pursuing the ends of justice, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/customs-affidavit-stokes-political-fires-in-kerala/article34001778.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Disengagement key for progress in ties’||India expects China to work with it to ensure complete disengagement “at the earliest” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which was key to restoring the relationship, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday. The Foreign Ministers of both countries, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, in a phone call on February 25 reviewed the status of disengagement, which has been completed on the north and south banks of Pangong lake and is in progress in other areas along the LAC. Both Ministers also agreed to establish a hotline. It was India’s “expectation that the Chinese side will work with us, both through the WMCC [Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs] and Senior Commanders’ meetings, to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. “This would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in Eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress in our bilateral relationship,” he noted. The senior military commanders in their last meeting on February 20 noted “the disengagement in the Pangong lake area was a significant step forward and it provided a good basis for the resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC”, he stated. Since the meeting, there has been no official word so far on the progress of disengagement in the Gogra-Hot Springs area and in Demchok. There are also long-persisting tensions involving the blocking of patrols in the Depsang plains, which Indian officials have said predated the current crisis. On Friday, India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri conveyed a similar message in Beijing to Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Luo Zhaohui, emphasising that “maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas had always been the basis for development of bilateral relations.” He also raised “outstanding consular issues pertaining to Indian nationals”, the Indian Embassy in Beijing said. Mr. Jaishankar had, in the phone call, underlined the message that both sides “have always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquility in the border areas was an essential basis for the development of bilateral relations” and “a prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side.” A MEA statement after the phone call noted India’s view that restoring normalcy to the broader relationship would first require complete disengagement and then de-escalation. Troops on both sides remain present in large numbers in depth areas and have not yet returned to their normal positions in peacetime. “It was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector,” the statement said. “That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship.” China’s position China has conveyed a different position on restoration of ties, and called on India to put the border dispute in a “proper” position. “While that the two countries have boundary disputes is an objective fact, which should be taken seriously, it is not the whole of China-India relations, and it should be put at a proper place in the overall bilateral relations,” Mr. Wang told Mr. Jaishankar according to a statement from Beijing. It added that “there has been some wavering and backpedalling in India's China policy” because of which “practical cooperation between the two countries has been affected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disengagement-key-for-progress-in-ties/article34001795.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rise in COVID-19 cases in six States, says Health Ministry||No new COVID-19 fatalities have been reported in 18 States and Union Territories in the 24 hours up to 8 a.m. on Friday but Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi have seen a steep rise in new cases during that time, the Health Ministry said on Friday. Maharashtra saw the highest number of casualties (60), followed by Punjab with 15 fatalities. Kerala reported 14 deaths. The Ministry said the six States reported high number of new cases. It said 84.44% of the new cases reported in the 24 hours (16,838) were from these States. “Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,998, followed by Kerala with 2,616 while Punjab reported 1,071 new cases. India’s total active case load stands at 1.76 lakh [1,76,319]. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have shown a reduction in the active cases in the last 24 hours,” said the Ministry. Twenty States/Union Territories have less than 1,000 active cases while Arunachal Pradesh reported only 2 active cases. The cumulative doses of COVID19 vaccine administered in the country crossed 1.90 crore on Friday, the release said. A total of 10,34,672 vaccine doses were given on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-six-states-says-health-ministry/article34001804.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Trinamool will form Bengal government on May 2’||Ahead of the West Bengal Assembly election, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien speaks on a resurgent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the communal charge against the Trinamool, and the exodus of leaders to the BJP  Why is the Trinamool Congress protesting against the eight phases of elections in West Bengal, considering the last time around, too, the polls were held over seven phases? Since Independence, has any State election been held over eight phases? The party with truckloads of money obviously prefers fighting the polls over 33 days. All the institutions are under the BJP’s control. Integrity surrendered, now just supine and grovel to please. These elections are not a fight for Trinamool or Mamata Banerjee alone, this is a fight for the Constitution of India. Those who believe in the Constitution, as it was enshrined, have to stand up now and be counted. Consider what we are up against. In 33 days, eight phases, the ‘tourist gang’ will bring 24 Union Ministers, six Chief Ministers, their faithful allies, the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation), the ED (Enforcement Directorate), plus money power, government machinery, and a largely pliant media. On the other hand, what do we have? A woman who has worked hard for the people of Bengal for 10 years, touching lives. For three decades before her stint as CM, she has been committed to people’s issues. Who was the first to call demonetisation a disaster? Who fought for land rights? For farmers? For the oppressed? By the way, what is U.P. CM Ajay Bisht — yes, that’s his name — doing campaigning in West Bengal when law and order is in a shambles in his own State? The BJP is trying to divide this nation and if we don’t stop them, they will rewrite the Constitution. You claim that it is an unfair battle, that the Trinamool is outnumbered in terms of artillery and money power by the BJP. At the same time, your campaign manager Prashant Kishore has been going all out claiming that the party is returning to power. How do you arrive at such conclusions? The people of Bengal give us the confidence. It’s the ‘tourist gang’ versus Mamata Banerjee. That’s the choice. The other side have half a dozen aspirants scrambling for the Chief Minister’s chair. The BJP is clueless about Bengal — they tell you Rabindranath Tagore was born in Shantiniketan; they garland the wrong statue of Birsa Munda; they desecrate the memory of Vidyasagar. Bengal does not want these ‘outsiders’. We warmly welcome all to come and live and work here. You can be Sharma, Ahmed, Gupta, D’Souza, Menon or Roy. You are not an ‘outsider’. ‘Outsiders’ are the bloodsuckers whose only aim is to sell fake promises during elections. They can do anything for it: divide society, create riots like 2002, and rewrite the idea of India. Also, let me ask, who is their chief ministerial candidate? When I last checked, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah were not on the list of MLA candidates! Good governance of the last decade will ensure a third term for Mamata Banerjee. Our proposition is simple — Bangla nijier meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter). The Trinamool has been accused of unleashing political violence in the State ahead of the election. How do you react to the charge? Bunkum. This is a totally false narrative that the Modi-Shah spin machine have been building for the last six months to suit their campaign. They have been feeding this to the media they intimidate to control. I would humbly urge real journalists to come here and report the facts from the ground. We challenge the BJP to come and debate the real issues with us — health, education, agriculture, jobs, social schemes for the marginalised, the economy, rising unemployment. The Left has accused the Trinamool of facilitating the BJP’s entry into Bengal, with the entire Trinamool campaign designed to targetit. So aren’t you yourself placing them on the prime perch? The Left-Congress alliance will not win half a dozen seats in Bengal. They too have tied up with communal forces and also have a tacit understanding with BJP on the ground. But why a BJP-centric campaign? Ours is a people-driven campaign — good governance; touching lives; our deep understanding of Bengal. But yes, the BJP is going to be the principal Opposition party in Bengal. So we have to expose them, their track record in other States. Who do you want us to attack? AIADMK (All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam)? NCP (Nationalist Congress Party)? RJD (Rashtriya Janata Dal)? Mamata Banerjee in many public meetings has been heard asking voters to not waste votes on the Left-Congress alliance. Is the Trinamool worried that the alliance could play spoilsport? We are quietly confident. We are focused on our positive campaign. We will see a Trinamool government 3.0 on May 2. The question is not whether we will win the election, the question is how good the margin is. That is what we are playing for. The Trinamool has been accused of being communal, of following an appeasement policy. Furfura Sharif’s chief patron Abbas Siddiqui, among others, has said that the Trinamool government believes in giving alms to Muslims and not their rights. How do you react? Yes, of course the Trinamool appeases people. We appease women, children, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, migrant workers. The sad part is, people need to come here, travel [to] the interiors to see the truth. This ‘tourist gang’ has come here to ask for votes, while we have been touching lives for 10 years here. There has been an exodus of Trinamool leaders to the BJP. The latest to go was Dinesh Trivedi, who said that the party is no longer under the control of Mamata Banerjee and, instead, a select few are running it. How do you react? Great people talk about ideas. Good people talk about issues. Small people talk about other people.  The people of Bengal give us the confidence. It’s the ‘tourist gang’ versus Mamata Banerjee. That’s the choice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-will-form-bengal-government-on-may-2/article34001749.ece
06 March 2021||Amaravati,||Andhra bandh ends peacefully||The Andhra Pradesh bandh called by the Left parties on Friday to oppose the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), evoked a moderate response, even as the ruling YSR Congress and other major parties, barring the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jana Sena combine, extended support. Stray incidents were reported from different places in the State but overall the bandh ended peacefully, police sources here said. The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) suspended its services till afternoon while educational institutions remained shut. Cinema halls did not run the morning show but major businesses were not affected by the bandh. Employees of the State Secretariat sported black badges and attended work. The Telugu Desam Party, the Congress, trade unions and other organisations, too, extended support to the bandh, denouncing the Centre’s decision to go ahead with a “strategic sale” of the VSP, operated by the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited. They all demanded that the Centre immediately withdraw from the move to sell the VSP to private parties. The protesters took out rallies in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur and other main centres in the State with the slogan ‘Visakha Ukku — Andhrula Hakku’ (‘Vizag Steel is Andhra’s right’). Andhra Pradesh Congress president S. Sailajanath, who led a rally in Visakhapatnam, alleged that the YSR Congress and the BJP were colluding to privatise valuable government assets in the State. Farmers in the Amaravati region, who themselves have been agitated for over a year now in opposing the relocation of the State capital, extended support to the agitation and took out a rally. There was an altercation between the protesters and the police at Mandadam village in Amaravati as the latter tried to stop the rally. In Kaikaluru in Krishna district, activists of the YSR Congress and the Telugu Desam Party engaged in a scuffle over a banner but police dispersed them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/andhra-bandh-ends-peacefully/article34001783.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Armed forces now more resolute’||India’s resolute response on the borders helped in positive and peaceful resolution of certain significant issues, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. He also talked of the courage displayed by soldiers during the recent stand-off in Eastern Ladakh, after addressing the ongoing annual Combined Commanders Conference (CCC) of the three Services at Kevadia in Gujarat. While an agreement on the second phase of disengagement between India and China is awaited, last week, the armies of India and Pakistan reaffirmed their commitment to the 2003 ceasefire and agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease-firing along the Line of Control (LoC) and other areas. Mr. Singh said on Twitter that he spoke on a wide range of issues pertaining to the defence and security of the nation, the emerging nature of military threats, the critical role of the armed forces in meeting these challenges and the nature of warfare in future. “Our ability to secure India’s territorial integrity and sovereignty from external threats and internal challenges have been strengthened in the recent years. Our forces today are proactive and more resolute in their response,” he observed. Mr. Singh stressed on increasing jointness in the armed forces, saying the optimal utilisation of resources and rationalisation of manpower held the key to jointness and better coordination between the forces. PM’s address The three-day conference began on Thursday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to chair and address the valedictory session on Saturday. “In a major change from the past, the scope of the conference this year has been expanded to make it a multi-layered, interactive, informal and informed event with the added participation of about 30 officers and soldiers of various ranks from the three Services,” a statement from the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) said. “This is a step taken in right direction,” Mr. Singh said. The DMA said that the two Vivechana sessions held over the day in the presence of Mr. Singh deliberated the “ongoing modernisation of armed forces especially focussing on creation of integrated theatre commands and infusion of modern technology.” “ India has nurtured close relations and partnerships with like-minded countries to further the common security interests. We are committed to protecting the territorial integrity and ensure peace in the region,” Mr. Singh asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-now-more-resolute/article34001809.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm leader hints at softening stand||As the farmers protest completed 100 days on the borders of Delhi, senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal said the movement “should not be taking a hard stance on all the issues”. There needs to be “space for discussion” even on the demand to repeal three contentious farm reform laws, he said. However, in an interview with The Hindu on Friday, the veteran Punjab leader added that with expectations having been raised among the people, it would now be difficult for union leaders to back down from their initial positions. Reflecting on the lessons learnt from the last 100 days which can be applied to the future of the movement, Dr. Pal indicated that there should have been more clarity regarding realistic expectations. “I think we should not be taking a hard stance on all the issues. For example, on the issue of MSP, what I think is that we did not discuss it in our movement so intensively or in so much detail. We should try to get all these things about our issues in detail, so that the leadership level and everybody tries to understand what we are demanding and how much we can get it,” he said. Asked whether there was space for such nuance regarding the demand for repealing the three laws as well, Dr. Pal said, “There will be and there should be some space for discussion.” However, he added that he was “not yet in a position to say” what options could be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-leader-hints-at-softening-stand/article34001791.ece
06 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP denies ticket to 11 MLAs in Assam||The Bharatiya Janata Party has denied ticket to 11 sitting MLAs, including a Minister, and fielded two Congress defectors, who served as Cabinet Ministers in the Tarun Gogoi government. The BJP also rewarded Rajya Sabha member Biswajit Daimary, who defected from former ally Bodoland People’s Front, with the Panery seat and changed the constituency of its State unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass from Sorbhog to Patacharkuchi. The party announced the names of 70 candidates for the first and second phases of the Assam election. The sitting MLAs who have been shown the door are Hills Area Development Minister Sum Ronghang (Diphu seat), Rituparna Barua (Lahowal), Amar Chand Jain (Katigorah), Ashok Sarma (Nalbari), Joyram Engleng (Howraghat), Mansing Rongpi (Baithalangso), B.B. Hagjer (Haflong), Dilip Paul (Silchar), Kishore Nath (Barkhola), Debananda Hazarika (Bihpuria) and Nabanita Handique (Sonari). In Mr. Ronghang’s place, the BJP fielded Bidya Sing Engleng. The BJP switched its Chabua MLA to Lahowal to end Mr. Barua’s run. The party similarly replaced Mr. Ashok Sarma with Jayanta Malla Barua, a former Congress MLA in the Nalbari seat. In Howraghat, the BJP fielded Dorsing Ronghang, who switched over from the Left Front a few years ago. The BJP favoured Roop Sing Teran for the Baithalangso seat and Nandita Garlosa for the Haflong seat. In Bihpuria and Sonari seats, the party fielded Amiyo Bhuyan and Dharmeswar Konwar, in place of Mr. Debananda Hazarika and Nabanita Handique. Three MLAs from the Barak Valley were also replaced. While Mr. Dilip Paul found his Silchar seat given to businessman Dwipayan Chakraborty, former RSS functionary Amalendu Das was preferred over Mr. Kishore Nath for the Barkhola seat. The third MLA to miss the bus was Mr. Amar Chand Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-denies-ticket-to-11-mlas-in-assam/article34002427.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Survey finds what women tweet||An independent research commissioned by Twitter on how Indian women use the microblogging site revealed nine top conversational themes, including passion points and interests, current affairs, celebratory moments, communities and social change. The results are the outcome of a quantitative survey among women on Twitter and analysis of 5,22,992 Tweets sent out by women Twitter accounts between January 2019 and February 2021 across 10 Indian cities. Twitter’s research shows that one of the main reasons (24.9%) women use its service is to pursue their interests and passions. Within this category are those who seek content on fashion (30%), books (28%), beauty (25%), movies and TV (21%), music (18%), food (18%), technology (17%), art (17%) and sports (14%). As much as 20.8% of women use Twitter to stay informed on local and international news, while 14.5% engage in celebratory moments, both personal and professional. As much as 11.7% of women are using the platform to connect with virtual communities and network. These women are coming together with hashtags such as #WomenInScience, #WomenInTech, #WomenInMarketing, and #GirlGamers. 8.7% women tweet to bring about a social change through online campaigns. “We commissioned this research to build our understanding about women on Twitter and were inspired by the results. These insights show us that Twitter is for every woman. Their communities and conversations highlight the uniqueness and diversity of the service. Access to a free and open Internet has made it possible for everyone to express themselves freely without barriers,” said Manish Maheshwari, managing director at Twitter India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/survey-finds-what-women-tweet/article34001814.ece
06 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||More Myanmar nationals take refuge in Mizoram||Villagers in Mizoram’s border districts said more than 100 people have crossed over from Myanmar to escape a military crackdown there. Local authorities have, however, confirmed the arrival of 23 people who fled the Tatmadaw – as the Myanmar military is called – that took control of the country following a coup on February 1. At least 50 people have been killed in clashes with the army since. “The numbers keep on changing. But the report I have is that 15 people took refuge in Champhai district and eight in Serchhip district. It is quite possible they are from the Myanmar police who deserted the force,” Mizoram’s lone Lok Sabha member C. Lalrosanga told The Hindu on Friday. Mr. Lalrosanga also said the Mizoram government has issued a standard operating procedure for the identification of the refugees. Residents of border areas in Champhai district said people from across the border have been trickling in after crossing river Tiau that runs along a long stretch of Mizoram’s 404 km border with Myanmar. “More than 100 people must have come in and more are desperate to come. We are trying to help them on humanitarian grounds after following the guidelines of the local authorities,” Rama, president of Farkawn village council, said. Farkawn is in Champhai district and close to the border with Myanmar. Villagers there said Assam Rifles personnel have prevented some 80 Myanmar nationals from entering. “We are following the normal procedure since we do not have any instructions from either our seniors or the government of India,” an Assam Rifles officer said. Champhai’s Deputy Commissioner Maria C.T. Zuali had in a notification earlier said those who are in danger of persecution from the Myanmar military junta, would be regarded as refugees and should be provided shelter and protection.  The report I have is that 15 people took refuge in Champhai district and eight in Serchhip district C. Lalrosanga Lok Sabha member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-myanmar-nationals-take-refuge-in-mizoram/article34001816.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Nirmala dismisses report on human rights issues||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman lashed out at the U.S. think tank Freedom House — which has downgraded India’s status from “free” to “partly free” — accusing the body of not even getting the “Indian map” correct. The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on behalf of the government also issued a statement calling the report “misleading, incorrect and misplaced”. Speaking to reporters at an interaction in Indian Women’s Press Corps on Friday, Ms. Sitharaman said, “I am concerned about a group which does not get the Indian map correct. And this body as per its website says it is an independent body. It doesn't have the wherewithal to understand what is the sovereign territorial map of India and in a country as diverse as India they have gone into freedom of religion and everything,” she said. “How do I take you seriously on matters which are so intrinsic to a multi-diverse country, where religions of ancient days have lived together for centuries without any kind of cleansing. Get my map straight and then get your act to talk about my country and its freedoms,” Ms. Sitharaman said. The Information and Broadcasting Ministry, in a statement said, that the think tanks’s “Democracy under siege” is misleading, incorrect and misplaced. The statement pointed out that there are many States, which have non-BJP governments, elected through a free and fair process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirmala-dismisses-report-on-human-rights-issues/article34001821.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||NCB files chargesheet against Rhea||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday filed an 11,700-page chargesheet against 33 persons, including actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, in an alleged drug smuggling case. Eight of the accused are currently in judicial custody while the rest are out on bail. The chargesheet has been filed by the NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Unit. The case is an off-shoot of a money laundering probe initiated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) based on an FIR registered by the Patna police on July 25, 2020. The police case was lodged by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, who accused Ms. Chakraborty and others of abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, breach of trust, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement. It was later taken over by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The ED retrieved some WhatsApp chats indicating to the purported role of drug peddlers. The details were shared with the NCB, which also found prima facie evidence of offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. During the NCB investigation, the agency arrested Ms. Chakraborty and her brother in September 2020. Sushant Singh Rajput’s housekeeping manager, Samuel Miranda, and a staff member, Dipesh Sawant, were also arrested, apart from several alleged drug peddlers. Drug seizure The agency effected multiple seizures of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, electronic gadgets and cash, including foreign currency. “The technical gadgets and mobile phones were analysed and the relevant incriminating evidence regarding the sale, purchase, procurement, consumption and possession of narcotics drugs were extracted. The seized drugs were sent for chemical examination,” said an official. The NCB official said the case was thoroughly investigated on the basis of seizures effected from accused persons, voluntary disclosure statements and technical evidence, that is, connectivity through call details, WhatsApp chats, details of bank accounts/ financial transactions, and other oral and documentary proof. “On conclusion of further investigations, supplementary chargesheets will be filed as per law,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-files-chargesheet-against-rhea-chakraborty/article34001807.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘High command’ comes to town||The Congress is changing the way it selects candidates for the Assembly elections this time, a leader familiar with the development says. Instead of short-listing candidates in Delhi, the selection or screening panels are moving to the States to make the process more participatory. In a State like Assam, the first list could come out early as local leaders plan to seek approval from the party’s central election committee through a Zoom meeting. The change in selection procedure seems to be the result of a letter sent by the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) to party president Sonia Gandhi last August, questioning why the party “high command” in Delhi appoints even district- and block-level functionaries. Now in Assam, for example, the party has deputed former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan (in photo), a key member of the G-23, to head the panel for selecting potential candidates. On Wednesday, Mr. Chavan and other All India Congress Committee functionaries held consultations. “We will identify nearly three candidates for each seat on the basis of ground surveys and feedback from workers in the constituency; thereafter, the opinion of the district presidents will be taken,” a senior leader says. A similar model is being followed in Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-command-comes-to-town/article34001747.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||IAS officer Srilakshmi files interim application||Senior IAS officer of Andhra Pradesh government Y. Srilakshmi has filed an interim application in Telangana High Court seeking to quash the supplementary charge-sheet filed by CBI against her in year 2012 in an illegal mining case involving private companies. She sought permission of the HC to present additional documents to support her contentions in the writ petition filed by her in year 2015 challenging registration of criminal case by the CBI against her in the illegal mining matter. The top bureaucrat serving as Special Chief Secretary with the AP government stated that she was seeking permission for furnishing additional documents as her new counsel advised her so in the interest of securing justice to her. The IAS officer was made sixth accused in the sensational case of alleged illegal mining by Obulapuram Mining Company Private Limited and Bellarey Iron Ore Private Limited. Ms. Srilakhsmi contended that the statement recorded by the CBI under section 161 of Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.P.C.) did not show anything that she had common intention and pre-determination along with the other accused. There was no misconduct, let alone criminal misconduct, the officer stated in the interim application. The CBI could not present even an iota of material evidence to prove that she had deceptive intention to cheat the organ of the State, the IAS officer contended. The charge-sheet was bereft of specific allegations of demanding or receiving any illegal gratification from any person, she stated. The IAS officer stated that she was not holding the designated post when the then government of undivided Andhra Pradesh took a call on the matter of mining of ores. According to her, the CBI had invoked section 13 (2) read along with section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. These sections were done away with Amendment Act 16 of 2018 with effect from July 26, 2018. The top bureaucrat stated that the supplementary charge-sheet filed by the CBI against her on March 30, 2012, had only assumptions, presumptions, conjectures and surmises. There was no specific allegation of demand or payment of any illegal gratification or quid pro quo, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ias-officer-srilakshmi-files-interim-application/article34002556.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bar Council resolution is to intimidate me: Brinda Karat||Reacting to the resolution passed against her by the Bar Council of India, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat said it was an attempt to intimidate her. The Bar Council, in a resolution adopted during a meeting, had termed the letter written by Ms. Karat to Chief Justice of India (CJI) Justice S.A. Bobde on the remarks he had made on two rape cases as a “malicious attack” on the judiciary. The resolution said that freedom of speech and expression cannot be stretched to the extent of “maligning and weakening” the institution. Ms. Karat said in a letter that the resolution made petty and personal allegations against her but she did not want to respond to them. She pointed out that the CJI’s comments, which she said were widely reported, had not been contradicted by the council. The council had pointed out that the comments were not part of the judgement and thus legally irrelevant. Ms. Karat said, “Whether or not the comments form part of the judgement is immaterial. The fact that such comments were made and reported have their own impact on society at large.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bar-council-resolution-is-to-intimidate-me-brinda-karat/article34001819.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||United against dowry||While the recent death by suicide of Ayesha Banu, a 23-year-old woman from Ahmedabad, allegedly due to dowry harassment, shocked many, the cry against dowry is becoming shriller in Hyderabad, with the clergy, activists and residents, raising their voice in public against the social evil. All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) member Dr. Asma Zehra termed the suicide a “collective negligence of the Muslim community”, which demanded immediate introspection. In a statement, she said that dowry is a sin, and impermissible in Islam. “We have to look at the forms of dowry as well. The jode ki raqam, and the lavish weddings we see these days, the expenses of which have to be borne by the bride’s side, are also an issue,” Dr. Zehra, chief organiser of the Women’s Wing of AIMPLB, said. “Marriages should be made simple and easy according to the Sunnah of the holy Prophet,” she said. Dr. Zehra underscored that meher (dower) is more important. The meher , she opined, is the right of the wife and provides financial security to women. She rued that domestic violence which women face does not have a proper redressal system in place. A two-day online All India Muslim Women Convention, beginning on March 6, is scheduled to tackle among other issues, dowry as a social evil, she said. Meanwhile, the Jamiat Ahle Hadees Hyderabad and Secunderabad (JAHHS) has intensified its campaign against dowry. According to president of JAHHS Maulana Shafiq Alam Khan Jamai, the Jamiat has consistently taken an anti-dowry campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/standing-united-against-dowry/article34002547.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Pochampally rainbow woven into six yards||Boga Balaiah, a traditional handloom weaver from Pochampally village in Telangana’s Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, has put the colour wheel to shame with his effort in creating a sari. He has woven magic with an amazing 121 hues and an equal number of motifs to embellish the sari he has created after two years of strenuous work. Mercerised sari With the Ikat-dyed mercerised cotton sari, which holds one motif in each box of separate shade as part of the design, Mr. Balaiah is aiming for a national award from the Ministry of Textiles. The 61-year-old says it had been his dream for 10 years to create such a sari with so many colour shades and motifs. “I could not spare time owing to my financial expediencies and family responsibilities. Now that my children are settled in their own jobs, I can give shape to my dream,” he says. He used 11 eco-friendly colours each in warp and weft, namely, green, golden yellow, blue, brown, parrot green, grey, orange, Ananda (a shade in blue), lemon yellow and Rani Pink (fuchsia), which gave the sari its 121 shades. Five stages A single white thread separates every two shades at regular intervals. In addition, he dyed the yarn in five stages with 11 colours each time, to get all the 121 shades in the 1.5 inch border with temple design. The ‘ pallu ’ has 11 shades, also with the temple design. “Much of the two years went in finalising the motifs for which my family and I worked a lot. For actual weaving, it took me about two months. My wife Saraswathi’s contribution in preparation of colours is huge, while. My children took time off on Sunday to help me accomplish this task,” Mr. Balaiah he said. Aiming to weave 16 saris of this kind, he has completed two so far. Balaiah, who had inherited his profession from his father, had woven a sari with 1400 hues earlier. He says he wishes to bring national award to Pochampally, which is well known across the country for its Ikat saris and dresses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pochampally-rainbow-woven-into-six-yards/article34001771.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘G-23 ready to campaign for Assembly polls’||A week after the show of strength in Jammu by a section of the group of 23 dissenters (G-23) from the Congress, senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday struck a conciliatory note by stating that he and his colleagues were willing to campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Assam, Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “For the next two months, our priority would be the election and try and work for a Congress win,” Mr. Azad told reporters at an informal meeting at his residence. “My colleagues and I will be campaigning wherever the party or any candidate ask us to campaign.” The former Leader of the Opposition's comment is significant as the public meeting in Jammu on February 27 had raised uncomfortable questions, especially when the Congress was in the middle of Assembly elections. Mr. Azad’s comment will now put to rest speculation that G-23 were planning more Jammu-like meets in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, three north Indian States where the Congress is in direct contest with the BJP, while Assembly elections are on. Mr. Azad’s comments appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “humble” roots and an outright attack by Anand Sharma on Congress’ alliance with Abbas Siddiqui-led Indian Secular Front in West Bengal has sparked an open war of words between Mr. Sharma and Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/g-23-ready-to-campaign-for-assembly-polls/article34002426.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farm laws an internal matter of India: envoy||Maintaining that the new agricultural laws are an “internal matter” of India, new U.K. High Commissioner to India Alexander Ellis on Friday said the debate in the British House of Commons set for Monday was part of issues linked to India that were quite “regularly debated” there. “Things that happen in India have ripples in the U.K., partly because you do have such a big community in the U.K. So these things get debated,” Mr. Ellis told journalists, explaining that the farm laws and the protests were being discussed as a result of a petition that crossed 1,00,000 signatures, even though the U.K. government’s position was that the issue was an internal one for the Modi government to resolve in India. “As the Indian diaspora grows and becomes more successful in many countries in the world, you’re going to see more of this …. as India grows, becomes more international and ever more significant in the world, there will be more debate about the government’s views,” Mr. Ellis said, but would not confirm whether the parliament debate had been raised by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar during his call with British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab on Wednesday. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Indian missions in the U.K. had engaged the government, civil society and others about the agricultural laws adopted in India last August, and had also given them information on the talks with various farmers’ unions currently protesting at Delhi’s borders. During the Foreign Minister’s call, both leaders also spoke about the U.K.’s upcoming “strategic review” on its Indo-Pacific policy as well as preparations ahead of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit, that is expected in the “coming months,” according to Mr. Ellis. One of the highlights of the visit is the possible beginning of India-U.K. Free Trade agreement negotiations, which Mr. Johnson is understood to be keen to announce post-Brexit, even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to Portugal in May for an EU-India summit. Mr. Johnson’s earlier planned visit for Republic Day in January had to be put off due to a rise in coronavirus cases in the U.K., and he will also receive Mr. Modi in June as India is a special invitee along with Australia and South Korea to the G-7 summit of the world’s biggest economies. Mr. Ellis said he hoped for a “swift resolution” of the dispute between the Indian government and British company Cairn Energy that won an arbitration settlement of $1.2 billion from India. Cairn Energy executives met with Finance Ministry officials last month, but there has been no visible movement on the dispute, and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman indicated on Friday that the government would appeal the arbitration verdict.  The debate in the British House is part of issues linked to India that are regularly debated Alex Ellis U.K. High Commissioner to India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-laws-an-internal-matter-of-india-envoy/article34001793.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||RGCB campus to focus on cancer research||The upcoming second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) at Akkulam here will be developed as a major facility for translational applications of immunotherapy and development of therapeutic antibodies for the treatment of cancer, Union Minister for Science and Technology Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said. Addressing the 13th general body meeting of the RGCB over a videoconferencing network, Dr. Vardhan said RGCB’s close association with multiple cancer hospitals in Kerala was expected to facilitate the advanced cell-based therapy against cancer at affordable cost. A lead anti-cancer molecule discovered by scientists at the RGCB had been licensed to a multinational company and was in the final stages of pre-clinical testing at the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation in the U.S., he said. The BSL3 plus facility being established on the Akkulam campus would undertake natural product-based drug discovery using live virus and carry out research on any emerging pathogen requiring high containment. Name of centre The action taken report for 2019-20, placed before the general body, said a function would be organised to name the second campus at Akkulam as ‘Shri Guruji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Diseases in Cancer and Viral Infection’ on completion of the phase 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rgcb-campus-to-focus-on-cancer-research/article34002573.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,||AIADMK first list out; CM to contest in Edappadi||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, his deputy O. Panneerselvam and four others figured in the AIADMK’s first list of candidates for the Assembly election released on Friday. Separately, the DMK sealed a deal for six seats with the CPI, the fourth ally to sign a seat-sharing agreement. Mr. Palaniswami will be trying his luck again from Edappadi, his home constituency. He was elected from the seat in 1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016. Mr. Panneerselvam has been nominated from Bodinayakanur, from where he was elected in 2011 and 2016. On two other occasions, he represented Periyakulam. Ministers D. Jayakumar and C. Ve. Shanmugam have been chosen for their respective constituencies of Royapuram, Chennai, and Villupuram. This will be the seventh time that Mr. Jayakumar is being fielded from Royapuram. He lost only in 1996. Two others — S.P. Shanmuganathan and S. Thenmozhi — have been fielded from their constituencies of Srivaikuntam and Nilakkottai (reserved).  Good mix A senior office-bearer said the six nominees represented a good mix of communities — Vellala Gounder, Mukkulathor, Meenavar, Vanniyar, Nadar and the Scheduled Caste. The list was released though the AIADMK has not finalised the seat-sharing exercise with its allies, barring the PMK. Another functionary said the remaining candidates would be announced by Tuesday.  DMK president At Anna Arivayalam, DMK president M.K. Stalin and CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan signed the agreement. “We held talks in a cordial manner to ensure the victory of the Secular Progressive Alliance, led by the DMK,” Mr. Mutharasan said. Between the number of seats and idealism, the latter is important in this election as the objective is to prevent sectarian forces from entering Tamil Nadu, he said. The DMK is yet to finalise seat-sharing with the CPI(M) and the MDMK, while talks with the Congress have remained inconclusive. The CPI(M) has convened a its secretariat meeting on Saturday where and the issue of seat-sharing will be discussed in the meeting which it will be attended by general secretary of the party Sitaram Yechury. Likewise, the MDMK’s high level committee would meet to decide on the offer of seats made by the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aiadmk-first-list-out-cm-to-contest-in-edappadi/article34001870.ece
06 March 2021||SIDDIPET,||Tension continues at Etigaddakishtapur||The residents of villages that are getting submerged under Mallannasagar, part of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, are under tremendous stress both psychological as well as physical. On Thursday agency implementing the bund work for the Mallannasagar closed the road leading to Siddipet leading to residents of several affected villagers objecting to it and Congress leader Ch. Srinivas Reddy and a few farmers who staged a protest there were arrested by the police. The villagers objected to the closure of Siddipet road as it would compel them to travel another 20 kilometers to reach the district headquarters. Referring to a court judgement, the project displaced point out that officials were directed by the High Court not to disconnect power, roads and water till all the project affected persons were shifted to Rehabilitation and Resettlement colony. The main grievance of the project affected persons is was that they were yet to receive the full compensation amount and according to the court order the officials could not close the road. It is a direct violation of the High Court directives, the residents say. The Bharatiya Janata Party gave a call for ‘Chalo Mallannasagar’ on Friday in protest against the incidents at Etigaddakishtapur, this led to tension with party activists and Dubbak MLA M. Raghunandan Rao entering into heated arguments with police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tension-continues-at-etigaddakishtapur/article34002532.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Prioritise the elderly, SC tells private hospitals||The Supreme Court has directed that private hospitals should give priority to senior citizens in admission. On August 4 last, the court declared that government hospitals should give priority to elderly people as they are vulnerable to COVID-19 virus. August 4 order On Thursday, senior advocate and former Union Law Minister Ashwani Kumar urged a Bench led by Ashok Bhushan to extend the August 4 order to private hospitals too. The court agreed with Mr. Kumar, saying private hospitals catered to most of the population in the country. “We direct that priority with reference to admission contemplated in order dated August4 2020 to the elderly people should also be given in private hospitals,” the court ordered. Mr. Kumar had approached the court, during the peak of the pandemic period, highlighting the need for providing care, support and priority medical treatment for senior citizens, especially those who live alone during the pandemic.  Regular pension On August 4, the court ordered the States to respond promptly to the needs of senior citizens and ensure they do not suffer financially during COVID-19. It also directed that the elderly should get their pension on time. “All old-age people who are eligible for pension should be regularly paid pension and those identified older people should be provided necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods by respective States. Further, as and when any individual request is made, the same shall be attended to by the administration with all promptness,” the court had ordered. Mr. Kumar drew attention to how many elderly persons were battling loneliness and depression. The lockdown and social isolation of past months had left many in the grip of anxiety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prioritise-the-elderly-sc-tells-private-hospitals/article34001786.ece
06 March 2021||Belagavi,||Jarkiholi’s supporters enforce bandh in Gokak||Supporters of Ramesh Jarkiholi enforced an undeclared bandh in Gokak, the former Minister and BJP leader’s hometown, on Friday in the light of allegations against him and the “insult” he faced due to telecasting of a controversial clip showing him with a woman. Buses did not ply, private autorickshaws and taxis did not operate, and there were no two-wheelers or private vehicles on the road either. Most schools, colleges and shops were closed down. Some students who came from villages and distant localities in the town faced inconvenience to go back home after schools and colleges were suddenly closed. At one of the protests, Gajanan Rajaput, a supporter of Mr. Jarkiholi, suffered injuries when he tried to jump over the burning tyres. The police pulled him out of the fire and rushed him to a hospital where he is recovering. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi rushed a team of over 200 police constables to Gokak to manage the law and order situation. A team of officers has been monitoring the protests. Mr. Jarkiholi’s supporters blocked the Jatt-Jamboti, Arabavi-Challakere, and Badami-Hattargi State highways that pass through the town. Protesters walked from various villages to Gokak shouting slogans. Meanwhile, some of his followers led by Bhimshi Bharamannanavar held a media conference in Gokak, urging protesters to remain calm. “Our leader has told us to appeal to his supporters to protest peacefully,” he said. Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president and younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, welcomed Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi’s decision to resign from the Cabinet and demanded that it was now the job of the police to investigate all angles of the alleged scandal. The police should verify if it is a case of sexual harassment of the woman or a political conspiracy, he said. Lakhan Jarkiholi, Congress leader and younger brother of Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi, said it was a conspiracy to malign his brother and expressed confidence that he would emerge victorious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jarkiholis-supporters-enforce-bandh-in-gokak/article34001766.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||9 get death for 2016 Bihar hooch tragedy||Those sentenced to death in the case are Chhathu Pasi, Kanhaiya Pasi, Nagina Pasi, Lalbabu Pasi, Rajesh Kumar, Sanoj Kumar Pasi, Sanjay Pasi, Ranjit Chaudhary and Munna Chaudhary. The women accused are Laljhari Devi, Kailasho Devi, Indu Devi and Rita Devi. The State government had announced Rs. 4 lakh compensation to members of the victims’ family. Along with main accused Nagina Pasi, 13 others were named as accused in the case. After the sentencing, most of the accused and their family members began wailing. “We will move the Patna High Court against the judgment,” said Ved Prakash Tiwari, the lawyer representing the accused. In June 2020, 21 policemen were dismissed in connection with the hooch tragedy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/9-get-death-for-2016-bihar-hooch-tragedy/article34002420.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka may modify entry restrictions||The State government on Friday told the High Court of Karnataka that it was contemplating modifying the guideline imposing restrictions on people entering Karnataka from Kerala by road. A submission in this regard was made by the government counsel before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by B. Subbaya Rai, a Mangaluru-based advocate. The petitioner had complained that 23 out of 27 roads connecting the two States were closed in view of the increase in number of COVID-19 cases in Kerala, even though there was no travel restriction between the States in the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The counsel for the Union government clarified to the Bench that the MHA’s guideline removing all restrictions on travel between the States were in force, as notified in January 2021, and the States had to keep the roads open.  Negative certificate As a COVID-19 negative report is mandatory for people entering from Kerala as per Karnataka’s guidelines, the Bench orally said that the Karnataka government can create infrastructure for checking COVID-19 reports as the roads cannot be closed per the MHA’s guidelines. After the government counsel sought time to inform the court on the modification, the Bench adjourned further hearing on the matter till March 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-to-modify-entry-regulations/article34001767.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Currency smuggling was at CM’s behest’||Besides Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, are accused in the case. Sumit Kumar, Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Kochi, submitted in a statement that Swapna had also made a “shocking revelation” of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s close connection with the previous Consul General of UAE and the illegal monetary transactions. The statement was filed in response to a petition filed by the State government challenging certain remarks in the order of the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Economic Offences) Court, providing security to Swapna, now housed at the women’s Prison and Correctional Home, Attakulangara, Thiruva- nanthapuram. The Customs Commissioner pointed out that Swapna had made the revelations about the Chief Minister, the Assembly Speaker and three Ministers in the State cabinet. She had also revealed the involvement of high-profile persons and the kickbacks received by them from various deals. She was aware of all these transactions and was a witness to them as she was well versed in Arabic and had acted as translator in these deals, the Commissioner alleged. The role of Sivasankar in acting as a link between the high profile politicians of Kerala and the UAE Consulate officials, as well as some others, and in coordinating the illegal financial dealings under the cover of various activities and projects of the government was also allegedly revealed by her. These remarks were made in the confidential statements given before the magistrate court. The Customs further submitted that the apprehension of Swapna regarding her safety in prison and threat to her life was perfectly justified and she could not be found fault in seeking protection as the facts disclosed were highly sensitive. The government in its petition pointed out that the observation of the magistrate court that there was absolutely no ground to disbelieve the version of Swapna was bad, as it had been made without seeking a report from the Director-General of Prisons. The magistrate’s court had also observed that “she is found to be worried as she is being sent to the very same prison where she is likely to be threatened and tortured again.” The government said that no such incident of threatening happened in the jail. These observations would affect the credibility and bona fide of the jail department, the government petition added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/currency-smuggling-was-at-cms-behest/article34001772.ece
06 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||U-turn by Kerala BJP chief on CM nominee||A day after projecting Delhi Metro Rail Corporation principal adviser E. Sreedharan as the party’s Chief Minister candidate for the Assembly elections, Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran on Friday backtracked on his statement and said he had only stated the people’s wish. “The people of Kerala surely want to have a government led by personalities like Mr. Sreedharan which will take the State out of this unending cycle of corruption and stagnation. A final decision on this, however, has to come from the national leadership of the party,” said Mr. Surendran during a press briefing at Konni in the morning. On the occasion, he also accused the media of taking his statement out of context and triggering a controversy over it. While addressing party supporters during his Vijay Yatra at Thiruvalla the other day, Mr. Surendran had stated that the party decided to make Mr. Sreedharan its Chief Minister candidate. He further stated that the leadership of Mr. Sreedharan, who had been instrumental in implementing key projects such as the Kochi metro rail and the Palarivattom flyover, would change the face of Kerala forever. Central leadership irked The statement, however, seems to have irked the party Central leadership as the party has not addressed the same issue in other poll-bound States. Later, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan came up with a clarification that the BJP State president was just stating the wish of the people. “He was only referring to some issues in Kerala where he mentioned that people would like to see a person like Mr. Sreedharan as Chief Minister,” Mr. Muraleedharan told the media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/u-turn-by-kerala-bjp-chief-on-cm-nominee/article34001774.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks Sivasankar’s response against bail||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister, to an appeal filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against Kerala High Court’s decision to grant him bail in the gold smuggling case. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, however, did not stay the High Court order, saying the “man is already out on bail”. “We are not putting you [Sivasankar] inside, we are only issuing notice. There is no need for a stay [of the HC order]. He is already out,” Justice Bhushan remarked. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the ED, submitted that Mr. Sivasankar was “neck-deep” into the crime, which involves a well-crafted money-laundering network. In response, senior advocate Jaydeep Gupta, for Mr. Sivasankar, said the case against his client was “harsh”. “They are just going after this man. It is a harsh case,” Mr. Gupta said. The Supreme Court listed the case after six weeks.  Mr. Sivasankar was arrested on October 28t. The case pertains to the smuggling of gold in Kerala through diplomatic channels. It had come to light after 30 kg gold worth Rs. 14.82 crore smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-sivasankars-response-against-bail/article34001784.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata to contest from Nandigram||The party’s candidates’ list comprises people from different sections of society such as women, youth, film stars, sportspersons and retired bureaucrats. Ms. Banerjee said all sections of society had been given priority, including women and young and old, and different castes and communities. A closer look at the candidates’ list signals that the Trinamool Congress has focused on winnability. The list includes 51 women (18%), 79 Scheduled Caste (27%) and 17 Scheduled Tribe (6%) candidates. Ms. Banerjee said there were 42 Muslim candidates (14%), and 19 candidates (7%) from the Other Backward Classes. A comparison of the list with the nominees the party fielded in 2016 shows that the number of women candidates has increased from 45 in 2016 to 51 in 2021 but there has been in the drop in the number of Muslim candidates. It went down from 57 in 2016 to 42 to 2021. Around 27 sitting MLAs have not received a ticket. Ms. Banerjee said that the party had taken a united decision not to field anyone above 80 years of age because of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. The party would set up a ‘Bidhan Parishad’ to accommodate senior leaders who are not contesting. Finance Minister Amit Mitra and Minister for Technical Education Purnendu Bose will not contest the poll. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha will announce names for the remaining three seats of the Darjeeling hills. Former Indian cricketer Manoj Tiwari will contest from Shibpur in Howrah district and filmmaker Raj Chakraborty from Barrackpore. Popular actor Kanchan Mullick will contest from Uttarpara and actor Ladlee Moitra from Sonarpur Dakshin. Power Minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay will contest from Bhawanipur and journalist Vivek Gupta from Jorasanko. Ms. Banerjee thanked NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, SP’s Akhilesh Yadav and Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemanta Soren for their support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-to-contest-from-nandigram/article34001785.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘New rules to regulate OTT platforms lack teeth’||The court said the assurance given by Mr. Mehta to it that the government would consider taking “appropriate steps” for any “further regulations/legislation” as seen as fit. The Bench ordered that the regulations/legislation, once done, should be placed before the court. During the hearing, Amazon, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, complained about an oral remark made by Justice Bhushan that some films featured on OTT platforms had pornographic content. Mr. Rohatgi said the remark had been picked up by the media and bandied about. “Amazon does not show pornography,” he said. Mr. Mehta intervened to say that Justice Bhushan did not mean “pornography” literally but meant that some content was “almost pornographic”. “But Mr. Mehta, I can show you 10,000 movies on Amazon, there is no pornography in any of them. I myself watch these movies in the evenings... These are great movies,” Mr. Rohatgi exclaimed. Justice Bhushan intervened, saying the court never meant that the movies shown were not great. “We are not saying great movies are not shown...” he remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-rules-to-regulate-ott-platforms-lack-teeth/article34002424.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lift ban on blood donation by transgenders’||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a plea challenging blood donation guidelines which ban transgender persons, members of the gay community and sex workers from donating blood. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued notice on a petition filed by Thangjam Santa Singh @ Santa Khurai, represented by advocates Jayna Kothari and Thulasi K. Raj, which said the prohibition affected these communities during the pandemic as their members could not donate or receive blood, a healing element, during the public health crisis. The petition said the Guideline on Blood Donor Selection and Blood Donor Referral of 2017, issued by the National Blood Transfusion Council and the National Aids Control Organisation, classifies transgender persons, men having sex with men and female sex workers as a “high-risk category” vulnerable to HIV/AIDS. “Donor blood is tested for infectious diseases, including Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C and HIV/AIDS. Such a ban solely on the basis of their gender identity and sexual orientation is completely arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory. It is also unscientific… Permanently excluding these communities from donating blood and categorising them as high-risk only on the basis of their gender-identity and sexual orientation is violative of their right to be treated equally as other blood donors,” the petition said. The court, however, did not stay the operation of the 2017 guidelines, saying it cannot delve into issues which were primarily scientific in nature. Ms. Kothari, in her submissions, said the guidelines perpetuated a stigma that these communities were “less worthy and subordinate in social participation and healthcare”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lift-ban-on-blood-donation-by-transgenders/article34001789.ece
06 March 2021||Kolkata,||Left-Cong.-ISF alliance announce candidates||Taking their Sanyukta Morcha (United Front) alliance further, the Left, Congress and the Indian Secular Front on Friday announced candidates for the 60 seats which will go to polls in the first two phases of West Bengal Assembly elections. Chairperson Biman Bose announced candidates for about 37 seats to be contested by the Left Front. The Congress will contest in 11 seats and the ISF in five seats. In seven seats the alliance has not been able to announce candidates. The Nandigram seat is among the constituencies for which the “Sanyukt Morcha” has not announced candidates so far. The Congress and the ISF will announce candidates from their respective party offices. Of the 37 seats of the Left Front, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will contest in 28 seats. The Left Front may contest in 165 seats, the Congress will contest in 92 and the ISF may get 37 seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-cong-isf-alliance-announces-candidates/article34001792.ece
06 March 2021||Srinagar,||‘Arbitrary arrests won’t change ground realities’||Hurriyat chairman and the Kashmir Valley’s chief cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who was not released from house arrest to lead Friday prayers at the historic Jamia Masjid, said “such arbitrary arrests will not change the ground realities of Kashmir”. Speaking to The Hindu , the Mirwaiz said he was disappointed by the J&K administration’s reversal of its earlier decision to allow him to fulfil his religious obligations as the head priest. “Senior police officials visited me and conveyed that I was not free to visit the mosque. My residence was sealed and the visitors were stopped on Friday morning. Such arbitrary arrests will not change the ground realities of Kashmir,” the Mirwaiz said. He said the Hurriyat had “a very principled stand on the Kashmir issue”. “We will always speak for a peaceful resolution of the Kashmir issue by engaging all stakeholders, including India, Pakistan and the people of Kashmir,” the Mirwaiz said. He described the recent military-level talks between India and Pakistan on a ceasefire in J&K as “a pointer to the new realities dawning on New Delhi”. Meanwhile, supporters of the Mirwaiz, who had decorated the premises of the Jamia Masjid, clashed with security forces after the Friday prayers. Scores of women supporters of the Mirwaiz had also assembled on the premises of the mosque. Many supporters raised pro-Mirwaiz and pro-freedom slogans inside the mosque in Srinagar’s Nowhatta. However, the protesters dispersed after the security forces swung into action. The Mutahida Majlis-e-Ulema also expressed “strong resentment” over his continued house arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arbitrary-arrests-wont-change-ground-realities/article34001797.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Prioritise the elderly, SC tells private hospitals||The Supreme Court has directed that private hospitals should give priority to senior citizens in admission. On August 4 last, the court declared that government hospitals should give priority to elderly people as they are vulnerable to COVID-19 virus. On Thursday, senior advocate and former Union Law Minister Ashwani Kumar urged a Bench led by Ashok Bhushan to extend the August 4 order to private hospitals too. The court agreed with Mr. Kumar, saying private hospitals catered to most of the population in the country. “We direct that priority with reference to admission contemplated in order dated August4 2020 to the elderly people should also be given in private hospitals,” the court ordered. Mr. Kumar had approached the court, during the peak of the pandemic period, highlighting the need for providing care, support and priority medical treatment for senior citizens, especially those who live alone during the pandemic. On August 4, the court ordered the States to respond promptly to the needs of senior citizens and ensure they do not suffer financially during COVID-19. It also directed that the elderly should get their pension on time. “All old-age people who are eligible for pension should be regularly paid pension and those identified older people should be provided necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods by respective States. Further, as and when any individual request is made, the same shall be attended to by the administration with all promptness,” the court had ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prioritise-the-elderly-sc-tells-pvt-hospitals/article34001840.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cruelty is no answer to obscenity, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea for anticipatory bail by a man accused of cruelty by his wife. The man said his wife had taken “300 Tik-Tok” videos showing “obscene content”. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde made it clear that it had no sympathy for the man. “You are a cruel man. You have exhibited cruelty towards your wife,” Chief Justice Bobde lashed out at the man. The man’s lawyer claimed that his wife had harassed him by taking numerous Tik-Tok videos. “If she had done that and you cannot get along with her, you can divorce her. There is no need to resort to cruelty on her,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cruelty-is-no-answer-to-obscenity-says-sc/article34002619.ece
06 March 2021||Mumbai,||Owner of SUV parked near Ambani home found dead||Hiren Mansukh, owner of the vehicle with explosives which had been found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence last week, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday, the police said. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, however, said the deceased was not the real owner of the vehicle. The probe of the case has been handed over from Mumbai Crime Branch to the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) now, he announced. Mansukh’s Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near ‘Antilia’, Ambani’s multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/owner-of-suv-parked-near-ambani-home-found-dead/article34001787.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Campaign stop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-stop/article34001753.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Have faith in integrity of DEC, says EC||The Election Commission of India on Friday expressed full faith in the integrity and fairness of Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain, who is in charge of the West Bengal Assembly poll at its headquarters, in the wake of media reports about a Trinamool Congress MP’s complaint demanding his removal. The MP had sent the letter to the West Bengal Chief Electoral Officer, a copy of which was forwarded to the EC. In a statement, the EC said all its DECs and other officials posted at its headquarters and those working in the field were “discharging their duties strictly as per the Constitution of India and the various extant rules regarding the conduct of elections. There could be an odd exception, in which case EC takes corrective action immediately.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/have-faith-in-integrity-of-dec-says-ec/article34001788.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Quad to hold leadership summit||Leaders of Australia, India, Japan and the United States will soon meet virtually for the first ever summit under the quadrilateral security arrangement, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has said. Speaking to reporters in Sydney on Friday, Mr. Morrison said the four-power security dialogue was “central” to the U.S. and the Australian point of view of the Indo-Pacific region. In his comments, Mr. Morrison said that he had discussed the summit among the leaders of the “Quad” countries in recent telephone conversations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-to-hold-leadership-summit/article34002429.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Technology for air-to-air missiles tested||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully carried out a flight demonstration based on Solid Fuel Ducted Ramjet (SFDR) technology from Integrated Test Range (ITR) Chandipur off the coast of Odisha. “Successful demonstration of SFDR technology has provided DRDO with a technological advantage, which will enable it to develop long range air-to-air missiles,” a DRDO statement said. “At present, such technology is available only with a handful of countries in the world.” Stating that all the subsystems, including the booster motor and nozzle-less motor, performed as expected during the test, DRDO stated that many new technologies were proven, including SFDR technology. During the test, air launch scenario was simulated using a booster motor and subsequently, the nozzle-less booster accelerated it to the required Mach number for Ramjet operation, the statement explained. The performance of the missile was monitored using the data captured by electro optical, radar and telemetry instruments. Separately, the Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited (GRSE), Kolkata, carried out keel laying for the third stealth frigate for the Navy under Project-17A.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-tests-technology-for-air-to-air-missiles/article34001799.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel led by Modi set up for 75th I-Day||The Centre on Friday set up a high-level committee for planning the commemoration of the 75th year of Independence in 2022, the Union Culture Ministry said in a statement. The Ministry notified the formation of the 259-member national committee, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday. Earlier, the government had set up an implementation committee chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and a committee of secretaries for the purpose. “The national committee includes dignitaries and eminent citizens from all walks of life. The committee will provide policy direction and guidelines for formulation of programmes for the commemoration of 75th anniversary of Indian Independence, at the national and international levels,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-led-by-modi-set-up-for-75th-i-day/article34001805.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea to step up vaccinations||The Supreme Court on Friday asked a healthcare provider from Tamil Nadu to make a representation before the Health Ministry to ramp up the vaccination drive. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde urged the Ministry to consider the representation by Dr. S. Gurushankar “as expeditiously as possible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-to-step-up-vaccinations/article34001817.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mamata calls Assembly polls a ‘smiley election’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is facing one of the toughest elections, has called the 2021 Assembly polls a “smiley election”. Asked whether she is faced with difficulties, Ms. Banerjee told journalists, “No, it’s a soft election. It is a smiley election. You all will smile on May 2.” Moments after announcing the party’s candidates, the Chief Minister also raised the slogan “ Khela Hobe (games will be played)”. “I was the first to raise it,” she claimed, adding another phrase to the slogan to make it Khela Hobe, Jita Hobe (games will be played and we will win)”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-calls-assembly-polls-a-smiley-election/article34001737.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back and forth||Politicians are often forced to retract their statements and come election time, even more so. Barely a day after Kerala State BJP president K. Surendran proposed technocrat E. Sreedharan as the party’s chief ministerial candidate, he retracted his statement. Mr. Surendran said that though the people of Kerala wanted Mr. Sreedharan as Chief Minister, it was up to the BJP national leadership to take a decision. Similarly, hours after he had expressed willingness to contest on CPI(M) ticket from Kozhikode North segment, filmmaker Ranjith backed out, saying he preferred to support the sitting MLA, A. Pradeepkumar. Law Minister A.K. Balan, who had advised reporters to wait for the CPI(M)’s decision on fielding his wife P.K. Jameela as the party nominee in the Tarur Assembly segment, blamed the media for reporting an issue that was never on the table. On Friday, the party State committee seriously considered Ms. Jameela’s name. 31.65%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/going-back-and-forth/article34001739.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Can settle for fewer seats: Ajmal||All India United Democratic Front chief Maulana Badruddin Ajmal on Friday said seat-sharing was not an issue for his party. He said his party can sacrifice a few seats if it serves the sole purpose of defeating the BJP. “We are working to adjust with our allies because what matters is our one-point programme of ensuring that the BJP cannot retain power and implement the CAA,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/can-settle-for-fewer-seats-ajmal/article34001745.ece
06 March 2021||Jaipur,||Gehlot gets first dose of COVID-19 vaccine||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Health Minister Raghu Sharma received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine at the Sawai Man Singh Government Hospital here on Friday. Mr. Gehlot called upon the people to get themselves vaccinated without fail on their turn in view of a surge in the number of infections reported in several States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-gets-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine/article34001811.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,||New US Consulate facility to have 54 visa windows||The US Consulate office coming up in Cyberabad will have 54 visa interview windows compared to 14 windows in the current building at Begumpet, thus making visa processing easier and faster, according to Consul General Joel Reifman. The new state-of-the-art building, likely to be completed within a year, will have 1.80 lakh sft space and will reflect the important relationship the US government has with Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, the three States covered by the Consulate in Hyderabad. The Consul General was speaking after inaugurating the new ‘EducationUSA’ Centre at Y-Axis Foundation and said that out of the two lakh Indian students on USA campuses, majority are from the two Telugu States while overall Indians contribute one-sixth of the total international student population in the US. The tie-up with the private entity will help disseminate information on US education professionally. Mr. Reifman said that COVID has been challenging for many students opting to study abroad and many dropped plans to go abroad. “Here in Hyderabad we are working diligently to provide visa services in a safe and responsible manner. We prioritised student visa appointments and did our best to make sure students arrived at their campuses on time.” He also said the student visa policy remained constant and the United States continues to welcome all qualified Indian students to come to study in America,” he said. “US education is a great investment and a great value.” Minister Counsellor, Public Affairs, US Embassy, New Delhi, David Kennedy said the new centre at Y-Axis in Jubilee Hills will provide US higher education advice to prospective students free of charge. The partnership of EducationUSA with a private education consulting foundation was the first of its kind, he said and hoped that the information would reach a large number. The U.S. Embassy has provided Y-Axis Foundation with expert training so that they are able to apply quality and ethical methodology to their student advising. The five new advisers at the centre are part of a robust Indian network of eight centres and over 30 advisers across the country. Public Affairs Officer, US Consulate General, Hyderabad, David Moyer said there is a surge in student visa applicants this year though they did not have exact figures as of now. It is more that the previous years understandably due to the opening up of US campuses after COVID restrictions. Y-Axis Foundation founder Xavier Augustin also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-us-consulate-facility-to-have-54-visa-windows/article34001769.ece
06 March 2021||Thrissur,||Special permission to be sought for conduct of Thrissur Pooram||Special permission will be sought from the government for the conduct of Thrissur Pooram by limiting participation of the public in the wake of COVID-19, District Collector S. Shanavas has said. A detailed report for the conduct of the pooram by including all rituals but limiting participation of the public would be submitted to the State government, the Collector said at a pooram core committee meeting held at the collectorate chamber on Friday. The report will include the number of elephants to be paraded for the processions, conduct of sample firework and main firework and demand of Thiruvambadi and Paramekkavu Devaswoms to conduct Pooram exhibition. A meeting to be held at the collectorate on March 9 will decide on the number of elephants to be paraded for the cheru poorams (pooram procession of participating temples). A decision on permission for people to attend the pooram will be taken on the basis of reports from the police and Health Department. Representatives of Animal Husbandry and Wildlife Departments will be included in the meeting on March 9. The Collector explained the risk in conducting the pooram exhibition in the wake of COVID-19. Exhibition could be conducted only by maintaining pandemic protocols, he said. Crowd control There was risk of COVID-19 spread in case of uncontrolled crowd, district medical officer K.J. Reena said. City Police Commissioner R. Adithya too pointed out that it would be difficult to control the crowd if the pooram was conducted in the usual manner. While agreeing to check the crowd, Paramekkavu and Thiruvambadi Devaswoms demanded inclusion of all rituals. They insisted that parading 15 elephants for ezhunnallathu was part of ritual. The procession at night could be held with seven elephants. The Thiruvambadi Devaswom demanded three elephants for Madathil Varavu ezhunnallathu. The elephants should be included according to the ritual for Madathil Varavu percussion and in the procession for the second day, they demanded. Mayor urged pooram organisers to cooperate by maintaining COVID-19 protocol. Cochin Devaswom Board president B. Nandakumar, Thrissur tahsildar K.S. Sudhir, district fire officer Arun Bhaskar and representatives of the Paramekkavu and Thirvambadi Devaswoms attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-permission-to-be-sought-for-conduct-of-thrissur-pooram/article34001775.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||DL, Registration Certificate to be available online||Driving License and Certificate of Registration for vehicles can now be sought online, without the need to visit an RTO, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has announced. These are among a total of 18 new services that will be made available online with Aadhaar-based verification. The major services that are available online include application for a Learner’s Licence, renewal of Driving Licence, duplicate licence application, address change in Driving Licence and Certificate of Registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dl-registration-certificate-to-be-available-online/article34001802.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Women studies centres seek extension of UGC grant||The Indian Association of Women’s Studies (IAWS) have written to the UGC requesting for extension of its grant period beyond March 31, 2021, for the 163 Women Study Centres (WSC) across various colleges and universities in the country. The association complained of erratic funding and unconscionable delays in reimbursement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-studies-centres-seek-extension-of-ugc-grant/article34001812.ece
06 March 2021||Guwahati,||Assam farmer sentenced to 3 years for killing elephant||A court in western Assam’s Baksa district has sentenced a farmer to three years and three months in prison in connection with the death of an elephant. The court also prescribed Rs. 10,000 as fine and imprisonment for a further two months in case of default. The elephant, an adult female, died on August 28, 2018, after it got entangled in the wire that farmer Ranjan Singh had illegally installed around his paddy field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-farmer-sentenced-to-3-years-for-killing-elephant/article34001815.ece
06 March 2021||Srinagar,||ED summons Mehbooba in money laundering case||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti was on Friday summoned by the Enforcement Directorate. According to the ED notice, Ms. Mufti is directed “to appear before the ED on March 15 at 11.30 a.m.” She has been called in a case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. Ms. Mufti tweeted, “The Government of India’s tactics to intimidate and browbeat political opponents to make them toe their line has become tediously predictable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-summons-mehbooba-in-graft-case/article34001818.ece
06 March 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Rangolis||S. Ganesan   The Collector’s office campus in Ariyalur came alive on Friday with a string of rangolis. Over 100 women from self-help groups, functioning under Mahalir Thittam made the designs as part of the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme of the ECI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangolis/article34001901.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Glitches in Metro systems play spoilsport for riders||For the last two days, Metro Rail has been facing signalling issues, causing delay of trains from five to 10 minutes on different stretches. “In some of the trips, the trains were delayed by nearly 10 minutes, in some cases by seven and eight minutes and nearly 20 trips by five minutes respectively. Towards the end of the day, the issue was resolved. These are fairly minor delays, which should not be happening,” a source said. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the signalling issue occurred but it was rectified at the earliest. “If any issue emerges, we immediately make sure to resolve it,” an official said. Last month, there were a few minor technical glitches, like trains applying emergency brakes, resulting in some minor delays. “People take the trains for travelling to work and to transport hubs like Central station and airport. So we cannot let them down by delaying their journey. Such recurring issues have to be sorted out soon, failing which we may lose some commuters,” an official said. Nearly 95,000-97,000 commuters have been travelling on the Metro for the past week, a marginal dip from the previous month where more than one lakh passengers used the service. But the number of people travelling has definitely seen an upward trajectory when compared to last year. This is primarily because the maximum fare was brought down from Rs. 70 to Rs. 50 and a further 20% discount offered to smartcard holders and those who purchase QR Code tickets. Also, the new stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, opened in February, has been witnessing reasonable footfalls with nearly 12,000-13,000 passengers a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glitches-in-metro-systems-play-spoilsport-for-riders/article34002472.ece
06 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘ECI working closely with enforcement agencies’||Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo on Friday said all steps were in place to ensure an inducement-free election in Tamil Nadu, which has earned notoriety for voter bribery. Edited excerpts:  Chief Election Commissioner described Tamil Nadu as an “expenditure-sensitive State”. What measures are you taking to ensure the conduct of a fair and free Assembly election? The entire election machinery has been advised to remain careful. After the model code of conduct came into force, flying surveillance teams (FSTs) and stating surveillance teams (SSTs) have been deployed and they are on the job. The Income-Tax Department, Customs and Excise, the Airports Authority and banks, among others, have been informed about the standard operating procedure framed in this regard. We have made everyone an informer through the cVIGIL app. Anyone can take a picture or video of freebies or cash being distributed. Accordingly, we can activate our FSTs and SSTs to take immediate action. Have any lessons from past elections come in handy to deal with the widespread culture of voter bribery? We are working in close coordination with all enforcement agencies. We are having regular meetings and are exchanging information with each other so that it can happen seamlessly. Over the years, we have streamlined coordination with regular and immediate reporting. We can develop on this experience, which we have gained earlier. How will the deputation of two special expenditure observers help this time? They have worked in the I-T Department and one of them was also deputed during the 2019 Parliamentary election. She has extensively toured the State. They will be able to create a robust surveillance system because they have the necessary intelligence apparatus as well. Is there a way other than rescinding polls when widespread bribing is detected? The Commission has certain parameters, rules and Acts within which it has to work. We have to see whether rules permit [other measures]. The ECI is very much aware of these facts and whenever it [poll] was rescinded, you might know that the scale [of bribery] was very high. How will you ensure a higher polling percentage, especially in urban constituencies? Our DEOs have analysed polling booths that registered low polling percentages in the past. From the very registration of voters, we have launched a strong SVEEP campaign and hope the polling percentage will be more this time. How will you tackle the challenge of COVID-19? The ECI has written to the Health Department, stating that all election staff should be given vaccines on priority. Physical distancing of a minimum of six feet is to be followed at all polling booths and sanitisers will be provided. Even for those suspected to have a fever or suspected COVID-19 patients, we will have PPE kits so that they can come during the last one hour of polling. How will the ECI ensure that postal ballots are not cast under duress? This is an optional facility and only those who ask for it will be provided with a postal ballot. A five-member team will be visiting the houses of every postal ballot allottee and his/her vote will be received. No person will be coerced by anyone. How many booths have been identified as sensitive in Tamil Nadu? What additional measures are in place there? Approximately 7,000 polling booths are considered sensitive, but the figures may go up or come down based on the candidates finalised for the constituencies. Besides, observers will be there and they will also be giving their feedback through reports on whether the numbers have to be increased. How much cash is the general public allowed to carry? They can carry Rs. 50,000. To carry more cash, they should have valid documents to prove the reason for which they are carrying it.  For full interview, check: http://bit.ly/SahooInterview   Some 7,000 booths are considered sensitive, but the figures may go up or down based on candidates finalised for the constituencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-working-closely-with-enforcement-agencies/article34001910.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK promises free schooling, waiver of education loans||The PMK, in its Assembly election manifesto released on Friday, has promised free education, including in private schools, waiver of higher education loans, improving infrastructure of State government schools and Anna University and University of Madras. Besides, it has promised significant measures to improve healthcare, develop agriculture and ensure social justice for all communities. The party would ensure Tamils received 100% preference in State government jobs and 80% jobs in the private sector. It has committed to creating a second capital in Tiruchi while Coimbatore would be declared as the industrial capital. The party spelt out its promises for the film industry, journalists, Eelam Tamil welfare, rural development and other issues. Asked if the PMK had compromised with the AIADMK over prohibition, PMK founder S. Ramadoss, via videoconferencing, said it would intensify protests after the election.  On whether he believed Tamil Nadu was doing well in terms of administration and managing debt, he said, “We are there to advise them [AIADMK] and they are here to implement and administer.” Growing debt burden Party youth wing leader Anbumani said Tamil Nadu’s debt burden was huge but other States, too, had taken debts. “A number of schemes such as irrigation schemes — Cauvery-Gundaru scheme, Athikadavu-Avisai scheme — and farm loan waivers are being implemented. We will advise the government on reducing the debt burden,” he said. According to him, “Dr. Ramadoss has been protesting for the last 40 years to bring prohibition and ruling and Opposition parties have agreed to bring in prohibition. This is a big victory. We took legal recourse to shut down liquor shops along highways. We will take every step to bring in liquor prohibition.” Dr. Ramadoss blamed a ‘big party’ for instigating other communities in the MBC category to protest against 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars. Asked if the party had given up on the idea of projecting Mr. Anbumani as an “agent of change” and its slogan “Maattram, Munnetram, Anbumani”, Mr. Anbumani said, “That was the slogan for the last election and this is a new election.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-promises-free-schooling-waiver-of-education-loans/article34001916.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently-abled list their demands||Uplift of the differently-abled rarely figures in the priority of election promises. Governments also ignore most of their demands. With Tamil Nadu set to elect a new government next month, activists have put forth a wish list. The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) has urged parties to feature in their manifestos their long-standing demand for the monthly allowance for disabled persons to be increased to a minimum of Rs. 3,000 and for the severely disabled to Rs. 5,000. This is similar to what was implemented in Telangana and Puducherry “There is no transparency regarding employment opportunities and how the 4% reservation in the public sector, as mandated by the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, has been carried out. Employment is what will give us dignity and empower us, and this is something parties should take up seriously,” said S. Namburajan, general secretary, TARATDAC. The association also said that the 5% reservation for private sector jobs, mandated for the disabled, had largely not been implemented. Apart from physical accessibility at government offices and public facilities such as transport systems to be taken note of, there is a pressing need to make information more accessible. TARATDAC has called for sign language interpreters to be made available at government offices and public facilities, and information disseminated by government through circulars and speeches to be made available in accessible formats. Calling for a scientific study to identify jobs available for persons with disabilities, T.M.N. Deepak, State president, December 3 Movement, said whoever is elected to power should take this up. “We are making a strong case for political reservations for the disabled this year, and have urged parties to consider a 5% reservation for the disabled in panchayat raj posts. It is only then that we can work at the grassroots level and create an impact about our concerns,” he added. The December 3 Movement has also sought a waiver of registration fees and property tax for the disabled, disability management centres at secondary hospitals and centres to take care of children with intellectual disabilities. C. Govindakrishnan, founder, Nethrodaya, said focus should be on the electoral process and how it can be made accessible for all. “The Election Commission should first come forward with clear data about persons with disabilities who are eligible voters. For the visually impaired, the voting process has to be technologically revamped with an audio EVM that can be given with earphones, instead of braille,” he said. A common point raised by activists is the need for proper implementation of provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act.  There is no transparency regarding employment opportunities and how the 4% reservation in the public sector has been carried out S. Namburajan General secretary, TARATDAC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-list-their-demands/article34001905.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK to release list of candidates on March 10||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday said the party’s candidate list for the Assembly elections would be released on March 10. Addressing the party’s district secretaries, Mr. Stalin said he had a packed schedule and had to move like a whirlwind before the elections. “We will release the vision statement on March 7 in Tiruchi and it will be followed by the release of party candidates list on March 10. The party’s manifesto will be released on March 11 and I have to launch the election campaign,” he said.  Vision statement Calling upon the party cadre to ensure that the vision statement reached 50,000 houses, he said they should work for the victory of all candidates treating as if Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) was contesting in those constituencies. “Though people are supporting the DMK, and the victory prospects is in our favour, the rulers have sought to make the path difficult for us. The anti-people governments in Tamil Nadu and at the Centre have come together to prevent the DMK’s victory and are resorting to ways to prevent it,” he said.  Postal votes Mr. Stalin said even though the DMK was not against postal votes, there was a need to defeat the design of the ruling party to use those votes in their favour. He said the party candidate Appavu was defeated in Radhapuram by a wafer-thin margin in 2016, because of the “irregularities committed by the ruling party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-to-release-list-on-march-10/article34001912.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress sticks to its demand of 30 seats||After a brainstorming meeting with party working committee members at Satyamurthy Bhavan on Friday, Congress leaders stuck to their demand of 30 seats from the DMK for the April 6 Assembly elections. While the DMK has not changed its offer of 18 seats, back-channel talks with the national party were reportedly taking place. AICC and TNCC leaders, who spoke to The Hindu , said everyone in the party had asked the leadership to not go below 30 seats. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri made an impassioned and emotional speech at the meeting in the presence of senior Congress leaders. Mr. Alagiri, a source said, recalled the history of the Congress in Tamil Nadu and where it stood in the current scenario. He apparently made a pitch for being part of an alliance and ensuring victory for the alliance and asked everyone to put up a united front. He is learnt to have pointed out that the party’s seat share could not keep diminishing in every election (from 63 in 2011 to 41 in 2016). “We are ready for any eventuality,” a senior TNCC leader said. The leader said there was no official invite from the DMK leadership to take forward the seat sharing discussions. The party would take a call once its interviewed the aspirants for the party ticket. “We will get a clear picture of what our party cadres also want,” he said. In a related development, DMK organising secretary R.S. Bharathi said it would be practically difficult to meet all expectations of constituents of an alliance. Terming claims of a Congress climbdown as “assumption”, a leader said the party’s vote share in southern districts would be important for the DMK. “We have come down from 41 (in 2016) to 30. How much lower can we go?,” he asked. Asked if the Congress could walk out of the alliance, he said, “ We don’t think it will go to that stage.” The party had no intention of joining any other alliance, a TNCC leader said.  TNCC president K.S. Alagiri is learnt to have said the party’s seat share could not keep diminishing - from 63 in 2011 to 41 in 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-sticks-to-its-demand-of-30-seats/article34001914.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambattur, a manufacturing hub with incomplete core infrastructure||Ambattur has witnessed two Assembly elections after it was made into a separate constituency. It is now part of the Greater Chennai Corporation. But some core issues remain to be resolved since the time it was a municipality. Dotted with several industrial units and one of the largest industrial estates in the city, Ambattur is home largely to workers and middle-class residents. While the landscape has now accommodated more shopping hubs and apartment complexes, what remains unchanged is the traffic congestion on the arterial roads. Residents note that some of the long-pending projects, such as the Korattur subway and the underground drainage network, have been implemented. But the widening of the Chennai-Tiruvallur High Road between Padi and Thiruninravur remains an unfulfilled election promise. For nearly two decades, residents have been waiting for the project to take off. Risk of accidents S. Suresh, general secretary of the United Welfare Associations of Ambattur, says that only medians have been constructed on the congested Chennai-Tiruvallur High Road, which continues to be an accident-prone stretch. Many elected representatives have promised to take measures to widen the road over-bridge near TI Cycles. But the promise has remained on paper for several years. “We have also been demanding that the bus terminus be shifted from Ambattur OT to Pudur or Oragadam because of the congestion and risk of accidents. Ambattur still lacks a government college and a government higher secondary school for boys. Also, the work to convert all overhead cables into underground cables must be accelerated,” he says. The major waterbodies in Ambattur and Korattur were taken up for eco-restoration. The Ambattur lake has been spruced up with many facilities, including a walkers’ path and a park. But residents say the restoration will be complete only when sewage outfalls are plugged. T. Gunaseelan, a resident, says, “Connectivity of the stormwater drain network still needs to be done and open channels that carry sewage have to be closed. We also need a Metro Rail link between Ambattur and the airport as there is no direct transport facility. All the offices related to the Revenue Department must be brought under one roof.”  Erratic water supply Opening of the Korattur subway and efforts to mitigate inundation have gained appreciation from Korattur residents. J. Gopalakrishnan, president, Federation of Residents Welfare Association, Korattur, says, “We still grapple with erratic water supply. Two overhead tanks built eight years ago on 61st and 36th Streets are yet to be put to use. Areas in Korattur South get water once in three days from the old overhead tank. The dug-up portion of the East Avenue that links Padi is being used for vehicle parking as it has been waiting for black-topping for two years.” Water-logging issue Localities in Anna Nagar Western Extension have escaped water-logging owing to a better stormwater drain network and more parks developed on open space reserve lands, residents say. Listing the infrastructure projects taken up during his term, Ambattur MLA V. Alexander says measures are afoot to kick-start the Chennai-Tiruvallur High Road widening project, and a survey is in progress. “Most parts of the constituency have been covered by the underground drainage network, except for parts of Wards 82 and 83. The area has more parks, and many waterbodies have been improved at a cost of Rs. 70 crore. The constituency now has a 100-bed government hospital at Mannurpet,” he says. Work is under way to convert overhead power lines into underground cables, and tenders have been called for building a storm-water drain network at a cost of Rs. 550 crore, Mr. Alexander says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambattur-a-manufacturing-hub-with-incomplete-core-infrastructure/article34002480.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Not correct to say I only criticise AIADMK’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Thursday said it was not correct to say he only criticised the AIADMK and had a soft approach towards the DMK. Addressing a public meeting in Madipakkam, he took a jibe at the DMK for allotting only six Assembly seats to the VCK. “Those who are saying they stand for social justice are just doing lip service,” he said, indirectly referring to DMK organising secretary R.S. Bharathi’s reported remarks about members of the Scheduled Castes rising to higher positions in the judiciary only because of the DMK. “You talk so much about social justice. To my brother Thol Thirumavalavan (VCK founder), the negotiations started with double digits and ended with six. My brother has to come to me. We will see in the next election,” Mr. Haasan said. He also hit out at Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, accusing him of pushing the State into huge debt. Mr. Haasan also apologised for initially welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s demonetisation move. “It has killed small businesses while big businesses found other ways,” he said. Mr. Haasan disagreed with those saying his party was not experienced enough. “Yes, we are not experienced in corruption, taking bribes, using caste equations or engaging in a riot. We are not experienced in falling at the feet underneath the table,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-correct-to-say-i-only-criticise-aiadmk/article34001952.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 tally crosses 500-mark in T.N.||Tamil Nadu recorded a marginal rise in fresh COVID-19 infections on Friday. After the daily count stayed below the 500-mark for a month, the State reported 543 new cases with Chennai accounting for a little over 40% of the cases. The number of COVID-19 cases dropped below 500 a day on February 4 in the State, while Chennai’s daily count has stayed below 200 since mid-January. However, the fresh infections increased to 225 in Chennai while Coimbatore and Chengalpattu reported 51 and 46 cases respectively. A total of 33 persons tested positive for the infection in Tiruvallur and 25 in Tiruppur. While Kallakurichi had no new cases, 25 districts reported less than 10 cases each. Of this, 10 districts recorded one case each. The fresh cases included five returnees — two from the UAE and one each from Karnataka, Jharkhand and West Bengal. While 562 persons were discharged, five more died — two in Chennai and one each in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. The State’s overall COVID-19 tally stood at 8,53,992 — 3,954 active cases, 8,37,525 discharged and 12,513 deaths. A total of 54,863 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Non-compliance with COVID-19 norms was cited as one of the reasons for the rise in fresh infections. Several family clusters were reported in the past one week with all having a history of either attending a family gathering or travel. Enforcing the rule on wearing mask was key, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. In a communication to district Collectors and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner, he told them to strictly enforce the rule and penalise anyone violating the rule. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said that everyone needed to follow the SOP, particularly in all public places. “Mask wearing and physical distancing is critical,” he said. 92,208 vaccinated  On Friday, 92,208 persons were vaccinated against COVID-19, taking the overall coverage till date to 7,62,604. In five days, the number of senior citizens immunised in the State crossed one lakh. Of this, 33,129 were frontline workers and 31,301 were senior citizens. While 16,807 persons aged 45 to 59 with co-morbidities were inoculated, 10,971 healthcare workers also received the vaccines. With this, the number of healthcare workers immunised crossed four lakh. Senior CPI leader R. Nallakannu, 96, received the first dose at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Friday, according to hospital authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-tally-crosses-500-mark-in-tn/article34001913.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adyar Cancer Institute gets new equipment||The Cancer Institute (WIA) in Adyar on Friday commissioned new advanced equipment for performing serum immunofixation electrophoresis, a non-invasive procedure that will help in confirming the diagnosis of multiple myeloma, a cancer that forms in a type of white blood cell called a plasma cell. The project to get the equipment for the institute, worth around Rs. 29.63 lakh, was funded by the Rotary Club of Madras Temple City, with support from the Rotary Foundation Grant and donations from The Cognizant Foundation, the Rotary Club of Tower Hamlets in London and the Rotary Club of Hills Kellyville in Australia. Arivazhagan, head of the department of Clinical Biochemistry, said a report could be obtained within 24 hours through the equipment and would avoid the need for invasive procedures like bone marrow biopsy. T.G. Sagar, director (Emeritus) of the institute, said it was another milestone for the institution. The new facility would not only speed up the diagnosis of multiple myeloma and other plasma cell disorders, but also establish the Department of Molecular Oncology as a Centre of Excellence for multiple myeloma research and treatment. S. Muthupalaniappan, governor of Rotary District 3232, said the equipment was dedicated to the memory of V. Shanta, former chairperson of the institute.  It will avoid the need for invasive procedures like bone marrow biopsy Arivazhagan HOD, Clinical Biochemistry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adyar-cancer-institute-gets-new-equipment/article34002470.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Customs deploys flying squads||Ahead of the Assembly election, the Chennai Customs department has deployed flying squads, surveillance teams and sea patrolling and road patrolling teams to stem the flow of smuggled goods or contraband. District coverage The teams will check the airport, sea ports and Customs-bonded warehouses in the city, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts. “The teams are vested with the responsibility of conducting checks of vehicles in transit and verification of warehouses to curb illegal activities for effectively ensuring free and fair conduct of the poll process,” the release said. There will be a control room operating round the clock. Residents with information on illegal and suspicious movement of goods or valuables in their localities can call 044-25246800 or 044-2525422.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customs-dept-deploys-flying-squads/article34002473.ece
06 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||When Stalin interviewed Duraimurugan||Among the aspirants for a DMK ticket for the upcoming Assembly election who were interviewed at Anna Arivayalam on Friday was DMK general secretary Duraimurugan. He had filed an application to contest from the Katpadi Assembly constituency for the eighth time. He was interviewed by party president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Duraimurugan first won from the constituency in 1971 and went on to win it seven times. He lost the 1991 election, which was held in the wake of the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Testing the waters Mr. Duraimurugan was also elected to the Assembly from Ranipet constituency in 1977 and 1980. Normally, partymen from Katpapdi constituency stay away from entering the contest and his is the only application. But this time, Mr. Duraimurugan faced a candidate from the party who also wanted to contest from Katpadi. “I never object to anyone seeking a ticket. In fact, I encourage them to submit applications so that it will generate revenue for the party,” said Mr. Duraimurugan, with his characteristic wit. The other candidate Ramkumar, who sought the Katpadi ticket, is from Vellore. When Mr. Ramkumar appeared before the panel interviewing candidates, he told them that it had provided an opportunity for him to meet party president M.K. Stalin and other senior leaders in person. He took pictures with them and left the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-stalin-interviewed-duraimurugan/article34001895.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety pledge administered||To commemorate the 50th National Safety Day, the Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Labour and Employment, administered a safety pledge. On this occasion, Uyarntha Uzhaippalar Virudhugal were given to workers for their contribution to safety and productivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safety-pledge-administered/article34002481.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Mambalam||Special teams have been formed to trace suspects who killed history-sheeter ‘Mylapore’ Sivakumar, 42, in Postal Colony, West Mambalam, late on Thursday. He was the main accused in the murder of his rival Thottam Sekar in 1997, and the key suspect in the attack on the latter’s wife Malarkodi and son Azhaguraja in front of Casino Theatre on October 10, 2019. A gang on motorbikes ambushed and attacked him while he was visiting a house in Postal Colony. Police sources said Thottam Sekar’s son could be behind the attack. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death-in-mambalam/article34002487.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 kg of ganja seized||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Friday rewarded special teams who managed to seize over 100 kg of ganja in the past week. Following instructions from the Commissioner, the police have been actively cracking down on drug peddlers and seizing contraband from them. In pursuance of these efforts, special teams seized a total of more than 100 kg of ganja in Mylapore, Ashok Nagar and R.K. Nagar and arrested 10 accused from March 1. Following a tip-off on the transport of contraband, a special team from R.K. Nagar on Thursday intercepted two autorickshaws in Korukkupet, near the IOC railway gate. The persons in the vehicles were evasive when questioned. The autorickshaws were searched and 76 kg of concealed ganja was seized. The police arrested S. Raja Mohammed, 26, of Tondiarpet: Yaser Arafat, 28, and M. Saravanan, 31, of Kodungaiyur; Mohammed Riyas, 23, Jainualadin, 20, and Sanjay, 19, of Tondiarpet. Another special team, on Thursday, apprehended another suspect who was selling ganja in Nochi Nagar, Mylapore. The accused was identified as Rasheed, 35, of Saligramam. Investigations revealed that he had rented a house to sell ganja. About 22.5 kg of ganja, a mobile phone and a weighing machine were seized. On March 1, personnel from the Ashok Nagar police station arrested three persons, including a youth from Andhra Pradesh, in Nesapakkam and seized 10.5 kg of ganja from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-kg-of-ganja-seized-in-one-week/article34002477.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||election for all||Dennis S. Jesudasan   The Election Commission of India has launched a “Making elections accessible” campaign for facilitating elections for all, including the differently abled. It has also launched a logo for the campaign. It has made available postal ballots for certain categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-for-all/article34001897.ece
06 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Lawyer||Mohamed Imranullah S.   An advocate practising in the Madras High Court made a mention on Friday that the police were blocking public movement on roads to enable movement of Ministers and ruling party MLAs. He said Avvai Shanmugam Salai, where the AIADMK headquarters is located, was blocked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyer/article34001899.ece
06 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||D.B. Road remains out of bounds for traffic even after inauguration||The Coimbatore Corporation has closed the D.B. Road in R.S. Puram, right after it was thrown open to traffic a week ago. It has placed barricades to keep off people on certain stretches of the Road, which it took up for development as a model road at Rs. 27 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. The closure of the road had meant that city buses continued to skip the road, and shopkeepers continued to suffer loss of business. The shopkeepers thought that Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani inaugurating the road on February 24 had brought an end to their misery. It was not to be, rued S. Loganathan, a shopkeeper. “After having suffered loss for over a year, first on account of the COVID-19 pandemic and second because of the Corporation taking up the model road project, I thought that the business will return to normality. The bad days only continue, thanks to the Corporation closing stretches of the road.” The closure would mean that customers would keep off the road and also the shops. This translated into loss of business and revenue, he added. The shopkeepers said the residents of the area were equally affected and a few days ago, they took it up with the Corporation. Sources said the Corporation had closed stretches of the road to complete pending work and stick bills on display boards. Plus, the civic body also wanted to close the road margins with concrete to give finishing touches. The Corporation would require another 15 days to complete the work. The area residents and shopkeepers asked if the Corporation had not completed the work why did it show urgency in reopening the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/db-road-remains-out-of-bounds-for-traffic-even-after-inauguration/article34002492.ece
06 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A free lunch that comes unconditionally||This biriyani eatery on one side of Redfields Road at Puliyakulam in Coimbatore looks nondescript at first glance. But a closer look reveals a small cardboard box whici is kept next to the eatery and which is filled with food packets. On top of the box is a slate which bears the Tamil words ‘ Pasikkindratha Eduthukonga ’ (Take it if you are hungry). While free food is given to the poor silently, the biriyani sold by the eatery is affordable: the kuska biriyani (without pieces) is priced at Rs. 20 and the biriyani with pieces is priced at Rs. 30. While biriyani sales take place on one side, those who cannot afford to pay can take these packets. This roadside eatery, run by Maria Sathesh and his wife Shafrina Sathesh, has become popular with people arriving from near and far, following multiple posts on social media platforms. “We saw about them on Facebook,” said Ravindra Kumar J. from Pappanaickenpalayam, who visited the eatery with his wife Bhuvaneswari for the first time one Sunday. The eatery also has its regular customers like R. Premkumar, a resident of Sowripalayam. “I have been regularly eating here for the past 10 days, and have referred many to the eatery,” he said. B. Sivanesan from Port Blair, who was based in Chennai and on a short visit to Coimbatore, said he came to know about the eatery on Instagram. “I liked their motive,” he said, adding that he contributed money and posted about the eatery on his Instagram page. Mr. Sathesh said his family moved from Chennai to Coimbatore in 2017. With the desire to start his own business, he quit his regular job and opened this small eatery outside his house on Redfields Road in August 2019. In early 2020, Ms. Shafrina decided to join him, and the couple had started selling homemade biriyani since December 2020. They graduated from preparing 1 kg of biriyani to 15 kg for lunch within two months. It was Ms. Shafrina’s idea to give away food for free from the first week of February. She said the idea struck her while distributing the left-out food to some homeless persons near the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. While the free food packets were meant for those who could not afford to pay even Rs. 20, she said it did not bother her when some well-to-do customers took away these packets. “Rich or poor, anyone can take the packets from the box,” she said. Although the couple admit to experiencing financial constraints such as payment of house rent and school fees for their 12-year-old son and a 13-year-old daughter, there are no plans to make this humble venture profitable. Ms. Shafrina says the cost of one biriyani packet will soon be reduced from Rs. 20 to Rs. 15. “Our motto is to provide biriyani at an affordable price to the low income groups and free to those who cannot pay anything,” she said. “Our goal is to feed 100 persons free every day. We did not want to wait till we are well-off to do so, hence we have started small,” Mr. Sathesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-free-lunch-that-comes-unconditionally/article34001959.ece
06 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industrial, voluntary associations list demands to be included in manifestos||With the Tamil Nadu Assembly election just a few weeks away, industrial and voluntary associations are listing the demands for different sectors and the city. Their main expectation is their demands should be included in the manifestos to be released by the political parties. The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, usually holds meetings with the main candidates who will contest here and submit the demands to them. “We plan to organise a similar meeting this year too after the candidates are announced,” said C. Balasubramanian, president of the Chamber. “We also look at the demands we had placed in the previous elections and see how much of it are met,” he added. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association usually joins other organisations and presents the demands. “We had given a set of our demands to the main parties. These were the needs of the MSMEs across the State,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Association. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations held a discussion with the CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury here on Thursday. “If a political party invites us to meet their leader when they visit Coimbatore, we submit our demands. We had already given to AIADMK, BJP, and the DMK. The aim is to get the demands included in the manifestos of these parties,” he said. A group of volunteers recently submitted to the BJP the main infrastructure demands of the city. As the election campaign gains momentum, different forums here plan to place their demands with the political parties and candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-voluntary-associations-list-demands-to-be-included-in-manifestos/article34001953.ece
06 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A workshop to make vehicles campaign-ready||An automobile workshop in Coimbatore seems to be the one thing that politicians agree upon. Many high-profile politicians get their vehicles refurbished before starting their campaign. The workshop, Koyas and Sons, has been refurbishing vehicles since November last for this election season, says managing director P.V. Mohamed Riaz. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK president M.K. Stalin and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan are some of the politicians whose vehicles have been spruced up by the workshop now. In the past, it had worked on the vehicles of former Chief Ministers M. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa. Established in 1969 by Mr. Riaz’s father P.V. Hassan, the workshop specialises in customising maxi cabs for campaign, fitting them with revolving front seats, hydraulic and manual stages, sun-roofs and footsteps and handles in the exterior for security men. “When a leader wants to go up and talk, he does not require to get down and go back to the rear of the vehicle,” Mr. Riaz says, explaining the purpose of the revolving seats. Other facilities rigged up are rest-rooms, loudspeakers and a provision for satellite television. The workshop also customises SUVs for leaders to campaign in remote areas. The cost of refurbishment will be around a few lakh rupees per vehicle. So far, nearly all orders have been from Tamil Nadu, though the workshop had received orders from politicians in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh in the past. Mr. Riaz has worked with many leaders. But he fondly remembers his having explained to Karunanidhi the customisations made to his vehicle to accommodate the DMK patriarch’s wheelchair during his campaign in Coimbatore. “I was in the vehicle with him,” he says with a grin.  When a leader wants to go up and talk, he will not have to get down and go back to the rear of the vehicle P.V. Mohamed Riaz Managing director, Koyas and Sons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-workshop-to-make-vehicles-campaign-ready/article34001891.ece
06 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Painting contest for school students||JSW Paints in association with The Hindu Young World announced ‘Futurescapes’, a painting competition for school students of Classes 3 to 12. Open for students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana along with Union Territory of Puducherry, the entries for the preliminary round must be submitted by March 10. The topics for the competition for the Sub-Junior (Classes 3 to 5) category are ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’ and ‘My Favourite Animal’. For the Junior (Classes 6 to 8) category, the topics are ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun with Family’ and ‘Wildlife Safari’. The Senior (Classes 9 to 12) category will have the topics ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’ and ‘Clean and Green India’. The participants may choose any one out of the three topics in their respective categories and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons or colour pencils. Markers or sketch pens could be used only for outlining purposes. Next, the participants must visitwww.ywc.thehindu. com/jswpaintsto complete the online registration and upload a scanned copy of their works. A Unique Registration Number will be generated after the uploading is completed, which must be written on the front side of the physical copy along with the topic. On the back side, details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, state, category of participation, parent’s name, registered e-mail address and mobile number must be written. The physical copies of the paintings with these details must be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process with “JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021” written on the top left corner of the envelope. The physical copies of the works must reach the respective offices by March 10. Those participants who qualify for the finals will be intimated through the registered e-mail address. Each participant may submit only one painting. Students or parents may call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Monday to Saturday) regarding any further clarifications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/painting-contest-for-school-students/article34002500.ece
06 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU Botanical Garden reopens after renovation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has reopened its Botanical Garden after renovation. A release from the university said the 113-year-old tropical botanical garden spread over 47.70 acres was the second largest in the State after the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam. The release said the garden had about 800 species and varieties of plants representing 70 natural orders embellishing the garden. The plant wealth in the garden were flowering and foliage trees, flowering and foliage climbers and creepers, flowering and foliage shrubs, flowering annuals, cut flowers, cacti and succulents, ferns, palms, cycads and lawn grasses. The garden also had exclusive collection of jasmine, rose, tuberose, crossandra, anthurium, orchids, chrysanthemum, bougainvillea, hibiscus, nerium, among others. The release also said that the university had established a herbal garden and an aroma garden, upgraded the children’s park, set up rabbit and bird-rearing cages for educational purposes and erected aesthetically designed solar panel lighting systems. The university had also installed informative signages to guide visitors through the garden, where it had labelled all plants and trees using QR coding system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-botanical-garden-reopens-after-renovation/article34001961.ece
06 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating||The District Crime Branch (DCB) police on Friday arrested the manager of three fuel stations on charges of swindling cash to the tune of Rs. 1.11 crore in Sulur. A release said that M. Anand aka Narayanan (38) was the manager of the fuel stations run by M. Viswanathan (39), secretary of Sulur Lorry Owners Association. Between 2017 and 2019, the accused allegedly forged the statements for purchasing the fuel from Indian Oil Corporation and swindled the money. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Friday. The DCB police recovered Rs. 30,000 cash from the accused. Policeman attempts to end life A 41-year-old constable working in a police station near Avinashi in Tiruppur district attempted to end his life in Annur on Friday. He took the extreme step following a news report published in a Tamil daily accusing him of harassing an Armed Reserve constable. The constable was rushed to a hospital and his condition was stable, sources said. Annur police are investigating.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-cheating/article34002495.ece
06 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||VAO held for graft||The village administrative officer of Pannimadai and a former village assistant were arrested on charges of graft on Thursday. Karthik from Pannimadai approached VAO C. Sivakumar (39) on Tuesday for a signature for name change in patta. He was asked to pay Rs. 7,000 as bribe for the work. Mr. Karthik lodged a complaint with the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) and a trap was laid. On Wednesday, Mr. Karthik went to the village office and gave the money to former village assistant R. Palanisamy (60), who collected it on behalf of Sivakumar. A team comprising DVAC Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh, inspectors Arumugam, Sasilekha and Vijayalakshmi nabbed the two. The DVAC office can be reached at 0422-2449550.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vao-held-for-graft/article34002497.ece
06 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Surrender licensed weapons: Collector||The district administration had asked all those in possession of licensed weapons to surrender those at the nearest police station or at licensed weapons storage centres. In a release, the administration said with the Model Code of Conduct coming into force with the Election Commission of India announcing the date of election, it was imperative that the licensed weapons were surrendered. The administration also appealed to the police to ensure that all those with licensed weapons had surrendered their guns. Exempted However, those in Central or State uniformed services and armed guards of banks were exempted from this order, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surrender-licensed-weapons-collector/article34001963.ece
06 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Free glaucoma evaluation||The Eye Foundation announced on Friday that in view of World Glaucoma Week, all of its centres will conduct free glaucoma evaluation from March 8 to 15. A release said that patients requiring further treatment following the check-up will be treated at subsidised rates. Those over 40 years of age, patients with diabetes, high myopia (near-sightedness), are at risk of glaucoma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-glaucoma-evaluation/article34002494.ece
06 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cycling event||Indian Bariatrics in association with Coimbatore Cycling, Rotary Coimbatore Meridian, and Kranksters will organise a cycling event on March 7 (Sunday) to raise awareness on obesity. A release said that the 50-km-long event will be flagged off at Jenneys Residency on Avinashi Road at 6 a.m. For further details, contact 96775 13466 or visit www.indianbariatrics.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycling-event/article34002493.ece
06 March 2021||COIMBATORE/UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 51 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 51 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally so far to 55,982 cases. The Health Department did not report any death and the district's toll so far remained at 683. The district saw 54,923 people recover from the infection so far, and the active cases are 376. A total of 52 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 25 fresh cases that took the tally to 18,439. No deaths were reported in the district, and the toll so far remained at 224. As many as 18,085 patients have recovered and 130 are active cases. On Friday, 21 patients were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, three people tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district so far stands at 8,377. The number of deaths in the district is 48, and 39 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-51-new-cases/article34002489.ece
06 March 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||93 history-sheeters held in run-up to election||The Cuddalore district police have arrested 93 history-sheeters and trouble-mongers to prevent any untoward incidents in the run-up to the election to nine assembly segments in Cuddalore district. The police identified the history-sheeters during a special drive on March 3 and 4. “Of them, 49 were detained under preventive sections, including the Criminal Law Amendment Act and the Indian Penal Code, while the remaining 44 were bound over under Section 110 of the CrPC for peaceful conduct of the election,” Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said. Police claimed the trouble-mongers and dossier criminals might commit offences during the election. Therefore, they had been detained as a preventive measure. Meanwhile, security has been tightened at all the nine border checkposts with the neighbouring Union Territory and other districts to prevent the smuggling of liquor, flow of cash and entry of rowdy elements into the district. The police have identified 178 vulnerable and critical locations across the district. The assessment is still under way and the numbers may change, an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/93-history-sheeters-held-in-run-up-to-election/article34002685.ece
06 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Fresh arrivals lead to fall in price of small onions in Erode||Price of small onions that touched a peak of Rs. 130 a kg last month dropped to Rs. 50 a kg at the wholesale vegetable markets due to the arrival of fresh produce from Maharashtra. Unseasonal rains in January and February caused extensive crop damages and drop in arrivals led to an increase in price at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit market in the city. While the first-quality small onion was sold at Rs. 130 a kg, second quality onion was sold for Rs. 80 to Rs. 100 a kg. Traders said that there is a sharp increase in the number of onion-laden trucks to the market in the past one week resulting in drop in prices. “All the old stocks were cleared and fresh arrivals started pushing the price down”, said G. Ibrahim, a wholesaler. He said that the cultivation of onion begins in October every year and harvesting commences in February. “Onion harvested during the season is stocked and sold for 10 months during the year”, he added. Many traders said that with more arrivals, the price of onion will drop further. “Even we can expect the price to drop to Rs. 20 a kg”, they added. On Friday, small onions were sold between Rs. 30 and Rs. 60 a kg, while big onion was sold between Rs. 20 and Rs. 40 a kg at the wholesale market. At Uzhavar Sandhai in Sampath Nagar, the small onion was being sold between Rs. 50 and Rs. 55 a kg while the big onion was being sold at Rs. 45 a kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-arrivals-lead-to-fall-in-price-of-small-onions-in-erode/article34001936.ece
06 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mentally ill man from Nepal sent back after recovery||A 33-year-old man from Nepal who came in search of a job in the country turned mentally ill and was rehabilitated at a centre in the city and after recovery was sent to his native country on Friday. S. Suman of Lakshmi Bazaar in Gorkha district in Nepal along with a few others were brought to the country by a middleman for job in Kerala in 2019. However, he got separated from his team members while travelling in the train and landed in the State. In February, 2020, he arrived at the Erode Railway Junction, with severe injuries and was admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital. He was mentally ill and interaction by psychiatrists revealed that he was assaulted by the public at various places after which he boarded the train to Erode. Atachayam Trust that runs a rehabilitation home for alms-seekers was alerted and they shifted him to the home where he was given medication, yoga and proper food. In the absence of a passport or any documents, his identity or details about his family members were unknown. After many months, his condition improved and he kept murmuring a phone number. “We dialled the number and found that his family is in Nepal”, said trust founder P. Naveen Kumar, who said that his family believed that Suman died two years ago. He told trust members that being the sole breadwinner of the family comprising an 11-year-old son and a seven-year-old-daughter, he could not manage the family with the income from his farmland and hence, came to India in search of a job. “But he could not recall the incidents in the past two years”, said the team members who established contact with his family through social media by sharing pictures. He has fully recovered and is ready to return to his native. But, absence of travel documents is a barrier and with the help of Suman’s uncle Deepak Sirumal, we arranged it, said Mr. Kumar. Members took him to Collector C. Kathiravan, who appreciated the team’s effort in rehabilitating him. Suman boarded the train to Delhi on Friday night after which he will reach Sonauli, a town in Uttar Pradesh located on the Indo-Nepal border from where he would proceed to his native.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mentally-ill-man-from-nepal-sent-back-after-recovery/article34001939.ece
06 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Turmeric price crosses Rs. 10,000 a quintal at markets||Arrival of fresh turmeric and increase in demand has pushed the price of turmeric to Rs. 10,000 a quintal at the regulated markets here. Known for its curcumin content that range from 2.5% to 4.5%, the crop is grown is over 10,200 acres at Erode, Modakkurichi, Kodumudi, Bhavani, Anthiyur and Gobichettipalayam areas. Regulated markets The produce is auctioned at the Erode and Perundurai regulated markets and also at the Agricultural Producers Cooperative Marketing Societies at Karungalpalayam in Erode and at Gobichettipalayam. While the old turmeric was auctioned for less than Rs. 6,000 a quintal all these years, new turmeric fetched around Rs. 7,000 a quintal. Hence, large quantities of turmeric were stocked in godowns and were brought to the markets when price improved.  ‘Boost immunity’ V.K. Rajamanickam, former secretary, Erode Turmeric Merchants and Godown Owners’ Association (Erode Manjal Vanigarkal Matrum Kidangu Urimaiyalargal Sangam) told The Hindu that due to COVID-19, the demand for turmeric, that help boost immunity, has picked up both at domestic and global markets whereas there is a shortfall in supply. “Area under cultivation across the country dropped by 20% in 2020 while there is a good demand in 2021”, he said and added that the price of turmeric is expected to increase in the next three months. While the finger variety was auctioned between Rs. 7,913 a quintal and Rs. 10,011 a quintal on Wednesday, bulb variety was auctioned between Rs. 7,699 a quintal and Rs. 9,088 at the Erode Regulated Market. On Friday, finger variety was auctioned between Rs. 7,589 and Rs. 9,759 a quintal, while bulb variety was auctioned between Rs. 7,529 and Rs. 9,129 a quintal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/turmeric-price-crosses-rs-10000-a-quintal-at-markets/article34001940.ece
06 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized||Members of flying squads seized unaccounted cash totalling Rs. 4.97 lakh from two persons in the district here on Friday. During a vehicle check near Roundabout at Nambiyur Bus Stand, a flying surveillance team found a person with Rs. 4 lakh for which he was not in possession of any documents. Likewise, another team seized Rs. 97,000 without documents from a person at Tayirpalayam Pirivu on the Bhavani – Kavundapadi Road here. District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan asked the public, traders and business people to carry documents, if they are carrying cash of over Rs. 50,000. He requested them to opt for digital transactions to prevent carrying cash. He said that election-related complaints can be lodged at the toll free numbers, 18004250424 or 1950 and at the election control room numbers at 0424-2257901, 2256782, 2251863 or 2256524.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized/article34001941.ece
06 March 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Wedding||S. Prasad   The district election authorities in Kallakurichi have brought out an invitation in the format of a traditional marriage invite, requesting voters to cast their votes on April 6. The invite calls the election a “good occasion”, conducted by the Election Commission of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wedding/article34001903.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai ranks 22nd in Ease of Living Index||Madurai has been ranked 22nd out of 49 cities across the country with a population of more than 10 lakh, according to the Ease of Living Index released by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on Thursday. Ease of Living Index evaluates the well being of citizens in 111 cities, which include Smart Cities, capital cities and the cities with a population of more than 10 lakh. Each city is evaluated using four parameters — quality of life; economic ability; sustainability and citizen perception survey. Madurai, which secured an overall rank of 22 in the category of cities with a population of more than 10 lakh, secured a total score of 55.78. Chennai and Coimbatore, the other cities from Tamil Nadu in this category, had better rankings than Madurai. While Chennai was ranked 4, Coimbatore was ranked 7. Madurai had scored 54.49 in the quality of life indicator. This measured education, health, housing and shelter, safety and security and recreation facilities. For the economic level indicator, Madurai had a score of 11.96. This indicator measured the economic development and job opportunities available in Madurai. For the sustainability indicator, Madurai had scored 59.96. This indicator evaluated the city based on environment, green spaces and buildings, city resilience and energy consumption. Madurai had scored 76.40 in the citizen perception survey. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that the economic level indicator was the area that needs improvement in the city. ‘Once the Mullaperiyar drinking water project and other developmental projects are completed in Madurai, it will help in improving the economic development of the city,’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-ranks-22nd-in-ease-of-living-index/article34002592.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Protesters demand arrest of police official||Members of All India Democratic Women’s Association, Students Federation of India and Democratic Youth Federation of India staged a demonstration near the Collectorate here on Friday demanding the arrest of former Special Director General of Police Rajesh Das in an alleged sexual harassment case. A woman IPS officer had levelled a sexual harassment allegation against Mr. Das. The protesters held placards and raised slogans against the government. AIDWA district secretary (urban) R. Sasikala said that although an FIR was filed against Mr. Das, he has not been arrested yet. "But, this would not have been the case for a common man who would have been immediately arrested after an FIR was filed against him," she said. This incident highlighted how the safety of even the top-ranked woman police personnel was at stake, said Ms. Sasikala. The protesters were arrested and detained by police in a marriage hall. They were released in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protesters-demand-arrest-of-police-official/article34002594.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Limitations of judges must be realised: HC||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court sought a response from the Centre and the State in a petition that sought a direction for a plan to be put in place to rescue marine mammals in Ramanathapuram district. However, the court observed that it must be acknowledged that judges leading the courts do not have the specialised knowledge in such areas to even suggest any step to be taken in this regard. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice R. Hemalatha observed that the matters of the present kind ought to be pursued with the local administration of the State government. The administration should take the assistance of experts in the field to conduct studies. If the problem is perceived to be genuine, then take appropriate action. The court said that it must also be appreciated that in a less developed country with serious constraints on resources and with the basic amenities not available to a large section of the human population, it is for the administration to decide on priorities, the areas to focus on and the extent of expenditure to incur under various heads. While advocates take up cases that may be near and dear to their hearts and philosophies, the limitations of judges and the court system must be realised and the autonomy available to the elected government should always be respected, the judges said and adjourned the hearing in the petition filed by R. Manibharathi of Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/limitations-of-judges-must-be-realised-hc/article34002591.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC nullifies validity of marriage||Misrepresentation regarding the religion would be a misrepresentation regarding a material fact and would affect the very validity of the marriage, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while allowing the petition filed by a man who sought the declaration that the marriage between him and a woman null and void. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Sivakumar of Nagercoil who sought a direction to declare the marriage between him and one S. Beula null and void. The petitioner said that the woman’s family had represented themselves as Hindus. But, the educational institution records of the woman showed that she was a Christian. The consent for the marriage was obtained by suppression of the material fact, religion. The petitioner said that a Hindu marriage could be held or performed only among two Hindus and contended that the marriage held in 2003 between a Hindu and a non-Hindu as per Hindu rites was null and void. The Additional Subordinate Judge, Nagercoil, and the District Judge, Kanniyakumari, ruled in favour of the woman and held that the misrepresentation regarding the religion at the time of the marriage could not be established. The petitioner appealed against the order of the trial court before the High Court. Justice R. Subramanian took note of the fact of a plethora of documentary evidence available on hand in the case to prove that the woman was Christian by birth and she was practising Christianity throughout her life. This was evidenced by indisputable documents in the form of educational institution records, the judge said. Though the woman claimed that it was a mistake that she was described as a Christian in the educational records, the judge said that once the fact that there was a wrong description was admitted, it is for the person, who claimed that the wrong description was a result of a mistake, to prove the same. Looking at the evidence available on record, the judge said that the court was constrained to hold that the woman had not established the plea of mistake raised by her. The courts below were not right in placing the burden of proving the misrepresentation on the man and concluding that he had not discharged the burden, the judge said. The courts below had not appreciated the evidence that was available on record and chose to ignore crucial documentary evidence. The findings of the courts below were liable to be set aside, the judge said and observed that the marriage was declared null and void. The petition was disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-nullifies-validity-of-marriage/article34002596.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Effective monitoring system needed to check quarrying: HC||Disposing of a petition that sought a direction to the authorities to take steps against the excess quarrying in Virudhunagar district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court said that it was necessary to put a monitoring system in place. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice R. Hemalatha observed that it was necessary that the licensing authorities put a system in place where quarrying activities of the licensee would be monitored on a periodic basis, through a chain of command, which should be held accountable. The judges said that it was public knowledge and must be judicially recognised that licences were obtained for a small area, but large areas were mined. The officers responsible for the checking, sometimes turn the other way. While it is not the court’s intention to generalise and paint all officials in the same brush, a system must be put in place where the monitoring can be effective and purposeful and the licensees under constant fear that any attempt at excess mining would result in a penalty that may not be worth taking the risk, the judges said. The judges took note of a report submitted by the advocate commissioner in the case that said that there was no excess quarrying in the region and disposed of the petition filed by P.T. Azhaguraja of Virudhunagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/effective-monitoring-system-needed-to-check-quarrying-hc/article34002589.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Come up with a solution for inclusive reservation: HC||A well-intended policy to sponsor an Adi Dravida student’s education in a private school in Plus Two has put a meritorious candidate in a tight spot as she could not get the benefit of reservation for government school students who clear NEET. Hearing the petition filed by M. Soundarya of Karur district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to come up with a solution to bring about an inclusive reservation from the next academic year to prevent such a situation. The girl sought a direction to the State to consider her admission under the 7.5% quota for government school students. She had secured second rank among Adi Dravida students in Karur district and the State sponsored her higher school education in a private school. The contention of the State was that because of her sponsorship in a private school, she enjoyed an edge over government school students. But the very idea to encourage students to prefer government schools would get defeated, the State submitted. Justice V. Parthiban observed that students who opt for the sponsorship have been excluded from claiming the benefits under 7.5% reservation for students who studied in government schools. Had the candidate had an inkling that such reservation would come up, she would not have opted for the sponsorship. The benefit contemplated by the government has resulted in unfair disadvantage and snatched away an opportunity. The court took note of the fact that students belonging to the marginalised section and who had been admitted in private schools under the provisions of Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, had gone through the courses up to Class VIII, have been included within the ambit of the definition of ‘government student.’ Students having advantage of studying in a private school under RTE Act from Class I to Class VIII can be presumed to have had a strong foundation. In the present case, the Act and the provisions do not contemplate inclusion of the petitioner’s category and therefore the rejection of the candidate cannot be interfered with as the decision was taken in consonance with the scheme of the Act. Dismissing the petition, the court said the government must come up with a solution. Through collective wisdom, it must bring about inclusive reservation so as to prevent such injustice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-up-with-a-solution-for-inclusive-reservation-hc/article34001889.ece
06 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Increasing FDI in insurance sector flayed||Representatives of various insurance employees unions spoke against announcements in the Union budget. The All India Insurance Employees’ Association organised a conference here on Friday. N. Suresh Kumar, district vice-president of Insurance Corporation Employees’ Union, R. Deivaraj of the Centre for Indian Trade Unions, and representatives of various insurance employees unions spoke. They objected to the announcement of increasing FDI in the insurance sector from 49% to 74%. They condemned the announcement to privatise one general insurance company. They criticised the announcement of Initial Public Offering of Life Insurance Corporation of India in this financial year. The reasons given by the government for bringing the LIC IPO were unwarranted. The announcement was made in an undemocratic manner, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increasing-fdi-in-insurance-sector-flayed/article34002590.ece
06 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||People from T.N. villages can take vaccine in U.T., says L-G||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday said people residing in neighbouring villages in Tamil Nadu could also take the COVID-19 vaccine from government hospitals in the Union Territory. Interacting with reporters after inspecting the government hospital here, the Lt. Governor said people should not hesitate to take the vaccine as the indigenously-developed vaccines are safe. She said people from the neighbouring villages could take vaccines in the Union Territory. The Lt. Governor inspected various wards and medical facilities available at the GH. The Lt. Governor said she would look into the various demands of patients and staff, including the setting up of an MRI machine. She also accompanied two of her advisers — Director General of Police, CRPF, A. P. Maheshwari, and retired IAS officer C. Chandramouli — during their visit to the GH for vaccination. Meanwhile, the Union Territory on Friday recorded 30 new COVID-19 cases from 1,314 tests. While 13 each new cases were registered in the Puducherry and Karaikal regions, Mahe reported 4 cases. The overall tally is 669 deaths, 176 active cases, a total of 39,824 cases and 38,979 patients treated and discharged.  Six test positive Cuddalore district reported six fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 25,211. While 24,867 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 36. In Villupuram district, three persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,278. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-from-tn-villages-can-take-vaccine-in-ut-says-l-g-tamilisai/article34001950.ece
06 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G approves disbursal of salary for aided school staff||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has approved the disbursal of pending salary for the staff and pensioners of government aided private schools in the Union Territory. A release from Raj Nivas on Friday said, “The prevalent system of payment of salaries and pension had been in vogue for long and was a settled practice and so granted approval to continue the existing system of payment of salary and pension to the employees of government aided schools.” The decision of the Lieutenant Governor will enable hundreds of teaching and non-teaching staff to get their salary and pension, pending for the last 14 months. However, Ms. Soundararajan said a committee was earlier set up to examine and amend the Puducherry School Education Act and the rules thereof. The Lt. Governor said she had approved the proposal of the committee to make legal changes required to bring in efficiency and accountability in the functioning of the government aided schools. It might be recalled that the previous government and former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi were locked in a war of words after the latter refused permission to disburse salary for aided school employees, citing violation in procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-approves-disbursal-of-salary-for-aided-school-staff/article34002689.ece
06 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Bids being made to weaken NDA alliance’||Attempts were being made by certain parties to weaken the National Democratic Alliance in the Union Territory, nominated legislator and BJP president V. Saminathan said here on Friday. “Certain attempts are being made to weaken our alliance but it will not succeed,” he said, responding to queries during the inaugural of a programme to collect feedback from the public to prepare the party’s manifesto for the Assembly poll. He was responding to a query on the statement made by former Minister and DMK leader A.M.H. Nazeem inviting AINRC chief N. Rangasamy to the secular front. Mr. Nazeem while speaking to reporters at Karaikal on Thursday had invited Mr. Rangasamy to head the secular front in Union Territory. “Our alliance is strong and attempts to break it will not succeed,” he added. Earlier, Union Minister of State Arjun Ram Meghwal inaugurated the campaign to collect public views before preparing the manifesto. Party leaders, including Mr. Saminathan and former Minister A. Namassivayam, who also heads the 12-member manifesto committee, urged people gathered at the New Bus Stand to provide their views. Mr. Namassivayam said party workers in the coming days would visit all 30 constituencies to elicit the views of voters. The manifesto would reflect the views of the public on the development of the Union Territory, Mr. Namassivayam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attempts-being-made-to-weaken-nda-alliance-bjp/article34001948.ece
06 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Left leaders allege ‘inaction’ by flying squads||The Left parties on Friday alleged that the Election Commission’s flying squads in the Union Territory were “inactive.” Addressing a joint press conference of the Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), CPI secretary A.M. Saleem said BJP supporters had been distributing gifts ahead of the Assembly poll. “The flying squads are inactive in the Union Territory. The squads in the neighbouring State of Tamil Nadu have seized gifts meant to be distributed from several places. But not a single seizure has been made in the Union Territory,” he said. The party also appealed to Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan not to convene official meetings at the Legislative Assembly as it violated the principles of Parliamentary democracy. “The Legislative Assembly is for the Cabinet members and elected representatives. Holding meetings at the Legislative Assembly by the Lt. Governor is against parliamentary democracy,” he added. Mr. Saleem said the Election Commission of India did not specify in detail whether the nominated legislators had voting rights or not. “We have received the reply, but it is not satisfactory. The Left parties will deliberate on the further course of action,” he said. CPI(M) secretary R. Rajangam, former Minister R. Viswanathan, former legislator Nara Kalainathan and CPI(M) leader V. Perumal were present.   The Legislative Assembly is for the Cabinet members, and elected representatives. Holding meetings at the Assembly by the L- G is against parliamentary democracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-allege-inaction-by-flying-squads-in-puducherry/article34002687.ece
06 March 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: volunteers to be deployed in polling stations||Two volunteers would be deployed in each polling station to screen voters using thermal scanners and spray hand sanitisers, and a supervisor would be nominated for every eight polling stations and an official in-charge for every taluk, said Collector P. Uma Maheswari. Being the District Election Officer, she was presiding over a coordination meeting here on Thursday to discuss COVID-19 precautionary measures to be taken as per the advice of the Election Commission for the upcoming elections. She said Health Department officials have been asked to provide safety kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers to the polling officials. Local bodies had been told to sanitise the polling stations on election eve, once in four hours on the day of polling and after completion of polling. Health officials had been told to safely remove biomedical wastes from the polling stations and hand them over to the nominated agency. Revenue officials have been advised to make arrangements for the transportation of protective kits to polling stations in vehicles besides ensuring that the kits reached on time. All steps have been taken to adhere to the COVID-19 precautionary measures, she said. District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and other officials were present, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-volunteers-to-be-deployed-in-polling-stations/article34001880.ece
06 March 2021||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Autonomous colleges not after deemed-to-be university status||Autonomous colleges of long standing in the region are not too keen on transforming into deemed universities as the indications from the State government on sustaining financial support has not been encouraging. The colleges depend heavily on the State government’s financial support for meeting costs towards salaries and retirement benefits of the teaching and non-teaching staff. The position taken by the State government is that the colleges, once they transform into deemed-to-be universities, will cease to receive its financial support. The autonomous colleges are also bound by the University Grants Commission’s emphasis on nurturing social equity in higher education which will not be possible if is left to fend for itself financially. Aiming at scaling up the Gross Enrolment Ratio, UGC expects the institutions of higher learning to increase participation of Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), minorities, Other Backward Classes (OBCs), Persons with Disabilities (as defined in the PWD Act, 1995) and women. “As such, there is enough flexibility for autonomous colleges to start new courses and conduct exams. The priority is to ensure that the socio-economic backward sections have access to higher education,” S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal of Jamal Mohamed College, said. NAAC rating The colleges are conscious that the efforts they take for meeting the UGC’s requirements have a bearing on improved rating of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Teachers’ organisations that often complain about the reluctance of the government to fill even sanctioned posts in government-aided colleges are also not enthusiastic about the prospects of autonomous colleges transforming into deemed-to-be universities. “It is simply not possible for colleges to maintain equity in higher education if the government-aided autonomous colleges are asked to become financially independent,” State general secretary of Aided College Teachers’ Association S. Sahaya Satish said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autonomous-colleges-not-after-deemed-to-be-university-status/article34002718.ece
06 March 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||First batch of Olive Ridley turtles released||The Forest department officials released the season’s first batch of 131 Olive Ridley hatchlings into the sea near MR Chathiram here on Friday. These eggs were part of the first batch of 135 eggs collected on January 11. They were hatched in the hatchery at MR Chathiram near Danushkodi. Releasing the hatchlings into the sea, Wildlife Warden of Ramanathapuram A. S. Marimuthu said that five species of turtles are found along the shore of the district - Olive Ridley turtles, Green Sea turtles, Leatherback sea turtles, Loggerhead sea turtles, and Hawksbill sea turtles. Due to repeated awareness among the local communities, the turtles caught in the fishing nets along Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar regions are rescued and released into the sea by forest department officials. Mr. Marimuthu said that every year, the nesting season of Olive Ridley turtles takes place in the district from December to April. Through various special schemes of the government, the eggs are collected by the forest department officials, along with the help of local residents. The collected eggs are kept in the hatcheries at MR Chathiram and Munthal. The eggs usually take 48 to 54 days to hatch, he added. Around 13,800 eggs have been collected this season, which is higher than last season, he added. Mandapam Forest Range Officer G. Venkatesh was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-batch-of-olive-ridley-turtles-released/article34001920.ece
06 March 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||An autorickshaw driver Panayadiyaan (43), son of Irulandi of VOC Nagar, was allegedly murdered here on Friday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the crime may have happened due to previous enmity among the autorickshaw drivers. According to a police officer, who inspected the scene of crime, at least three persons had targeted Panayadiyaan near the Anna Statue in the new bus stand area around 6 p.m. The trio attacked him with logs. He fell unconscious and two others, identified as Annamalai and Rajesh, who had attacked him, were also hurt. All the three were rushed to the General Hospital and Panayadiyaan succumbed to the injuries. As the news spread, the family and relatives of the driver assembled in large number in front of the GH. A large posse of police personnel was deployed. SP E. Karthik and DSP Vellathurai had visited the spot, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article34001925.ece
06 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Young World painting contest for school students||JSW Paints in association with The Hindu Young World is organising a painting competition -- Futurscapes -- for school students. According to the organisers, the contest will be held in two stages, prelims and finale.  Topics Topics for prelims are Class 3-5 (Sub-juniors): ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’, ‘My Favourite Animal’; Class 6-8 (Juniors): ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun With Family’, ‘Wildlife Safari’, Class 9-12 (Seniors): ‘Colours Of India’, ‘Family Vacation’, ‘Clean And Green India’. Participants should choose a theme and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons and colour pencils. Sketch pens and markers should only be used for outline purposes. Each participant can submit only one painting. Candidates should visit www.ywc.thehindu.com /jsw paints , complete the registration and upload the finished work. A unique registration number will be generated once the file is uploaded. A physical copy of the painting must be submitted at the nearest office of The Hindu before March 10. Candidates must mention the unique registration number and topic on the front side of the copy and details such as name, class, school name (with branch), City, State, category of participation, parent’s name, registered email ID, and mobile number on the back side. The date and details of finale would be communicated to qualifying participants through registered email. The competition is open to students residing in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana only. For details Online registration is mandatory for participants. For further details, contact: Prasath at 9585506050 from 10 a.m and 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-hindu-young-world-painting-contest-for-school-students/article34001945.ece
06 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Poll personnel vaccinated||Personnel, who would be deployed for polling duties in Salem South constituency started receiving COVID-19 vaccination from Thursday. A special camp was organised at the Kumarasamipatti PHC for polling officials and Returning Officer for the constituency N. Ravichandran reviewed the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-personnel-vaccinated/article34001943.ece
06 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Voter awareness vehicle flagged off||District Collector S.A. Raman on Friday flagged off a video awareness vehicle to create awareness among voters to ensure 100% turnout for election. The video van would travel through all the 11 Assembly constituencies in the district and awareness videos would be played on the screen in the vehicle, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-awareness-vehicle-flagged-off/article34001942.ece
06 March 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Youth hacked to death near Manamadurai||In a suspected case of murder for revenge, the police were on the lookout for three persons here on Friday after a 20-year-old youth was hacked to death by an armed gang near Manamadurai police station. The broad daylight murder shocked the residents in the vicinity. Shops downed shutters till noon and police pickets were posted in the area. As the information reached, Superintendent of Police Rajarajan and ADSP Muralidharan visited the scene of crime and held inquiries. Preliminary probe suggested that Agniraj (20) son of Thangamani of Manamadurai had come to the police station to sign the register as part of the bail condition granted to him by a Judicial Magistrate court. When Agniraj stepped out of the police station and left the place on his two-wheeler, a three- member gang, which was watching him from a distance attacked him. Taken by shock, even before he could escape, the gang is said to have surrounded him and assaulted with weapons in which he collapsed on the spot. A senior officer said that Agniraj and eight others were arrested in connection with a murder reported on January 9. When Arunnathan (27) of Manamadurai and his accomplice Vinod Kannan (30) of Kaatu Udaikulam were sitting in a tea shop, an armed gang attacked the duo, in which Arunnathan died and his accomplice was admitted in hospital for treatment. Under such circumstances, nine persons including Agniraj had surrendered in a court and recently, when he had come on bail, he was attacked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-hacked-to-death-near-manamadurai/article34001931.ece
06 March 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Rangoli competition held to create awareness of voting||As part of the SVEEP activity, employees of Mahalir Thittam participated in a rangoli competition organised to create awareness about the need to vote in the forthcoming Assembly election, here on Friday. Virudhunagar District Returning Officer and Collector R. Kannan inaugurated the competition at Andal Temple in which the employees drew huge and colourful rangolis. The rangolis depicted various aspects of election like the date of polling (April 6), the toll-free number to lodge election-related complaints (1950) and the cVIGIL app that would enable the citizens to upload video evidence of model code of conduct violations to the authorities. Electronic voting machine was placed on the premises to familiarise the voters with the way to cast their votes without any hesitation. Mr. Kannan also administered an election awareness pledge to the officials and students of G.S. Hindu Higher Secondary School. The Collector asked the students to impress upon their parents to cast their votes without fail. Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), V. Jayakumar, Mahilar Thittam, Project Officer, Thanapathi, Tahsildars Saravanan (Srivilliputtur) and Annammal (Watrap), Srivilliputtur Municipal Commissioner, Malliga, and Andal Temple Executive Officer, A. Elangovan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangoli-competition-held-to-create-awareness-of-voting/article34001922.ece
06 March 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Owners of marriage halls told to follow EC guidelines||The Collector and District Election Officer G. S. Sameeran on Friday asked owners of marriage halls, cable TV operators and pawn brokers to follow the Election Commission of India’s guidelines. Managers of kalyana mandapams and community halls were told to be vigilant while booking halls. They should seek the invitation card and family ration card of those who intend to conduct weddings or other functions. In case of any suspicion, they can alert the election officials concerned in their jurisdiction. He said that giving space to keep dhotis, sarees or other gift articles in the kalyana mandapams would attract not only punishment but also seizure and seal of the premises. Similar briefing was given to pawn brokers and financiers to ensure that no individual gets back gold jewellery in bulk. Any borrower, who had pledged his/her jewellery, can take back the jewellery. But proxy should not be allowed. Likewise, he appealed to the cable TV operators and printing press owners to get the materials cleared by the Media Committee chaired by the District Election Officer. The printers shall not entertain any posters or billboards, which may trigger rift among caste/community or religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owners-of-marriage-halls-told-to-follow-ec-guidelines/article34002721.ece
06 March 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||3% of voters in Thanjavur can use postal ballot facility||About 3% of the 20.56 lakh electorate in Thanjavur district are identified eligible to exercise the postal ballot facility under the general category of voters. The District Election Wing screened the Final Voter List published in January to enumerate the electorate aged over and above 80 years, physically disabled, those affected and or recovered from COVID-19 infection and those engaged in essential services such as railways, press and media personnel from the electoral rolls of the eight Assembly Constituencies falling under the Thanjavur Revenue District after the Election Commission of India announced that these categories of voters could also exercise their franchise through postal ballot. Though the screening and enumeration process has thrown up a figure of 45,337 under the senior citizen aged 80 years and above and 13,946 under the physically challenged categories, sources said the DEW officials were unable to identify the electorate falling under the COVID-19 infected or recovered electorate and those engaged in essential services such as railways, press and media service due to non-availability of clear instructions to identify such a category of voters. More to be included  However, the list of persons detained under ‘preventive arrest’ provisions and those drawn for election duty has been readied and efforts have been initiated to provide them postal ballots, sources said.  There are 45,337 senior citizens aged 80 and above and 13,946 physically challenged voters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-of-voters-in-thanjavur-can-use-postal-ballot-facility/article34001878.ece
06 March 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Signature campaign for cent percent voting begins||Collector H. Krishnanunni on Friday commenced the signature campaign to achieve 100 % voting during the ensuing assembly polls on April 6. Launching the campaign at Theni-Allinagaram Kamarajar Bus Stand, he appealed to all eligible voters to exercise their votes. “It is every one’s duty and right to be a part of the polling on April 6”, the Collector said while beginning the campaign. Following him, many public also joined in affixing their signature on the huge board installed for the purpose. The officials also organised Rangoli competition, setting off hydrogen filled balloons and established a model-polling station. “This would enable the first-time voters to have a real feel of stepping into the polling station and casting their vote,” Tahsildar Devadas said. The District Election Officer said that all the licence holders of weapons including pistol, revolver and rifle, shall surrender them before March 15 either with the jurisdiction police station or with the armoury (dealers with licence to keep the weapons in safe custody). The Election Commission had notified through its guidelines to ensure that there was no untoward incident during the model code of conduct was in force. Hence, for the smooth polling and counting, it has been decided to deposit the weapons voluntarily as per the instructions. As part of ensuring that there were no malpractice or other forms of corruption, a special officer has been appointed to monitor the daily sales of liquor in the district. Any complaints of sudden rise in the sale of liquor in any outlet would be subject to audit. The sales supervisors shall maintain the log book properly with daily sales/stock availability. Similarly, TASMAC staff carrying cash to the bank for remittance of the sale proceeds shall do so by entering the denominations properly in the challan. Any neglect would be viewed seriously and action initiated as per the laws, the District Manager said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/signature-campaign-for-cent-percent-voting-begins/article34001924.ece
06 March 2021||THOOTHUKUD,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah in Nagercoil tomorrow||Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah will address a public meeting at Nagercoil on Sunday, said BJP State president L. Murugan. Speaking to reporters at the airport on Friday, he said talks on the number of seats and the constituencies were going on smoothly with the AIADMK. The BJP-AIADMK combine would sweep the elections comfortably as the people have decided to give Edappadi K. Palaniswami another chance. Appreciating the move of V.K. Sasikala, a close aide of late CM Jayalalithaa, in announcing her decision to stay away from politics, Mr. Murugan said the intention and message of Ms. Sasikala showed that she was a true friend of the late leader. The DMK, he alleged, was anti-Hindu and hence, the people of Tamil Nadu had decided to defeat it. The Narendra Modi government had given Rs. 5 lakh crore (to Tamil Nadu) in the Union Budget which included allocation for highway projects. “We will also carry the message of development and peace to the electorate,” he said. Taking a dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who visited Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts last week, he said there were several instances of violations of the model code of conduct into which the Election Commission had inquire. “The BJP will also lodge a complaint in this regard,” Mr. Murugan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amit-shah-to-visit-nagercoil-tomorrow/article34001911.ece
06 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah to address public meeting at Nagercoil tomorrow||Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah will be addressing a public meeting at Nagercoil on March 7, said BJP State president L. Murugan. Speaking to reporters at the airport on Friday, he said talks on the number of seats and the constituencies were going on smoothly with the AIADMK. The BJP-AIADMK combine, no doubt, would sweep the elections comfortably as the people have decided to give Edappadi K Palaniswami another chance. “The BJP too, for its share, has implemented very many people-friendly projects over the last seven years,” he said. Appreciating the move of V. K. Sasikala, the friend of late Jayalalithaa, in announcing her decision to stay away from politics, Mr. Murugan said that the intention and message of Ms Sasikala showed that she was a true friend of the late leader. The DMK, he charged, was anti-Hindus and hence, the people of Tamil Nadu have decided to defeat it. The Narendra Modi government had given a whopping Rs. 5 lakh crore in the Union Budget which included allocation for highway projects and among others. “We will also carry the message of development and peace to the electorate,” he said. Taking a dig at AICC leader Rahul Gandhi, who visited Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts last week, he said there were plenty of violations which the Election Commission has to take note of. “The BJP will also lodge a complaint in this regard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amit-shah-to-address-public-meeting-at-nagercoil-tomorrow/article34002720.ece
06 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK picks sitting MLA for Srivaikuntam||The AIADMK has announced S. P. Shanmuganathan as its candidate for the Srivaikuntam Assembly constituency on Friday. The AIADMK cadre were in a jubliant mood as the party high command, in its first list that was released, had just six names and that included Mr. Shanmuganathan’s name for the Srivaikuntam Assembly segment. The sitting MLA, who is also the party’s district south secretary, is from Nadar community. The party functionaries and cadre assembled at the party office at Toovipuram and burst crackers and distributed sweets to express their joy. A senior district functionary and a loyalist of Mr. Shanmuganathan said that the first list had the names of the CM and Deputy CM, among others. “Our Annachi’s name (Shanmuganathan) in the list showed that the party high command has the highest regard for him. We will surely register hands down victory,” he said. In Srivaikuntam also, the party men were joined by their allies including the BJP and the PMK members, who celebrated the announcement of the name of Mr Shanmuganathan. The announcement has no doubt brought in some upbeat mood here in the Pearl City as their rival, DMK, was yet to finalise the seat sharing exercise, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-retains-sitting-mla-for-srivaikuntam/article34002598.ece
06 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Staff identified for poll duty to get COVID-19 vaccine||Around 18,000 staff including teachers, police personnel and revenue officials identified for poll duty would be given the COVID-19 vaccine, said K. Senthil Raj, District Collector-cum-Election Officer here on Friday, Speaking at a sensitisation meeting attended by the teachers and others, the Collector said that the Election Commission of India had issued broad guidelines on the conduct of the election. In the present circumstances of COVID-19 pandemic, certain amends had also been done and hence, in the interest of the staff picked up for the poll duty, they were advised to take the vaccine, he clarified. While some of the organisations and employees unions had insisted that the vaccine dosage be given to those who volunteered, the officials maintained that it was strictly being done in their own interest. There were about 12,000 teachers, 1,800 revenue staff, 1,300 rural development department personnel and another 3,000 policemen and officers, which accounted for about 18,000 staff. The Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital Dean Revathi Balan explained the salient features of the vaccine to the beneficiaries. The administration had planned to open up 20 vaccine centres across different locations in the district, wherein the staff could get the vaccine administered over the next 10-20 days, Dr Senthil Raj said and added that daily, about 100-200 people can get the dosage by maintaining physical distancing norms. Earlier, the Collector held a meeting with private kalyana mandapam and other choultry and lodge owners/representatives. District Revenue Officer Kannabiran, PA (general) Amudha, Assistant Collector (Training) Satishkumar and Election Tahsildar Raghu participated. He said lodge owners shall keep a close vigil on the person's checking in their premises. They shall not entertain any mass gathering or distribution of any gift articles in their halls. In the event of any such incidents, the officials would take stern action as per the ECI norms, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-identified-for-poll-duty-to-get-covid-19-vaccine/article34002722.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi ranks 10th in Ease of Living index||Tiruchi has been ranked 10th in the ‘Ease of Living; index among Indian cities with a population of less than a million released by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). The city has moved up two ranks over the previous year when it was in 12th place. The ranking is carried out based on various parameters, including the quality of transport, solid waste management and presence of of schools. Tiruchi city has scored 55.24 out of 100 marks to secure the 10th place. The broad four parameters under consideration were - quality of life, economic ability, sustainability and citizen perception. “The city has quality healthcare facilities in both private and government sectors and it was reinforced during the peak of COVID-19 pandemic. We have ensured the safety of residents, and the crime rate has also dropped,” said Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian. While the people of the city must take pride in being ranked 10th, they must all join hands to ensure a spot in the top five next year, he said. Meanwhile, according to the Citizen’s Perception Survey, which carried a 30% weightage in the Ease of Living Index score, the city scored 75.5 out of 100. The survey will record the perception of residents on quality of health, safety and security, environment, affordable housing and availability of financial services. The city fared well in the access of financial services parameter but poorly in the adequacy of green cover and the incidence of waterlogging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-ranks-10th-in-ease-of-living-index/article34002716.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boy cycles to shop wearing helmet, gets recognition from Tiruchi police||At a time when many two-wheeler riders fail to adhere to the helmet rule, a boy who wore a helmet while riding a bicycle caught the attention of the city police who presented the boy with a brand new bicycle and a helmet. The gifts handed over by Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan to E. Samiyappan, a Class VI student, coinciding with his birthday on Thursday at the City Police Office, in the presence of a happy parents. The police noticed the boy riding a bicycle wearing a helmet when they took out a flag march along with para-military personnel at Puthur recently to instil confidence among public in view of the upcoming Assembly elections. As the boy passed through the marching contingent, one of the police officers stopped the boy and spoke to him. The boy disclosed his identity and that of his parents besides the place he resided at Malligaipuram to the police officer and said he was on his way to buy some items for the petty shop being run by his mother. When asked by the officer as to why he wore a helmet while riding a bicycle, the boy swiftly replied that the police had asked to do so. The boy also replied that he had heard that it was safe to wear a helmet and that he always made it a habit to wear it whenever he ventured out riding a bicycle. Some passers-by took a video of the boy and his reply to the officer and circulated it on social media. Upon coming to know about the boy's act, the Commissioner of Police invited the boy and his parents - Elappan and Kalaiarasi - to the City Police Office on Thursday morning. As it happened to be the birthday of the minor, the police bought a cake and celebrated the birthday. The Commissioner also presented an appreciation certificate “Narkarunai Veeran” to the boy for setting an example to the public on the importance of wearing a helmet. The boy’s parents told that their son had insisted to them to buy him a helmet and profusely thanked the Commissioner of Police for celebrating his birthday and presenting him with the gifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-cycles-wearing-helmet-gets-recognition-from-police/article34001882.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Flying squad seizes Rs. 5 cr. transported by SBI||A flying squad seized Rs. 5 crore cash that was reportedly transported in a vehicle without proper documents from the State Bank of India, Kumbakonam, to the bank's branch in Ariyalur on Friday. The vehicle was intercepted around noon by the flying squad near Sathamangalam. A senior official said although the vehicle in which the cash was being transported had a security guard, there was no proper document for cash. The flying squad seized the amount and handed it over to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Ariyalur. The cash was subsequently deposited in the sub-treasury at Ariyalur, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squad-seizes-rs-5-crore-transported-by-sbi-in-ariyalur/article34001927.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5 crore seized during vehicle check||A Flying Squad seized Rs. 5 crore being transported in a vehicle, without proper documents, from the State Bank of India, Kumbakonam, to the bank’s branch in Ariyalur on Friday. The vehicle was intercepted around 12.50 p.m. by the Flying Squad during vehicle check near Sathamangalam. Though the vehicle had a security guard, there was no proper document. The squad seized the money and handed it over to the Revenue Divisional Officer, Ariyalur. It was subsequently deposited in the Sub Treasury at Ariyalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-5-crore-seized/article34001887.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||41 cases in delta region||The central districts on Friday reported 41 cases of COVID-19. No death was recorded in the region, according to ae bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. In Thanjavur, 14 patients tested positive, while Tiruchi reported 11. Five tested positive in Pudukottai, and four each in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts. Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur districts reported one each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-cases-in-delta/article34001917.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK branding||Kathelene Antony   The DMK has put up billboards across the city to advertise “ Stalin than vararu, vidiyal thara poraru ” campaign ahead of the election. Shops and even some residential buildings are sporting the billboards. Tunes with the slogan have also turned into common ringtones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-branding/article34001893.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 102.57 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 481 cusecs and the discharge 1,500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34001884.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against doctor||The Mangalam police has registered a case against a doctor who was accused of sexually harassing a woman nurse at his private clinic near Palladam in Tiruppur district. Police said that the 36-year-old nurse filed a complaint against the doctor Asrath, based on which he was booked under Section 354 A (Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code. A special team has been formed to nab the accused who is at large, the police said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered-against-doctor/article34001962.ece
06 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held with Collectors, SPs from districts bordering the Nilgiris||Collectors and top police officials from the districts in Kerala and Karnataka bordering the Nilgiris attended a meeting with the Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya on Friday, to better co-ordinate and clampdown on the illegal movement of liquor and unaccounted cash into the district during the run-up to the elections. Ms. Divya told reporters that the officials from the neighbouring Wayanad and Malappuram from Kerala, as well as from Chamrajanagar in Karnataka attended the meeting, which was organised to discuss restrictions at the 18 border checkposts in the Nilgiris to curb the movement of liquor and money as well as left-wing extremists into the district. Ms. Divya said that as the district bordered Kerala and Karnataka, the movement of left-wing extremists into the district was a concern, along with preventing the spread of COVID-19, which has seen a surge in Kerala recently. Vehicles bringing goods into the Nilgiris will be recorded and kept tabs on, ensuring that they have proper documentation for all the products and goods they are bringing into the district. Present at the meeting were Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police R. Pandiarajan, Wayanad Collector Adeela Abdullah, Wayanad SP Aravind Sukumar, Malappuram Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, Malappuram District Police Chief Sujith Das and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Chamrajanagar, M.R.Ravi.  The movement of left-wing extremists into the district is a concern J. Innocent Divya District Collector, The Nilgiris||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-with-collectors-sps-from-districts-bordering-the-nilgiris/article34002499.ece
06 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to life for murder of woman||A 51-year-old man was sentenced to life on Friday for the murder of a woman near Pykara in Udhagamandalam in June 2017. Anathakumar was into a relationship with the woman.  Suspecting she was unfaithful to him, he set her on fire after pouring kerosene on her during a quarrel. The woman died of severe burns. The man was arrested and charged with murder. On Friday, Judge K. Arunachalam, who heard the case in the fast track Mahila Court in Udhagamandalam, sentenced Ananthakumar to life imprisonment and imposed a fine Rs. 1,000 on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-sentenced-to-life-for-murder/article34001951.ece
06 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven courses at VIT among QS World Subject Rankings, 2021||The Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has been ranked as one among the top 12 institutions of India in engineering and technology and within the top 450 Universities in the world, as per QS World Subject Rankings, 2021. According to a press release, seven subjects of VIT are in the list published by QS this year. Four subjects, namely Computer Science & Information Systems, Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE), Mechanical Engineering and Chemistry have moved up 50 positions as compared to last year. Among them Computer Science and Information Systems and Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) are ranked within the top 10 in India. While EEE is ranked within the top 300, both Computer Science and Information Systems and Mechanical Engineering specialisations are ranked within the top 400 in the world. VIT's Mathematics and Biological sciences have entered the QS Subject Ranking for the first time and are ranked within the top 500 and 600 in the world respectively. The QS World University Rankings by Subject 2021 cover a total of 51 disciplines, grouped into five broad subject areas. The rankings are compiled every year to help prospective students identify the leading universities in a particular subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-courses-at-vit-among-qs-world-subject-rankings-for-2021/article34002482.ece
06 March 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||16 new cases recorded in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,038 with 16 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,619 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 68. The district's death toll is 351. In Ranipet district, one case was reported positive and the total stood at 16,250. In Tirupattur district, one new case was reported on Friday, and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,642. In Tiruvannamalai district, three new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,513. Out of this, 19,205 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-new-cases-recorded-in-vellore-district/article34002690.ece
06 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Women lay siege to TASMAC shop||Scores of women from villages around Chandragiripuram near here laid siege to a newly-opened TASMAC shop pressing for its immediate closure on Friday. The protest was led by All India Democratic Women’s Association, state secretary S. Lakshmi and Virudhunagar district secretary S. Deivanai. The protesters said that the officials who had promised to close down the shop three days back, went back on their word and again opened it the very next day. “Already, there has been some tension between people of two groups in the village. If the TASMAC shop remains opened, people of both groups will meet here and it will trigger fresh problems,” Ms. Lakshmi said. Stating that women were predominantly involved in grazing of goats and cows in isolated places in the village, she expressed fear over the safety of such women. Members of self help groups for women from villages of Seeniyapuram, Chokkalingapuram and Pavali also joined the protest that started at around forenoon. When Excise Inspector, Krishnaveni, came to tell the agitators that they were yet to get the nod from their higher officials to close down the shop, the villagers laid siege to her vehicle. Later, the officials promised that the TASMAC shop would be shifted within a week and till then it would not be opened. The protesters dispersed later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-lay-siege-to-tasmac-shop/article34001930.ece
06 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Students complain of excess fee collection||Students of Government Arts and Science College in Aruppukottai alleged that the first year students were made to pay fees pay over and above the stipulated fee structure. In a petition addressed to Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, they sought action against the principal, Anbalagan. A section of the first year students from the Departments of Tamil, English, Mathematics and Commerce complained that they were admitted to the college through online admission process. They alleged that the college Principal made them to pay more than the stipulated fee during the admission and they sought repayment of the additional fees paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-complain-of-excess-fee-collection/article34001928.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK gives 20 seats to BJP; CM to contest from Edappadi again||The announcement comes after multiple rounds of talks between the two parties, with Home Minister Amit Shah himself holding talks with the top two leaders of the AIADMK after his visit to Puducherry on Sunday. In another development, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, his deputy O. Panneerselvam and four others figured in the AIADMK’s first list of candidates for the Assembly election released on Friday. Mr. Palaniswami will be trying his luck again from Edappadi, his home constituency. He was elected from the seat in 1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016. Mr. Panneerselvam has been nominated from Bodinayakanur, from where he was elected in 2011 and 2016. On two other occasions, he represented Periyakulam. Ministers D. Jayakumar and C.Ve. Shanmugam have been chosen for their respective constituencies of Royapuram in Chennai and Villupuram. This is the seventh time that Mr. Jayakumar is being fielded from Royapuram. He lost only in 1996. S.P. Shanmuganathan and S. Thenmozhi have been fielded from their constituencies of Srivaikuntam and Nilakkottai (reserved). A senior office-bearer said the six nominees represented a good mix of communities — Vellala Gounder, Mukkulathor, Meenavar, Vanniyar, Nadar and the Scheduled Caste. Another functionary said the remaining candidates would be announced by Tuesday. At Anna Arivayalam, DMK president M.K. Stalin and CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan signed the agreement. “We held talks in a cordial manner to ensure the victory of the Secular Progressive Alliance, led by the DMK,” Mr. Mutharasan said. Between the number of seats and idealism, the latter was important as the aim was to prevent sectarian forces from entering Tamil Nadu. The DMK is yet to finalise seat-sharing with the CPI(M) and the MDMK, while talks with the Congress have remained inconclusive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-gives-20-seats-to-bjp-cm-to-contest-from-edappadi-again/article34002488.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 10 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 10 new cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 14,847. While 16 persons were discharged, 75 continue to be under treatment. Seven positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, two cases were indigenous and five patients have returned from Dharmapuri and Namakkal. In Namakkal, three cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-10-cases-in-erode/article34001933.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements for March 6, 2021||TIRUVARUR  Sri Thyagarajaswamy Temple: Panguni Uthiram festival, Vinayagar-Subramaniar utsavam, 7 p.m.  PUDUKOTTAI  Muthumariamman Temple: Masi Perunthiruvizha, Amman ula on Velli Rishaba vaganam, Tiruvappur, 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-for-march-6-2021/article34001885.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Kamalavalli Nachiar Temple: Thirumozhi sevithal at sanctum sanctorum, ,Woraiyur, 6.30 p.m.  South Zone Cultural Centre and Ponni Kala Kendra: Pancha dina vedic chanting, Ganapthi puja – Krishna Yajur Veda Taittriya Samhita parayanam, Ponni Delta, Kallanai Road, 8 a.m.; 10.30 p.m.; and 3.30 p.m.; discourse on ‘Rama is embodiment of dharma’ by B. Kesava Vajapeyar, 6.30 p.m.  CULTURE  Kalam: ‘Maaperum Sabaithanil’ book introduction, Su.Venkatesan, MP, speaks, Hotel Ajantha, 4 p.m.  GENERAL  National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi: Institute Day, Vikas Swarup, secretary (West), Ministry of External Affairs, chief guest, 11 a.m.; International Women’s Day– sports events, 6.30 a.m.  Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College: Chemistry Association meeting, special address by R. Ramesh, professor, School of Chemistry, Bharathidasan University, 11 a.m.  Periyar E.V.R. College and Indian Accounting Association: Seminar on ‘Digitalised financial and banking practices – issues and challenges,’ 10.30 a.m.  Santhanam Vidyalaya: Motivational talk for students of Classes 9 to 12 by Sugi Sivam, St. Antoniyar Kovil Street, East Boulevard Road, 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tiruchi-today/article34002717.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tongue in cheek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tongue-in-cheek/article34001907.ece
06 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Congress members slam State government decision to appoint administrators to temples||Some Congress members opposed the State government’s decision to appoint administrators to temples in Belagavi district, calling it an anti Hindu act. Parashuram Dhage, president of the Belagavi south assembly constituency block and other leaders marched to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum to the government seeking withdrawal of its order to appoint administrators. The memorandum said that the order offended Hindus as it amounted to the government taking control of Hindu temple. It recalled that the Congress government led by Siddaramaiah had issued similar orders but had to withdraw it after opposition from Hindus. Members of the federation of temples and religious places also took objection to the State government’s order. “This shows that the State government is selectively targeting Hindu temples. Why is it not appointing administrators to mosques and churches,” asked Guruprasad Gowda, federation president. The government has already appointed administrators to 16 temples and is planning to appoint similar officers to 28 more temples. This not acceptable, Mr. Gowda said. He warned of a state wide protest if the government did not withdraw the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-members-slam-state-government-decision-to-appoint-administrators-to-temples/article34001977.ece
06 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers protest against laws, rise in fuel price||Farmers rode bullock carts to the Rani Channamma Circle to protest against farm laws and the fuel price rise in Belagavi on Friday. They blocked roads at the circle for a few minutes and shouted slogans against the Union and the State governments. The police had to divert traffic away from the circle to the camp area, Dr. Ambedkar Road, and Triveni Circle. They said that by implementing the farm Bills, the governments had shown that they were anti-farmer in essence and that they wanted to help corporate companies. The farmers accused the Central and the State governments of playing into the hands of multi-national corporations by tweaking laws and policies in their favour, even when they were hurting the interests of farmers and the poor. The protesters said that the Union government had turned deaf to the farmers who were protesting for 100 days at the Delhi border. They accused the government of diverting the attention from the protests and for terming the protesters as Khalistanis and terrorists. They demanded the immediate repeal of the three Central laws and the amended land reforms Act. They also demanded that the government withdraw the land acquisition Act. They urged the government to stop plans to privatise electricity distribution and rejuvenate APMCs that were suffering due to the new laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-protest-against-laws-rise-in-fuel-price/article34001979.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Narcotics worth Rs. 4.4 cr. seized in four cases||In a special drive against narcotics peddling in east Bengaluru conducted over the last few days, the police busted four drug rings and arrested 10 persons, including eight foreigners. They seized narcotics worth Rs. 4.4 crore, including over three kg of MDMA, 200 gram of cocaine, a huge cache of ecstasy pills and 2.5 kg of ganja. Acting on a tip-off, the K.G. Halli police arrested two foreigners – Ugochukwua Harrison and John Nonso – who were allegedly peddling synthetic drugs, mostly to college students, and seized 350 gram of MDMA crystals, 4 gram of cocaine and 82 gram of ecstasy pills as well as seven mobile phones on February 26. “Technical investigation of their mobile phones revealed that they were constantly in touch with Usman Mohammed and Lokondo Londja Emmanuel, who also hail from African countries,” said sources. While Mohammed managed to evade the police, Emmanuel was arrested while allegedly peddling drugs at Nagawara. A raid on their house led to the seizure of 200 gram of cocaine, 2,710 gram of MDMA crystals, 576 LSD strips and 1,939 ecstasy pills worth about Rs. 3.5 crore. The police also recovered Rs. 2.75 lakh in cash. “This is a major drug bust, not only in terms of a large cache of narcotics, but also because the duo seem to be key suppliers of narcotics to many peddlers in the city,” a senior officer said. The interrogation of the three Africans revealed the identities of several sub-dealers and a huge clientele. Based on this information, officials raided the houses of Mastan Chandra, an upcoming actor and a former Bigg Boss contestant, and his friend Keshava. “Mastan Chandra was constantly in touch with Ugochukwua Harrison, and regularly procured large quantities of narcotics from him,” said a police official. He is suspected to have been peddling drugs to those habituated to narcotics in the Kannada film and television industry, along with Keshava. In another case, sleuths from the anti-narcotic wing of the Central Crime Branch apprehended a drug peddler Yugo Chukwa, an African national, and recovered over 500 gram of MDMA worth Rs. 40 lakh. He has been a peddler since 2018, procuring narcotics from Mumbai, and is named in a case registered in Koramangala Police Station. In another case, Ramamurthy Nagar police busted a drug ring and arrested five persons, including four Africans. They recovered 9 gram of MDMA and a kg of ganja worth Rs. 1 lakh. In another case, Banaswadi police arrested a peddler and recovered 1.5 kg of ganja.  Most of the foreign nationals we arrest in connection with narcotics cases don’t have their papers in order. Penalising the landlord is one way to fish them out A police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/narcotics-worth-rs-44-cr-seized-in-four-cases/article34002448.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dry waste burning caused fire in water bodies?||On the day that the city won laurels for ease of living, two of its water bodies – both cursed with years of neglect and pollution – were burning. The irony was not lost on residents. While Bellandur lake is no stranger to fumes, this time, the burning of dry waste on its lakebed is suspected to have caused the fire. The lake is now dry as it has been dewatered for rejuvenation. On the other hand, residents around Vrushabhavathi river, the only one that originates in the city yet has never commanded the importance it deserves, said the fire was unusual. They suspect two likely scenarios – dry waste that had accumulated was set on fire as in the case of Bellandur, or methane. Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) officials were unavailable for comment despite repeated attempts. On the fire at Bellandur lake, Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) officials only said it was not inside the lake, but around 300 metres downstream. They refused to confirm if it was dry waste burning, which is what local residents suspect. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials, on the other hand, said the lake was under the jurisdiction of the BDA. Vinay Kumar Nanjundeswara, technical advisor to the Namami Vrishabhavathi Foundation, said they had doubts that friction in the dry waste accumulated could have caused the fire due to heat, or it could be due to methane accumulation. “The fire is unusual. Pollution has definitely increased because of direct flushing of waste water into the river. Correction needs to be done at source through viable effluent treatment plants (ETPs) and sewage treatment plant (STP) options. ETP comes with considerable capex. It is a humongous task to clean up the entire stretch. In every water body, waste dumping is a problem,” he said. Nataraja P., an agriculturist who lives around 2 km from Byramangala, said fire in the river was noticed on Thursday afternoon. “The smoke was so dark, we were inhaling poison. Bengaluru's waste flows through the river, and the solid waste leads to stagnation in certain parts. It is in one such spot that the fire started,” he said. Locals suspect that rows of waste picker settlements along the banks of the river is a source of solid waste that is dumped in the river, apart from indiscriminate dumping by others illegally. “We have complained before, but to no avail. Public also has no awareness,” Mr. Nataraja said, even as he recalled seeing clear water around 35 years ago as a young boy in his village. While Bellandur is under rejuvenation, Vrushabhavathi got a shot of optimism last year when the KSPCB constituted a committee to draw up an action plan for the Vrushabhavathi Valley (V-Valley). However, sources said the committee has had only one meeting so far. A resident who lives opposite Bellandur lake, said the fires have become an annual occurrence, but still there are no answers. Another resident, Sonali Singh, said they saw 16 major fires and numerous small fires last year. “This season in just two months, there have been seven fires in #BellandurLake, buffer zone and surrounding areas,” she alleged, saying it was imperative that lake marshalls be given basic fire fighting equipment. “But both the BBMP and the BDA simply put the onus on the other to provide the equipment. Meanwhile, lake marshals continue to fight fires with just tree branches. This red tape to source the equipment is shameful,” she alleged.  This season in just two months, there have been seven fires in #BellandurLake, buffer zone and surrounding areas Sonali Singh, a resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dry-waste-burning-caused-fire-in-water-bodies/article34002455.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC directs BBMP to examine encroachment of footpaths||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike to depute its officers to examine allegations made in a PIL petition that the city police and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation have encroached on the footpaths in several locations in the city. The court also directed the BMRCL, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd and the City Police to look into the allegation of encroachment of footpaths made in the petition. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions on a petition filed by M/s Letzkit Foundation. The petitioner has submitted a photograph taken in Jayanagar where a large number of seized vehicles are dumped on the footpaths around the Jayanagar police station. Problem posed by lack of parking space It has been pointed out in the petition that large spaces, including footpaths, around metro stations were being used for parking of vehicles while pointing out that this situation has arisen due to the failure of the BMRCL to provide sufficient parking space. Facility of parking of both two and four-wheelers are available only in three of the 45 metro stations, 17 stations have parking only for two-wheelers and the remaining 28 stations have no space for parking, the petitioner pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-directs-bbmp-to-examine-encroachment-of-footpaths/article34002456.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PIL on frequent traffic jams due to protests||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday suo motu initiated a PIL petition on huge traffic jams caused due to frequent protests, demonstrations and rallies held on public roads in the heart of the city, resulting in severe hardship to the citizens. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while treating a letter, written by Justice Aravind Kumar, one of the senior judges of the High Court of Karnataka, to the Chief Justice on traffic jams caused due to protests, as a PIL petition. The letter referred to the reports published in a Kannada daily highlighting how public life was paralysed for long hours due to huge traffic jams during peak hours due to protests and demonstrations held in the city on March 2 by workers of anganwadi and State public transport corporations. Ease of living rank While referring to the newspaper reports on Bengaluru being adjudged the most liveable large city in the country, as per the Ease of Living Index– 2020 released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the Bench observed that it is all the more reason for the authorities to take necessary measures to ensure that the traffic is not affected because of such protests and demonstrations. Observing that the right to protest peacefully is a fundamental right guaranteed to citizens under the Constitution of India, the Bench, referring to the apex court’s judgements, said the right to protest should not extend to affecting the rights of others. Noticing that Bengaluru city has a dedicated place to hold protests and demonstrations at Freedom Park, the Bench pointed out the apex court’s judgement on devising mechanisms to regulate protests and demonstrations. Dedicated place While pointing that there are many such instances of traffic jams caused due to protests and demonstrations on public roads, the Bench also took note of the fact that authorities concerned are facing huge challenge to manage morning and evening peak-hour traffic in the city. The Bench directed the registry to post the PIL for hearing by making the State government, the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru, the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike, and all the leading political parties as respondents to the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pil-on-frequent-traffic-jams-due-to-protests/article34002460.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vehicles over 15 years have more than doubled since 2017 in Bengaluru||The governmentis set to tackle the growing number of old and unfit vehicles by opening more automated centres to issue fitness certificates. As per the data from the transport department, the State had 34.85 lakh vehicles in March 2017, which crossed 62.66 lakh in March 2020. During this period, Bengaluru saw the number of old vehicles more than double from 8.97 lakh in 2017 to 21.96 lakh in 2020. Among the vehicles that are older than 15 years in the State, 40 lakh vehicles are two-wheelers and 11 lakh are cars. There are more than 8.63 lakh transport vehicles including trucks, buses, autos and other vehicles. In Bengaluru city, in the same category, there are over 12.52 lakh two-wheelers, 5.33 lakh cars and more than 1.32 lakh transport vehicles. To keep a check on this, the Transport Department is planning to open more automated vehicle inspection and certification centres not just in Bengaluru but across Karnataka. The move is aimed at avoiding manual intervention while giving fitness certificates for the vehicles which will also weed out older vehicles not fit to ply on roads. “The fully equipped centre at Nelamangala had stopped operations after two years. In the past, we received only single bidding for tenders floated to select the agency to run it. We are now in the process of making the centre functional. Two more centres will be opened in Mysuru and Dharwad in the coming days,” said Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar. The process of installing machines at these two centres has been completed. The department is also contemplating to open similar automated centres in Belagavi and Vijayapura as well. A transport department official said these measures are in keeping with the Centre’s plan to phase out old and unfit vehicles. “The Central Government, in its budget, had announced that it will introduce a policy aimed at reducing vehicular pollution by phasingout unfit vehicles. We are waiting for the policy to come out. As per the existing rules, older vehicles are allowed to ply on the roads only after getting fitness certificates, but there is a need to introduce more automated centres that conduct various tests accurately.” In the Budget, the Centre had announced that vehicles would undergo fitness tests at automated fitness centres after 20 years in case of personal vehicles, and after 15 years in case of commercial vehicles. Green tax The department collects a green tax from non-transport vehicles that are more than 15 years old and transport vehicles which are more than seven years old. When asked about utilization of Green Tax, the commissioner said, “We are coming out with proposals to use the green tax mainly for environmental issues and creating awareness. As per the NGT order, Central and State pollution control boards get 25% each of the amount collected under the green tax, and the remaining 50% comes to the transport department. In the last three years a total of Rs. 50 crore was collected under this tax.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicles-over-15-years-have-more-than-doubled-since-2017-in-bengaluru/article34001993.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dharna washes out second day of session||The second day of the Budget session of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Friday was washed out as the principal Opposition, Congress, continued its protest opposing the debate on ‘one nation, one election’ (ONOE) and also demanding revocation of the suspension of its member B.K. Sangameshwara. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, at the end of the day, said he would extend the session till March 31 and hold discussion on one of the days during the session.  ‘RSS agenda’ As soon as the Assembly commenced its proceedings in the morning, the Congress members trooped to the well of the House and indulged in sloga eering against the BJP government, terming the debate on ONOE as an “RSS agenda”. The Congress also sought justice from the Chair and demanded revocation of Mr. Sangameshwara’s suspension from the House for a week. Amid dharna and slogans, Home and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai spoke on ONOE and said the issue was being widely discussed across the country. He said one election was the norm until 1967. He said the Congress “dismantled the system” by dissolving the Assemblies of seven States before the completion of the term in the late 1960s and holding the Lok Sabha polls in 1971, one year before completion of the term. Meanwhile, Mr. Kageri told Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah not to support the case of Mr. Sangameshwara since he had “lowered the dignity of the House” by removing his shirt on Thursday. He urged the Congress members to withdraw their stir and allow other members to speak. As the Opposition continued sloganeering, the Speaker adjourned the House till the evening. However, the Congress members, firm in their resolve, continued dharna in the evening. Though the Speaker asked P. Rajeev (BJP) to speak on the subject, no one was able to hear what the member was speaking. Till March 31 As the Congress continued its dharna, the Speaker said the Budget session would be continued till March 31. The Speaker said people were watching the behaviour of the Congress members and protests like this would not help the national party. In the midst of the dharna, Mr. Kageri adjourned the House for the day. JD(S) members, who staged a walkout on Thursday, sat in the House and did not participate in the protest. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will table the State Budget in the Assembly on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharna-washes-out-second-day-of-session/article34002001.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MGNREGA comes to the rescue of students struggling to pay their fees||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) programme has come to the rescue of students who would have otherwise been forced to sacrifice their higher education dreams owing to the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Many students are working under this programme to generate funds for their education. One such student, who is determined to get her Masters degree, is 20-year-old Asma Begum from Kardal, Chittapur taluk in Kalaburagi district. A B.A. graduate from Gulbarga University, she has been working under the NREGA programme since July last year. “I had to discontinue my studies due to the financial hardship being faced by my family,” she said. ‘Bought a phone’ She was initially roped in to work on the construction of bunds in her village, and is now involved in monitoring people working under the programme. She appeared for her B.A. examination in December 2020 and used the money she earned under the scheme to pay her examination fees. “The pandemic affected us a lot as there were no jobs in our village. To make matters worse, our crops were washed away in rains. Right now, I depend on NREGA to earn money to pay my examination fees, and also used my earnings to buy a mobile phone to attend online classes,” she said. She has worked for 40 days under the programme and earned Rs. 11,000 so far. She wants to pursue a Masters of Social Work in the 2021-22 academic year. Manjunath Shatikar, who completed his B.A. from Rani Chennamma University, started working under the NREGA programme in March. A resident of Nimbal village in Kalaburagi district, he has been working on the rejuvenation of a lake. He dreams of joining the police, and is saving up to buy study material for the competitive examination. “I can work in the morning, go back home in the afternoon and prepare for the examination,” he said. The scheme has helped Nethravati Lingappa Bhovi from Chikkabenkal village in Koppal, who has completed B.A. and B.Ed and is doing her M.A. in Kannada from a college affiliated to Vijayanagara Sri Krishnadevaraya University. She has been working on and off under the programme. “I worked for a month last year and for 20 days this year,” she said. Among other tasks, she has worked on desilting of lakes and cleaning of canals. Anirudh Sravan P., Commissioner, MGNREGA said, “It is not common to see graduates working under the programme, but since April-May 2020, we have come across graduates working under NREGA.” Under the programme, each household in rural areas is guaranteed 100 days of employment through unskilled manual work. The daily wage is Rs. 275.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mgnrega-comes-to-the-rescue-of-students-struggling-to-pay-their-fees/article34002464.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Revised fact sheet awaited to raise Covaxin usage||Armed with the Phase 3 results of Covaxin that have shown an interim vaccine efficacy of 81%, the Health Department is waiting for a revised fact sheet from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to increase the usage of this vaccine across the State. As of now, Karnataka has utilised just 9,008 (2.5%) of the total 3,56,340 doses of Covaxin it has received. With a shelf life of six months, this stock is set to expire in May. Given this, the Health Department is now working on increasing its usage. There has been a huge demand for vaccination since the second phase was rolled out. This vaccine, developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in partnership with Bharat Biotech International Ltd. (BBIL), was dispatched to the State during the first phase of vaccination in January and has been used only on healthcare workers so far. While the State has seen 21 serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) so far, all were post Covishield vaccination. No AEFI has been reported in the State after Covaxin administration. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM), told The Hindu on Friday that the department was waiting for a revised fact sheet from the DCGI before distributing Covaxin to more districts. “We will wait for a week for the fact sheet. However, after that even if we do not get the revised fact sheet, we will expand its usage from mid-March. We will utilise the stock before it expires,” she said. She said the initial apprehensions about Covaxin’s efficacy have been cleared now as the ICMR, two days ago, announced that the interim efficacy as 81%. “The confidence level about this vaccine among people has increased now. Also, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took Covaxin on the first day of the rollout of the second phase. We are planning to distribute it to more districts, including Bengaluru, soon,” she said. Blood thinner issue The official pointed out that the ambiguity over the use of Covaxin for those on blood thinners still exists. “However, cardiologists say that people on blood thinners can also safely take this vaccine. So, we are waiting for the revised fact sheet,” she said. Meanwhile, C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 expert committee and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, said he had spoken to ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava about the need to get the DCGI’s clarification on the safety of Covaxin for those on blood thinners. “Covishield is considered safe for people taking blood thinners. Likewise, scientifically there should not be any contraindication for taking Covaxin also. However, a consent form needs to be signed before taking Covaxin,” he said. “The fact sheet of Covaxin mentions that this vaccine is relatively contraindicated for people on some type of blood thinners. I have asked the ICMR Director General to get this issue clarified in a revised fact sheet.”  We will wait for a week for the fact sheet from the Drugs Controller General of India. After that, even if we do not get the revised fact sheet, we will expand its usage from mid-March. We will utilise the stock before it expires Arundathi Chandrashekar,State Mission Director, National Health Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-fact-sheet-awaited-from-drugs-controller-general-to-raise-covaxin-usage/article34002444.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘NPS has turned into no pension scheme’||Members of the BJP and the JD(S)on Thursday urged the State government to revert to the Old Pension Scheme (OPS) for State government employees as the New Pension Scheme (NPS) had failed to deliver the perceived benefits. While JD(S) member K.T. Srikante Gowda raisedthe issue, several BJP members, including Ayanur Manjunath and Y.A. Narayanswamy, also urged the government to return to the old scheme. Economic downturn Mr. Gowda said that since 2006 when the New Pension Scheme was implemented in Karnataka after it was approved in Parliament, a large number of government employees had shifted to it as they were promised lucrative returns. “However, owing to economic downturn and a host of other reasons, the returns have been very poor. The NPS has failed to protect the post- retirement welfare of government employees and now employees want to return to the Old Pension Scheme,” he said. He also said that while those in the NPS should be brought to the OPS, and those without any pension benefits should be given the NPS. “Managements cannot give matching contribution and hence the government should pitch in,” he said. Supporting Mr. Gowda’s argument, Mr. Manjunath said it was fair that if elected representatives, including MPs and MLAs, are getting the OPS, others should also be given it. Another BJP member, S.V. Sankanur, said a committee was set up in 2018 when H.D. Kumaraswamy was the Chief Minister to understand the problem and explore the possibility of shifting employees from the NPS to the OPS. Y.A. Narayanaswamy (BJP) termed the NPS as “no pension scheme” since many people were retiring without any pension benefits. Panel report Responding to the discussion, House Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary said, “We will ask the seven-member committee under the Additional Chief Secretary that had been tasked to studythe NPS to submit the report as early as possible. We will also ask the committee to study the feasibility of extending the NPS to those working in aided institutions too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nps-has-turned-into-no-pension-scheme/article34002005.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly 300 healthcare institutions to offer vaccination||If all goes as planned with the civic body able to streamline the vaccination process, senior citizens will not have to wait for hours on end to get their shot. Starting Monday, there will be COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVC) in many more private hospitals in the city. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is monitoring and overseeing the administration of the vaccine in the city, is likely to set up session sites — where vaccines are administered — in 107 private hospitals with more than 100 beds. Another 50 hospitals with 50-100 beds will also be ready to administer the vaccine, apart from BBMP’s own 141 Primary Health Centres (PHC), 28 maternity and six referral hospitals and other government medical facilities. In all, vaccinations will be administered in nearly 300 healthcare institutions in the city. On Friday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath met with the heads of various private hospitals that had evinced interest to have CVCs and explained the modalities and requirements, as per Centre’s guidelines. The third phase of vaccination, covering those above 60 years and citizens between 45 and 59 years with comorbid conditions, began on March 1. On a trial basis, vaccinations for the target population were taken up in 24 healthcare facilities, including five government hospitals and colleges and 19 private hospitals. “We wanted to see how the portal behaves and if it throws up any problems or glitches,” said Mr. Prasad, and added that from 1,068 vaccinations on March 1, it has increased to 7,351 on March 4. Till now, around 1.5 lakh healthcare and frontline workers had been vaccinated in the first and second phase. He said added there were requests seeking relaxation on the payment for the second dose of the vaccination. “We will bring this to the notice of the State government. The vaccine is being administered free of cost at government healthcare facilities,” he said. He also said there were requests for vaccines to be administered at home for senior citizens and those who are bed-ridden. However, as per the Centre’s guidelines, the vaccine cannot be administered to people in their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-300-healthcare-institutions-to-offer-vaccination/article34002447.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Make vaccine free: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition Siddarmaiah has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to ensure that COVID-19 vaccine is accessible and available to everyone free of cost. In a letter addressed to Mr. Modi, he pointed out that while India has approved two vaccines for administration in many phases, the progress is very slow. “India has only administered the vaccine to 0.5% or less of the population, while other countries are making huge strides to increase the immunity among its people,” he said. “India can progress only when the vaccines are widely available at zero cost to the population. The decision of the Central government to allow private healthcare centres to charge Rs. 250 for administering the vaccine will adversely impact the efforts to ensure immunity to everyone,” he said in the letter. He pointed out that many countries, including Brazil, Canada, the United States of America and the United Kingdom, have made the vaccines free. “Though it is the right approach to collaborate with private health centres, both Central and State governments should take the burden to reimburse the cost,” he said. He reminded the Prime Minister that one of the narratives built during the collection of funds through PM Cares was that the funds shall be used to vaccinate everyone free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-vaccine-free-siddaramaiah/article34002441.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Health Department gears up to cope with rush for vaccination||The State Health Department, which had been beating all odds to deal with vaccine hesitancy after vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers was rolled out, is now gearing up to handle vaccine eagerness among senior citizens. With over 50,000 senior citizens having taken the shot since Monday when vaccination was opened up for them and many more having registered, the Health Department is now planning to schedule appointments in advance. ‘Expecting stability from next week’ Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM) told The Hindu on Friday that the rush at the vaccination centres is expected to stabilise from Monday when vaccination will start in PHCs, CHCs and more private hospitals. “We are planning to schedule appointments for 10-15 days in advance from Monday,” she said. “The plan for scheduling advance appointments is to build confidence among people that they can take it at their convenience and also to avoid overcrowding at the vaccination centres,” she added. As many as 50,368 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since Monday when the second phase was rolled out. That apart, 7,767 persons above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated in the last five days. On Friday, as many as 12,521 senior citizens and 2,087 above 45 years with comorbidities took the jab. Cumulatively, Bengaluru Urban recorded the highest numbers - 20,197 and 2,388 - respectively in both these categories. Two doses So far, a total of 4,59,214 healthcare workers and 1,65,224 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 2,25,265 healthcare workers have taken the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-health-department-gears-up-to-cope-with-rush-for-vaccination/article34002445.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||677 cases, four deaths reported in State||Karnataka on Friday reported 677 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,53,813. Of these, 444 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. With four deaths, the toll rose to 12,354. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients because of non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 427 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 9,35,066. Of the 6,374 active patients, 112 were being monitored in ICUs across the State. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.85%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.59%. As many as 78,807 tests were conducted in a 24-hour period, including 73,911 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 1,91,46,913.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/677-cases-four-deaths-reported-in-state/article34001990.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No big tax burden in this Budget: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has promised that there will be no major tax hikes in the Budget to be presented on Monday, considering that common people are already reeling under fuel price hike. He, however, ruled out the possibility of reducing fuel cess. Speaking to reporters on Friday, he said this Budget, being presented on Women’s Day, would have its thrust on women’s welfare, within the existing financial constraints. Each district would get at least two programmes particularly dedicated to them, and tourism is another sector that would get focus, he said. Bigger Budget “Budget size will be slightly bigger than that of the previous one, considering that we have been allowed to borrow more,” said the Chief Minister. “COVID-19 had hit tax collection for six to seven months. Despite that it will be a good Budget,” he said. Bengaluru development On Bengaluru development, he said, “In the next seven to eight months, the face of Bengaluru will change and there will be emphasis on city development.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-big-tax-burden-in-this-budget-cm/article34001996.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||40% posts in farm varsities vacant||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Friday assured the Legislative Council that he would meet the Chief Minister to convince him to lift the freeze on recruitment in agriculture universities. He said the Finance Department had frozen the recruitments as part of austerity measures in the times of COVID-19. His response came after BJP member S.V. Sankanur pointed out that more than 40% of teaching postsin the agriculture universities in Bengaluru, Dharwad, Raichur, and Shivamogga had been lying vacant. “What kind of quality teaching can you offer? With such a shortage of non-teaching staff, how can you develop the university?” he sought to know.Mr. Sankanur said in Bengaluru, 223 teaching and 997 non-teaching posts were vacant. In Dharwad, 228 teaching and 655 non-teaching posts were lying vacant. In Raichur, 228 teaching and 553 non-teaching posts, and in Shivamogga, 184 teaching and 404 non-teaching posts were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-posts-in-farm-varsities-vacant/article34002003.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Are buffer zones around lakes also being surveyed?’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the government to clarify whether the 30 metre buffer zones to be maintained around lakes are also being surveyed during the ongoing survey of lakes across the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions while noticing that the report submitted by the State government on the status of survey of lakes has no clarity on this aspect. The government, in its statement, had told the court that 14,839 lakes have been surveyed in the State so far while pointing out that the Karnataka Public Land Corporation Ltd has collected comprehensive data of a total of 37,126 lakes spread over 30 districts. The survey of lakes in the State are being conducted on the directions of the High Court while hearing a PIL petition related to maintenance of lakes and storm water drains. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government and the BBMP to take steps to remove the 23 identified encroachments of Kaggadasapura lake and six encroachments of Beguru lake. It directed BBMP to take a stand on removal of an idol installed in the middle of an artificially created island in Beguru lake. In case of Beguru and Kaggadasapura lakes, the Bench directed the government to conduct a resurvey while pointing out that survey sketch is not clear on whether buffer zones were surveyed or not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/are-buffer-zones-around-lakes-also-being-surveyed/article34002453.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Landlords face the heat||All the eight foreign nationals who were arrested for allegedly peddling narcotics did not have the required paperwork, and were overstaying in the city. “Their visas – business, tourism and student – had expired,” said a police official. While the police booked all eight for visa violations, they also came down heavily on their landlords. The East zone police have booked the landlords under the Foreigners Act, 1946, for not verifying the passports and visas of their tenants. “They will also be booked for harbouring and abetment after investigations,” the police statement said. The senior police official added that landlords are bound by law to check the passports and visas before renting out their premises to foreigners. “Most of the foreign nationals we arrest in connection with narcotics cases don’t have their papers in order. Penalising the landlord is one way to fish them out,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/landlords-face-the-heat/article34002450.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTC losses cross Rs. 4,000 cr.||The four public sector road transport corporations together have suffered a revenue loss of over Rs. 4,000 crore since the COVID-19 pandemic hit the country last February. “The corporations have also suffered business losses of Rs. 2,980 crore,” Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi told the Legislative Council on Friday. Responding to a request from Janata Dal (Secular) member K.T. Srikante Gowda on Friday, the Deputy Chief Minister said there were demands for new bus stations and bus routes this year.  Earlier, Mr. Gowda had urged the government to provide women’s restrooms and proper toilet facilities at bus stations across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtc-losses-cross-rs-4000-cr/article34002004.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister inaugurates EPFO building annexe||The annexe building of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) Bengaluru was inaugurated on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, R.K. Singh, Additional Central Provident Fund Commissioner (HQ), Zonal Office, Bengaluru, appealed to all the PF members to ensure that their correct KYC details are updated in their PF accounts and UANs. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar inaugurated the annexe building through video conferencing. It is a ‘green building’ with solar power units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-inaugurates-epfo-building-annexe/article34002459.ece
06 March 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat||All India Pension Adalat for Telecom and BSNL Pensioners, conducted by Department of Telecommunications (DoT), will be held on March 25 through virtual mode in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Time and link for participants of the adalat will be intimated to each applicant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-adalat/article34002439.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Avenue Road work to be completed in 10 months’||The work on the narrow but busy Avenue Road, which is being developed as per the TenderSURE model under Smart City Mission, will be completed in the next 10 months, civic commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said while inspecting the ongoing road projects. The work was taken up in mid-January this year. He said the road is just over one kilometre long, but work will be taken up in three phases of around 300 metres each, to avoid loss of business to traders. The BBMP also hopes that the phased work will mitigate traffic snarls as it is a major connecting road in the old pete area. Work on the first phase is being carried out presently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/avenue-road-work-to-be-completed-in-10-months/article34002451.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scooter rider killed in serial accident||A scooter rider was killed in a hit-and-run incident at Suvarna Layout, Nagarabhavi, on Friday afternoon. The deceased, Raju, 45, hailed from Channapatna and worked as a cook in the city, said the police. Raju was riding his scooter in Nagarabhavi on a stretch where white topping work is under way, when a lorry rammed into his scooter from behind and then hit another car in front of the scooter. Raju, who fell down, came under the rear wheels of the lorry. Though he was immediately shifted to Victoria Hospital, he succumbed to his injuries hours later. The people in the car that was hit by the lorry were not injured. The lorry driver abandoned the vehicle and fled from the scene. The police have seized the lorry and booked a case against the driver. Efforts are on to nab him. Cops said whether the ongoing work caused the accident will also be probed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scooter-rider-killed-in-serial-accident/article34002457.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Official suspended on corruption charge||Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R. Nirani has suspended B.M. Lingaraju, Deputy Director, Mines and Geology Department, Chitradurga, for allegedly indulging in corruption and harassing people. Lingaraju was suspended on Friday following a departmental inquiry, said a press release from the department. Fayaz Ahmed Sheikh, Geologist, Deputy Director’s Office, Department of Mines and Geology, Bagalkot, was earlier suspended on the same charges. Lingaraju was accused of indulging in large-scale corruption and harassing owners of stone quarrying companies when he was functioning as acting (in-charge) Deputy Director of Mines and Geology Department in Bagalkot district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/official-suspended-on-corruption-charge/article34001997.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Absence of Ministers in Council irks members||The absence of Ministers in the Legislative Council when proceedings commenced on Friday irked the Opposition benches. Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil pointed out that of the 14 Ministers who were supposed to be in the Council to field questions pertaining to their departments, only six were present.  ‘Disrespect’ When House leader Kota Srinivas Poojary defended the absence of some Ministers owing to pre-scheduled programmes, Mr. Patil asked if these programmes were bigger than the House proceedings. “Some sense has to prevail among Ministers that they should not agree to participate in any programmes during the legislature sessions. This is disrespect,” Mr. Patil rued. Opposition members were also irked at the fact that questions had been transferred from one department to another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/absence-of-ministers-in-council-irks-members/article34002002.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private member resolution||Congress member U.B. Venkatesh on Friday moved a private member resolution to recognise traditional medicinal practices in addressing emerging diseases. Though there were medicines and procedures to cure new diseases, they could not be administered, he said. The Council will discuss the resolution next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-member-resolution/article34002006.ece
06 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||NSUI members stage protest||Members of Shivamogga district unit of NSUI, student wing of Congress, staged a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Shivamogga on Friday demanding the withdrawal of the suspension of Bhadravati MLA B.K. Sangameshwara. The protesters said the BJP government “misused official machinery” and registered cases against the MLA and his family members. The MLA was upset with the developments and he exhibited his anger in a protest in the Legislative Assembly, by taking out his shirt. The Speaker has suspended him from the session for a week. “The Speaker’s action has taken away the MLA’s right to attend the session, where he will represent people of his constituency”, the protesters said. They demanded the withdrawal of the suspension and the withdrawal of the cases registered against him and his family members. State NSUI vice-president K. Chetan, Youth Congress leader Madhusudan and others led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nsui-members-stage-protest/article34002629.ece
06 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘BJP aim was to disturb peace’||Former Minister and Congress leader Kimmane Ratnakar has alleged that the BJP workers participated in the kabaddi tourney in Bhadravati, organised by Congress workers, only to trigger communal tension. At a press conference in Shivamogga on Friday, he said the BJP had no base in Bhadravati. Following the death of former MLA and JD(S) leader Appaji Gowda, there was no opposition in the constituency. “With an intention to make inroads in the constituency through communal politics, they did so as they did earlier in Thirthahalli and Sagar”, he said. “The police have booked cases against people, as per the list given by the BJP The police are acting like BJP agents. They have arrested five people and booked cases against several party workers. The administration allowed BJP to protest, but imposed prohibitory orders to avoid Congress protest”, he alleged. Bhadravati Block Congress president Chandre Gowda said “The organisers had hired a mat, worth over Rs. 10 lakh, to hold kabaddi matches. As some people burst crackers on the mat, the organisers objected citing that it would damage the mat. It led to the clash.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-aim-was-to-disturb-peace/article34002630.ece
06 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Anti-bribery drive held||Leaders of Karnataka Rashtra Samiti, a political party, conducted a ‘Lancha Mukta Karnataka Abhiyan’ (bribe-free Karnataka drive) at the taluk office in Thirthahalli of Shivamogga on Friday. Office-bearers of the party went around the office and reviewed if the staff members and officers were wearing ID cards, displaying their nameplates, attending to grievances of the public without delay, and following the directions of the State government on providing services. Party State president Ravi Krishna Reddy led the drive. He visited the different sections of the office and noted that many government servants were not wearing badges. The office-bearers also noted applications submitted by the public seeking survey of land pending for several months. They appealed to the government servants to exhibit efficiency and honestly. They also called upon the public to get their work done without offering bribes. Later, they submitted a memorandum to tahsildar S.B. Shripad along with a list of issues/loopholes they noticed at the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-bribery-drive-held/article34002632.ece
06 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Logo of Raitha Maha Panchayat launched||The logo of the Raitha Maha Panchayat to be held in Shivamogga on March 20 was launched in Shivamogga on Friday. Kadidal Shamanna, senior farmers’ leader, unveiled the logo in a programme. Mr. Shamanna said he was elated as pro-farmer, pro-Dalit, and progressive organisations had joined hands to hold the panchayat. K.L. Ashok, representing Samyukta Kissan Manch, said farmers from Shivamogga, Davangere, Chitradurga, Kodagu, and Chikkamagaluru districts would attend. Rajya Raitha Sangha leader K.T. Gangadhar said the organisers would extend an invitation to leaders of all political parties. “We demand the Centre withdraw the controversial laws it passed without discussion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/logo-of-raitha-maha-panchayat-launched/article34002008.ece
06 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Providing jobs to locals is a challenge in itself: Kamath||“At a time when technology was snatching away everything, including time and money, providing jobs to local residents is a challenge in itself,” Joint Managing Director of Jyoti Laboratories Ullas Kamath has said. Speaking at the 92nd Foundation Day celebrations of the Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and ‘Vanijya Ratna’ award presentation in Hubballi on Thursday, he said that employment generation was a big challenge for industries as there was no guarantee about whether the resources would continue to be there in the coming years. Mr. Kamath said that at present nearly 10 lakh persons graduate every year and there is a need for preventing youngsters from migrating to bigger cities in search of employment. The government policies were now complementary to job creation at the local level and there was need for making use of them, he said. Elaborating on the potential of Hubballi-Dharwad, Mr. Ullas Kamath said: “ Hubballi-Dharwad has the potential of becoming a hub of commerce and industry. The rich in the region should set up a fund to help the research and development work by youths. This will help in job creation locally, establishment of industries and businesses and also result in profit. When implemented properly, unemployment will automatically vanish”. Delivering a discourse on the occasion, Adrushya Kadasiddeshwara Swami of Kanheri Mutt, Kolhapur, said that post Independence, the rural population in the country had come down to 40% from 88% and the cities were expanding, swallowing villages one after the other.  On the occasion, industrialists Nandakumar H.N., Anantha Padmanabh Aithal, Nagaraj Eligar, K.R. Rajyashri, and Abdul Khadar Imamsab Nadakattin were honoured with ‘Vanijya Ratna’ annual awards. Chandrashekhar and Sannamma, the family members of the founder of KCCI Murugayya Swami Jangin, were also felicitated on the occasion. The Facebook page of KCCI was also launched. President of KCCI Mahendra Ladhad, vice-presidents Vinay Javali, Siddeshwar Kammar, G.G. Hottigoudar, honorary secretary Ashok Gadad, Umesh Gaddad, former president of KCCI Shankranna Munavalli, CM’s legal adviser Mohan Limbikai, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/providing-jobs-to-locals-is-a-challenge-in-itself-kamath/article34001985.ece
06 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Inspection of railway work from tomorrow||The electrification of broad gauge network on South Western Railway (SWR) is in full swing and a total of 162 km of railway line, where the electrification work has been completed, will be inspected by Commissioner of Railway Safety for three days from Sunday . According to a press release by Chief Public Relations Officer of SWR, the electrification of the Hosapete-Hubballi-Castle Rock section is to be completed in the next six months. Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. is executing the works in Hubballi, Vasco, Ballari to Chikjajur, and Baiyyappanahalli to Salem routes. In Bengaluru Division, 47 route kilometres (rkm) between Periyanagathunai-Palakkodu, which is part of the Baiyyappanahalli-Omalur section, will be inspected by the CRS on Sunday. So far, 72 rkm between Baiyyappanahali-Anekal Road-Periyanagathunai has been commissioned in this section. With this, a total of 119 rkm out of 196 rkm will be completed which will facilitate faster running of trains between Baiyyappanahalli and Omalur and also suburban train services, the release said. In Hubballi Division, 65 rkm between Hubballi and Alnawar will be inspected by CRS on Monday. This work is part of the electrification of the Hosapete-Hubballi-Vasco section. Electrification between Kariganuru- Harlapur (73 rkm) was completed this year. Hosapete to Hulkoti (99 rkm) work of Electrification has already been completed. According to the release, electrification Work between Hulkoti to Hubballi and Alnavar to Castle Rock is in progress and is targeted for completion in June 2021. Trial run As per the guidelines, all the mandatory works such as tests and inspection of the electrified line by senior Railway officials have been completed. On March 3, the mandatory electrical locomotive trial run, prior to the CRS inspection, was conducted. In Mysuru division, 50 rkm between Thalaku and Chitradurga, which is part of the Ballari and Chikjajur section will be inspected by CRS on Tuesday. General Manager, South Western Railway, Ajay Kumar Singh has said in the release that in a year affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, remarkable progress had been made by the railway zone in terms of electrification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inspection-of-railway-work-from-tomorrow/article34001983.ece
06 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Artist Solabakkanavar’s statue unveiled||The statue of renowned artist and art teacher, exponent of Doddata T.B. Solabakkanavar was unveiled at Utsav Rock Garden in Gotagodi of Haveri district on Wednesday by Sadashivanand Swami of Sri Shivanand Brihanmutt in Gadag. Mr. Solabakkanavar, the brain behind many of the rock gardens or sculpture parks across the country, passed away in November 2020. The Dasanur Group of Companies, which operates the Utsav Rock Garden, which was created by Mr. Solabakkanavar, paid tribute to the artist recently by unveiling his statue on the late artist’s 74th birthday. Unveiling the statue, the seer said that through his hard work Mr. Solabakkanavar had left behind an artistic legacy and his contribution towards preserving the tradition of Doddata would be remembered. He dedicated his entire life for the sake of art and folk art forms, the swami said. Director of Rock Garden Prakash Dasanur announced that a State-level award will be instituted in Mr. Solabakkanavar’s name and would be presented on his birth anniversary every year. He also announced that the late artist’s dream of establishing a fine arts college would also materialise soon. On the occasion, several theatre and folk personalities and artists recalled the contribution of Mr. Solabakkanavar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artist-solabakkanavars-statue-unveiled/article34001987.ece
06 March 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||New Louis Phillippe showroom||A new exclusive showroom for Louis Phillippe premium products has come up on Koppikar Road in Hubballi and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar will inaugurate the same on Saturday at 10.45 a.m. Managing Partner Ravi Raibagi told presspersons on Friday that the 1,400 sqft showroom would showcase all premium products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-louis-phillippe-showroom/article34001976.ece
06 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Amendment to APMC Act already showing adverse effect’||Terming the recent amendment to the APMC Act as the first step to destabilise and privatise APMCs, Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission’s former chairman Prakash Kammaradi said that the adverse effects of the amended Act were already visible. Addressing a media conference along with farmers’ leaders Yogendra Yadav, Chamarasa Malipatil, Badagalpur Nagendra, U. Basavaraj, H.V. Diwakar, and K. Neela, here on Friday, Mr. Kammaradi said that the arrival of harvested crop in Karnataka’s APMCs had drastically fallen despite the considerable increase in the production quantity. “I have studied transactions at the APMCs in the State in relation to 15 major crops that cover around 80% of total agricultural production and found that all the arrival of all , except for tomato, in APMCs had drastically fallen after Karnataka promulgated the APMC Ordinance last year though their quantity of production has considerably increased. For instance, the arrival of paddy, maize, and red gram in APMCs have fallen by 27%, 26%, and 44% respectively. This is because a considerable quantity of the crops is being sold outside the APMCs bringing down the business in APMCs. In a couple of years, all the business of farm produce will shift from APMC to outside causing the collapse of APMC system. Business outside the APMC essentially leads to the emergence of monopolies that would cheat and loot the farmers as the government would have no control on the business carried out outside the APMCs,” Mr. Kammaradi said. He also said that the government’s move was the first step towards the privatisation of APMCs that had occupied the large areas in the prime locations in every town and city. To a question, Mr. Yadav also said that the morale of the agitating farmers in Delhi was increasing even though they did not succeed in getting their demands fulfilled. “The farmers’ movement is passing through phases. Initially, it was confined to Punjab for months. When the farmers came to Delhi prepared and camped for three months, it caught the attention of the entire country and beyond. It received a strong support from everywhere. Now, the movement has spread to other States. More than 100 maha panchayats were held across north India. The families of the farmers who are in agitation in Delhi are being supported by the entire villages. The spread of movement to other areas and the active support it received has boosted the morale and confidence of the agitating farmers in Delhi,” Mr. Yadav said.  Business outside the APMC essentially leads to the emergence of monopolies that would cheat and loot the farmers. Prakash Kammaradi, Former chairman, Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amendment-to-apmc-act-already-showing-adverse-effect/article34001982.ece
06 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Having become leaner, BSNL wants to spread via franchisees||Having shed much of its workforce through voluntary retirement scheme (VRS), Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd., (BSNL) is looking for franchisees to expand its business. G.R. Ravi, Principal General Manager, BSNL, told reporters here on Friday that the company has rolled out several attractive plans for mobile telephony as well as fibre-to-home (FTTH) Internet services. While 4G services were rolled out in only in Mangaluru city that has become successful, the headquarters was working out rolling out the same across the country soon. With the VRS, employee numbers in Dakshina Kannada Telecom District, covering DK and Udupi, has come down from 875 to 238 thereby saving close to Rs. 50 crore on salaries alone. With the strong support from remaining officers and staff, the company has framed exclusive franchisee models to spread its operations. Enthusiastic and technically literate youth could find attractive opportunities by partnering with BSNL, he said. While installation charges for activation of its all services were waived till March 31, no installation charges would be collected for customers opting for advance payment for 6/12 months for FTTH, broadband, and landline in the coming days too. For FTTH and broadband customers, the company has launched BSNL Cinema Plus at Rs. 129 for first three months with 300 plus television channels and thereafter Rs. 199 a month. BSNL was also offering Google bundled devices at 72% discounted price on MRP for broadband and FTTH customers of Rs. 777 plan and above making advance payment for a year, Mr. Ravi said. Mr. Ravi said the company would soon launch round-the-clock fault repair facility for all its services partnering with franchisees. Except for damaged cable, other complaints would be attended to at the minimum possible time. Regarding connectivity disruption for mobile services during power failures, Mr. Ravi said it was to do with erratic power supply, particularly in hilly regions. Batteries at mobile towers get damaged following fluctuating power and operating towers using diesel generator sets was uneconomical. The company was replacing all damaged batteries in three months, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/having-become-leaner-bsnl-wants-to-spread-via-franchisees/article34002611.ece
06 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Goshala on land reserved for Coast Guard academy razed||After the district administration on Thursday razed a goshala (shelter for cattle) that operated on land earmarked for setting up the Indian Coast Guard Academy, the goshala owner alleged that the 250-odd cattle that were put up in the shelter were now stranded. The Kapila Park Goshala had been operating for the past eight years on 19 cents of land in Kenjar, which is part of the 158 acres of land of the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board which has been earmarked for the proposed academy. Two months ago, a notice was issued to Prakash Shetty, the owner and trustee of the goshala, to vacate on the grounds that it was illegal. Around 250 cattle, including the native Kapila breed cattle, were at the goshala. During a recent District Vigilance and Monitoring Committee meeting, Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, directed the district administration to clear the encroachment forthwith. MLA for Moodbidri Umanath Kotian had accused the goshala owner of indulging in sale of cattle. On Thursday, personnel from the district administration came along with the local police and razed the shelter. There were comments on social media subsequently condemning Mr. Kateel and Mr. Kotian. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said the district administration was ready to rehabilitate the cattle if a request was made by the goshala owner. “We are yet to receive a request from Mr. Shetty,” he said, adding that there was no question of paying any compensation as the goshala was operating illegally on government land. The administration arranged for fodder and water for the cattle on Thursday, he said. Meanwhile, accusing the State government of acting against the welfare of cattle, Mr. Shetty said he was yet to recover from the shock of Thursday’s incident. “I am thinking of building a shelter on our land, which adjoins the land on which the goshala was located. I don’t have money to rebuild the shelter,” said Mr. Shetty, who is a businessman.  Denying allegations that he had built the goshala illegally, Mr. Shetty said there were records showing that he had legally purchased the land from the earlier owner. He also claimed that he managed the goshala using his own funds and had not taken any funds from the government. He sold a few head of cattle recently as he had to bear the expenses of taking care of the native breed of cattle, he added. Rebutting comments on social media against him and Mr. Kateel, Mr. Kotian said the goshala owner had not agreed to the offer of providing alternative land for the cattle. “He has to relocate the cattle elsewhere. If he fails to do, the district administration will look after the cattle,” Mr. Kotian said.  Where it stood The Kapila Park Goshala had been operating for the past eight years on 19 cents of land in Kenjar, which is part of the 158 acres of land earmarked for the proposed academy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/goshala-on-land-reserved-for-coast-guard-academy-razed/article34002614.ece
06 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Smuggled gold seized at airport||Customs sleuths at Mangaluru airport have seized 238 grams of smuggled gold, valued at Rs. 11,00,946, from two passengers. A customs release on Friday identified the accused as Kasim Ibrahim Kolad, from Gujarat, and Mohammed Bashar Ruknuddin, from Bhatkal, who had arrived by an Indigo flight from Dubai on Thursday. The two were intercepted based on intelligence reports. They were found smuggling gold by ingeniously concealing them as gold foils pasted to the bottom of make-up foundation boxes and plastering gold powder pouches in the armpits. The team which intercepted them was led by Kapil Gade, Deputy Commissioner, and included Bikram and Chandra Mohan Meena, Superintendents, and Sandeep, inspector, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smuggled-gold-seized-at-airport/article34002609.ece
06 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Netravathi cleaning to continue every Sunday||The Hasiru Dala and the Anti-Pollution Drive Foundation (APDF), which launched a massive cleaning drive near Netravathi Bridge last Sunday, have decided to continue the drive every Sunday till the accumulated trash in the river is cleared. Nearly 14 tonnes of waste were cleared on Sunday, representing only about 10% of the accumulated waste in the river, said a release. The NGOs have invited volunteers to join hands with this community initiative from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. on subsequent Sundays. The collected waste was picked up by vehicles of Antony Waste Handling Cell for transfer to the municipal yard. An estimated 200 tonnes of waste is still lying near the Netravathi Bridge. APDF founder Abdullah A. Rehman said people continue to discard waste despite appeals by civic authorities not to do so and arranging door-to-door garbage collection. Mangaluru City Corporation and Ullal City Municipal Council extended support. Those interested may contact B.R. Vanishree (APDF) on 87621 62036 or Nagraj Ragav Anchan (Hasiru Dala) on 9663506158.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/netravathi-cleaning-to-continue-every-sunday/article34002605.ece
06 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||For rent||BSNL is offering its properties on lease/ rent to bulk consumers including other government departments and corporates. The company has already rented out about 150 residential premises in Mangaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-rent/article34002613.ece
06 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||41 new cases of COVID-19 in DK, Udupi||With 19 new COVID-19 cases and 10 patient discharges, the number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada district stood at 205 on Friday. In Udupi, 22 new cases were reported and 18 patients were discharged. The active cases in that district stood at 77. As many as 1,606 persons aged above 60 years and 46 persons aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities have so far received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Udupi, while 1,097 aged above 60 and 70 persons aged above 45 have received the jab so far in Dakshina Kannada. So far, 31,311 healthcare workers and 5,728 frontlineworkers have received the first dose, while 13,016 healthcare workers have received the second dose in Dakshina Kannada district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/41-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-dk-udupi/article34002615.ece
06 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bharat Air Fibre launched||BSNL has launched Bharat Air Fibre using radio frequency technology to cater to customers in remote and inaccessible areas, said G.R. Ravi, Principal General Manager, BSNL, here on Friday. The company has already provided 23 and 8 connections respectively in Doddathota and Kamila villages in Sullia taluk, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-air-fibre-launched/article34002612.ece
06 March 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||MESCOM will conduct its consumer contact meeting in the virtual mode at its sub-division office in Kaikamba, Mangaluru on March 9 from 11 a.m. to noon. Those who would like to participate in the same can use the link meet.google.com/uqt-sjki-hce. 0824-2258202.    Some areas in the city and its outskirts will have no power supply on March 7 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The areas are Baikampady, NITK, Mukka, Sasihitlu, Chelyar, Surathkal, Delantabettu, Katipalla, Krishnapura, Kana, Chokkabettu, Dwarakanagara, Jokatte, Thokur, Tadambail, Madya, Munchur. It is for maintenance works.      The Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D. V. Sadananda Gowda and State Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar will participate in the Jan Aushadhi Diwas programme to be observed at Brahmavar in Udupi district on March 7. There will be an award presenting ceremony, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34002606.ece
06 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MP bats for AIISH outreach centres||Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Friday advised the Mysuru-based All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) to come up with a vision document with the proposal of establishing its outreach centres in all 720 districts across the country for addressing speech and hearing disorders. The MP told AIISH Director M. Pushpavathi, who was present, that he would get an appointment from the Prime Minister’s Office for a presentation before Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the necessity for developing facilities such as outreach centres in all the States for dealing with the problems of hearing loss. Speaking after inaugurating the free hearing aid distribution programme organised on the occasion of World Hearing Day here at AIISH here, he said every district hospital should have the facility for screening speech and hearing disorders, and the AIISH, a premier centre can help in this direction. Inspired “If you come up with a proposal on reaching the speech and hearing therapies to all the States, I will take it forward to the Centre. If necessary, the subject can be raised in Parliament to enlighten the members on hearing issues. On seeing the setting up of an AIISH outreach centrer in Kodagu, the MPs from Dakshina Kannada, Bidar and other constituencies have sought similar centres in their districts as well for handling communication disorders,” he said. Describing the AIISH as the country’s top centre in the field of speech and hearing, he said the MPs of all 545 constituencies may also favour units in their areas if they come to know the importance of the AIISH and the work it does. It is time the AIISH took the lead and come up with a policy document on what more needs to be done so that the speech and hearing issues are addressed at the early stages. This will largely address the problems faced by children in schools.  Compulsory screening The MP also urged the AIISH Director to recommend compulsory screening of children below the age of one year to detect the hearing issues at an early stage. Many a times, the problems go unobserved by the parents. Children may have hearing and speech disabilities but the disorders could not be noticed in the beginning, leading to complications in later stages. If screened early, the deficiencies can be addressed through various interventions. In this regard, if screening is made mandatory, it will become a compulsion for the parents to go for the screening, he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-bats-for-aiish/article34002458.ece
06 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘One District, One Product’ concept yet to take off||The ‘One District One Product’ initiative under Atmanirbhar Bharat is yet to take off in Mysuru and Mandya districts which had been identified for the promotion of banana and jaggery respectively, with none of the shortlisted beneficiaries uploading their applications for getting the one-time loan-linked subsidy. The initiative aims to support micro food processing enterprises. A maximum of Rs. 10 lakh subsidy is available. So far no eligible person from Mysuru and Mandya has taken the subsidy since they were engaged in the process of fulfilling many procedures, especially arranging documents as per the checklist. In Mysuru, about five entrepreneurs have come forward to develop products from bananas which are grown in about 12,500 hectares in the district. “One of the entrepreneurs wants to extract juice and powder from banana shoots and another wants to produce banana bars. Their ideas appear promising. The Mysuru-based CSIR-CFTRI has given training to nearly 10 entrepreneurs who had evinced interest in the scheme,” said Joint Director of Agriculture Mahanteshappa. He told The Hindu : “Our aim is to encourage setting up of 30 banana processing units under the scheme in Mysuru and the department is hoping more entrepreneurs take the subsidy utilisng technical support from institutes such as CFTRI.” The beneficiaries from most districts identified under ‘One District One Product’ are undergoing six-day training at the CFTRI in different sessions. Two resource persons had been appointed in Mysuru to help process the entrepreneurs’ applications besides processing their loans and subsidy coordinating with the respective bank. There is a better response to the scheme in Mandya when compared to Mysuru. More than 35 individuals, prominently jaggery manufacturers, have come forward for the scheme. “There is scope for opening new jaggery units, adopting new technologies for the manufacture of hygienic and chemical-free jaggery. The stress is on producing organic jaggery and the persons running the unit can take the subsidy to modernise their operations. Jaggery powder making, other jaggery products can also be explored,” said Mandya Joint Director of Agriculture Chandrashekar. Mandya has around 591 “alemanes” in the sugarcane producing areas. Sources in the Agriculture Department said Mandya has the highest number of jaggery units in the State. Sugarcane is cultivated in 42,500 hectares and nearly 45 lakh tonnes of sugarcane is produced annually. Each jaggery unit can expect a subsidy ranging from Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. Plans are also afoot to raise a sum of Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 30 crore towards rejuvenating the units. The focus is on organic jaggery production for helping farmers improve their income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-district-one-product-concept-yet-to-take-off/article34002621.ece
06 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ union demands higher FAR for sugarcane||Submitting a wish list ahead of the State budget, the farmers from Mysuru region want the government to declare the input cost of cultivation as fair and remunerative price in case of sugarcane. Kurubur Shanthakumar, president, Karnataka Sugarcane Cultivators Association, said here on Friday that the cost of cultivation had escalated but the FAR fixed by the government did not match the actual cost incurred by the farmers. Hence the government should announce measures to benefit the farmers. ‘Failure’ He said it was a failure of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in not holding a pre-budget meeting with the farmers to discuss issues related to agriculture. The farmers are in dire straits and the feedback from the community would have helped the government conceive policies to bail them out of the crisis. Calling for waiving of cess on diesel used by farmers to run tractors, he said this was one way of reducing the burden on the agricultural community and also help them save input cost. The association sought subsidy at various levels to facilitate farmers expand agricultural activity as in case of fisheries. Mr. Shanthakumar said the government should announce a one-time settlement of all pending agricultural loans and also direct the financial institutions to release loan to the farmers to commence their agricultural activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-union-demands-higher-far-for-sugarcane/article34002628.ece
06 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Strict enforcement of plastic ban from April 5 in Mysuru||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Thursday said that strict enforcement of plastic ban will commence from April 5. Speaking at a meeting of the officials from the Mysuru City Corporation and the urban local bodies here, she said that it has become inevitable to act tough for enforcing the ban since plastic has been causing a lot of harm to the environment. She told the officials to educate the traders on the importance of shunning plastic and instead using alternatives such as paper and cloth bags for daily use. Ms. Sindhuri told the officials to give a month’s time to the traders and then act for the strict enforcement of the ban since any immediate action might cause some hurdles to traders as well as customers. In the first phase, the enforcement will be focused in the city corporation and urban local bodies. Thereafter, the enforcement would be expanded to the rural areas. The meeting was told to take immediate steps against allowing untreated sewage entering Cauvery, Kapila and Lakshmantheertha rivers in T. Narsipur, Nanjangud and Hunsur towns. The sewage has to be treated at the respective places and treated sewage has to be reused instead of letting it into the river, the DC said. She told the MCC to submit a proposal to the State government for setting up a separate body for drinking water supply on the lines of KUWSSB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strict-enforcement-of-plastic-ban-from-april-5-in-mysuru/article34002631.ece
06 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Budget: Tanveer Sait’s wish list for Mysuru||Former Minister and Narasimharaja Assembly constituency MLA Tanveer Sait has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to establish a water supply and sewerage board for Mysuru and set aside 50 per cent of the penalty amount collected for traffic violations for improvement of traffic management infrastructure in the city. The demand for an exclusive board for Mysuru has also been made by other people’s representatives including MP Pratap Simha and Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency MLA G.T. Deve Gowda. Mr. Sait’s demand for using 50 per cent of the penalty amount collected for traffic violations comes after the city police began collecting a large sum of money for traffic violations by stepping up the checking process. He said a portion of the penalty amount should be used for traffic management infrastructure on the lines of system prevalent in Bengaluru. Mr. Sait’s wishlist also includes the relocation of City Bus stand from its present location to Bannimantap and the Mysuru City Railway station to Kadakola on the road to Nanjangud. Also, he has urged the State government to allocate 100 acres of land on the outskrits of the city for the relocation of Karnataka Police Academy and Police Training Centre. He said the jurisdictions of all the police stations in the ity should be reorganised and based on the growth of the city. Additional police stations, women’s police stations and traffic police stations should be sanctioned. Mr. Sait also felt that the State government should allocate 20-25 acres on the outskirts of the city, where a new scrapyard complex could be established. He said a truck terminal should be set up near the Railway Goods Shed on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway. He said the government should establish markets on the four sides of the city, where the farmers can bring and sell their produce. He urged the government to develop the lakes in Mysuru as tourist spots and identified Karanji Lake, Kukkarahalli Lake, Lingambudhi Lake, Devanur Lake and Hebbal Lake for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/budget-tanveer-saits-wish-list-for-mysuru/article34002622.ece
06 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Ranking in pharmacy||The JSS Academy of Higher Education & Research, Mysuru, was ranked in the 201-250 band under “Pharmacy & Pharmacology” among 1,453 institutions in the QS World University Rankings by Subjects. A release said the ranking was across 51 narrow subjects and 5 broad subject areas and JSSAHER was ranked among top 5 higher educational institutions in India under the subject “Pharmacy & Pharmacology”. The result was announcedby Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Union Minister of Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ranking-in-pharmacy/article34002624.ece
06 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Film stars may soon lend support to awareness drive||Many celebrities may soon join hands with the Mysuru-based All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) for spreading awareness on the prevention of hearing loss and deafness. The AIISH is making efforts to get the celebrities’ support, especially Kannada film stars, in reaching out to the people educating them on vocal and auditory functions and what they are supposed to do if anybody was facing hearing loss. “The AIISH is trying to rope in celebrities for spreading awareness on communication disorders. I too spoke to a Kannada film star who has assured us of lending help after completing his current film project. Another big star is also being approached to support the awareness. The AIISH has world-class infrastructure and has established a reputation for its expertise in addressing communication disorders,” said Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, at a function at AIISH here on Friday. Currently, the works as a part of Institute of Eminence are underway on the campus of AIISH and the Centre has allocated a sum of Rs. 132 crore towards releasing the plan of making it a one-stop centre. “The works will get over soon and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan would be invited to inaugurate the new initiatives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-stars-may-soon-lend-support-to-awareness-drive/article34002625.ece
06 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Sports can help improve one’s mental and physical strength: DC||R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, has said that sports can help improve the mental and the physical strength of police personnel. She was speaking after inaugurating the annual police sports in Yadgir on Friday. Dr. Ragapriya, who pointed out the difficulties of men in khaki, said that people may have to work hard according to the situation. “Hard work will always cause stress either physically or mentally. Despite all odds, the policemen are working for the people to protect them and maintain the law and order and peace in society,” the DC said. She advised the police personnel to maintain their physical and mental strength. Rishikesh Sonawane, Superintendent of Police, said that police personnel are meant to maintain peace in society. “We must have to maintain a physical and a mental stability to face any difficulty,” he said. The Yadgir police have developed a professionalism with the capability of handling difficult situations, Mr. Sonawane said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sports-can-help-improve-ones-mental-and-physical-strength-dc/article34001989.ece
06 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||441 quintals of rice seized||A team of officials, headed bySantosh K., Assistant Commissioner of Raichur, conducted raids on four rice mills in Raichur recently and seized 441 quintals of rice meant for distribution to card-holders through the Public Distribution System, officials said. The value of the rice seized was Rs. 6.61 lakh. Owners of rice mills had allegedly stocked up rice, which was meant for distribution to beneficiaries under the Anna Bhagya scheme, in order to sell them later for higher prices. A case has been registered at Market Yard police station in Raichur city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/441-quintals-of-rice-seized/article34001991.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Need better medical emergency response at IISc.’||Two days after the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) in Bengaluru announced the death of two students, one of whom had reportedly collapsed on campus, a section of students boycotted the condolence meeting held by the administration. They claimed to be unhappy with the administration’s emergency response after 31-year-old M.Tech student Rahul Pratap Singh collapsed while playing football earlier this week. On Friday, they held a meeting on campus to discuss the issue. Prior to that, they met the administration, who responded ‘positively’, students said on condition of anonymity. Sources shared a communication from the institute – the veracity of which was not confirmed by IISc. authorities – which indicated measures taken for smooth operation of the health centre, including the availability of a night duty doctor. There was no response from the IISc. administration to calls and mails from The Hindu at the time of going to print.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-better-medical-emergency-response-at-iisc/article34002462.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bigwigs involved in CD expose: Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy has alleged that he had information that “political bigwigs” were behind the CD episode of former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The CD contains the former Minister’s intimate moments with a woman, who was allegedly promised a government job. “Their intention was to get the Minister sacked, which has happened. Why would they care for the woman now?” he questioned. He also alleged a “deal” was struck for Rs. 5 crore related to the CD release. “It has been ongoing for the past three months now,” he said, refusing to elaborate further. Terming it “blackmail tactic”, he came down heavily on the complainant in the case, Dinesh Kallahalli, without naming him. “A person publicly claims he has more such CDs of politicians, including a former Chief Minister. Isn’t this blackmail? The government needs to investigate such people, bring out the truth, and arrest them. It has been an embarrassment to all of us,” he said, adding similar rumours were spread about him in an earlier drug case too, but was later found to be false. Meanwhile, Mr. Kallahalli who had sought time till March 9 to present himself before the police citing security concerns, surprised them and joined the probe on Thursday. However, he refused to give out any details beyond what he had said in his complaint, sources said. “He claimed the relatives of the woman in the CD approached him through a friend. He claimed he is unaware of the identity of the woman or her relatives and refused to disclose the identity of the friend who was the link,” a senior officer said. In the dark The only way the investigation can proceed is by tracking down the woman and record her statement, for which the complainant is not cooperating, a senior officer said. “We are in the dark as to the place of offence, time of offence, and identity of the victim. In earlier cases, the account of a third person has been upheld to be enough to take up a case, but the third person has to be an eyewitness to the sexual harassment, which is not the case here. We are consulting legal experts on the way ahead, even as we are also independently investigating to track the woman,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bigwigs-involved-in-cd-expose-kumaraswamy/article34002007.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ready, steady, go||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-steady-go/article34001981.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ready for future challenges||jss||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ready-for-future-challenges/article34002627.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For a cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-a-cause/article34001995.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New role||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-role/article34002010.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BWSSB phone-in programme today||The BWSSB will hold a phone-in programme on Saturday between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. Consumers may call 080-22945119 and must share their R.R. number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bwssb-phone-in-programme-today/article34002449.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Mangaluru Kambala Samiti: Inauguration of Mangaluru Kambala, Bangra Kuluru, 8.30 a.m., stage programme, 6 p.m.  Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat: Sports meet of zilla, taluk panchayat members and district level officers, Mangala stadium, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34002607.ece
06 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha farmers a worried lot||Despite some issues, paddy harvest and procurement are progressing in Kuttaand and other parts of the district. The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has procured around 6,000 tonnes of paddy so far from farmers in Alappuzha. Supplyco officials said the procurement process would gain momentum in the coming days. “Issues persist between farmers and mills over the quality of rice at some polders. It has affected paddy procurement to some extent, but overall, the process is making progress. These are initial days, and we expect to resolve the issues amicably,” said an official. Farmers said rice mills were demanding wastage up to 10 kg per quintal of paddy resulting in a delay in procurement. They urged the authorities to intervene and initiate measures to procure the harvested paddy at the earliest as summer rain could prove costly. Many issues Issues in connection with paddy procurement are nothing new. In the recently concluded second crop season, mills initially kept away from procurement after they failed to reach an agreement with the government. Following this, the government decided to rope in cooperative societies to procure paddy directly from the farmers. However, a lack of storage, among other facilities, for cooperative societies in the district resulted in a delay in procurement. The impasse ended after an agreement was reached between Supplyco and mill owners. Paddy farming has been undertaken in around 29,000 ha in Alappuzha in the ‘puncha’ crop season (first crop), a major portion of which is in Kuttanad. However, farmers in Kuttanad and upper Kuttanad are sceptical about the yield as they faced several challenges in the ‘puncha’ season. In the beginning, seeds provided by the government to farmers in Nedumudi, Thakazhi, and Veeyapuram failed to germinate. An increase in water level coupled with bund breaches following unseasonal rain destroyed paddy in around 600 ha in Kuttanad and upper Kuttanad. Besides, pest attack and wild rice menace have also been reported from several fields. Last month, the district administration fixed the rental rates for combine harvesters at Rs. 2,200 per hour for ‘Kayal’ fields and Rs. 2,100 for the rest of the fields. Around 400 machines will be required for harvesting the ‘puncha’ crop. Apart from a small number of machines available in the district, the rest are being brought from other districts and neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-farmers-a-worried-lot/article34002138.ece
06 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Municipality to deploy more water tankers||The Alappuzha municipality will press more tankers into service to provide potable water to households in the municipal area. Thousands of families in the municipal area and eight nearby grama panchayats have been left without water for the past several days after the Kerala Water Authority stopped pumping following multiple leaks in the pipeline of the Alappuzha drinking water project at Thakazhi. Meeting held The decision to increase water supply was taken in a meeting between municipal authorities and the KWA here on Friday. Meanwhile, officials said the work to repair the damaged pipeline at Thakazhi was nearing completion and the water supply would be restored by Saturday. The latest leak occurred on Tuesday night. The Alappuzha drinking water project was executed by the KWA with Central assistance under the UIDSSMT in 2017. However, since its launch, pipelines under the project have burst more than 50 times, majority of them at Thakazhy and Kelamangalam, in the past three-and-a-half years disrupting water supply to residents in the municipality and nearby grama panchayats. The Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla road had also suffered damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/municipality-to-deploy-more-water-tankers/article34002139.ece
06 March 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||It’s extreme climate in Munnar||Munnar is witnessing a peculiar weather situation with high day temperatures and extreme cold at night. Munnar town recorded day temperature of 28°C, a three-year-high, on Thursday and a low of 4°C during night. Nallathanni, near Munnar, recorded a high of 25°C during day and a low of 7°C during night on Thursday. It was 25°C and 5°C on Friday at Nallathanni, as per an estimate of the United Planters Association of South India. This is in addition to a change in the weather pattern generally witnessed in Devikulam taluk, especially in the rain-shadow areas of Marayur and Kanthallur, where heavy rain and cold wave from December-end to January had caused widespread damage to crops. Residents in Munnar town say, normally, the highest temperature of above 25°C is recorded by the end of March. There had been variations in lowest temperatures recorded from December end to February end with long intervals. However, the mercury reaching a high in March itself is a cause for concern. “There is severe shortage of drinking water and the Muthirapuzha river has almost dried up,” says Kurian Joseph, a local resident. Climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil says the Idukki high range is witnessing a vast difference in day and night temperatures. Studies show a rising trend in day temperatures. During 1989-2000, the day temperature in Idukki was 25.6°C and it rose to 26.1°C in 2011-2020. During 1989-2000, the night temperature was 16°C. In 2000-2010, it was 17.4°C. However, in 2011-2020 it dropped to 15.7°C. The rise in temperature shows the change of climate pattern in the hill station, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-extreme-climate-in-munnar/article34002160.ece
06 March 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Where UDF lost its upper hand||Mananthavady, one of the two seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes in the State, was once considered a traditional bastion of the United Democratic Front (UDF). But when the segment was carved out in 2011 after detaching Kelakam and Kottiyur grama panchayats from Kannur district, the front lost its upper hand in the constituency. However, in the maiden election in Mananthavady in 2011, former Minister P.K. Jayalakshmi of the Congress won with a margin of 12,734 votes against her rival K.C. Kunhiraman of the CPI(M). Ms. Jayalakshmi secured 62,996 votes and Mr. Kunhiraman got 50,262 votes. He defeated P. Balan of the UDF by a margin of 15,115 votes in 2006. However, in 2016, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) retained the segment by a margin of 1,307 votes. This time, O.R. Kelu of the CPI(M) won by 62,436 votes, and his opponent Ms. Jyalakshmi got 61,129 votes. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) got 16, 830 votes. Six panchayats The Mananthavady constituency comprises six grama panchayats and a municipality. They are Edavaka, Panamaram, Thavinhal, Thirunelly, Thondernad and Vellamunda panchayats and Mananthavady Municipality. In the local body polls, the LDF won in three grama panchayats and UDF in two and Mananthavady Municipality. Both the fronts got equal seats in Panamaram grama panchayat. In the 2016 Assembly elections, the LDF had swept three grama panchayats and Mananthavady Municipality. However, in Lok Sabha polls, the constituency favoured the UDF. The front won 93,237 votes, while the LDF secured 38,206. The NDA got 13,916 votes. LDF victory Nevertheless, the history of the Assembly segment shows that it has always supported the UDF since 1987. The LDF could win twice in 2006 and 2016. Sitting MLA O.R. Kelu and Ms. Jayalakshmi are likely to be the LDF and UDF candidates respectively this time. There are 1,91,411 voters, including 96,113 women and 96,268 men, in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-udf-lost-its-upper-hand/article34002038.ece
06 March 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Three of gang that stole cars arrested||The Kannur police busted a gang, which was involved in making fake vehicle registration certificates and selling stolen vehicles to people. Three persons were arrested in this connection recently. The arrested are Faizal, 40, of Mattanur, Riyaz, 41, of Nileswaram, and Ashraf, 43, of Wadakanchery in Thrissur district. The police are on the lookout for another accused, Faizal Babu, who is absconding. The case was filed based on a complaint by Muhammed Ashraf of Pattambi in Palakkad district. According to the complaint, his car was stolen after it was rented to a person named Kunhappu, who took the vehicle for another person. However, it was later found that the car had been sold out to a Kannur native. A team comprising Town Sub Inspector M.C. Suresh, Assistant Sub Inspector K. Rasheed, SPO V. Sajith and Vivek was constituted to investigate the case. Mr. Rasheed toldThe Hinduthat during inquiry the police had found that one Shani, who had purchased the vehicle, was in possession of a fake RC. Apparently, he bought the vehicle for his friend Harris, who ran a business in Bengaluru, but did not have a valid identity card in Kerala. During investigation, the police found that Kunhappu had taken the car on rent for one Umar, a resident of Wadakanchery. Interestingly, both were unaware of the illegal deal. It was the first accused Faisal Babu, who took the car from Umar for his friend Ashraf, who is the third accused in the case. Later Babu and Ashraf met Riyas of Nileswaram in Bengaluru, and they hatched a plan. Riyas used the holograms and licence number provided by Ashraf to make a fake registration certificate. Later, the trio approached Harris, a native of Kannur, but settled in Bengaluru, to sell the car. Since Harris wished to register the vehicle in Kannur, but did not have an identity, he roped in his friend Shani, who purchased the car and transfered the registration certificate in his name. Interestingly, even the RTO office failed to identify the fake registration certificate and learnt about the illegal deal after the actual owner of the car registered a complaint, the police said. ASI Rasheed said that they were able to crack the case as they pursued it. It took time to make the arrest, as those involved were regular offenders and had cases against them, and they frequently shifted their base, he said. A case was registered against the three accused under IPC 406, 420, 465, 468 and 471. The police is further investigating to ascertain if more people are involved in the case .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-of-gang-that-stole-cars-arrested/article34002045.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fire breaks out at Brahmapuram again||With summer, fire outbreaks have begun in tonnes of garbage lying at the dumping yard at Brahmapuram. Garbage at the yard caught fire around noon on Friday, and was brought under control by evening, though some parts continued to smoulder, leaving residual smoke. Waste at the site has caught fire once in 2020 and multiple times in 2019, around this time of the year. The fire was mostly controlled, but fire tenders were still working on two mounds of waste around 7.30 p.m. “We might have to work all night to contain the huge quantity of smoke the fire generated. Work began by around 12.30 p.m. A total of 13 fire tenders, a high-pressure pump, and nearly 100 fire personnel are at the spot,” said District Fire Officer Gogy J.S. A Kochi Corporation health official in charge of the yard said that the fire was still smouldering in the evening. “The waste was mostly plastic. Staff at the plant spotted the spark and alerted us around noon,” he said. To some extent, the pathways created through the yard after last year’s fire might have helped contain the spread, he said. The fire had spread to around seven mounds of waste, said Navas T.S., panchayat member representing Brahmapuram, who was at the site. “With the wind, it appears to have spread quickly through the dumping yard,” he said. “At Brahmapuram, we are on the receiving end of this annual fire breakout,” he added. ‘Under control’ Excavators were deployed on Friday to separate the mounds of waste and prevent the fire from spreading further, said T.K. Ashraf, corporation health standing committee chairperson, who was at the site till evening. Efforts were also on to wet the piles of waste that had not been burnt, and generators were set up for the three fire hydrants. “The fire was controlled by evening, but some smoke and embers remained. The cause is still uncertain. It might have been a combination of heat and the large quantities of plastic at the site,” he said. The fire hydrants at the site were just being installed and did not have their own power supply, said Mr. Gogy. Urgent steps would be taken at the plant to prevent waste from piling up, said Mr. Ashraf. “The defunct bio-composting system will be revived, and biomining will have to be initiated soon for the nearly one lakh tonnes of unprocessed waste at the site. It will not suffice to wait for a waste-to-energy plant,” he said. Biomining Mayor M. Anilkumar said that the health standing committee would visit the site soon. “Biomining should be done, but the council has its reservations about the tendering process and the cost for biomining. Once NIT-Calicut quantifies the waste and submits its report, we can discuss it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breaks-out-at-brahmapuram-again/article34002576.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Road safety officials, experts inspect Elamkulam curve||A team of experts from the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) and the Kerala Road Safety Authority (KRSA) inspected the accident-prone curve at Elamkulam on SA Road, which claimed the life of 10 motorists during the past six months, to probe problems, if any, in the road’s alignment and profile. They comprised Ebin Sam, scientist in charge of NATPAC’s Kozhikode regional centre, whose team mapped 39 high-risk black spots in Kochi and readied their list in 2019, and Niju Azhakeshan, Director, technical support, KRSA. City Traffic Police Assistant Commissioner T.B. Vijayan, Enforcement RTO Shaji Madhavan and officials of the Kochi Corporation were present. Mr. Sam said that a detailed study, including topographic survey, might be needed to zero in on why the curve had turned accident-prone. “Preliminary reports suggest that two-wheeler riders who died in the accidents were commuting at speed beyond the road’s design speed of 50 kmph. Short-term measures that ought to be adopted include traffic calming measures like rumble strips and placement of median barriers to slow down vehicles that approach the curve. “We will submit a report to KRSA and other stakeholders concerned, including to the Kochi Corporation which owns SA Road and KMRL which resurfaced the road (in 2020). The long-term measures include widening of the carriageway at the curve, including through land acquisition, if found necessary. The carriageway width is very inconsistent at the curve, where the road narrows down. This also hampers visibility. Roller or conventional crash barriers could be installed on either side of the curve, to prevent two-wheeler riders crashing into the metro pillars or light poles on the median. The stretch also needs a proper footpath, it being a pedestrian-dense region,” he said. The District Road Safety Cell would have to ensure that suggestions made by NATPAC and KRSA are implemented. Mr. Azhakeshan said installing surveillance cameras and speed radar before the curve would act as a deterrent against overspeeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-safety-officials-experts-inspect-elamkulam-curve/article34002586.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Non-political players likely to become game changers||With new players and socio-political factors that could influence the poll outcome emerging, the poll-scape of Ernakulam has become an interesting one to follow. Besides Twenty20, V4Kochi, another non-political player, has made its presence felt in the Ernakulam Corporation area, spread over the Assembly constituencies of Ernakulam, Thrikkakara, Kochi and Thripunithura. The votes garnered by the formation had denied the Congress power in the Kochi Corporation. Both the formations have made known their intentions to expand their political sphere beyond the local bodies where they consolidated their political positions, which could make or break the political fortunes of many a candidate. Current standings The 2016 hustings underscored the political assessment that the United Democratic Front may not have to worry much about Ernakulam as the front won nine out of the 14 seats from the district. While the Congress has seven legislators, the Kerala Congress (Jacob) faction led by Anoop Jacob and the Indian Union Muslim League have one seat each. The CPI(M) has four and the CPI, one legislator. Last time, the UDF’s Eldhose Kunnappilly wrested Perumbavoor from Saju Paul of the CPI(M) in the election where the rape and murder of a Dalit woman became the political talking point. Former Kochi Corporation councillor K.J. Maxy made his comrades proud by winning the Kochi seat and trouncing Congress strongman Dominic Presentation in the process. M. Swaraj of the CPI(M), a native of Nilambur, came visiting Thripunithura to end the winning streak of former Minister K. Babu, who was embroiled in the controversies related to bar scam. The just concluded local body polls saw Ernakulam mostly standing by the UDF. Statistics may favour the UDF in the Assembly polls. Yet, the political reality is not all that rosy for the front in many constituencies, including Ernakulam, where it used to post impressive wins. The UDF had swept all four Parliamentary constituencies of Ernakulam, Chalakudy, Idukki and Kottayam which come under the territorial jurisdiction of Ernakulam district in 2019. While the front lost the Kochi Corporation, which it wrested from the Left Democratic Front a decade ago, it put up a reasonably good show in the polls held a few months ago. Close call for Cong. The Ernakulam bypoll held in 2019 on a rainy day gave jitters to the Congress as T.J. Vinod had to struggle hard to get through.  His margin plummeted to 3,673 votes from the 21,494 posted by Mr. Eden, who vacated the seat after being elected to Parliament. Flyover factor The corruption case related to the construction of Palarivattom flyover, located in Thrikkakara Assembly constituency, is sure to worry the UDF as V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, the former Public Works Minister and the legislator from Kalamassery, was arrested in the case. The controversy is sure to make its presence felt beyond the spans of the bridge, which is being reconstructed. The continuing conflicts between the Orthodox and Jacobite Churches and the entry of the Kerala Congress faction led by Jose K. Mani to the LDF may prove decisive in the constituencies in the eastern belt of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/non-political-players-likely-to-become-game-changers/article34002148.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Registration snags turn vaccination drive chaotic||Vaccination centres in Kochi reported overcrowding on Friday with a slow online portal further delaying the process. Health officials at the Ernakulam General Hospital reported a situation where the number of people who arrived for vaccination was larger than what the hospital could handle. The hospital can only administer 200 doses on a day, with 10% of the doses reserved for people who register on the spot. But with the COWIN portal being slow on Friday, even 200 doses had become difficult to administer by evening, a doctor said. A doctor at the taluk hospital at Karuvelipady said that the situation at the hospital was chaotic on Friday morning when a large crowd gathered for vaccination. “The hospital had only been provided with 100 doses for the day. But we already had a list of around 70 school staff to vaccinate. Several people among the general public who arrived for vaccination, even with prior registrations, had to be turned away, and their sessions had to be rescheduled,” the doctor said. The task of vaccinating officials on poll duty, health workers who were arriving for their second dose, and senior citizens turned unmanageable. The police had to be called in to control the crowd, and the hospital has suggested that police officers be posted at the vaccination site henceforth. Dr. M. G. Sivadas, district nodal officer for vaccination, said that the health authorities were attempting to discourage on-the-spot registrations in order to deal with crowds at vaccination centres. “For senior citizens, who arrive without prior registration, we are trying to allot tokens and time slots when they can come back for the vaccine,” he said. Around 30 private hospitals have begun administering the vaccine, while 50 sessions were held at government centres on Friday. On Saturday, a session will be held at the YMCA Hall on Chittoor Road for senior citizens and polling officers. But this session will only be for people who have registered online.  Health authorities are attempting to discourage on-the-spot registrations in order to deal with crowds Dr. M. G. Sivadas District nodal officer for vaccination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-snags-turn-vaccination-drive-chaotic/article34002578.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Amid testing times, many students hope to breeze through exams||A section of SSLC and higher secondary school students seems to have been lulled into the belief that they will clear the upcoming examinations even without any preparation, thanks to potentially liberal evaluation in view of the uncertainty posed by the pandemic. This was revealed during the counselling being offered by the Department of General Education. “A section of students definitely harbours such a mentality, going by our interactions with SSLC students, and it is based on what they believe was a highly liberal evaluation last year when exams were held amid the pandemic outbreak. Also, more number of students are reporting ill probably because of the mix of exam anxiety and weather conditions,” said Mahitha Vipinachandran, a psychosocial counsellor. Counsellors associated with Souhrida Clubs functioning in higher secondary schools under the Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell (CGACC) of the General Education Department have also flagged the disturbing trend of misplaced confidence. “The issue was raised even during the training sessions of Souhrida Club coordinators. While a small degree of anxiety about exams is considered good, since that will motivate them to study, a completely anxiety-free state is disconcerting. We are now trying to overcome this challenge through the mentoring of students by our coordinators who also rope in parents as stakeholders,” said C.M. Azeem, State coordinator, CGACC. The carefree attitude found reflection in the students’ participation in academic activities and attendance at schools. The condition that attendance is not mandatory and is subject to the approval of parents is being exploited by this section to stay away from schools. For the studious among the student community, the prevailing pandemic situation, however, presents anxiety of a different kind. “They haven’t received the kind of coaching for cracking entrance exams and fear that it may hamper their prospects for higher studies,” said Mr. Azeem. They also seem equally concerned about a potential situation where a large number of students end up with higher marks as they expect liberally set question papers, which they fear, may damage their prospects further. Meanwhile, the General Education Department has activated district and school-level counselling for psychological issues and support system for clearing doubts about various academic subjects by publicising contact numbers of faculty members. “Everything is set for the State-level helpline organised annually ahead of SSLC and higher secondary exams. Telephone lines are ready and so are counsellors. Unlike in the past, we were able to train the entire lot of 1,680 Souhrida coordinators across all higher secondary schools this time, thanks to the virtual sessions. The helpline will be activated once the exam schedules are confirmed,” said Mr. Azeem.  While a small degree of anxiety about exams is considered good, since that will motivate them to study, a completely anxiety-free state is disconcerting C.M. Azeem State coordinator, CGACC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-testing-times-many-students-hope-to-breeze-through-exams/article34002587.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mango prices move up on short supply||The price of mangoes is seen moving up significantly this season with a serious shortage of supplies from traditional sources like Muthalamada in Palakkad district. The price of the Alphonso variety, which is the favourite in most Kerala markets, has ranged between Rs. 80 and Rs. 150 a kg depending on the size and quality. The onset of a severe summer too has triggered higher demand for fruits as a whole. The demand rise is most notably for pineapple, the price of which has moved up to about Rs. 25 a kg in the retail market from the earlier level of Rs. 10 and Rs. 15 a kg a fortnight ago. The higher price is also accounted for by the rising demand in North Indian markets and easing of transport restrictions after the COVID-19 lockdown. Both mango and pineapple from Kerala are in great demand in metro cities including Delhi and Mumbai. Bad weather conditions, extended rain lasting up to September, and climate change have resulted in late flowering and destruction of the flowers as well as leading to pest attacks, said a farmer in Muthalamada on Thursday. He said that production was much less than expected. The situation has been bad for most farmers over the past five years, said another farmer, who also exports the fruit. He said that he was not in a position to export as the quality of the fruit had now deteriorated to some extent. Sources in the department of agriculture said that farmers now enjoyed a good price but the crop loss had been extensive this year. While most farmers were unable to sell the fruits last season because of the lockdown, this year had seen easing of the restrictions which raised the prospects of better business. Muthalamada farmers grow around 10 varieties of mangoes in about 3,500 hectares. The premium variety is Alphonso. The other varieties include Banganappally, Totapuri, Sindhooram, Kilichundan, Moovandan, and Neelan.  Both mango and pineapple from Kerala are in great demand in metro cities including Delhi and Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mango-prices-go-through-the-roof/article34002049.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Operation of biomedical waste unit unviable: KEIL||Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Limited (KEIL) has informed the government that operating its new Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility at Ambalamedu here with waste generated by government healthcare facilities in Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Malappuram districts alone will not be feasible. The plant is the second such facility in the State after the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE) unit in Palakkad. It has the capacity to treat 15 to 16 tonnes of biomedical waste daily. The government has decided to allocate the waste generated in government healthcare facilities in Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, and Malappuram to the new plant located on nearly 3.5 acres. “The waste generated in the government healthcare facilities in these three districts will be around 2.5 to 3 tonnes only on a daily basis. With the plant in Ambalamedu having the capacity to treat nearly 16 tonnes per day, it will not be viable to operate it with a limited quantity,” said N.K. Pillai, Chief Executive Officer, KEIL. The public limited company has requested the government to allocate biomedical waste generated in both government and private healthcare facilities in six districts, including Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, and Malappuram, as per the expression of interest invited by the State Pollution Control Board in 2013. KEIL has spent around Rs. 14.5 crore towards setting up the facility. As per the agreement, it has to undertake treatment of biomedical waste generated in government hospitals at concessional rates. Mr. Pillai said the fee structure for treatment fixed per bed in a government facility a day is Rs. 4.50. There is no affiliation fee for government hospitals. With the waste provided from government healthcare facilities at those rates, it will not be feasible to operate the plant, he said. The company is also awaiting the release of subsidy under the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 towards setting up the facility. According to officials, the Centre and the State have to provide Rs. 90 lakh each, but the funds have not yet been released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biomedical-waste-unit-unviable-keil-tells-govt/article34002145.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Where voting patterns make unpredictable shifts||The electoral fortunes of political parties in the Muvattupuzha Assembly constituency have kept changing, ever since its formation in 1957. Political observers attribute this to a predominantly well-educated population and a balanced mix of different communities in the largely agricultural region. The unpredictable shifts in voting patterns during the past two decades have kept both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on tenterhooks till poll results were announced. The 2016 Assembly election saw Eldho Abraham of the Communist Party of India (CPI) wrest the seat from Joseph Vazhakkan of the Indian National Congress (INC), who won in 2011. They got a vote share of 49.27 % and 42.70 % respectively, while P.J. Thomas of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got 6.84 %. In 2006, the voters had selected Babu Paul of the CPI, while Johny Nellore of the Kerala Congress recorded a hat-trick, in 2001, 1996, and 1991, an exception to the varying voting patterns. An Independent, A.V. Issac won in 1987, while candidates of Kerala Congress groups won in 1982, 1980, and 1977. Pennamma Jacob who won in 1970 was an Independent candidate. The constituency voted K.M. George of the Congress as MLA in 1957 and 1960. P.V. Abraham of the CPI won in 1967. M.P. Mathai, who retired as Director of Gandhian Studies at Mahatma Gandhi University, said Muvattupuzha was largely a rural constituency, although the town wore a semi-urban look. “There is now demand from different quarters, including from political parties, that a district be carved out of Muvattupuzha. This might provide a boost to the physical infrastructure of the region, but might take away its identity as a locale without pollution. Even now, devoid of much urban activity, traffic hold-ups are common,” he said. A pair of bridges remained underutilised — one which is incomplete and another which cannot be used for want of approach roads. The Muvattupuzha Valley Irrigation Project, work on which began decades ago, has not yielded the desired results, it is learnt. “What Muvattupuzha needs is an alternative plan to decongest the town and roads.Funds must be earmarked to develop it as Kochi’s satellite township, rather than an independent district. The constituency thus needs a promising MLA who has a clear vision,” said Mr. Mathai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/where-voting-patterns-make-unpredictable-shifts/article34002581.ece
06 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Parenting clinics bare screen addiction among children||Parenting clinics opened by the Department of Women and Child Development in 15 Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) blocks in Ernakulam may need better awareness among the public to enhance their reach. The clinics that were opened last month have a psychosocial counsellor each in charge of them, and their services are available for free from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. every Saturday except on Second Saturdays and other public holidays that fall on Saturdays. The counsellors were given online training before being deployed. “The response to the services seems to be picking up. To begin with, they are tending to referral cases from anganwadi teachers. References can also be made by people’s representatives and Asha workers. Parents too can walk in,” said K.S. Siny, District Child Protection Officer. She added that the shortcomings in parenting, as exposed by a survey by the Department of Women and Child Development during the lockdown, prompted the opening of the clinics. Mahitha Vipinachandran, the psychosocial counsellor in charge of the clinic at the Edappally additional ICDS block, said while the services seemed to be gaining momentum, better propagation about the free services would go a long way in enhancing response. “Uncontrolled screen addiction among children seems to be the biggest parenting challenge. With online education being the flavour of the season, parents are simply not able to control the screen time of their wards. So much so that they seem to be in favour of reopening schools even in the face of risks posed by the pandemic,” she said.  Parenting challenge Pandemic-inflicted financial constraints forcing parents to shift their children from premium schools to cost-effective ones and the resultant problems faced by children in getting acclimatised to the new environment seem to be another parenting challenge. The parenting clinic held in association with UNICEF is a further extension of the long-running series of webinars being organised by the Department of Women and Child Development to encourage responsible parenting. The department is likely to take stock of the operations of the clinics shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parenting-clinics-bare-screen-addiction-among-children/article34002146.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,600 special police officers to be recruited for polls||The Ernakulam Rural police have initiated steps to select special police officers drawn from the public to assist the force in the smooth conduct of the forthcoming Assembly polls. NCC cadets, retired police, excise, fire force, military and paramilitary officers, and those aged above 18 years who have received training under the Student Police Cadet programme can apply. “While deploying special police officers for polling booth duty is a routine exercise during every election, it assumes added significance this time, as the number of polling booths has almost been doubled in compliance with the COVID protocol. An estimated 3,000-4,000 police personnel will be required for deployment during this election, and any shortfall will be made up by special police officers,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Around 1,661 special police officers may have to be recruited this time with the number of polling booths going up from 1,518 in the last Assembly polls to 2,590 in this election. The special police officers will be deployed for two days - on the day before and on the polling day. Their primary duty will be organising queues at polling booths and crowd management and will act fully according to the direction of the police. The Special Branch will probe the antecedents of the applicants and only those with clean records will be roped in. The chosen persons will be given training and remunerated at a rate fixed by the government. Those interested may apply at the nearest police station with copies of the Aadhaar card and bank passbook. Poll preparedness Meanwhile, the Rural police have stepped up election preparedness. “We have identified nearly 2,000 trouble-mongers with past history. We have requested Revenue Divisional Officers to speed up hearings and to execute bonds eliciting guarantees from them not to make any trouble during the election period. Those violating the bond conditions will be thrown behind bars. Besides, we are also invoking the Kerala Anti-social Activities Prevention Act to oust people from our limits and resorting to preventive detentions,” said Mr. Karthik. The police have also intensified patrolling and vehicle checking to pre-empt movement of contraband, including illegal spirit, cash, and even drugs. Assistance will also be made available in the delivery of postal ballots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1600-special-police-officers-to-be-recruited-for-polls/article34002584.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Palarivattom flyover to open tomorrow||With load test for the rebuilt four-lane flyover at Palarivattom Bypass Junction completed satisfactorily, the structure will be opened to motorists on March 7 evening by the Chief Engineer of the PWD (NH wing), Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said in a press release here on Friday. There will be no official function. Mr. Sudhakaran would, however, visit the flyover. The government had decided to rebuild the flyover which had developed cracks within two years of its inauguration in 2016 as it would ensure a 100-year lifespan for the structure. Technical experts led by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) principal adviser E. Sreedharan had suggested reconstruction of the cracked components (mainly its pier caps and girders) to ensure its longevity. A probe by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) is under way on the irregularities in the construction of the original structure which cost Rs. 47.70 crore. The Supreme Court permitted rebuilding of the damaged components, although a contractors’ body had opposed this before the court. The DMRC was entrusted with the rebuilding work and they, in turn, engaged the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society to execute the work. Final inspection The load test on the structure was done a week ago. A committee led by the Chief Engineers of the PWD would inspect the flyover before it is opened to motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palarivattom-flyover-to-open-tomorrow/article34002183.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hatchery technology for black seabream||The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute has developed a hatchery technology for picnic seabream (acanthopagrus berda), a commercially important marine food fish also known as black seabream and goldsilk seabream. The fish is known for its excellent meat quality and high economic value. It has high demand in the domestic market with a price of around Rs. 450 to Rs. 500 a kg. Locally called karutha yeri , the fish is an well suited to mariculture owing to its fast growth rate, strong resistance to diseases and ability to cope up with wide variations in environmental conditions, said a communication from CMFRI here on Thursday. The breeding technology, developed by the Karwar Research Centre of CMFRI, is expected to open up enormous scope for the country’s mariculture ventures in the near future through species diversification, said A. Gopalakrishnan, director of CMFRI. “The next task of the institute is to standardise the farming protocol of the fish as no record of breeding and aquaculture of this fish is available in in the country”, he said. Considering the characteristics of the fish, mariculture of the seabream has great prospects in terms of attracting commercial benefits and meeting growing seafood demand in the near future. Dr. Gopalakrishnan said that India targeted four to five million tonnes of fish production in the next 10 years from mariculture. Species diversification for mariculture was primarily aimed at achieving the target by enhancing the marine cage farming system across the coastal States of the country, he said. This is the seventh marine food fish for which breeding technology has been developed by the CMFRI. It took around three years for the CMFRI scientists to develop the seed production technology. Earlier, the institute had succeeded in brood stock development of fishes like cobia, silver pompano, Indian pompano, spotted grouper, pink ear emperor and John’s snapper. CMFRI will transfer the technologies to those interested in commercial production of the seeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cmfri-develops-hatchery-tech-for-black-seabream/article34002047.ece
06 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High Court adjourns hearing on PwC plea||The Kerala High Court on Friday adjourned to next month the hearing on a petition by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) challenging the government decision to blacklist the company and ban it from participating in projects promoted by the State for two years. The petitioner contended that the government had not followed the principle of natural justice while issuing the order. The government took the decision on the ground that the company did not perform a comprehensive background check, including the educational qualifications, on an individual in the Space Park. There were allegations that it was the PwC that had cleared the appointment of Swapna Suresh, an accused in the gold smuggling case, as an Operations Manager of the Space Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-adjourns-hearing-on-pwc-plea/article34002184.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||291 new cases in district||The district recorded 291 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and 7,803 samples were sent for testing. Two health workers tested positive and the source of infection could not be traced in 13 cases. Twenty-one people tested positive from Mudakuzha, 16 from Rayamangalam, 12 from Thripunithura, and 11 each from Edappally and Kuttampuzha. As many as 561 people tested negative on Friday, and the active case load is at 7,506. A total of 20,722 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/291-new-cases-in-district/article34002577.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Opposition sees a ploy||Antony Kureethara, Opposition leader in the Kochi Corporation, issued a statement on Friday suggesting that there was a hidden agenda behind the fire at Brahmapuram. ‘Measures taken’ “The previous council had implemented measures like setting up hydrants to deal with recurrent fires. The fire this year, despite those measures, indicates that there might have been some agenda behind it,” the statement said. “The Mayor, Secretary, and the health standing cZommittee chairman had visited the site and assessed the situation on Tuesday. The issues at the plant on Friday might have been geared towards creating pressure for the biomining project and getting the Rs. 54 crore worth proposal passed,” Mr. Kureethara alleged. Besides, the Mayor did not visit the site on Friday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-sees-a-ploy/article34002574.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Church leaders told not to befriend RSS||A central committee meeting of the reform-oriented Joint Christian Council has warned Church leaders of backlash from the laity if they attempted to step into the RSS camp at a time “when the RSS and Sangh Parivar organisations are going ahead with the idea of a theocratic state and against Christians”. In a strongly-worded statement, the JCC accused the Church leaders of turning a blind eye to the statements of people like Pratap Simha, MP, who allegedly wanted to deny government facilities to Christians, “in order to prevent being pulled up for amassing unlimited wealth and for receiving funds from abroad”. “Their backdoor deals to betray the laity and take them to the Sangh Parivar camp will be strongly resisted,” the JCC said. The council said the leaders seemed to have conveniently forgotten torching of churches, burning alive of Graham Staines and incarceration of missionaries and rights activists such as Fr. Stan Swamy and were singing paeans to the “arch-rivals”. The council wouldaunch a campaign to expose the “business mindedness” of the Church leaders, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-befriend-rss-church-leaders-warned/article34002044.ece
06 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||CM should quit: Surendran||For the first time in the history of India an investigative agency has revealed that a Chief Minister is involved in a smuggling case. Pinarayi Vijayan should resign if he upholds the rule of law, Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran said here on Friday. At a reception accorded to his Vijay Yatra at Anchal in the district, he said Mr.Vijayan’s strategy was to threaten Central agencies when faced with an investigation. “The Chief Minister should disclose about his association with the smugglers. A commission investigating Swapna Suresh’s link with the Chief Minister's Office is yet to submit the report. By challenging the Central agencies, the Chief Minister is challenging the Constitution,” he said. Reiterating that the BJP’s allegations related to gold and currency smuggling case were not baseless, Mr. Surendran said the statement of the main accused in the case showed the involvement of the Chief Minister. “Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, his three ministers, and the Speaker were involved in gold and dollar smuggling through the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, as per an affidavit submitted by the Customs Department before the Kerala High Court. It proves the BJP was right and our allegations were true,” the BJP State president added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-should-quit-surendran/article34002141.ece
06 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Political slugfest may reach a new high in Kollam||Kollam recorded a spectacular red wave in 2016, becoming the only district that favoured the Left coalition in all Assembly segments. The election also witnessed a surprise turnaround in constituencies such as Chavara and Eravaipuram, where Communist Marxist Party (CMP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidates managed to wrest power in Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) bastions. But in 2021, the political battle is expected to move to an all-new level with both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and and the United Democratic Front (UDF) gearing for their toughest fight. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) too is pinning high hopes in some segments. In 2016, the CPI(M) and the Communist Party of India won four seats each while the Kerala Congress (B), the CMP, and the RSP(L) claimed the other three. After the pro-LDF faction of the CMP merged with CPI(M), now the party will be contesting from five seats, including Chavara. It is a do-or-die situation for the UDF and the coalition partner RSP, a party that used to enjoy broad support in many parts of the district. While RSP leaders Shibu Baby John and A.A. Aziz were defeated by CMP’s Vijayan Pillai and CPI(M)’s M. Naushad in 2016, RSP dissident Kovoor Kunjumon emerged victorious in Kunnathur, defeating official RSP candidate Ullas Kovoor with the support of the LDF. Mr. John and Mr. Kovoor will be once again in the fray while Babu Divakaran is likely to contest from Eravipuram. Ullas Kovoor’s name was declared by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala during his Aishwarya Kerala Yatra and he will be contesting against Mr.Kunjumon, who has represented the constituency for the past 20 years. Chathannur is another constituency poised for a keen contest where B.B. Gopakumar of the Bharatiya Janata Party had polled 33,199 votes and finished second, pushing Sooranad Rajasekharan of the Congress to third. The UDF is keen on winning a decent share of seats in the district since the local body polls turned out to be another debacle with the LDF winning the Kollam Corporation, district panchayat, three municipalities, 10 of the 11 block panchayats, and 44 of the 68 grama panchayats. The UDF’s focus is on zeroing in on winnable candidates irrespective of other extraneous pressures. Though there is no official confirmation from the CPI(M), M. Mukesh and M. Naushad may most likely contest from Kollam and Eravipuram once again and Sujith Vijayan, son of the late MLA Vijayan Pillai, is being considered for Chavara. The candidature of senior leaders J. Mercykutty Amma and P. Aisha Potty is uncertain as of now and a clear picture is expected to emerge within a week. K.B. Ganesh Kumar of the Kerala Congress (B) will be contesting from his home turf Pathanapuram and the segment might see an interesting battle depending on the candidates picked by the other fronts. The BJP has made substantial gains in the local body elections and the NDA’s vote share had also increased compared to 2011. The coalition leaders are hopeful of the NDA making major gains in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/political-slugfest-may-reach-a-new-high-in-kollam/article34002154.ece
06 March 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Forestry webinar held||The Kollam social forestry extension unit and the TKM College of Arts and Science jointly organised a webinar on Thursday as part of observing Wildlife Week. Southern region forest conservator, social forestry, I.Siddique inaugurated the webinar and Principal Chitra Gopinath presided over the function. Prof. Sreehari Raman, College of Forestry, Thrissur, presented the subject. Assistant forest conservator, social forestry extension, S.Dinesh, programme convener Justin Rahman, and coordinator Mumthaz were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forestry-webinar-held/article34002142.ece
06 March 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Applications invited||Keltron Kozhikode centre has invited applications for television journalism course. Qualification required is degree in any subject. Those below the age of 30 can apply. Application form can be downloaded from ksg.keltron.in. Contact 8137969292 or 6238840883 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article34002143.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||An IUML fortress that is hard to breach||There has never been a surprise in Kondotty. This Assembly constituency, formed in 1957, has always been a stronghold of the Indian Union Muslim League and all the 16 MLAs who have represented the segment have won with considerably good margins. Kondotty constituency, now represented by T.V. Ibrahim in the Assembly, consists of Vazhayur, Vazhakkad, Pulikkal, Cherukavu, Cheekode, and Muthuvallur grama panchayats besides Kondotty Municipality of Malappuram district. It is one of the seven Assembly constituencies that form the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency. A tradition Kondotty has favoured the IUML much before it became part of the front led by the Congress and has a history of having IUML and Congress candidates pitched against each other twice. M.P.M. Ahammed Kurikkal of IUML had defeated Kolakkadan Aboobakker of the Congress in 1957 while Syed Ummer Bafakhi of IUML defeated M.P. Gangadharan of Congress in 1967. Former Chief Minister C.H. Mohammed Koya represented Kondotty for three years from 1970, but resigned later when he became an MP. P.Seethi Haji represented Kondotty for four consecutive terms from 1977 to 1991. In 2011, K.Muhammedunni Haji retained the seat winning against P.C.Noushad of CPI(M) and Kumari Sukumaran of BJP. In the next polls in 2016, T.V. Ibrahim won but with a considerable fall in his vote share. There was also an evident increase in the vote share of the LDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party that time. Even a marginal shift in the loyalties in this constituency is highly unlikely unless something drastic happens in the political front of the State in the coming one month. Otherwise, there is no scope for the guessing game here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-iuml-fortress-that-is-hard-to-breach/article34002028.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ruckus over licence renewal of IT kiosk||A proposal for licence renewal of the IT kiosk in the corporation office compound led to heated debates at the Kozhikode Corporation Council meeting on Thursday. Technoworld IT, a unit of the Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree CDS, has been running the kiosk for the past 10 years. It has now sought the renewal of the licence. However, a few UDF councillors found the demand inappropriate. They maintained that most members of Technoworld IT were also part of Unity Group, which had taken up the management of Mahila Mall in the city, said to be the first mall in Asia with an all-woman crew. Congress councillor P. Ushadevi said that the group had lost its credibility, as it could not manage the mall well, resulting in many women entrepreneurs turning bankrupt. She added that the same unit had been reaping the benefits of the kiosk for long, and that others should also be given an opportunity to bid for it. The proposal was put to vote and passed in favour of Technoworld IT. Earlier, the Opposition staged a walkout after Mayor Beena Philip denied permission for submissions in the council, as the model code of conduct was in force. The UDF had sought permission for an adjournment motion against fuel price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ruckus-over-licence-renewal-of-it-kiosk/article34002042.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A socialist bastion with Marxist vote base||A fortress of socialist parties that has a strong Marxist support base. Vadakara constituency in Kozhikode district is one of the few segments in the State that has never elected a non-Left candidate to the Assembly. It remains to be seen if the record will be rewritten this time. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has offered the seat to its socialist ally, Loktantrik Janata Dal, snatching it away from another socialist group, Janata Dal (Secular) (JD-S), whose leader C.K. Nanu had defeated Manayath Chandran of the Janata Dal (United) in 2016. The JD(U), the LJD’s former avatar, was part of the United Democratic Front (UDF) then. Ironically, Mr. Chandran, LJD Kozhikode district president, is a front-runner for the seat now. It was rumblings within the CPI(M) which led to a split and later the murder of rebel leader T.P. Chandrasekharan in 2012 that pitchforked Vadakara’s turbulent politics into limelight across the State and beyond. Ever since the split in 2008, when Chandrasekharan formed the Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP), offering an alternative brand of Left politics, every election in the constituency revolves around the position adopted by that party. This time, discussions are on whether the UDF should give the seat to K.K. Rema, Chandrasekharan’s widow. The RMP had a tie-up with the front for the local body polls in the form of the Janakeeya Munnani in grama panchayats such as Onchiyam, Eramala, Azhiyoor, Chorod, and Mavoor, and it could gain power in a few of them. If the tie-up continues for the Assembly polls, it will formalise the RMP’s alliance with the UDF. For the record, Ms. Rema had unsuccessfully contested the 2016 Assembly elections and had landed at the third spot by winning over 20,000 votes. It is not clear who will be the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate. It had fielded M. Rajesh Kumar last time. M.K. Kelu, popularly known as ‘Keluettan’, who then contested as a candidate of the undivided Communist Party of India, was the first representative of the constituency in 1957. M. Krishnan, who was part of the Samyutka Socialist Party, Praja Socialist Party, and the Socialist Party, won elections in 1960, 1967, and 1970. Since the elections held after the Emergency in 1977, socialist leader K. Chandrasekharan represented the seat for the Bharatiya Lok Dal, Janata Party, and later the Janata Dal for four consecutive terms. C.K. Nanu was elected first as a Janata Dal candidate and later on JD(S) ticket in 1996 and 2001. M.K. Premnath won the seat for the JD(S) in 2006.  M.K. Kelu, who contested as a candidate of the undivided Communist Party of India, was the first representative of the constituency in 1957||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-socialist-bastion-with-marxist-vote-base/article34002020.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||In Thiruvambady, small margins are a big concern||The thin victory margins in the previous elections continue to be the biggest stress factor for both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF) in Thiruvambady, a fortress of settler farmers in Kozhikode. The present effort to woo the settler farmers and gain the attention of the Thamarassery diocese is proof that both the fronts are convinced about the farmers’ crucial role in their performance. The victory margin of LDF’s George M. Thomas against his UDF rival V.M. Ummer last time was just 3,008 votes. In the 2011 elections, it was UDF’s C. Moyinkutty who trounced Mr. Thomas for 3,883 votes. In 2011, the total number of voters was 1,45,763. Though it increased to 1,68,412 last time, the margin did not witness a considerable change. The Mukkom municipality and six other grama panchayats (Karassery, Kodiyathur, Kodenchery, Koodaranhi, Puthuppadi and Thiruvambady) form this upland electorate. The difficulties faced by farmers following the fall in price of agriculture produce, wild animal menace, land disputes with the Forest and Revenue Departments and the buffer zone classification top the electorate’s concerns. It draws the prime attention of both the fronts for their election manifestos. Since the church’s stance is seemingly crucial for the significant victory margin, both the fronts are trying their best to convince the church about their farmer-friendly development agenda. The leaders of the Indian Union Muslim League have already met Thamarassery Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil for support. For the LDF, the entry of the Kerala Congress (M) faction has added confidence. They believe that the thin victory margin will be a thing of the past with the new ally having good support of the church. As part of the LDF’s election strategies, the church’s inclination for a candidate from the Christian community is also likely to be taken up. At the same time, the UDF is hopeful of staging a comeback, citing its several decades of hold in the constituency. Congress candidate Cyriac John and P.P. George were the winners here from 1977 to 1987. A.V. Abdurahiman Haji was the representative from 1991 to 1996. In 2001, it was C. Moyinkutty, who was elected to the Assembly. UDF’s dominance was affected with the entry of CPI(M)’s Mathai Chacko in 2006. For both the fronts, the increase in Bharatiya Janata Party’s vote share from 3% to 6% in the last election does not appear to be a major concern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-thiruvambady-small-margins-are-a-big-concern/article34002023.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Polls are special for many reasons here||One of the prominent agrarian belts which has undergone far-reaching socio-political changes with the passage of time is Perambra, where the Assembly election is special for many reasons. First, it is significant for being represented by Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan. Second, his political opponent in the last election, the Kerala Congress (M), is now an ally of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), making the polls special for the electorate. In 2016, Mr. Ramakrishnan’s victory margin against KC (M)’s Mohammed Iqbal was just 4,101 votes. For the KC (M), it was a reason to rejoice, as the LDF’s victory margin in 2011 was 15,269. The steady growth of the opponent, which was slightly a fear factor for the LDF, is now not a concern for it. Interestingly, both will fight together for a common candidate this time. The LDF hopes to secure 90% of votes in the constituency with the new tie-up. Though a section of KC (M) backed by the United Democratic Front (UDF) is not happy with the alliance, LDF leaders claimed that it would not make a major impact. Since the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is yet to garner even 6% of votes, the LDF is confident of an easy win. The erstwhile Payyarmalanadu now has 10 panchayats — Arikkulam, Chakkittappara, Changaroth, Cheruvannur, Keezhariyur, Koothali, Meppayur, Nochad, Perambra, and Thurayur. A majority of these panchayats are LDF strongholds. At the same time, UDF leaders claimed that the LDF would have no respite from its decreasing margin owing to controversies involving the government. Perambra has 1,92,529 voters, which will make the contest tough for both the LDF and the UDF. Though there were 1,79,658 voters in the previous elections, the voter turnout was only 1,53,512. Since 1980, the constituency has been an LDF fortress. For the UDF, the trump card is to field a popular candidate. The UDF camp is also for a heated campaign in the backdrop of the alleged corruption charges against the government and agrarian issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polls-are-special-for-many-reasons-here/article34002033.ece
06 March 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Rights panel asks officials to act against quacks||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has reportedly pulled up government officials for not using their powers against quacks and illegal medical treatment. Responding to a petition filed by the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE) Kerala, commission Chairperson Antony Dominic said that such an approach would put the lives of patients in peril. CAPSULE Kerala is a wing under the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad. Qualifications The commission said that doctors were found to be featured in advertisements claiming treatment for various diseases. The officials should check their qualification and registration details as well as the facilities at the hospitals. Mr. Dominic said that the State Police Chief should direct police officials to initiate action on complaints of fake medical practitioners and illegal treatment. The commission said that that the medical council’s view that it can take action against only those who had registered with it was not acceptable. The council was obliged to ensure that there were no fake medical practitioners or illegal treatment. The Drugs Control Department seems to be taking action only based on complaints. The State Drugs Controller too should not shy away from initiating steps against such people even otherwise, the commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-asks-officials-to-act-against-quacks/article34002041.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Discontent over move to field Dharmajan in Balussery||A section of Indian National Congress (INC) workers has approached the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) opposing the move to field film actor Dharmajan Bolgatty in the Balussery Assembly constituency. In a letter reportedly sent to KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, they claimed that the move would only weaken the Congress and kindle unrest among active workers. The irked INC workers also argued that Mr. Dharmajan’s candidature would backfire as voters were aware of the police interrogation he had undergone in connection with the actress assault case. They also demanded that an active Congress leader from the constituency be fielded to fulfil the voters’ wish. The last time, the constituency was allotted to the IUML candidate following a mutual understanding on seat-sharing within the UDF. Following the takeover of the reservation seat for Scheduled Caste by the INC, discussions were in favour of Dharmajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discontent-over-move-to-field-dharmajan-in-balussery/article34002025.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||98 sensitive, 22 critical booths||After the vulnerability assessment, the police have identified 98 sensitive booths and 22 critical booths within the Kozhikode city limits. The critical booths are located under Elathur, Nadakkavu, Chevayur, Kasaba, Marad, and Kunnamangalam police station limits. Within the Elathoor police limit alone, there are 11 sensitive booths. There are also six critical booths under the station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/98-sensitive-22-critical-booths/article34002034.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||358 new cases in Kozhikode||Kozhikode district recorded 358 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that 331 of them got infected through local transmission while the source was unknown in 26 cases. However, no health workers were among those infected. Meanwhile 6,131 people were tested on Friday. On the other hand, 377 people were cured and discharged from various treatment centres and hospitals beside home quarantine facilities on Friday. At present, there are 4691 COVID persons in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/358-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article34002043.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) may have a say in Saseendran’s candidature||The Central leadership of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) may decide on the candidature of Minister A.K. Saseendran after seeking an opinion from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) State unit. Sources said the party was offered three seats — Elathur (Kozhikode), Kottakkal ( Malappuram) and Kuttanad (Alappuzha) — for the Assembly polls. But Elathur appeared to be a bone of contention after a section of leaders in the Kozhikode district executive committee objected to Mr. Saseendran running for the third time in a row. The meeting had recommended four other names for Elathur. At a crucial juncture, the sources said, Mr. Saseendran had stuck with the Left Democratic Front when dissident leader Mani C. Kappan was keen on taking the State unit to the Congress-led United Democratic Front camp. That loyalty, many believe, would fetch him the seat. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was likely to favour his candidature for Elathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-may-have-a-say-in-saseendrans-candidature/article34002149.ece
06 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||42 transgender voters enlisted in Kozhikode||With increasing social awareness on citizens’ rights, the number of transgender persons who are eligible to vote in the upcoming Assembly elections has improved in Kozhikode district. The official records released by the District Election Authority state that there are now 42 transgender voters who are expected to exercise their franchise in the district. Kozhikode North, Beypore, Elathoor, Nadapuram, and Thiruvambadi Assembly constituencies now have the majority of such voters. There are also transgender activists who have expressed their desire to contest the elections with the political support of any willing parties in Kerala. In 2015, the total number of such voters across the State was just 82. As in Kozhikode, an increase in the number of such voters was visible in other districts. As per the recently released report, there are now 165 transgender voters in Kerala. The number is likely to go up with the release of the updated figures within a couple of days. Though the number of voters is increasing, a similar trend in the number of such voters who exercise their franchise is not seemingly satisfactory in the State. According to Social Justice Department sources, only six out of the 33 eligible voters cast their votes in the last Lok Sabha elections. They also point out that more efforts are needed to improve their turnout. At the same time, some of the transgender activists from the city claim that the political party leaders’ “aversion” towards them has witnessed no change. No political parties have expressed their willingness to nominate a transgender person to contest the elections or assign them in the key role of campaigning, they complain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/42-transgender-voters-enlisted-in-kozhikode/article34002035.ece
06 March 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML to announce candidates after Sunday||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has put off the declaration of its candidates for the Assembly election for two more days. A meeting of party leaders held at State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal’s house at Panakkad here on Friday decided to finalise the list of candidates after a wider meeting to be held here on Sunday. IUML secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, who briefed the media after the meeting, said that some more matters had to be sorted out within the United Democratic Front (UDF) before a decision could be reached. He said the meeting discussed the progress of the seat-sharing talks held so far. However, Mr. Kunhalikutty refused to divulge the names of the three additional seats the IUML would get from the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-to-announce-candidates-after-sunday/article34002159.ece
06 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Suvarna Chakoram for South African film||The curtain came down on the silver jubilee edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) here on Friday evening with the announcement of awards for the best films and filmmakers. Veteran filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan gave away the awards at the closing ceremony held at Priya Theatre. South African film This Is Not A Burial, It’s A Resurrection , by Lemohang Jeremiah Mosese, won the Suvarna Chakoram for the best film. The film won the award for its visual power and a tour de force performance by the late Mary Kuksie Twala in the depiction of an Africa resisting neo-colonisation while dealing with the trauma and scars of its colonial past. The film was chosen unanimously by the international jury. Mary Twala won the jury’s special mention for her acting. “Her fierce yet sage performance will remain an eternal inspiration in the world of cinema,” the jury said. Dignified image “Though she passed away soon after completing the film at the age of 80, she leaves behind a courageous and dignified image of the human body and the celebration of the spirit of innovation and commitment to her art.” Malayalam film Churuli, directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery, won the audience poll Rajata Chakoram for the best film in international competition. Lijo Jose also won the international jury’s special mention for direction. He won the mention for “daring exposition of the thin line between the lawful and the lawless, seen through a steady hallucinatory descent into absurdity, violence, anarchy, chaos and illusion.” Best director Bahman Tavoosi, who directed The Names of the Flowers ( Los Nombres De Las Flores ), won the Rajata Chakoram for the best director. The jury said that they were impressed by Tavoosi’s “thoughtful and unhurried ability to allow the rhythms and colours of the landscapes, the wrinkled body and face of the protagonist and a bowl of soup to tell a powerful political tale of responsibility to personal truth even in the face of despotic forces.” Alejandro Telemaco Tarraf, who directed Piedra Sola , won the Rajata Chakoram for the best debut director. He won the award for integrating themes of memory, time and landscape through meaningful composition to narrate a deeply reflective story of a man and his relationship with nature deep inside the Argentinean highlands that brings out the essence of human longing. Other honours Akshay Indikar, director of Sthalpuran - Chronicle of Space , won the FFSI K.R. Mohanan Award for the best debut director from India. Sthalpuran also won the NETPAC Award for the best Asian film in competition.  Musical Chair directed by Vipin Atley won the NETPAC Award for the best Malayalam film. Hilal Baydarov’s In Between Dying won the FIPRESCI Award for the best film in international competition. Ratheesh Balakrishnan Poduval’s Android Kunjappan Version 5.25 won the FIPRESCI Award for the best Malayalam film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suvarna-chakoram-for-south-african-film/article34002180.ece
06 March 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Palakkad leg of IFFK celebrates festival logo||The penultimate day of the International Film Festival of Kerala’s (IFFK) Palakkad edition on Thursday witnessed a presentation of the traditional temple art form of tholpavakkoothu (shadow puppetry), which shares similarities with the art of cinema. In fact, the IFFK had adopted an imagery from the temple art form as its logo. Cinema lovers who enjoyed the tholpavakoothu presentation said it was the “destiny” of the IFFK to be also held in Palakkad on its silver jubilee year. Padma Sri awardee Ramachandra Pulavar and team presented the puppet show based on the theme of the festival logo, which depicts the tholpavakkoothu character Lankalakshmi. It was the late noted filmmaker G. Aravindan who selected Lankalakshmi for the festival’s logo 23 years ago. Tholpavakkoothu exponent Krishnankutty Pulavar helped Aravindan with its selection. Kerala State Chalachithra Academy chairman Kamal felicitated Mr. Pulavar at the function. Vice-chairperson Bina Paul, secretary Ajoy Chandran and general convener T.R. Ajayan were among those present. Women in cinema An open forum organised as part of the IFFK raised the demand for stronger presence of women in cinema. Women’s voice and responses should occupy a wider space in cinema, it pointed out. Actor Sajitha Madathil, who led the discussion, said that although there were many women working in the field of cinema, only a few were enjoying the freedom of action. Author Anu Pappachan said that women were still working in a world of male supremacy in spite of having wider representation in cinema, while Sangeetha Chennampally was of the opinion that women’s voices should be heard louder in cinema.  Though many women are working in the field of cinema, only a few are enjoying the freedom of actionSajitha MadathilActor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-leg-of-iffk-celebrates-festival-logo/article34002050.ece
06 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||68 vaccination centres in capital||Arrangements will be made for administering the COVID-19 vaccine at 68 centres in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Friday. This will include 43 government-run centres and 25 private hospitals. At the government-run centres, the vaccination will be provided in 45 sessions. At General Hospitals and district hospitals 200 people will be vaccinated daily. At the community health centres, 150 people will be vaccinated and, at the primary health centres, 100 people. Those above 60 years and people with comorbidities aged between 45 and 59 will be inoculated. The fee at private hospitals for the vaccination is Rs. 250. Election officials Election officials will be vaccinated at all 18 training centres in the district. The special vaccination drive at the Jimmy George Indoor Stadium is also in progress. There will be no vaccination at the Government Medical College Hospital, General Hospital, and the family health centre at Pangappara till March 10. This does not apply to those have registered in advance or been issued tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/68-vaccination-centres-in-capital/article34002712.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. to give 50% seats for youth, women, new faces||The Election Management and Strategy Committee (EMSC) of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee on Friday decided to assign 50% of the Assembly seats to the youth, women and new faces. Former Chief Minister and EMSC chairperson Oommen Chandy said those who had contested and lost Assembly elections on two or more occasions would not get the party ticket. He also ruled out the ticket for those who had failed in local body elections. The screening committee headed by All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar would vet the list submitted by the EMSC on Saturday. Congress leadership continued to engage the Kerala Congress faction headed by P.J. Joseph. Mr. Joseph has reportedly staked claim for Poonjar, Kanjirappally, Ettumanur and Muvattupuzha. The Congress was hard-pressed to cede these constituencies to the faction due to pressure from local party workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-to-give-50-seats-for-youth-women-new-faces/article34002173.ece
06 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State plans legal action against ED||The government will move legally against the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) probe into the masala bonds of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and the decision to summon KIIFB Chief Executive Officer (CEO) K.M. Abraham and Deputy Managing Director Vikramjit Singh for questioning. “KIIFB has officially informed the ED that the CEO and the Deputy Managing Director will not be able to appear before the officials in Kochi. We are not going to obey. Let’s see what will be done,” the Finance Minister said in a Facebook post on Friday. Bitter experience The ED team had summoned a senior officer of KIIFB to Kochi in connection with the masala bond issue before registering the case. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had mentioned it in a press conference on Thursday. The bitter experience the official faced has made the KIIFB CEO to write to the Chief Secretary. The government is thinking about legal measures. Dr. Isaac said the summons were prepared and leaked to the media before being served on the two KIIFB officials to make political mileage.  Lacks clarity  There was no clarity on the questions. Nowhere, he said, it had been clarified why the ED investigation was for. The Finance Minister said the Supreme Court had spelled out how to send summons to appear as part of investigation. Clear reasons should be recorded to send summons and this had been violated. The ED officials of the Kochi unit think that the Supreme Court orders were not applicable to them, the Minister said.  KIIFB has officially informed ED that its CEO and Deputy Managing Director will not be able to appear before the agency’s officials in Kochi. Thomas Isaac Finance Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-plans-legal-action-against-ed/article34002169.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) may exclude two-time contestants||The CPI(M) State committee on Friday reportedly chose not to dilute the party line on candidate selection. After much deliberations, it ‘decided’ not to assign seats to members who had contested the Assembly election on two consecutive occasions. The party had reportedly toyed with the idea of circumventing the ban to infuse the candidate list with governance experience. However, the party seemed to have decided to shed some political baggage and present a relatively fresh face to the electorate. The CPI(M) was yet to make any formal announcement. However, party insiders said it was likely to contest in at least 87 seats. In 2016, the CPI(M) had fielded candidates in 92 seats. It had reportedly ceded five seats to accommodate the KC(M) and LJD, both new LDF allies. The recommendation was likely to cost five high-profile CPI(M) Ministers their sitting seats. They were Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, Law Minister A.K. Balan and Education Minister C. Raveendranath. At least 22 sitting MLAs will also find themselves out of the contest. ‘Not final’ A party official said the State committee decision might not be final. The district committees would weigh the suggestion on Saturday. A State committee member would be present at the district-level review meeting. CPI(M) legislative constituency committees would further vet the proposals. On March 8, the State secretariat would meet to discuss the input from district committees. The Polit Bureau would take a final call on the matter probably next week. By some accounts, the CPI(M) witnessed objection to the reported candidature of the wife of Mr. Balan, P.K. Jameela, in the Tharoor Scheduled Caste reserved constituency in Palakkad. The purported candidature of the wife of A. Vijayaraghavan, R. Bindu, from Irinjalakuda also drew criticism. Some argued that the proposals would open the party to the charge of favouring relatives over political experience. They reportedly pointed out that K.U. Arunan, the incumbent Irinjalakuda legislator, did not qualify for the exclusion. The Alappuzha district committee has reportedly protested the proposal to keep Mr. Isaac and Mr. Sudhakaran out of the fray. A party official said members were free to air their opinions inside committees, and the party did not view it as heresy.  Recommendation likely to cost Ministers E.P. Jayarajan, T.M. Thomas Isaac, G. Sudhakaran, A.K. Balan and C. Ravindranath their sitting seats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-may-exclude-two-time-contestants/article34002150.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shah to finalise NDA candidates tomorrow||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will chair a core committee meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Sunday. The meeting will finalise the National Democratic Alliance’s candidate list for Kerala. Mr. Shah will arrive here on Saturday evening. By one account, the BJP will accord the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) at least 20 seats. Its other ally, the P. C. Thomas-led Kerala Congress, will get a few central Kerala seats. A party insider said Union Minister V. Muraleedharan was unlikely to be in the fray.  BJP State president K. Surendran is likely to contest in Mr. Muraleedharan’s stead from Kazhakuttam. Former State Police Chief T. P. Senkumar might get the BJP ticket for the Kodungalloor constituency. Technocrat E. Sreedharan is high on the candidate list. It remains to be seen whether Mr. Shah would project the 82-year-old technocrat as BJP’s Chief Ministerial candidate. BJP core committee members P.K. Krishnadas will contest from Kattakada. The other likely candidates are M.T. Ramesh and BJP State spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan. New faces Mr. Shah is likely to give BJP membership to a set of new faces. Some of them might get the ticket. They include the daughter of a CPI(M) veteran and trade unionist from Kochi. Mr. Shah will address the rally that marks the conclusion of Mr. Surendran’s Vijay Yatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shah-to-finalise-nda-candidates-tomorrow/article34002171.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State registers 2,776 new cases, TPR drops to 4.2%||Kerala reported 2,776 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 66,103 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden rose to 10,72,436 cases. The test positivity rate that has remained below 5% all of this week was 4.2% on Friday. With 3,638 recoveries on Wednesday, the active caseload dropped to 43,562. The cumulative recoveries stand at 10,24,309. On Friday, the addition of 16 more deaths which took place in the past few days to the official list took the State’s cumulative COVID-19 toll to 4,271. Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur reported four deaths each, Alappuzha and Thrissur three each while Kollam and Kozhikode reported one death each.  Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 358, followed by Malappuram 298, Ernakulam 291, Thrissur 283, Kollam 232, Alappuzha 207, Thiruvananthapuram 190, Kottayam 185, Pathanamthitta 183, Kannur 175, Kasaragod 125, Idukki 93, Palakkad 89 and Wayanad 67 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-registers-2776-new-cases-tpr-drops-to-42/article34002177.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Digital learning resources to help beat exam blues||Plus Two higher secondary students who have registered with the State Council for Open and Lifelong Education – Kerala (Scole-Kerala) and are set to appear for the upcoming public examinations can now breathe a bit easy. Learning resources prepared using digital technology are being readied for these students. Video classes centred around focus areas stipulated for the examinations are being uploaded on Scole-Kerala’s YouTube channel and Facebook page. Supervision of faculty The classes, prepared under the supervision of faculty from the State Council of Educational Research and Training in collaboration with the State Institute of Educational Technology, are led by expert teachers. Classes are available for English, Malayalam, Arabic, History, Economics, Political Science, Sociology, Islamic History, Business Studies, and Accountancy. Motivational videos for students will also be made available soon. These will be led by experts who will help alleviate exam anxieties experienced by students and mental stress faced by parents. Academic support The videos are being prepared with academic support from the Centre for Adult Continuing Education and Extension of the University of Kerala. The videos will not only benefit students registered with Scole-Kerala but also all those appearing for the Plus Two examinations, a statement from Scole-Kerala here recently said. Hybrid model The videos, available through social media, are the first step in an upgrade of open and lifelong education into a hybrid model using contemporary education technology, said Scole-Kerala executive director Ratheesh Kaliyadan in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-learning-resources-to-help-beat-exam-blues/article34002185.ece
06 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Army recruitment rally ends in capital||The Army recruitment rally for candidates from seven southern districts of Kerala concluded at Greenfield Stadium, Karyavattom, on Friday. The recruitment drive for the northern districts of the State and Mahe and Lakshadweep will commence on Saturday and will be on till March 12. Of the 52,000 candidates from south Kerala who had registered, 55% attended the rally, Lieutenant General Pradeep C. Nair, Director General, Army Recruitment, said. About 3,500 candidates from Thiruvananthapuram district participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/army-recruitment-rally-ends-in-capital/article34002186.ece
06 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cardiologist to speak at webinar||Tiny Nair, chief cardiologist, PRS Hospital, will speak on the theme ‘COVID-19 vaccine and heart patients’ at a webinar being organised by the P.N. Panicker Foundation at 4 p.m. on Saturday. For free registration, call 0471-2328560, 9447586981. The event is being organised as the 506th episode of ‘Azhchakootam: Prathivaara Chinthakal’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardiologist-to-speak-at-webinar/article34002163.ece
06 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||190 new cases, 337 recoveries||The district reported 190 new COVID-19 cases and 337 recoveries on Friday. The active casepool stands at 2,391. The death toll has risen to 838 as per available official figures. Of the new cases reported on Friday, local transmission accounted for 140. The list included one health worker. In all, 17,887 persons are currently quarantined in the district. A containment zone has been declared in Cheruvaickal (Althara junction region) in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation limits as part of the precautionary measures against COVID-19. Thundathil in Chempazhanthy has been excluded from the list of containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/190-new-cases-337-recoveries/article34002711.ece
06 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protest against pact with EMCC||The Latin Archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram and the Thiruvananthapuram Matsyathozhilali Forum led a march and protest in front of the Secretariat on Friday against the Rs. 5,000-crore agreement with EMCC International to build a deep-sea fishing fleet. Vicar General C. Joseph inaugurated the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-pact-with-emcc/article34002136.ece
06 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||283 cases in Thrissur||A total of 283 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Friday, while 308 people made recovery.  According to official data, 279 people who tested positive on Friday contracted the disease via local contact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/283-cases-in-thrissur/article34002714.ece
06 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kalanilayam to stage new play||The Kalanilayam Krishnan Nair Foundation is coming up with a new play Njan..Udal..Manassu . Gayathri Padmanabhan, granddaughter of theatre personality Krishnan Nair, will present the play at Regional Theatre on March 7. The play is an adaptation of Kochu Seetha , a famous poem of Mahakavi Vallathol, said Kalanilayam Ananthapadmanabhan. Women’s empowerment is the theme of the one-hour play. The play uses Indian dance forms to present the strength as well as pathos of women’s life. Sureshbabu Sreestha has written for the stage and Manoj Narayanan is the director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalanilayam-to-stage-new-play/article34002135.ece
06 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Archdiocese mouthpiece slams LDF, UDF||Unleashing an attack on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Catholica Sabha , the mouthpiece of Thrissur Archdiocese, has alleged that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) was neglecting Christians in the name of Muslim appeasement. Not sparing the United Democratic Front (UDF), the March edition of the Catholica Sabha alleged that both the fronts were succumbing to the pressure from the Muslim community. Slamming the remarks of Chandy Oommen, son of Congress leader Oommen Chandy, on the conversion of the Hagia Sophia in Turkey into a museum, Catholica Sabha said a secular Kerala would never pardon him. Mr. Chandy had allegedly said the protest against the conversion was to create communal divide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/archdiocese-mouthpiece-slams-ldf-udf/article34002046.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For farmers’ cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-farmers-cause/article34002040.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Coir protection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-protection/article34002165.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the street, for the shore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-street-for-the-shore/article34002583.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Firmly etched||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firmly-etched/article34002158.ece
06 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CC cameras help police crack temple theft case||The footage of CC cameras and verification of old police records helped the Satyavedu circle police on Friday in nabbing two members of an inter-State gang involved in thefts at local temples at villages bordering with Tamil Nadu. They recovered the stolen ornaments from them. Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant told the mediapersons that on February 27, theft of 32 grams of gold and small quantum of silver ornaments was reported from Ankamma temple at Allapagunta village of Satyavedu mandal. As the temple was already equipped with CC cameras, the police could verify the footage, besides identifying one of the three accused by verifying old records at Nagalapuram police station in the circle. People also helped the police by identifying the accused in the footage who they said had been moving suspiciously around the temple before committing the crime. Modus operandi Acting on reliable information, a special party rushed to a roadside dhaba on the border of Satyavedu-Tamil Nadu and nabbed two of the accused, while one had escaped from the spot. Their modus operandi was to target local temples at isolated spots. The trio was identified as Srinivasulu (absconder) (30) and Chinna (25) of Gummidipoondi in Tamil Nadu, and Tupakula Venkatesh (21) of Satyavedu. A case has been registered and the accused were sent for remand.  Vigil mounted As per instructions from Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar, all the temples in villages in Puttur subdivision close to the T.N. border were kept under digital surveillance and equipped with village defense committees, Mr Yashwant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cc-cameras-help-police-crack-temple-theft-case/article34001842.ece
06 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders logs worth Rs. 3 cr. seized in Chittoor||The Puttur sub-division police and Red Sanders Task Force personnel, in a joint operation, seized 2.5 tonnes of red sanders logs, worth Rs. 3 crore in the international market, at a forest location in KVB Puram mandal on Friday. Two persons who were reportedly working for the smuggling network by supplying workforce from Tamil Nadu and transporting contraband across inter-State borders were arrested. KVB Puram Sub-Inspector D. Gopi said that acting on a tip-off on the movement of red sanders operatives in the hilly terrain, special teams had rushed to the spot and seized a huge dump of red sanders logs. After preliminary inquiry, two local men Chembaiah and Chengaiah of a nearby hamlet were taken into custody on charges of assisting the smugglers’ network. The police official said that the smuggling operatives had stored the logs in the hilly terrain surrounded by forests in KVB Puram mandal, close to the Puttur-Chennai highway. “After creating a dump here, their activities were exposed while they were on an errand to shift a small consignment to Tamil Nadu. The hired woodcutters are known for their ability to carry heavy logs for several kilometers through inhospitable terrain,” Mr. Gopi said. Deputy SPs (Task Force) K. Venkataiah, D. Muralidhar, V. Giridhar and senior officials inspected the dump at the forest location. The seized dump, numbering 138 logs, and the nabbed duo were handed over to the Task Force personnel. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-3-cr-seized-in-chittoor/article34001768.ece
06 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure free and fair polls, Collector tells officials||District Collector and District Electoral Officer Vivek Yadav has said that political parties should cooperate with the district administration to ensure that the municipal elections are conducted in a peaceful and orderly manner in strict compliance with the code of conduct for municipal elections. Mr. Yadav chaired a meeting with representatives of political parties in connection with the municipal elections at the Collectorate here on Friday. Elections would be held for the Guntur Municipal Corporation and the municipalities of Tenali, Piduguralla, Macherla, Repalle, Chilakaluripet, Vinukonda and Sattenapalli. Elections in to be held in 205 wards as 85 wards were unopposed. Candidates in all the wards in the municipalities of Macherla and Piduguralla have been elected unopposed. “We have identified 188 problematic and 364 most problematic polling stations and are taking necessary steps,” he said. There are 763 candidates in the fray. Mr. Yadav said 23 MCC teams had been set up in all the municipalities where the elections would be held, including the Guntur Municipal Corporation, to monitor the code of conduct for elections. As part of the implementation of the model code, 2,842 banners, 60 wall paintings, 464 posters have been removed and 306 statues have been masked. An FIR has been registered under the Guntur Municipal Corporation for violating the model code. Liquor seized Similarly, cases were registered after seizing Rs. 8170 and 111.81 litres of liquor. He said a special call centre had been set up for violations of the code of conduct and as soon as complaints were received, MCC teams would go there and resolve the issue and report back. “We have started distributing voter slips through BLOs from Friday and we are taking steps to ensure that 100 per cent voter slips are distributed,” he said. Helpdesks had been set up in each ward secretariat to help voters find out which polling booth their vote is in. Mr. Yadav said on the issues raised by various political parties at the meeting, the returning officers wanted to issue notices to the candidates concerned and political parties seeking clarification as soon as they were informed by the shadow parties and other media on violations of the code of conduct during the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-free-and-fair-polls-collector-tells-officials/article34002727.ece
06 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decommissioned Tu-142 M installed on beach||The Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Limited (APUIAM) has successfully completed the reinstallation of the decommissioned Tupolev Tu-142 M aircraft with the support of experts from Tamil Nadu-based Taneja Aerospace and Aviation Limited. The reinstallation of the aircraft has been achieved within three weeks. The 100-tonne aircraft has been reinstalled on the three-acre campus on the Kakinada beach, where the aircraft museum is being set up by the Godavari Urban Development Authority (GUDA). In Andhra Pradesh, two aircraft museums have been set up in Visakhapatnam and Kakinada, facilitating public access to the interior of the Tu-142 M. “The installation of the aircraft has been completed successfully. Technically, the aircraft is standing on its own at the museum site. The facilities for the visitors and beautification of the museum campus are in progress,” APUIAM Senior Manager Chetan Yarlagadda told The Hindu . APUIAM is the agency tasked with the installation, refurbishment and beautification of the aircraft museum that will be maintained and operated by GUDA. “A date is to be fixed for the inauguration of the aircraft museum. Talks will be held with the State government to finalise the date soon after the scheduled urban body elections are over,” GUDA vice-chairman A. Raveendranath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decommissioned-tu-142-m-installed-on-beach/article34002676.ece
06 March 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maritime trade comes to a halt in East Godavari||Industrial activity including maritime trade operations came to a grinding halt since the early hours of Friday in East Godavari district as thousands of workers representing their respective unions joined the one-day bandh against the proposed privatisation of Vizag Steel Plant (VSP). A large number of supporters boycotted work and took part in the peaceful protest that was led by CPI East Godavari district secretary Thatipaka Madhu. In the port city of Kakinada, workers at the Kakinada deep sea port and anchorage port joined the protest by boycotting duty. The Left party supporters also persuaded some groups of workers to extend their support by joining the protest. In Rajamahendravaram city, Andhra Paper Limited workers participated in the protest, lamenting the privatisation of VPT. The workers observed the one-day bandh, boycotting work for one day. In an official release, Mr. Madhu said APSRTC employees have supported the protest by halting their services on Friday, and said the protest remained peaceful across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maritime-trade-comes-to-a-halt-in-east-godavari/article34002693.ece
06 March 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishnapatnam port gets FSSAI unit||Krishnapatnam port has emerged as a major hub for the import of edible oils, fruits and other packaged food items, according to Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) Chairperson Rita Teaotia. The entire activity of clearance of imported food items would be executed through an integrated online mode between Customs, FSSAI and food testing labs, Ms. Teaotia said after inaugurating the FSSAI unit at the port on Friday. The Food Imports Clearance System of FSSAI had already been put in place at major ports of the country. Going forward, the FSSAI would be opening branch offices in other major cities like Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Vishakhapatnam which would further bolster the objectives of FSSAI of ensuring safe and nutritious food for people and inspiring trust. Adani Krishnapatnam Port Managing Director G.J. Rao, Customs Deputy Commissioner P. Madhuree and FSSAI Director P. Muthuraman were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishnapatnam-port-gets-fssai-unit/article34002678.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati ‘illegal’ land purchase: won’t take coercive action, State informs SC||The Andhra Pradesh government orally stated in the Supreme Court on Friday that it would not take any coercive action against persons named in an FIR concerning the “illegal purchase” of land in Amaravati and was further willing to hand over the case to the CBI for a court-monitored investigation. The statement was made before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Andhra. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by the Andhra Pradesh government against a High Court stay on investigation into the FIR that named former Advocate General Dammalapati Srinivas and others, including relatives of a sitting Supreme Court judge. The FIR shows offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, criminal breach of trust and cheating under the Indian Penal Code. The allegations include abuse of official positions in the State, sharing of privileged information and causing loss to the public exchequer during the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime. The High Court had stayed the investigation and barred the State from taking any coercive action against the persons named in the FIR. “We are willing to assure the respondents that no coercive action will be taken. Let the investigation be monitored by court. Let it be investigated by the CBI… but let the investigation continue,” Mr. Dhavan stated in the court. In fact, the State requested the Centre on March 23 last to initiate a CBI investigation into the FIR. The court said it would consider the statement and adjourned the case to April 7. The Bench also adjourned another appeal filed by the Andhra government against a “blanket stay” issued by the High Court into an inquiry into the Amaravati land scam. The High Court had ordered the stay on the basis of a petition by TDP leader Varla Ramaiah. The events in this case unfolded in June 2019 when the Reddy government issued a notification constituting a Cabinet Sub-Committee to review major policies, projects, programmes, institutions and the key administrative actions taken by the TDP government following the bifurcation of the State of Andhra. The first report of the committee on December 27, 2019 pointed out “several procedural, legal and financial irregularities and fraudulent transactions concerned with various projects were highlighted, including in the Capital Region Development Authority region”. On February 21, 2020, the State government issued another notification setting up a special investigation team (SIT) to “inquire, register, investigate and conclude the investigation” into the findings of the report. Both notifications were stayed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court indefinitely in September, prompting the State to approach the apex court for relief. “The entire process was extremely fair. The State was proceeding in a very, very cautious manner. The committee report suggested major manipulations and systemic inclusion of TDP leaders into the land. The SIT was constituted to look into financial irregularities... It was impossible for the High Court to interfere at a pre-investigation stage... How could the high court interfere on the petitions of busybodies?” senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the Andhra in this appeal, submitted in a hearing in November. In his counter-affidavit, Mr. Ramaiah, who is the respondent in the Supreme Court, accused the Chief Minister of orchestrating a roving inquiry into the TDP regime to “take revenge against people whom he holds responsible for the cases registered against him”. The State has steadfastly maintained in the Supreme Court that the Amaravati land case was not a product of “regime revenge”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-to-hand-over-amaravati-case-to-cbi-ap/article34001764.ece
06 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. will not leave farmers in the lurch: official||The Andhra Pradesh government is fully geared to step up market intervention in a big way to ensure fair price to farmers for their produce, said Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy. Despite the economic downturn in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, farm produce worth Rs. 18,873.84 crore had been procured from farmers last year as the market price for various crops fell below the minimum support price announced by the Centre, he said in a conversation with The Hindu here. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who is Chairman of the mission, was particular that at least one-third of the crop produced by farmers should be procured by MARKFED and other agencies to ensure market buoyancy, he said. The State government would not leave the farmers to fend for themselves in a crisis situation when market forces turned unfavourable, Mr.Nagi Reddy, also YSRCP farmers wing State president, assured the farmers. Govt.’s intervention He said it was for the first time that the State government had intervened during auctions conducted by the Union Commerce Ministry-led Tobacco Board last year and ensured that the farmers got a better price for the low grade varieties, which flooded the market in the wake of unfavourable climatic condition. Unlike last year, this time we have a better grade outturn, with high grade varieties accounting for a majority of the producethough the farmers had a tough time when unseasonal rains lashed under the influence of cyclonic storm Nivar, forcing them to go for replantation, he said. Last year, the State government bailed out the growers through the MARKFED which procured the export-oriented commercial crop worth Rs. 118.80 crore. As a result, tobacco growers got a better average price for their produce. The State government would closely observe the auctions all set to commence in 10 days in the traditional tobacco growing areas in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts and enter the market if the traders denied a fair price to farmers, he added. Farm produce worth Rs. 8,910.46 crore had been procured so far this year. The government would surpass the level of market intervention done last year when paddy alone accounted for lion’s share of procurement of 47.85 lakh tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-will-not-leave-farmers-in-the-lurch-official/article34001845.ece
06 March 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh evokes good response in South Coastal Andhra||Bandh called by the Central Trade Unions Joint Action Committee(JAC) and supported by ruling and opposition parties against the strategic sale of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited(RINL) was near total and peaceful in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh. The activists of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions(CITU) and All India Trade Union Congress(AITUC) held protest marches and motorcycle rallies in Nellore, Ongole, Naidupeta, Sullurupeta, Gudur and Kavali. Shops, schools closed Shops and other business establishments downed the shutters, while educational institutions declared a holiday for students. Buses were confined to their depots till afternoon as the ruling YSR Congress Party expressed solidarity with the JAC which vehemently opposed the Centre’s decision to sell RINL and 99 other PSUs to bridge fiscal deficit. Bandh supporters forced closure of Central government institutions and public sector financial institutions, including LIC, GIC and BSNL. All parties except the Bharatiya Janata Party and its poll ally Jana Sena Party, took part in the stir. ‘We will intensify stir’ The agitation would be intensified if the Centre went ahead with its decision to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) disregarding the public sentiment, warned Communist Party of India (CPI) Prakasam District Secretary M.L.Narayana while taking part in a protest in front of the Prakasam Bhavan. CPI(M) District Secretary P.Anjaneyulu suggested that the Centre impose 2% tax on the corporate sector to raise resources instead of selling the steel plant and other PSUs which were the result of the toil of working class people. It was unfortunate that the Centre was bent upon the only major PSU in the State while giving a go-by to a host of infrastructure projects promised at the time of bifurcation by the Centre, said former TDP MLA from Ongole D.Janardhan Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bandh-evokes-good-response-in-south-coastal-andhra/article34001844.ece
06 March 2021||Rajulapudi SrinivasELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign peaks for municipal elections in Eluru||With the campaigning for municipal elections ending in three days, candidates are busy meeting the voters and urging them to vote for them in Eluru Municipal Corporation. Contestants, along with their family members, were seen going door-to-door in Padamara Veedhi, Tangellamudi, Toorpu Veedhi, Sanivarapupeta and other areas on Friday. Almost all the parties are promising to improve sanitation, provide safe drinking water, develop roads and solve pig menace in Eluru, represented by Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani). Of the 50 wards, three (1, 3 and 32 wards) have been declared unanimous and elections will be conducted for the remaining 47 wards on March 10. Candidates of the ruling YSR Congress Party, TDP, Jana Sena Party (JSP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), CPI, CPI (M) and a few independents are in the fray. There are 2,47,631 voters in the corporation, of which 1,27,890 are women. Former mayor Sk. Noorjahan is campaigning for the ruling party candidates. Mr. Nani, who was campaigning for the party candidates, has appealed to the voters to support the YSRCP for the development of the town. Participating in the poll campaign for the party candidate Pamu Padma in Padamara Veedhi on Friday, the Minister said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had rolled out several welfare schemes women, students and other sections. Telugu Desam Party candidate for 46th division, Rasaamsetti Rajani campaigned in Tangellamudi in the town. She appealed to the electors to vote for TDP. Former MLAs are involved in the campaign for the success of the Opposition party candidates. West Godavari CPI district secretary Dega Prabhakar, CPI (M) district secretary Chintakayala Babu Rao, JSP leader Reddy Appala Naidu, BJP and independents campaigning for the victory of their party candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaign-peaks-for-municipal-elections-in-eluru/article34001854.ece
06 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State bandh evokes good response in Srikakulam||The State bandh call given by the Left parties opposing privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) evoked good response in Srikakulam district on Friday as the YSR Congress Party and the Telugu Desam Party extended support to it. All markets, banks, cinema theatres, schools, colleges and offices remained closed. the APSRTC has also stopped its services to all routes, including to places like Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Palakonda and Rajam. Former TDP MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi, the party senior leaders Jami Bhimasankar, Madarapu Venkatesh and others organised a human chain at the 7- Road Junction. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State vice-president D. Govinda Rao alleged that the State government was not wholeheartedly trying to stop the privatisation of the steel plant. “The Cente should provide captive iron ore mines to the steel plant as it will make the plant viable. Its losses should not be an excuse to sell property worth over Rs. 2 lakh crore at throwaway price. The plant was established after many people sacrificed their live,” he said. CITU leaders P. Tejeswara Rao, T. Tirupati Rao and other leaders led agitations in Srikakulam, Ranasthalam, Pydibhimavaram industrial zone and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-bandh-evokes-good-response-in-srikakulam/article34002695.ece
06 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID report must for attending arjitha sevas||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday said that only devotees who have tested negative for COVID-19 will be allowed to attend the arjitha sevas at the Lord Venkateswara temple here. The devotees will have to carry the latest test reports with them. The TTD management has resolved to resume arjitha sevas like Suprabhatam, Archana, Thomala seva and Kalyanotsavams from April 14 — Ugadi — in strict adherence to health protocols. The medical reports will have to be issued not more than 72 hours prior to the date of the arjitha sevas, and reports issued more than three days prior will be considered invalid. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said that only those who have booked their seva tickets online will be allowed as the management has decided not to revive the VIP discretionary quota and online dip system until the pandemic completely subsides. A decision with regard to the revival of privileged darshan to senior citizens and physically-challenged devotees will be taken depending on the pandemic situation. At present, 22,000 tickets of Sarva darshanam are available and further enhancement will be done in a phased manner subject to prevailing conditions, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said. “The management is not willing to take any temple under its fold as it is already burdened with the maintenance of over 32 temples in the State. It has also resolved to act in accordance with a blueprint that shall be prepared in the construction and maintenance of various kalyana mandapams under its control,” the EO said. The TTD has also resolved to manufacture 15 cow-based natural products like soaps, incense sticks, and an equivalent number of medical products for which it has already given its nod for the upgradation of the machinery at its Ayurveda pharmacy. The panchagavya — a combination of milk, ghee, curd, dung and urine — will be promoted and the proceeds will be diverted to the Go-Samrakshana (cow protection) scheme. Car parking Keeping in view the future requirements of the town, the TTD has decided to go for multi-level car parking structures — two at Alipiri in Tirupati that can accommodate 2,000 vehicles and one at Tirumala that can accommodate 1,500 vehicles. The EO said that in the future, only battery-operated vehicles will be allowed to motor up to the hill temple as part of the management’s efforts to contain the growing pollution in the town. As a first step in this direction, it has decided to allocate electric vehicles to its officials, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-report-must-for-attending-arjitha-sevas/article34002680.ece
06 March 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah prays at Tirumala||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. On his arrival at the main temple complex, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu was received by TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, and Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti. Though the Vice-President enjoyed the privilege of direct entry through the ‘Mahadwaram’, he preferred taking the Vaikuntam queue complex route like any common devotee. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu was accompanied by his family members and Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy. He stood for 10 minutes in front of the main deity inside the sanctum sanctorum and offered prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-prays-at-tirumala/article34002663.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brahmotsavam at Jubilee Hills Balaji temple from March 11||The maiden annual Brahmotsavam of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple built by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) at Jubilee Hills (Hyderabad) will be conducted from March 11 to 21. Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy formally unveiled the posters for the fete at his chambers in the TTD administrative building here on Friday, along with Joint Executive Officer Sada Bhargavi, Hyderabad Srivari temple advisory council member Govind Hari and Deputy Executive Officer Ramesh Babu. Itinerary According to the itinerary, Dhwajarohanam will be conducted on March 12, followed by Garuda Seva (March 16), Rathotsavam (March 19), Chakra Snanam (March 20) and Pushpa Yagam (March 21). Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) will provide live coverage of the event as part of its commitment to propagate Sanatana Hindu Dharma, Dr. Jawahar Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brahmotsavam-at-jubilee-hills-balaji-temple-from-march-11/article34001848.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eat right, says FSSAI chief||Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) chairperson Rita Teaotia said the ‘Eat Right India’ movement of the Union government is about creating a culture of safe, healthy and sustainable eating habits, covered by three pillars named ‘eat right’, ‘eat healthy’ and ‘eat sustainably’, the last having a focus on local and seasonal fruits, water conservation, involving less plastic use. Certification The former bureaucrat, who now heads the FSSAI functioning under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, visited Sri City in Chittoor district for addressing the industrial units on the above theme. On her call for achieving ‘Eat Right’ certification for the entire industrial city, she said the process involved a series of activities including pre-audit checks, inspection, training and audit of establishments, as well as the units where food is handled such as kitchens of canteens, catering stalls, kiosks, food plazas and so on. The process starts with registration of ‘intent of the organisation’ to achieve the certification, which is followed by collection of primary data and followed by pre-audit checks and imparting basic training on food safety, hygiene and sanitation practices, Ms. Teaotia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eat-right-says-fssai-chief/article34001847.ece
06 March 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handmade saris on sale||The five-day exhibition and sale of handcrafted saris by Taneira, the youngest brand from Titan, began at the Tanishq showroom on Prakasam Road in Tirupati on Friday, coinciding with Women’s Day. 30% discount The expo has on display exclusive collection from Banaras, Chanderi, Maheshwari, Bengal, Bhagalpur, Kanjeevaram and other prominent weaving regions of the country, offering up to 30% discount on select products. Terming the exclusive range of bridal saris handcrafted across varied crafts from Tussar, Banarasi to Ikat and Chanderi as a highlight, Taneira chief operating officer Rajeshwari Srinivasan said the Tirupati event would have Taneira’s newest additions including ‘Tasvi’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handmade-saris-on-sale/article34001849.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Borrowed more to continue welfare schemes: Buggana||The government, in the wake of a sharp decline in revenues due to the COVID-19 pandemic, had no option but to borrow more and bail out the poor and middle class sections of society in the hour of crisis, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said on Friday. “It is true that the debts availed by the government are more than the budget estimates. But, one has to understand that no State or country is immune to the COVID-19 impact,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy told the media here. “The government has taken a conscious decision to continue the welfare schemes despite negative growth. The expenditure has gone up significantly, while revenues plummeted. The borrowings have been utilised to continue the welfare schemes. The revenue expenditure thus incurred has been ploughed back into the economy, fuelling growth and improving GST collections,” the Finance Minister explained. ‘GST collections up’ The revenue in June 2020-21 was Rs. 5,781 crore against Rs. 3,540 crore during the corresponding period the previous year. There was a growth of 8% in GST collections compared to the previous financial year, he said. States such as Gujarat and Maharashtra might have fared well, but Andhra Pradesh’s performance, when compared with the national average, was far better, the Minister asserted. Andhra Pradesh stood second in the country with regard to the GST collections. The revenue deficit was brought down from minus 12.9% in the first quarter of the 2020-21 financial year to minus 3% by the fourth quarter, he explained. Dig at Naidu Reacting to TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s allegations that he had made riches through illegal mining, the Minister said, “My family has been in the mining business since 1918. Mine is the fourth generation.” “Let’s compare my old ancestral house and old car with the wealth of Mr. Naidu. The former Chief Minister’s father had only two acres of land. But Mr. Naidu now owns a palatial house worth about Rs. 100 crore in Hyderabad. Let Mr. Naidu clear the air on it, and I am ready for discussion,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/borrowed-more-to-continue-welfare-schemes-buggana/article34002671.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Multilateral banks playing key role in supporting growth’||The Andhra Pradesh government recently concluded an agreement with the New Development Bank (NDB) for two road projects worth $646 million. The government is in the process of implementing the World Bank (WB)-funded Rejuvenating Watersheds for Agriculture Resilience through Innovative Development (REWARD) project in five districts of the parched Rayalaseema region and the tribal belt of Visakhapatnam district over the next six years. Industrial corridor The Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor Development Project comprised a grant and a policy-based loan amounting to $630 million, and the government was working with the WB for improving the quality and responsiveness of the public health services in the State, said Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. Participating in a virtual conference on ‘Business opportunities with largest sources of funding’ jointly organised by the Federations of A.P. and Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry on Friday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said multilateral banks were playing a crucial role in fighting poverty, supporting economic growth, and were ensuring sustainable gains in the quality of people’s lives in the developing countries. He said India’s partnership with the multilateral banks allowed it to leverage their analytical, financial and human resources for the benefit of the country. The Minister pointed out that India’s engagement with the WB started in 1948 with the funding of the Agricultural Machinery Project. The WB’s lending portfolio consists of 105 operations with $27.10 billion in commitments, with the transport, water, energy and information and communications technology sectors accounting for a major chunk of the loans. Mr. Goutham Reddy said India had started availing of Asian Development Bank (ADB) assistance in 1986, after which it committed 239 sovereign loans totalling $42.26 billion. Cumulative loan and grant disbursements to India amounted to $31.79 billion. In 2019, the ADB committed a record $3.18 billion loan for 10 projects in infrastructure, transport, energy, urban services and agriculture sectors. India became a founding member of Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) in 2016 and holds the second largest share after China. India received $4.35 billion from AIIB, the highest for any country. Mr. Goutham Reddy said A.P. was focused on investing in hard infrastructure such as industrial corridors, industrial parks, ports and airports, coupled with soft infrastructure such as educational facilities, health care, skill development and capacity building. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, FAPCCI president C.V. Atchut Rao and FTCCI president I. Ramakanth took part in the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/multilateral-banks-playing-key-role-in-supporting-growth/article34002669.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘VSP privatisation will lead to unemployment’||Leaders of the AP NGOs’ Association on Friday said the protest against the Centre’s decision to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) would not stop till the move was dropped. The association members took out a in city under the leadership of their State president N. Chandrasekhar Reddy, general secretary Bandi Srinivasa Rao and Krishna district president A. Vidyasagar. Speaking to the media, Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy said the VSP was a jewel in the State’s crown, achieved as a result of many sacrifices made by stalwarts who had led a movement that finally resulted in the construction of the plant in 26,000 acres. He said the Centre was trying to privatise the plant on the pretext that it was incurring revenue losses. Implementation of the Centre’s plan would result in loss of jobs to 16,000 permanent employees, 17,500 contract workers, and 1 lakh more jobs indirectly. He said it was unfair to deprive the State of the only public sector unit it had. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said, instead of extending support for rejuvenation of the plant by doing the needful, it was unfortunate that the VSP, which was worth lakhs of crores, was being give away to private player for a mere Rs. 5,000 crore. Mr. Rao said people were watching the BJP-led government’s policies that were proving detrimental to the interests of the States. Mr. Vidyasagar accused the Centre of adopting a partisan view, and said non-allocation of mines to the plant reflected the discrimination the Modi government was resorting to. The rally started at the AP NGO Home at Gandhinagar and reached the Alankar Centre via Lenin Centre, Eluru Road, Besant Road and CRDA office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-privatisation-will-lead-to-unemployment/article34002728.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner visits polling stations||Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu on Friday visited the polling stations and reviewed the security arrangements for Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) elections, scheduled for March 10. Mr. Srinivasulu, along with Assistant Commissioners of Police and inspectors visited Vivekananda High School, Government B.C. Hostel, M.K. Baig High School, B.V. Subba Reddy High School, Kandriga, and other places. The Police Commissioner directed the staff to take measures for uninterrupted power supply and other facilities at the polling stations. Mr. Srinivasulu said the police had made all arrangements for smooth conduct of polling and counting. He directed the Station House Officers to keep a vigil on political trouble mongers and warned of stern action against those who tried to violate Section 144.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-commissioner-visits-polling-stations/article34002733.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl students to be given sanitary napkins for free||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to distribute branded sanitary napkins to the girl students of classes 7 to 12 in government educational institutions free of cost beginning March 8, coinciding with the International Women’s Day. In a review meeting on Friday, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to focus on the health and hygiene of the girl students. The officials said that tenders would be completed by April 15 and MoUs made with reputed companies by MEPMA and SERP by the end of April. The napkins would be distributed in all the government schools, junior colleges and Gurukul schools. Each girl would be given 10 sanitary napkins per month. The expenditure is nearly Rs. 42 crore per annum. Coaching programme The Chief Minister instructed the officials to provide best coaching to the girls for the competitive examinations, and called for an action plan on taking the help of reputed coaching centres for the purpose. He also ordered that laptops be provided to girls and options for it received under the Amma Vodi scheme. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Special Chief Secretary (higher education and skill development) Satish Chandra were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-students-to-be-given-sanitary-napkins-for-free/article34002664.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: one death and 124 new cases in State||The State registered 124 new COVID-19 cases and one death in Anantapur district in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. Of the new cases, Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts accounted for more than 10 cases each. A total of 51,660 samples were tested during the period, and the cumulative number reached 1,41,43,911. The number of active cases stood at 900 and the death toll at 7,172.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-one-death-and-124-new-cases-in-state/article34002667.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Artisans told to utilise welfare schemes||Lepakshi Executive Director Lakshminath on Friday said handicraft workers should utilise the many welfare programmes launched by the Union and the State governments that are aimed at uplifting their community. Addressing an awareness programme organised by the Development Commissioner (Handicrafts), Ministry of Textiles, on components like e-marketing, Goods and Services Tax and other key aspects, he said the Lepakshi showrooms were established to enable the artisans to sell their traditional hand-crafted products directly to the buyers, without the role of middlemen. Mr. Lakshminath said the government had been organising series of programme to impart training on the artisans in contemporary designs that could attract the current generation to their work. Shilparamam CEO Jairaj said the artisans should be pro-active in familiarising themselves with the latest technologies and design models to reach out to a wider range of customers. Deputy Director of the Textile Development Commissionerate Manoj Lanka and managers of various banks participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/artisans-told-to-utilise-welfare-schemes/article34002729.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR to restore platform tickets, increase price||To ensure safety of the passengers and restrict crowds at railway stations, the South Central Railway (SCR) has decided to re-issue platform tickets with increased rates from March 6. This is a temporary measure to help restore additional trains and regulate congestion at the railway stations. Rs. 30 in city From Saturday, platform tickets will cost Rs. 30 in Non-Suburban Group 1 to 3 stations, i.e. Vijayawada, Gudur, Nellore, Eluru, Ongole, Tenali, Samalkot, Rajahmundry, Bhimavaram Town and Kakinada Town. In Non-Suburban Group (NSG) 4 and 5, i.e. in Nidadavolu, Tadepalligudem, Annavaram, Kakinada Port, Tuni, Bhimavaram Junction, Anakapalle, Gudivada, Narsapur, Bitragunta, Nidubrolu, Nuziveedu, Vedayapalem, Kavali, Powerpet, Godavari, Kovvur, Dwarapudi, Anaparthi, Pithapuram, Narsipatnam Road, Elamanchili, Veeravasaram, Tanuku, Palakol, Kaikaluru, Pedana, Machilipatnam and Akiveedu stations the price of platform ticket will be Rs. 20. At other railway (NSG-6) stations, the platform ticket rate will remain unchanged (Rs. 10), said the railway authorities and appealed to the passengers to cooperate with officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-to-restore-platform-tickets-increase-price/article34002734.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP launches free medical check-up for women staff||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang launched free health check-up for women employees working in the AP Police Headquarters, near Mangalagiri, on Friday. Mr. Sawang, along with Epic Fusion Healthcare Solutions CEO Sridhar Reddy and Additional Director-General (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar inaugurated the medical camp. He called upon women employees to undergo regular health check and stay fit. The DGP said if women were physically fit, the family and the society would be healthy. Stating that the Andhra Pradesh police was extending many services through Disha App, he appealed to the women to download the application.  IG (P&L) Nagendra Kumar, Officer on Special Duty (Welfare) P.V.S. Ramakrishna and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-launches-free-medical-check-up-for-women-staff/article34002682.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polls: I-T Dept., ED to check money flow||To prevent the influence of money power in the municipal elections, the State Election Commission (SEC) has sought inputs from the Income-Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar said in a press release that Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur and Tirupati were among the sensitive urban local bodies identified for the purpose. The I-T Department and the ED were asked to share information on the flow of money. Besides, the SEC called for specific information from other sources, and promised to maintain confidentiality about their identity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polls-i-t-dept-ed-to-check-money-flow/article34002665.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS invited to disinvestment workshop||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant wrote a letter to Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das recently, inviting him and the Principal Secretaries concerned to a national-level virtual workshop on ‘asset monetisation and disinvestment’ on March 9. More importantly, the Chief Secretary was asked to identify the potential assets and Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs), with focus on infrastructure sectors such as urban development, power, transport, logistics, and PWD, ahead of the event. Mr. Kant said the States and UTs had significant potential asset base, comprising State highways, power generation, transmission towers and distribution entities, minor ports, State airports, waterways, jetties and multi-modal terminalsthat could be leveraged to mobilise capital for creation of new infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cs-invited-to-disinvestment-workshop/article34002666.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Madhav, others campaign in VMC polls||Bharatiya Janata Party State general secretary and MLC P.V.N. Madhav, former Minister Kamineni Srinivas, general secretary Suryanarayana and secretary Pathuri Nagabhushanam campaigned for A. Sriram, the party candidate in the elections for 53rd division of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, on Friday. On the occasion, Mr. Madhav said the BJP-Jana Sena Party combine deserved the people’s mandate for the development made by the national party over the years. The alliance was committed to development and welfare of the masses, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/madhav-others-campaign-in-vmc-polls/article34002737.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor congratulates TS counterpart||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has congratulated Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who has been selected for the top 20 Global Women of Excellence Award for the year 2020, by the Multi Ethnic Advisory Task Force, Illinois, U.S. Mr. Harichandan in a release on Friday said he was happy to hear that Dr. Soundararajan had been chosen for the international award for the key role played by her in advocating women’s rights, women empowerment and equality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-congratulates-ts-counterpart/article34002730.ece
06 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancer awareness rally on women’s day||Vijayawada Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society will organise a cancer awareness rally in the city on March 8, International Women's Day. Gynaecologist representing the society Sujatha Vellanki, at a press conference, said the Federation of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society of India had taken up the cause of creating awareness among the women on breast and uterine cancers. As part of the campaign, a rally would be taken out from the police commissioner's office to IMA hall in Governorpet with the participation of a large number of women. On Saturday, a conclave on the same topic would be conducted, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancer-awareness-rally-on-womens-day/article34002726.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP has put the city in reverse gear, alleges Naidu||TDP president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu rejuvenated the sagging spirit of the party cadre by kicking off a roadshow, for the success of the party nominees in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections, at Pendurthi here on Friday evening. Mr. Naidu announced that Peela Srinivas as the TDP’s Mayor candidate and introduced him to the gathering during his roadshow in the city. Mr. Naidu recalled his efforts to put Visakhapatnam city on the international map by bringing in investments in the IT sector and tourism promotion and alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was bent on reversing the development. He alleged that the YSRCP was trying to create discord among people of different regions in the State by pitting Visakhapatnam against Amaravati. He alleged that the YSRCP government had driven away the Adani and Lulu groups and other investments from the city, and was content with booking cases against Mr. Atchannaidu and other TDP leaders. Alleging that rowdyism and land grabbing were on the rise in Visakhapatnam, the TDP president asked the large gathering whether they were afraid of the ruling dispensation. “I am not afraid of fighting injustice but I need your support to protect future generations from the evil forces. I am ready to die for the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-has-put-the-city-in-reverse-gear-alleges-naidu/article34002739.ece
06 March 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh against privatisation of VSP sees mixed response||The State bandh called against the Union government’s move to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) evoked a mixed response in the city and district on Friday. The bandh call was given by trade unions, political parties barring the BJP, and people’s organisations under the banner of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee. Buses off the road With the YSRCP government extending its support to the bandh, APSRTC buses were confined to the depots. The roads wore a deserted look. Educational institutions declared a holiday in advance. Autorickshaws too did not ply. Leaders and activists of the Left parties and people’s organisations took out a rally on the National Highway near Maddilapalem. They stopped private buses and raised slogans such as ‘Visakha Ukku – Andhrula Hakku’. The impact was conspicuous at Kurmannapalem, Gajuwaka, Malkapuram and the industrial area of the city with workers opting for mass casual leave and coming out onto the roads. A rally was taken out from old Gajuwaka to the petrol bunk at Malkapuram. Most shops downed their shutters voluntarily in the industrial area, but in other parts of the city they were open. Banks remain open Even banks, both public and private, and small and big department stores remained open in many parts of the city. “Employees of Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) came out onto the roads to oppose privatisation of VSP. The workers of VSP boycotted their duties and joined the protest. We have exempted the workers posted in vital areas and officers who are required to prevent disruption of production,” CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao said. In some parts of the city, CPI State joint secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy led the protest. YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu led rallies at various places. A protest was staged by the Visakhapatnam Port workers at the Administrative Office Building of the VPT. Protests staged Leaders of various parties took out rallies and staged protests in Krishna and West Godavari districts demanding that the Centre withdraw its move to privatise VSP.  The CPI and CPI(M) activists staged a dharna at the Lenin Centre in Vijayawada, while the AP NGOs’ Association staged a protest at Gandhi Nagar. Protests were also staged at Kaikalur, Mudinepalli, Jaggaiahpeta and Gudivada in Krishna district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rallies-mark-bandh-against-move-to-privatise-steel-plant/article34002422.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal elections will sound death knell for TDP, says Vijaya Sai Reddy||The municipal elections will sound the death knell for the TDP, according to YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the YSRCP had won almost 90% of the seats in the recently gram panchayat elections. It would maintain the same record in the elections to the GVMC and other urban local bodies in the State, he asserted. Taking a dig at TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son and party national general secretary Lokesh, the YSRCP leader alleged that the TDP leaders had grabbed valuable lands in the city for the benefit of their close aides and party workers under the garb of housing schemes and industrial purposes. On the other hand, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was focussing on holistic development of the city with emphasis on housing for the poor, he added. Executive capital Wondering why Mr. Naidu was against making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said, “The TDP leader has no right to seek votes as he is against the three capitals, decentralised development, and overall development of the North Andhra region.” Reiterating that Visakhapatnam would become the Executive Capital, the YSRCP MP said, “It may take some time, but it will happen. Vizag will be on a par with any of the top metro cities in the country.” VSP issue On the proposed privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the YSRCP was vehemently opposing it. “We wholeheartedly supported the State bandh called opposing the move. We did not allow APSRTC buses to ply till noon. Even after resuming the services, the RTC drivers and conductors sported black badges in support of the VSP employees,” he said. The Chief Minister had written a letter to the Prime Minister expressing his unhappiness over the Centre’s decision. He had also decided to ensure passage of a resolution to this effect in the Legislative Assembly. “What has Mr. Naidu done?” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy questioned. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that the BJP-JSP combine should come clear on on the VSP issue.  ‘Vision for Vizag’ Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu said that Visakhapatnam was being developed with a vision. Accusing Mr. Naidu of doing nothing for the development of Visakhapatnam, Mr. Kannababu said, “Mr. Naidu had only organised summits with no tangible results in his five-year rule.”  We supported the State bandh wholeheartedly. We did not allow APSRTC buses to ply till noon. Even after resuming the services, the RTC drivers and conductors sported black badges in support of the VSP employees V. Vijaya Sai Reddy YSRCP MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/municipal-elections-will-sound-death-knell-for-tdp-says-vijaya-sai-reddy/article34002672.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rallies, protests mark State bandh||A human chain was formed at Maddilapalem Junction by the Left parties during the State bandh observed in protest against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). YSRCP general secretary and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Ministers K. Kannababu and M. Srinivasa Rao and, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana participated in the protest. Replying to the query from a media person, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that resignation of elected representatives would be of no use as once out of power no one would care for them. CPI leader M. Pydiraju also spoke. A rally was organised by the TDP leaders and activists at Gopalapatnam under the aegis of Visakhapatnam MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu against the privatisation of the VSP. Meanwhile, CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham thanked people, educational institutions, shops, transport sector, government employees, traders, commercial establishments and voluntary organisations for making the bandh a success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rallies-protests-mark-state-bandh/article34002741.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paid holiday on poll day||District Collector V. Vinay Chand announced that all public undertakings, private business establishments and industries shall declare a paid holiday for their employees on March 10 on the occasion of civic polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paid-holiday-on-poll-day/article34002743.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor worth Rs. 4 lakh seized in Visakhapatnam||Police recovered a large number of liquor bottles that were allegedly being transported to an unknown location, at Kancharapalem area in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Friday. However, the people transporting the liquor managed to escape, police said. The case has been handed over to the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB). Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (SEB) V. Ajitha said they are yet to ascertain further details in the case, such as the identity of the persons transporting the liquor and the destination. The accused were reportedly shifting over 1,700 liquor bottles worth Rs. 4 lakh in a car and an auto-rickshaw. Meanwhile, former MLA and senior BJP leader P. Vishnu Kumar Raju alleged the involvement of several YSR Congress Party leaders of the 47th Ward (Zone V) in the case. He also requested the State Election Commissioner to initiate action and disqualify them from contesting the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-worth-rs-4-lakh-seized/article34002681.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP land sale: Left parties oppose ‘secret’ deal||The CPI and the CPI(M) have opposed the reported secret agreement between the management of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and National Building Construction Corporation (NBCC) on February 26 for the sale of 22 acres of land belonging to the VSP at Seethammadhara in the city. CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao and CPI Cicy secretary M. Pydiraju, in separate statements on Friday, alleged that the VSP management had made the agreement under pressure from the Union government. They sought that the State government should oppose the move and alleged that the Centre was planning to hand over the lands to some corporate group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-land-sale-left-parties-oppose-secret-deal/article34002742.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders take up beach cleaning||BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and other leaders, including the party’s Parliamentary Party district president M. Ravindra, took up beach cleaning as part of the GVMC poll campaign. Addressing the media, Mr. Narasimha Rao said that the State government failed in protecting and keeping the beach clean. “It was surprising to see RK Beach littered with garbage and plastic waste,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-take-up-beach-cleaning/article34002745.ece
06 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 58 COVID cases in three days||The district reported 13 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 60,607, according to the bulletin released on Friday morning. As many as 58 new cases were reported in the last three days. The number of active cases, which was just 30 on March 2, had increased to 63 by March 5. With the discharge of nine patients, the number of recoveries has crossed the 60,000-mark and stands at 60,005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-58-covid-cases-in-three-days/article34002744.ece
06 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions decry opening of shops||Trade unions including AITUC and INTUC staged a protest in PW Market over the opening of shops despite a bandh call given by various organisations and political parties to oppose the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Police intervention AITUC leader Bugata Ashok and INTUC leader Modili Srinivasa Rao alleged that the Chamber of Commerce was intimated about the bandh well in advance and its cooperation was sought. With the intervention of police, traders agreed to close their shops till the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-decry-opening-of-shops-in-vizianagaram/article34002679.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chilling out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chilling-out/article34002736.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scholarships for engineering students||C. Susmita and N. Anjani Devi, final year engineering students from SRKR Engineering College at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district, on Friday received Origanti Sundari merit scholarship for the current academic year. College Principal M. Jagapathi Raju said financial assistance of Rs. 25,000 was given to two girl beneficiaries every year under this scholarship, instituted by Origanti Bharat, an alumni of the college from the 1990-95 batch and who is a good position in a top company in the U.S. now. Faculty adviser P. Subba Rao said Mr. Bharat had instituted these merit scholarships named after his grandmother, to motivate girls to educate themselves in life. Secretary and Correspondent Sagi Vithal Ranga Raju, Director K. Jeeva Sagarm, CEO Nishant Varma, Dean (Research and Development) P. A. Ramakrishnam Raju, Head of Departments, faculty members attended the programme organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scholarships-for-engineering-students/article34001850.ece
06 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||100 quintals of unsold Kalyana Talambralu buried by authorities||More than 100 quintals of Kalyana Talambralu left unsold since the last Sita Rama Kalyanam held in a low-key manner at Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam owing to the coronavirus pandemic on April 2 last year, were buried in a trench on the temple lands in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh’s Purushothapatnam on Friday. The move to bury the talambralu was necessitated as a huge quantity of Kalyana Talambralu (rice mixed with vermilion, turmeric, saffron, gulal and other scented ingredients) prepared for the last year’s celestial wedding remained unsold in the temple’s storeroom due to the pandemic-related factors, temple sources said. Last year’s celestial wedding was performed by temple priests inside the temple complex in the presence of essential staff, devoid of devotees. The plans of the temple authorities to sell the Kalyana Talambralu through sale counters on the occasion of Sri Rama Navami went haywire due to the pandemic-related restrictions last year. The low water level in the Godavari at the temple town prompted the authorities to bury the unsold Kalyana Talambralu at the temple lands in Purushothapatnam. The leftover Kalyana Talambralu were buried in a 10-foot trench dug up at the temple lands in Purushothapatnam after consulting the Vedic pandits, said an official of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unsold-kalyana-talambralu-buried-in-10-ft-trench/article34001973.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC earning Rs. 11 cr. a day||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is generating an average revenue of Rs. 11 crore per day and salaries have been released to all workers, according to an official statement. The Rs. 11 crore per day revenue is a marked increase from the approximately Rs. 2 crore per day as generated during the lockdown. Video conferences “Regular video conferences are conducted with which RTC staff, and directions have been given, thus financial health has improved. Around Rs. 32 crore were recently deposited in the GPF account of employees. Measures are being taken up to ensure that the RTC improves further,” the statement reads. In a separate development, the TSRTC will now constitute complaints committee to tackle cases of sexual harassment at the unit-level, instead of the existing ones at the corporate and regional level. According to a circular, units are depots, regional non-operating units which comprise offices of - regional managers, regional dispensary, Regional CED, and Zonal Staff Training College, Zonal Workshop Complex, Head Office, Bus Building Workshop, TSRTC Hospital. Panel members Each committee will have five members, headed by a woman of the rank of supervisor. Each committee is stipulated to have at least one woman employee belonging to Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe or Backward Class or minority community. Depot level committees will have one member who is a woman conductor. Complaints can be made in writing within a period of three months from the date of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-earning-rs-11-cr-a-day/article34002571.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Irram Manzil complex left to its fate||More than two years after the Telangana High Court stepped in to stop the destruction of Irram Manzil, the old palace complex of Hyderabad nobility has become a building with no caretakers. The vast property whose frontage stretches for 120 metres is a spot for siestas, cinema shoots and Sunday walks. “Whenever we come to Hyderabad, we come to sleep here for some time. Nobody disturbs us except when there is a film shoot when it becomes very noisy,” says Koya Raju, an itinerant fortune teller who travels from Yadadri to the city. The ceremonial steps are littered with broken liquor bottles. Part of the space in the front has been turned into a facility for dumping office waste, including printers, cartridges and furniture. A cursory observation shows that part of the eave of the building has collapsed. Restoration plea “We are planning to submit a representation to the Chief Minister asking for restoration of the building to its old glory. It can be turned into an iconic complex to receive dignitaries from across the world,” said Shafath Ali Khan, who traces his lineage to Nawab Fakr-ul Mulk, the nobleman who built the palatial complex atop the hillock overlooking the Hussainsagar in 1870. The Roads and Buildings department, which used to function from the building has completely moved out. “There are 2-3 film shoots there every month. Otherwise, nobody enters the building,” says a woman who manages a tea-stall nearby. Traces of shoot The film shoots leave behind traces. The rear portion of the structure has the nameplate of a judge. The front portion appears to have been used recently for a Hindi film shoot where the building was made to appear like a police station in Goa. Bathed in the evening sunlight, the old palace complex, with its ornamental stairs and pediment shows only hints of its former glory. A part of it was turned into a Panaji Driving School. Then there are also discarded placards with political slogans in Tamil scattered in the area. While the Irram Manzil will live on in the make-believe world of Telugu, Tamil ,and Hindi cinema, its fate in the real world hangs in the balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/irram-manzil-complex-left-to-its-fate/article34002543.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB asked to inquire into complaint on RLIP work||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has left the onus of taking “appropriate action” in the matter of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) taken up by the Andhra Pradesh government on the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) with the observation that “there is no necessity at this stage for going into the investigation in the matter”. Disposing of an application filed by one Gavinolla Srinivas from Narayanpet district alleging that the AP government was making a lot of arrangements and taking steps for proceeding with the project without obtaining environmental clearance as directed the Tribunal in October last, the Southern Zone Bench of NGT observed last week: “There is nothing to disbelieve the assertion made by Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh stating that there is no intention to violate the directions issued by the Tribunal and whatever is being done is only strictly in accordance with the guidelines provided for preparing the detailed project report (DPR) for the project”. The Bench comprising judicial member Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta has directed the KRMB to take appropriate decision on the complaint lodged by the Telangana government against the project with a request to enquire into the matter of “work being done” by appointing a committee.  On its behalf, the Andhra Pradesh government through an affidavit filed by its Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das categorically stating that the work being done was for preparation of the DPR as per the guidelines of the Central Water Commission (CWC) and Ministry of Jal Shakti, including investigation for preparing DPR along with the estimates based on the soil quality after removing the superficial soil. Further, the AP government has reiterated that they would proceed with the project only after preparation of the DPR and getting approval from the concerned departments as directed by the Tribunal. “As such there is no violation or wilful disobedience committed by the Andhra Pradesh government and there is no necessity for initiating any action as sought by the applicant,” the NGT Bench observed. The Bench also observed that on the basis of the complaint made by the Telangana government in the matter of nature of work being done on RLIP the KRMB was at liberty to go into the question and if it was found that there was any violation of directions given by the Tribunal, on the basis of investigation conducted by them (KRMB) independently, it was at liberty to take appropriate action against the AP government. The applicant too would be at liberty to approach the Tribunal at that stage, the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krmb-asked-to-inquire-into-complaint-on-rlip-work/article34002569.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Let economics supersede politics’||Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao lashed out at the Centre on Friday accusing it of ignoring Telangana’s pleas for projects of national significance such as defence industrial corridor, seeking assistance to those it conceived like Hyderabad Pharma City as well as honouring promises under the AP Reorganisation Act, including a rail coach factory in Warangal. “The kind of support we anticipated from Government of India, in last six and half years [since Telangana formation], has not come,” he told a CII conference here. Noting that the State, however, continued to grow on various fronts, especially more than doubled IT exports, he said how sanctioning and support for the projects could have helped accelerate the pace and added more jobs. While motive behind Prime Minister’s slogans such as Make in India were noble, their objectives could not be achieved so long as politics was allowed to influence decision making of the Centre, he said. “Decision driven by political compulsions will not help our cause and country,” Mr. Rao said, lamenting how a suggestion for defence industrial corridor between Hyderabad and Bengaluru, to build on the strong ecosystem here, was not accepted. Instead, the project went to Bundelkhand, where there is no defence company,” he said. On promises made under the AP Reorganisation Act that were yet to be implemented, Mr.Rao counted special incentives for industries, in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh; an integrated steel factory in Bayyaram, and a rail coach factory in Warangal despite the State government offering more land - 150 acres – than the 60 acres that were sought. The Minister also blamed the Centre for scrapping the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project the previous UPA government mooted for Hyderabad, not extending assistance to the Pharma City project as well as not approving new electronic manufacturing clusters despite little space available at the existing two EMCs. “I think we would have created couple more lakhs of employment and grown at a much more aggressive pace had ITIR been grounded,” he said, referring to estimates of IT exports from Telangana set to touch Rs. 1.40 lakh crore this fiscal or more than double from the Rs. 57,000 crore at the time of the State formation. He also rued how the southern States were not considered for high-speed rail projects. Appealing to the Centre to encourage progressive State like Telangana, he said India can compete with China and other large manufacturing countries with an emphasis on achieving economies of scale. “My request to government of India is to let economics supersede politics. A government [in the State] which is not in sync with you politically,” should not be a reason for not supporting, Mr.Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/let-economics-supersede-politics/article34002558.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH shines in QS World Subject Rankings 2021||University of Hyderabad (UoH) has secured top slots in QS World University Subject Rankings released on Thursday by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. The Department of English made an extraordinary return in the subject rankings, storming into the global top 300 in QS figuring in the 251-300 ranks band, and is the top-ranked subject in UoH. Chemistry, one of UoH’s strongest disciplines, is in the 351-400 ranks. Closely following them are Life Sciences (501-550 ranks) and Physics (551-600). Highly-cited work All these academic units in UoH have produced highly-cited work, with faculty publishing in top-ranked journals, according to Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile. The university also featured in 29 out of 51 narrow subjects under five broad subject areas — Arts & Humanities, Engineering & Technology, Life Sciences & Medicine, Natural Sciences, and Social Sciences & Management in the ranking. 1,440 varsities evaluated This year’s ranking analysed nearly 14,000 individual university programmes from 1,440 universities across 85 locations around the world. Every university included in this year’s rankings is assessed based on four indicators — reputation among academics, reputation among global employers, the number of research citations the university achieves per paper in that subject, and the ‘H-index’, which measures the productivity and impact of each published scholar of the university. As an Institute of Eminence (IoE), the university is mandated to move into the world top-500 of the World University rankings. Two disciplines from UoH have already made it into the top 500 with two others in the top 600, Mr Appa Rao said in a statement here, adding that UoH is the youngest and smallest public-university IoE in India.  University of Hyderabad is the youngest and smallest public-university IoE (Institute of Eminence) in India. Appa Rao Podile, Vice-Chancellor, UoH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-shines-in-qs-world-subject-rankings-2021/article34002533.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘No world without women’||Cyberabad Police celebrated International Women’s Day at Tech Mahindra campus in Hi-Tec City on Friday. Over 500 employees participated in the event, during which Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar said, “There is no world without women, and with the United Nations theme being ‘Choose to Challenge’, my challenge is to see women officers work in every vertical in Cyberabad Commissionerate.” National badminton coach Pullela Gopichand and para-badminton world champion Mansi Joshi were present. “A lot of people talk about women’s empowerment but Pullela Gopichand has put it in practice,” the Commissioner said. Mr. Gopichand stated that gender equality was underrated and our culture taught us to respect women. “And that has ingrained us from our childhood,” he said. Ms. Joshi said that in her hour of crisis, she used to better her balancing skills through badminton. She shared her struggle and how she bounced back after her injury. “Womanhood itself is a celebration. There is no need to celebrate it on one particular day. I don’t mind being an nth player, as long as more play the sport and more toe the line which nobody has achieved,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-world-without-women/article34002552.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS topped the charts in Mudra loans, says BJP||Telangana BJP has contested the TRS charge of the small, medium and micro enterprises of TS being denied ‘Mudra’ loans from the Centre and asserted that Rs. 4,705 crore worth of loans were sanctioned last year alone topping the charts for all the States. “Minister K.T. Rama Rao has falsely tweeted that the Centre has been ignoring TS in disbursing Mudra loans when the official website states 11.35 lakh applications were filed for loans disbursal. TS has been second and third in terms of loans issued in previous two years,” said senior leader G. Vivek Venkatswamy on Friday. Addressing a press conference, he said the Centre had been “very generous” with TS but it was the government which was reluctant to implement its schemes. “Medical insurance scheme of ‘Ayushman Bharat’ is a good example and people loss has been to the tune of Rs. 300 crore during peak of Covid-19 infection it has been belatedly accepted now,” he pointed out. Same goes with the still born “IT&IR’ - Information Technology & Investment Region too has not fructified because the TRS Government “did not take a single step towards improving infrastructure,” said Dr. Vivek.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-topped-charts-in-mudra-loans/article34002559.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth dares KTR to go on fast on bifurcation promises||TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has challenged the TRS working president, K.T. Rama Rao for a fast-unto-death at Jantar Mantar on the denial of the promises, made in the AP Reorganisation Act, by the BJP government. "If KTR is sincere in his allegations against the BJP government he should sit on a fast-unto-death. I am willing to be part of it," he said while speaking at a preparatory meeting of Congress workers of Malkajgiri and Cantonment constituencies in support of G. Chinna Reddy, Congress supported candidate for the Mahabubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad Graduate MLC constituency. Instead of writing letters, KTR should be serious on the denial of the projects by the Government, he said and suggested fast-unto-death to pressure the BJP government. "Both TRS and BJP leaders are raising issues to divert the attention from their failures at both the state and the centre," he said. The TRS is enacting the drama of questioning the Central government while supporting all the bills in Parliament. "In the last seven years no serious effort was made to get clearances for the projects assured during the bifurcation." Seeking support to Mr. Chinna Reddy, he accused the BJP of selling the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) created by the Congress government as nation's wealth. All that Mr. Modi is capable of doing is selling the nation's wealth to a few individuals. "What will happen to the country in the future if the government sells its own properties," he said and argued that the wealth was created to support the downtrodden sections as a part of nation building. At a separate meeting of Qutubullapur constituency, he alleged that Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao was silent even as AP Chief Minister, Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy was diverting the Krishna waters meant for Mahabubnagar district. Listing out several issues, he asked about the promises like double bed room houses, job notifications, recruitment of teachers and unemployment allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-dares-ktr-to-go-on-fast-on-bifurcation-promises/article34002564.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State sees 166 COVID cases on Thursday||A steady increase of COVID-19 cases in the range of 150 to 200 every day is continuing in Telangana with a total of 166 new positive cases reported during the 24-hour period till 8 p.m. on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,99,572. Testing of samples for the infection were also continuing in the range of about 40,000 every day. The bulletin stated that 40,443 samples were tested on Thursday taking the total tests to 88,83,295 while reports of 536 samples were still awaited. Of the samples collected and tested on Thursday, 34,310 were screened in government facilities and another 6,233 in private laboratories and hospitals. Of the positive cases reported on Thursday, 27 were from GHMC area followed by 14 in Medchal-Malkajgiri and 12 in Rangareddy disrict. No fresh cases were reported in Jayashankar-Bhupalapally and Wanaparthy districts on Thursday and in the remaining 28 districts, the positive cases were reported in single digit.  With 149 persons declared recovered from COVID on Thursday, the total recoveries have gone up to 2,95,970. Number of deaths due to the infectious virus stands at 1,639 with two more fatalities reported on Thursday. According to bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health, the number of active cases continues to remain below 2,000 — it was 1,963 on Thursday. A total of 1,133 COVID patients were undergoing treatment in various government and private hospitals in the State and another 830 were in home and institutional isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-sees-166-new-covid-cases/article34002536.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH study on bacterial species of the intestine||Various bacterial species residing in the human intestine, including genotoxic strains of E.coli, have been reported to be involved in colorectal cancer tumorigenesis. A University of Hyderabad (UoH) research team led by Niyaz Ahmed of the department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, examined 4,000 genomes of genotoxic bacterial strains of E. coli using high-throughput comparative genomics and phylogenetic analyses to understand the prevalence and epidemiology of the bacteria that produce ‘colibactin’, a genotoxin that causes DNA breaks leading to cancer. The UoH team gained crucial insights into the distribution, transfer, and maintenance of bacterial evolution as they harbour multiple virulence genes involved in pathogenesis and clinical implications of the infection. Fewer strains The good news, however, is that these types of strains are relatively small in number in nature as compared to other non-toxigenic E. coli populations, said a press release. The study findings were published in the latest international journal, ‘mBio’ published by the American Society for Microbiology. Researchers from Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany and Dr. D. Y. Patil Vidyapeeth, Pune also participated in the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-study-on-bacterial-species-of-the-intestine/article34002538.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File affidavits over illegal buildings: HC to zonal heads||Taking a serious note of alleged illegal constructions by private persons in different parts of the State capital, the Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed all the six zonal commissioners of the GHMC to file individual affidavits on the matter. Hearing a couple of PIL pleas on illegal constructions in the city, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the affidavits by the zonal commissioners should comprise the details of cases of building violations in all circles of each zone. They should also explain how many illegal structures in the circles were demolished along with the details of prosecution launched against them. The CJ instructed that the zonal commissioners should explain how many persons had approached the courts and secured orders staying demolition process. The officials should explain what steps were taken to get such stay orders vacated. Making it clear that officials turning a blind eye to illegal structures would not be spared, the bench observed that “now the bells are ringing aloud and officials have to be careful”. While hearing the PIL pleas about illegal constructions in different parts of the city, Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said that the role of GHMC field officers was not coming to fore though they play pivotal role in ensuring no illegal structure came up in their respective areas. The judge felt that such field officers who were assigned the responsibility of restraining persons undertaking illegal structures should be made accountable. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy also noted that such officers on one hand threaten persons indulging in raising such buildings illegally. On the other hand, they would suggest to those persons to move the lower courts to secure orders staying demolition of illegally built structures. They help the persons complete the process of construction under the guise of the stay and eventually get the buildings regularised under Building Regularisation Scheme (BRS), the judge said. Taking a note of the remarks made by the co-judge, the CJ instructed the zonal commissioners to file affidavits with all information. “Ultimately the buck should stop at the table of the senior officer...Delegation of authority does not mean abrogation of authority...”, the CJ remarked. Posting the two PIL petitions to April 15, the CJ noted that “there appeared to be lack of control and supervision in all the circles which must be curbed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-affidavits-over-illegal-buildings-hc-to-zonal-heads/article34002568.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Transformation of armed forces imperative: CDS||Transformation for Indian armed forces has become a prerequisite to stay relevant in the fast changing geopolitical environment, said Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, highlighting that a key strategic management competency is the ability to anticipate, prepare for and adapt to change. The country is facing a complex and challenging security environment, which dictates enhancement of military capabilities and requires addressing voids in national war-fighting ability, he said, during his keynote address to the two-day seminar on ‘Transformation: Imperatives for the Indian Armed Forces’ held at the College of Defence Management (CDM), Secunderabad, on Thursday. Future-ready military Gen. Rawat also stressed the significance of evolving doctrine, force structures, technology and sustenance to create future-ready military. The meeting covered two major sessions on ‘Organisational Imperatives’ and ‘Structural Imperatives’, in which senior serving and veteran officers from the three services participated. Speakers focussed on the desired changes in the armed forces like joint training, staffing and procurement. The importance of restructuring of military commands into ‘Joint Theatre Commands’ was also highlighted to achieve desired level of unity in operations, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transformation-of-armed-forces-imperative-says-cds/article34002540.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CJ’s day out with women||Ahead of International Women’s Day, Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court Hima Kohli on Friday interacted with young women and girls of various government institutions under the Women’s Development and Child Welfare department through video conferencing. The programme was jointly organised by the WD&CW department in collaboration with the State Legal Services Authority. In the hour-long interaction, young girls shared their dreams and aspirations with the first woman Chief Justice of the State, and asked questions. Justice Kohli patiently answered all the queries, and drew peels of laughter when she candidly admitted her childhood dream was to meet her favourite cartoon characters. She said women have brilliant skills in multi-tasking and thinking out-of-the-box to find solutions. She spoke about her stint in the Delhi High Court where she had taken several steps in ensuring that the family courts were made more inclusive for children. As her message to the impressionable minds, she said learning is a journey and one should never stop learning. Though history was her favourite subject, legal field has given her immense opportunity to learn, she elaborated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cj-interacts-with-women/article34002549.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Missing minor girl raped, youth arrested||A 16-year-old girl, who went missing from her aunt’s house in Old Bowenpally on March 2, was traced by the Bowenpally police the next day, and found to be allegedly raped by her neighbour. Inspector K. Ravi Kumar said that the 26-year-old accused developed friendship with the girl three months ago and repeatedly sexually assaulted her. “After she was traced, the girl informed us that she was raped by the accused,” he said. A case under Section 376 (punishment for sexual assault), and relevant sections of POCSO Act and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were registered against the accused youth, who was arrested and remanded to judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/missing-minor-girl-raped-youth-arrested/article34002550.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New office bearers of CII-TS||Coromandel International managing director Sameer Goel and Vagish Dixit of ALPLA India have been elected chairman and vice-chairman respectively of Confederation of Indian Industry, Telangana (CII-TS) for 2021-22. Mr.Goel, who was vice-chairman of CII-TS for 2020-21, had a brief stint in Cipla as country head. He started his career with Glaxo Smith Kline Consumer in India in 1987 and worked in various positions in general management, sales and marketing. . Mr. Dixit is Chief Engagement Officer of ALPLA Worldwide, partner and MD of ALPLA Group in India. He was recently appointed honorary consul for Austria for the states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-office-bearers-of-cii-telangana/article34002537.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven of a family test positive for coronavirus||Seven persons of a family at Muthyampet village in Jagtial district tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu that all were asymptomatic. One of them recently returned from Dubai with the infection. Through him, his family contracted the virus. They are all isolated now. Meanwhile, a health bulletin said vaccination for seniors and those in 45-59 years age group with co-morbidities will be extended to all district headquarters hospitals, area hospitals, community health centre and designated private hospitals from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-of-a-family-test-positive-for-coronavirus/article34002541.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ryot hacked to death by brothers||A 48-year-old farmer was hacked to death by two of his siblings at Tangutoor village of Shankarpally mandal in Rangareddy district here on Friday. According to Shankarpally inspector Gopinath Gopu, the victim Yadaiah’s third brother Raju was recently arrested for sexually assaulting a woman and to get him out on bail, two other brothers, Pandu and Srinu, decided to get some money by mortgaging their small parcel of agricultural land. They gave their land documents to Yadaiah to get money. But, two days ago, they developed a difference and asked Yadaiah to return the papers, but in vain. “Around 9.30 a.m., Pandu took Yadaiah to his ancestral house, and as soon as he entered, Srinu threw chilli powder on him. When he fell on the ground, Pandu hit him with a stick and later the other one hacked him to death with an axe, and both fled,” Mr. Gopu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryot-hacked-to-death-by-kin/article34002554.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS for action plans to improve services to SHGs||The State government has focused on further improving the efficiency in the functioning of the self-help groups (SHGs) and improving services to them. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials of different departments to prepare action plans on use of IT, capacity building, livelihoods enterprise and others areas in the functioning of the SHGs. Officials should focus on agriculture, food processing, soil testing, growing vegetables, animal husbandry and nutrition for changing livelihoods of SHG women in the State. Officials should form into small groups for preparing detailed road maps in each of these areas. The Chief Secretary held a review meeting with senior officials on different activities undertaken by the SHGs and the course of action that should be taken in respect of SERP, MEMPA and other schemes on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-for-action-plans-to-improve-services-of-shgs/article34002561.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||page 4||Chellapuram Vinod Goud, sarpanch of Manneguda in Pudur mandal of Vikarabad district, was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau on Friday for accepting a bribe of Rs. 13 lakh from the complainant for showing official favour. He was caught accepting the bribe from Mohammed Sajid Basha of Mallepally to allow him the construction of shops belonging to his employer Mohammed Mujahid Alam Khan at Manneguda village, officials said. Despite getting approval from DTCP and permission from Grampanchayat, Goud demanded a bribe from the complainant, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-4/article34002562.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PRSI Award for L&MRH (page 3 briefly)||L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited (L&TMRH) has won the first prize under the category of Social Media for PR and Branding in Public Relations Society of India (PRSI) National Award 2020. The award ceremony was hosted virtually in the presence of the Governor of Uttarakhand Srimati Baby Rani Maurya, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and PRSI president Ajit Pathak last month, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prsi-award-for-lmrh-page-3-briefly/article34002706.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nizam tiffin box accused booked again||Mohd Ghouse Pasha alias Khooni Ghouse, one of the accused in Nizam’s multi-crore golden tiffin box theft case, was booked by the Rajendra Nagar police of Cyberabad for creating nuisance in the area. The 25-year-old centring worker along with his friends damaged a few auto rickshaws and bikes in an inebriated condition at Chintalmet area on Thursday night. The accused is still at large, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nizam-tiffin-box-accused-booked-again/article34002707.ece
06 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for threatening Karwan MLA||A 21-year-old youngster was arrested by Banjara Hills police for allegedly demanding Rs. 50 lakh from Karwan AIMIM MLA Kauser Mohiuddin after threatening to kidnap his son. Based on the complaint lodged by the legislator, a case was registered against Billa, who earlier worked at a hotel, and he was arrested. Police said that two months ago, the youngster picked up an argument with the MLA’s younger son Zafar, and bore a grudge against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-threatening-karwan-mla/article34002553.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Last Date extended||The last date for submission of online applications for admission into 1st Year UG courses of BA/B.Com/BBA/B.Sc (English Medium) in Telangana Social and Tribal Welfare Residential Degree Colleges for men and women for the academic year 2021-2022 has been extended up to March 15. TGUGCET-2021 (Telangana Gurukulam Undergraduate Common Entrance Test) will be conducted on April 25. Candidates can visitwww.tswreis.inandwww.tgtwgurukulam. telangana.gov.infor prospectus and online application, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/last-date-extended/article34002560.ece
06 March 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Rally against VSP/MDM privatisation||Upping the ante against the Centre’s move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, scores of workers from the RINL-VSP’s captive Dolomite mine at Madharam in Karepalli mandal staged a dharna here on Friday demanding withdrawal of the privatisation move. The agitated workers took out a bike rally from the main gate of the Madharam Dolomite Mine (MDM) in Telangana's mineral-rich mandal of Karepalli to the Dharna Chowk here. They traversed a distance of about 50 km from Madharam to Khammam on bikes before staging a demonstration at the Dharna Chowk under the aegis of the JAC of various trade unions. The demonstrators exhibited playcards reiterating their resolve to intensify their agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rally-against-vspmdm-privatisation/article34002570.ece
06 March 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Returning Officer holds meeting with officials||With a total 71 candidates in the fray for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ MLC election, which is scheduled for March 14, jumbo ballot boxes suitable enough to accommodate almost a newspaper-size ballot paper will be used, Returning Officer Prashant J Patil said on Friday. Interacting with District Collectors/District Election Officers and Assistant Returning Officers of the 11 other districts that are in the composite constituency, over video conference, he said relevant arrangements should be made. Postal ballots and other polling material will be supplied starting Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/returning-officer-holds-meeting-with-officials/article34002566.ece
06 March 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Human chains to be formed by left parties||Massive human chains, to mark 100 days of protests by farmers and voluntary organisations in Delhi against the Centre-enacted three farm laws, will be demonstrated in various towns on Saturday, leaders from Left-wing parties said on Friday. CPI (M) district secretary M. Nagarjuna Reddy along with B. Venkateswarlu said the demonstration is a show of solidarity with farmers, as decided by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. “While thousands of farmers are protesting, and even a few hundred breathed their last in protests, the Centre has remained merciless and continues to guard the interests of the few corporates,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/human-chains-to-be-formed-by-left-parties/article34002709.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A sports-centric masala film||A1 Express tries to be several things — an underdog sports drama, a story of friendship, a story of a banished player rediscovering his mojo to win, and a youthful entertainer with comedy and romance. Nothing wrong with that. The issue, however, is that A1 Express doesn’t succeed in blending these different aspects into a cohesive whole. The story is based on the Tamil film Natpe Thunai and keeps the core idea of friends and sports intact. A sports ground in Yanam is the bone of contention. A corporate wants to take it over and sports minister Rao Ramesh (Rao Ramesh) is a willing, corrupt conduit. The no-nonsense coach Murali (Murali Sharma) is determined to save the ground and thereby, the future of aspiring hockey players. Watching all this unfold helplessly is an elderly man who remembers hockey’s glorious days and holds on to hope. Walking into this situation is Sundeep Naidu (Sundeep Kishan), who until then has been happy to just romance hockey player Lavanya Rao (Lavanya Tripathi). He wants to have nothing to do with the sport and is content enjoying the banter with childhood friend Satya, and dancing to Hiphop Thamizha’s foot-tapping beats. The real hero introduction sequence, so to speak, happens close to the interval when Sundeep’s true identity is revealed. Thrown into the thick of things to help someone who is sidelined from selection, he is asked to ‘just pass the ball’ but clearly knows more than that.  A1 Express comes into its own in the later portions when it begins to focus on the sport and the politicking that ails it. But, just a story of Sundeep leading a team to win and thereby securing the hockey ground’s future would be no big deal. So we get a flashback of what drives Sundeep to hockey and then, away from it. These portions are predictable but the presence of off-screen friends Darshi (Priyadarshi) and Rahul (Rahul Ramakrishna) adds credence to it. The final hockey match progresses as one would expect, with all the odds stacked against Sundeep’s team and he himself having to overcome the demons of the past. There are moments that remind us of Lagaan and Chak de India . Adding to the nail-biting match is the humour-laced commentary by Suma and Harsha. Sundeep navigates the slightly mass-y bits as well as the sports portions with ease and sportively plays second fiddle to Lavanya in the initial portions. He also gets to show off his toned physique and his agility suits the character he portrays. Lavanya befits her part, as though happy to just sweat it out and show off the post-sport glow rather than fuss over picture perfect looks. Murali Sharma delivers, once again, as the coach. Rao Ramesh, though, is a tad over the top.  A1 Express is a mixed bag; a part of it wants to be taken as a serious sports drama and another part wants you to just have some popcorn entertainment.  (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-sports-centric-masala-film/article34002546.ece
06 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘CAA, mega alliances cannot stop us from forming government again’||Journalist-turned-politician Ranjeet Kumar Dass has been the BJP’s Assam unit president since December 2016. He is credited with introducing the idea of community-based and neighbourhood committees of the party besides keeping the prishtha pramukh — a member in charge of 60 people on a page of the electoral rolls — machine well-oiled. He is confident of BJP and its allies winning more than 100 seats despite the Congress stitching up a seven-party ‘Mahajot’ (grand alliance). He also said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) was a non-issue. Excerpts from an interview:  Does an unprecedented electoral contest involving three alliances, one led by the BJP, worry you? Absolutely not. The alliance of regional parties Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal (RD) hardly has a mass base and are flogging issues that no longer concern the people. In 2016, we had little or no presence in the seats that rivals-turned-allies Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) won. The Congress-AIUDF grand alliance may help us gain a few seats from the Muslim areas they claim to have a hold on. How? We have the support of the people including Muslims who have been equal beneficiaries of the developmental schemes. For instance, 2.8 lakh of the 7 lakh beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana are Muslims. Besides, analysis of the 2016 State and 2019 Lok Sabha polls shows our candidates and those of our allies got a sizeable chunk of Muslim votes in minority areas. Muslims in Assam did not suffer violence in the last 5 years unlike during the Congress reign. Their mindset is changing as was evident from the by-elections to the Muslim-majority Jania Assembly seat where we got 15,000 votes. We could barely manage 5,000 earlier. Will the anti-CAA sentiments whipped up in the Assamese-dominated areas by the AJP-RD and Mahajot be a challenge for you? The CAA is a non-issue. The Congress has illusions about it being relevant while the AJP-RD believes it can garner some emotional votes. The latter can manage 4-5% votes at best. That the RD is the party of (jailed peasants’ rights activist) Akhil Gogoi, who had in 2016 asked people to vote for Congress, will help us. Had CAA been a factor, the BJP would not have won the panchayat polls after the first wave of protests. We won 100% seats in Assamese-dominated Assembly segments such as Patacharkuchi, Kamalpur and Bokakhat despite the perception that our core voters are Hindi speakers and Bengali Hindus. The BJP has given special attention to the Adivasis or “tea tribes” despite claiming to enjoy their support. Is this a sign of nervousness? We have given and will give special attention to the Adivasis because Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants us to focus on people who have remained backward over decades of Congress rule. Many schools have been opened across the tea belt, miles of roads made, cash transferred in the accounts of tea workers, mobile phones given to sardars (heads of a group of tea workers), Rs. 12,000 given to pregnant women workers... We are neither nervous nor not confident about the support of our Adivasi brothers and sisters. They deserve the attention, as do other communities. What about the Bodoland Territorial Council where your former ally, Bodoland People’s Front almost won the council polls in December 2020? We will be contesting the 12 Assembly seats in BTC areas in alliance with United People’s Party Liberal, with whom we formed the new council. If you look at the 2016 elections, our vote share was almost equal to BPF and UPPL in two BTC districts and somewhat less in the other two. Together, BJP and UPPL will do well in BTC areas. All other tribal councils — Karbi Anglong, Dima Hasao, Tiwa, Rabha, Mishing, Thengal Kachari, Sonowal Kachari, Deuri — are with BJP. We enjoy the tribal people’s support because of our programmes. What makes you so confident? We will return to power because of the achievements of our alliance government and the activities of our party workers at the grassroots level. We have 4 lakh prishtha pramukhs who connect door-to-door. Of the 2.19 crore voters in Assam, 96 lakh are beneficiaries of government schemes. We have 42 lakh online members, 8 lakh offline members and 3,000 people are joining us every day. We have done our calculations and believe people will vote for us on the basis of our performance.  We enjoy the tribal people’s support because of our programmes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/caa-mega-alliances-cannot-stop-us-from-forming-government-again/article34002113.ece
06 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mahanta’s exclusion from list revives AGP faction||The exclusion of former Chief Minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta from the Asom Gana Parishad’s list of candidates has led to the revival of a faction that may join the Congress-led Mahajot or grand alliance in poll-bound Assam. Mr. Mahanta has held the Barhampur Assembly constituency in central Assam since 1991. But his name did not figure among the AGP candidates after the seat-sharing agreement with major partner Bharatiya Janata Party was sealed in New Delhi on Thursday. The former Chief Minister, who had been undergoing treatment at AIIMS in New Delhi till Thursday, has not jointed the revived AGP-Pragatisheel (AGP-P). But his loyalists hope he “will take the right decision” after returning to Assam and “give a befitting reply to the snub” by AGP-BJP. “The BJP entered Assam holding the hands of Mahanta dangoria (honorific equivalent to ji in Assamese) because former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee requested him to. But the BJP betrayed him and clipped his wings after coming to power simply because he has been against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,” AGP-P general secretary Pranab Goswami said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mahantas-exclusion-from-list-revives-agp-faction/article34002118.ece
06 March 2021||Kolkata,||TMC leaders break down over being dropped||Several Trinamool Congress leaders voiced their anguish against the party after they were denied nomination for the West Bengal Assembly elections with protests being held at a few places. Four-time Satgachia MLA Sonali Guha, once a close associate of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, burst into tears after learning that she was denied a ticket this time. “May God give Mamata didi good sense and counsel, I have been with her from the beginning,” said Ms. Guha, the former Deputy Speaker of the Assembly. Former TMC MLA Arabul Islam, a strongman from Bhangar in South 24 Parganas district, broke down in tears as he said that those who have loved the party have been ignored. “I will do whatever the local people want me to do,” he said about his future plans, as some of his supporters burnt tyres and put up roadblocks in the area in protest. Supporters of Rafiqur Rahaman, the sitting TMC MLA of Amdanga in North 24 Parganas, blocked the highway after his name did not appear in the list. A section of the party’s Siliguri leadership also took exception to Omprakash Mishra, a Kolkata resident, being made a candidate from the north Bengal town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tmc-leaders-break-down-over-being-dropped/article34002119.ece
06 March 2021||Mumbai,||Funds for SCs and STs remain largely unused||Funds allocated for schemes meant to benefit Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) remained largely unutilised in the fiscal year 2020-21, according to the State Economic Survey presented in the Assembly on Friday. Barely 19% and 25% funds were spent up to January 2021 under State- and district-level schemes for SCs and STs respectively. For the Scheduled Caste Component Scheme (SCCS), only Rs. 1,556.18 crore of the Rs. 6,939.36 crore proposed funds for State-level schemes was used. Of Rs. 2728.64 crore funds for district-level schemes, only Rs. 289.30 crore was spent. Every year, the funds for SCCS are made available from the outlay for annual schemes in proportion to the SC population (11.8%). During 2020-21, under SCCS, 355 schemes (193 State-level, 80 district-level and 82 Centrally sponsored schemes) were implemented. For STs, of the Rs. 7559.03 crore funds for State-level schemes, only Rs. 2293.52 crore was spent, and of Rs. 1925.91 crore funds for district-level schemes, only Rs. 111.90 was used. In previous years too, the Maharashtra government was unable to spend most of the proposed funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/funds-for-scs-and-sts-remain-largely-unused/article34002114.ece
06 March 2021||Mumbai,||State’s nominal GSDP to dip by Rs. 1,56,925 cr.||The State Economic Survey (2020-21) presented in the Assembly on Friday said Maharashtra’s nominal Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) is expected to decrease by Rs. 1,56,925 crore during 2020-21 as compared with 2019-20. The report cited the novel coronavirus pandemic for the slowdown. “Advance Estimates of 2020-21 should be read and interpreted keeping in view the extraordinary situation of the COVID-19 pandemic. The complete lockdown and then the step by step removal of these restrictions has impacted economic activities and the availability of data,” the report said. The report also said among the three major sectors of the economy, only ‘agriculture and allied activities’ contributed positively to Gross State Value Added (GSVA) in 2020-21. The government’s timely and proactive measures ensured that the sector was least impacted by the pandemic. “Due to overall increase in estimated agricultural production, the real GSVA of the ‘crops’ sector is expected to grow by 16.2%. ‘livestock’, ‘forestry & logging’ and ‘fisheries & aquaculture’ sectors are expected to grow at 4.4%, 5.7% and 2.6% respectively,” the report said. The ‘manufacturing’ and ‘construction’ sectors were the hardest hit and are expected to grow at (-)11.8% and (-)14.6% respectively, due to which the ‘industry’ sector’s growth is expected to be (-)11.3%. Due to the pandemic’s deep impact on trade, repairs, hotels and restaurants and transport sectors, the ‘services’ sector is expected to grow at (-)9.0%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/states-nominal-gsdp-to-dip-by-rs-156925-cr/article34002115.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Budget allocation likely to be over Rs. 65,000 crore’||The AAP-led Delhi government is likely to present a budget with allocations over and above Rs. 65,000 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal, making it the highest allocation by any government since its first-ever session in 1993, sources said on Friday. To focus primarily on the health and education sectors, the AAP government, according to sources, would add the ‘Deshbhakti’ head as a significant component to the budget this year. Patriotic programmes “The Delhi government seeks to commemorate and celebrate each of the 75 weeks till the 75th Independence Day, on August 15, 2022, beginning March 12. Patriotic programmes will be organised as part of the initiative,” a Delhi government source said. “The government will not only highlight the role of Delhi in India’s freedom struggle, but also present its own vision and rendition of India at 100 in reference to Independence Day celebrations in 2047,” the source also said. The Budget Session will be held between March 8 and 16 with the budget likely to be presented on March 9. The session will begin with tabling of economic survey report and outcome budget of the government on March 8. The government, which had presented a budget of Rs. 65,000 for the previous fiscal, is likely to come out with measures to boost revenue collection that has been hit hard and dropped by 42% due to the pandemic and year-long lockdown, officials said. The outcome budget, listing the performance and achievements of various departments and agencies of the government during the previous financial year, will be presented on the first day of the session along with the Economic Survey of Delhi, officials said. The session will begin with the address of Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal. Given the COVID-19 pandemic, safety norms like social distancing and use of face masks and social distancing will be strictly followed during the session, they said.  To focus primarily on the health and education sectors, the AAP government will add the ‘Deshbhakti’ head as a significant component to the budget this year Government sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/budget-allocation-likely-to-be-over-rs-65000-crore/article34002106.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC upset with police over leak of chargesheet in Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court on Friday expressed displeasure at the Delhi Police for leak of supplementary chargesheet filed in a case related to north-east Delhi riots to the media even before cognisance was taken by the court concerned. Justice Mukta Gupta asked the Delhi Police Commissioner to give an affidavit fixing responsibility on the person instrumental in leaking the information to the media.  ‘Proved allegation’ “It is a proved allegation once it comes in media. It no more remains an allegation now. You have to ascertain who has done it,” the High Court said. The Delhi Police’s counsel, however, said that the contents of the supplementary chargesheet were not leaked to media by the police. The High Court said the document was a property in the hands of the police and “if your officer has leaked it, it’s abuse of power. If for sanction, this was entrusted to someone else, it’s criminal breach of trust. If the media has taken it away then it’s a theft. So in any case, an offence is made out.” The court made the remark while hearing a plea by Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, accusing Delhi Police of leaking his confessional statement to the media. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, representing Mr. Tanha, contended that portion of the supplementary chargesheet was with the media a day after it was filed before a trial court here. The High Court has posted the case for further hearing on March 25. On last hearing, the High Court had expressed dissatisfaction over Delhi Police’s vigilance inquiry report on the allegation of leaking the confessional statement of Mr. Tanha to media. Justice Gupta had said, “This vigilance inquiry is even worse than what they do in an ordinary inquiry in a petty theft case.” Mr. Tanha was arrested in May last year for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-upset-with-police-over-leak-of-chargesheet-in-delhi-riots-case/article34002099.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Be constantly vigilant against COVID-19: L-G||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Friday emphasised on the need to keep the guard up against COVID-19 and to make the ongoing vaccination drive more inclusive, especially for those with no access to digital platforms, at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) here. Mr. Baijal chaired the 18th meeting of the DDMA to review COVID-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, along with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and senior government officials, at Raj Niwas. Appreciates efforts While appreciating the efforts made by all the agencies concerned in effectively controlling COVID-19 in Delhi, Mr. Baijal, emphasised the need to continue to be vigilant without lowering guard and ensuring strict enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. “As advised by experts, it was decided to continue with the existing strategy of cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing,” the L-G tweeted. “Stressed upon the need to make vaccine coverage more inclusive and equitous by way of greater outreach and focused IEC campaign, with special emphasis on marginalized/poor sections without access to digital platform,” he also tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/be-constantly-vigilant-against-covid-19-l-g/article34002108.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks Delhi govt. to comply with order to regulate online path labs||The Delhi High Court on Friday said it expects that the AAP government will put things in order and comply with a judicial order asking authorities to take action and regulate online pathological labs, otherwise contempt action would be initiated. The High Court, which was hearing a plea alleging non-compliance of its order in this regard, also sought to know from the AAP government whether its pathological laboratories and hospitals are NABL accredited. The plea alleged non-compliance of the court’s August 6, 2020 order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in Delhi and to regulate online pathological labs. “There is something fundamentally wrong in the process. Are your own labs and hospitals NABL [National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories] accredited? It is a very fundamental question,” Justice Najmi Waziri said. Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and Urvi Mohan submitted that the government has issued a notification intimating all the labs that they have to follow the Supreme Court’s order. The apex court had on April 8, 2020 directed that COVID-19 tests must be carried out in NABL-accredited labs or any agencies approved by the WHO or ICMR. The High Court granted time to the Delhi government to take instructions on the issue and listed the matter for further hearing on March 12. “I expect you to put things in order or else we will probably have to issue contempt notice and shut all your establishments. Find some solutions and put things in order in the interregnum,” Justice Waziri orally observed. Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, representing petitioner Rohit Jain, submitted that online pathological labs are not recognised, still they are conducting COVID-19 tests. The High Court had earlier sought response of the Delhi government on the petition seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the top government officials and others for alleged non-compliance of an order asking to take action and regulate online pathological labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-comply-with-order-to-regulate-online-path-labs/article34002101.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi lagging behind in education, health: Cong.||Delhi Congress on Friday said that it came as no surprise that Delhi has been ranked 35th out of 49 cities surveyed across the country in the “Ease of Living Index 2020” on the parameters of quality of living. The survey, it said, was conducted on the parameters of quality of living set by the BJP-ruled Central government that has called the bluff and exposed the lies of the BJP-ruled civic bodies and the AAP government, which claimed there has been development. “Delhi has fallen in almost all the parameters, like education, health, housing, waste management, planning, pollution, safety and security, as the assessment tool evaluated the quality of life and the impact of various initiatives for urban development,” the Delhi Congress said commenting on Ease of Living index released by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry. Leader of the Congress in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Abhishek Dutt, said that the survey has called the bluff of the Delhi government, which has been boasting about its so-called “model” of healthcare, education and governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-lagging-behind-in-education-health-cong/article34002102.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||312 new cases reported, 27,057 vaccinated in Delhi||Delhi on Friday recorded 312 new COVID-19 cases, which was the highest daily rise in the number of cases seen since January 15, when the numbers started staying below the 300 a day. The city also recorded three deaths and 312 recoveries. A health bulletin issued by the Delhi government said that in the past 24 hours, 59,122 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.53%. Out of the total tests conducted, 36,119 were RT-PCR tests while 23,003 were rapid antigen tests. The addition of Friday’s figures takes the total number of cases in Delhi to 6,40,494 and the total number of fatalities to 10,918. The total number of active cases in Delhi now stands at 1,779, with 863 patients currently under home isolation. Out of the 5,709 beds available for COVID-19 patients in hospitals in the city, 599 are occupied. A total of 27,057 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination on Friday and there were four minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), said a Delhi government spokesperson. Of the total beneficiaries, 14,874 were people aged 60 and above and 2,020 were between 45 and 59 years. The rest of the people vaccinated on Friday were healthcare and front-line workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/312-new-cases-reported-27057-vaccinated-in-delhi/article34002104.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP govt. must rewrite school history curriculum’||The government needs to change the school history curriculum in order to create pride in their country among Indian students, said French author Francois Gautier, speaking at the release of his book ‘An Entirely New History of India’ on Friday. “There is no point in writing books like this unless the government rewrites the curriculum in schools,” said Mr. Gautier. He said India had great poets and philosophers such as Kalidasa or Aurobindo, as well as great heroes and women warriors, but they are not taught in Indian schools. “As a result, there is a lack of pride among Indians,” he added. Mr. Gautier expressed disappointment with the BJP government’s performance in this area. “It is a battle, may be the second battle of Kurukshetra is happening now. Even within this government, there is no attempt to change the curriculum although it is supposed to be a right-wing pro-Hindu government. We expected so much, but it has not happened in the last sevenyears,” he said. His book argues that Indian history needs to be re-examined and freed from colonial biases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-govt-must-rewrite-school-history-curriculum/article34002111.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||BJP accuses Delhi govt. of bulldozing democracy||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Friday accused the Delhi government of bulldozing democracy and snatching away the right of MLAs by doing away with the Question Hour during the upcoming Budget Session of the Delhi Assembly beginning on Monday. Terming it an assault on democracy, Mr. Bidhuri said the Question Hour was an important component of Business of the Delhi Vidhan Sabha proceedings and by doing away with this critical instrument, the government was seeking to escape its responsibility of answering questions related to issues concerning the people of Delhi. “The Question Hour is one of the most important platforms of a democratic institution, called the Delhi Assembly,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-accuses-delhi-govt-of-bulldozing-democracy/article34002105.ece
06 March 2021||Pune,||Over 10,000 new cases in Maharashtra||In its highest spike since October last year, Maharashtra reported 10,216 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking its active case tally to 88,838. Pune, Nagpur and Mumbai reported surges in excess of 1,100 cases, while Nashik and Jalgaon in north Maharashtra saw a resurgence in infections. With 6,467 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate dipped to 93.52%. Fifty-three deaths pushed the toll to 52,340. While the total case tally has reached 21,98,399, the cumulative recoveries stand at 20,55,951. “Of 1,66,86,880 laboratory samples tested thus far, 21,98,399 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.17%) have returned positive with over 90,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate had dipped to 2.38%. Pune district reported a consecutive surge of more than 1,800 cases to take its total case tally to 4,17,237. As per the State Health Department figures, five more deaths were reported as the toll reached 8,080. However, district authorities said the toll has reached 9,286, while the active case tally surged past 12,000 to reach 12,699. Cases in Pune has more than doubled in the last 15 days, when the district barely had 5,000-odd active cases. Mumbai reported 1,174 new cases, taking its total tally to 3,31,020, of which 9,055 are active. Three deaths took the city's death toll to 11,495. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a record single-day jump of 1,400 cases, taking its total case tally to 1,57,575, of which 11,552 are currently active. Two deaths were recorded as the total death toll rose to 3,537. Cases continued to mount in Amravati district, which reported nearly 700 cases, taking its total tally to 39,242, of which 5,260 are active. Eight deaths saw the death toll rise to 520. The district administration, which had imposed a week-long lockdown, relaxed regulations, but directed all shops to function between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. In north Maharashtra, Nashik reported over 550 cases to take its tally to 1,30,434, of which 2,840 were active. A single death took the toll to 2,070. Neighbouring Jalgaon saw 550 new cases and five deaths as its tally reached 62,274, of which 3,606 are active. Its death toll has reached 1,516. While cases rose in Marathwada, only the ‘sugar belt’ districts of western Maharashtra saw a dip in cases. Satara reported 214 new cases as its tally rose to 59,473, of which 1,610 are active. A single fatality took its total death toll to 1,848. Sangli reported 34 cases and no deaths as the district’s tally reached 51,442, of which only 530 are active. Kolhapur reported 23 cases and one death as its total case tally reached 49,887, of which just 441 are active, while its toll reached 1,681. A total of 4,10,411 people across the State are in home quarantine and 4,203 are in institutional quarantine.  Of 1,66,86,880 laboratory samples tested thus far, 21,98,399 have returned positive Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-10000-new-cases-in-maharashtra/article34002117.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Beasts of burden||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/beasts-of-burden/article34002110.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||China targets 6% growth, tech supremacy||China’s government on Friday announced a 6% growth target for 2021 and unveiled a five-year plan and vision for 2035 that aims to expand the country’s global footprint as a major technology power. The plans, unveiled at the start of the annual week-long convening of the Communist Party-controlled legislature, the National People’s Congress (NPC), outlined a push for China to consolidate the positions of its supply chains in key strategic industries, amid a push from some countries towards decoupling, and to significantly increase China’s spending on research and development (R&D) to achieve self-reliance in key high-tech sectors. Chinese Premier and second-ranked leader Li Keqiang presented the draft government work report for the year and the draft outlines of the 14th five-year plan (2021-25) and long-range objectives for 2035 to the NPC, which will approve the documents over the next week. The NPC is also expected to approve a major overhaul of Hong Kong’s electoral system that will see a diminishing share for directly elected legislative seats, dealing a blow to pro-democracy parties and strengthening Beijing’s control. Mr. Li outlined as two major economic targets for 2021 a GDP growth of “over 6%” and the creation of over 11 million new urban jobs. China last year did not announce a growth target amidst the pandemic. The figure, he said, had “taken into account the recovery of economic activity”. The five-year plan (FYP) for 2025 for the first time did not mention annual growth targets, instead announcing an ambitious annual target to increase R&D spending “by more than 7% per year”. The NPC will also approve a plan for “long range objectives through the year 2035”. President Xi Jinping said last year the country could double its GDP by 2035, pushing China towards becoming a $30 trillion economy. While there is no official target to do so, that would require 4-5% growth annually. ‘Self-reliance’  Both plans have emphasised self-reliance and a focus on high-tech growth. The FYP said China “will take self-reliance in science and technology as strategic underpinning for national development” and “will focus on the development of strategic emerging industries including information technology, biotech and new energy”. Besides the economic plans, the NPC this week is also expected to approve sweeping new changes to Hong Kong’s electoral system. Mr. Li on Friday said China “will resolutely guard against and deter external forces’ interference”. A draft decision on “improving” Hong Kong’s electoral system was submitted on Friday to the NPC. The plan is likely to bestow greater powers on the largely Beijing-nominated 1,200-member Election Committee that chooses Hong Kong’s Chief Executive. A push for universal suffrage and to directly choose the Chief Executive was among the demands of the 2019 protests. Hong Kong only directly votes for half of its 70 Legislative Council members. Under the new plan, Hong Kong media reported, the size of the council could be increased to 90 with the additional members chosen by the Election Committee. This would decrease the proportion of directly elected members and further dilute the presence of pro-democracy parties. On account of the changes, September’s polls in Hong Kong, which were delayed from last year because of the pandemic, could be further pushed to 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-targets-6-growth-tech-supremacy/article34001757.ece
06 March 2021||COLOMBO,||India reaffirms Lanka defence ties||With the participation of the Indian Air Force Chief and 23 aircraft in the three-day event in Colombo to mark the 70th anniversary of the Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF), India sought to reaffirm its strong defence cooperation with Sri Lanka. The last time Indian aircraft took part in such an event was in 2001, on the occasion of the SLAF’s 50th year, according to Captain Vikas Sood, Defence Adviser at the Indian High Commission. A team of 4 Sarang Advance Light Helicopters, Surya Kiran (Hawks), Tejas Fighter Aircraft, Tejas Trainer and the Dornier Maritime Patrol Aircraft from India were in Sri Lanka this week, to participate in a fly past and acrobatic display event with the SLAF, held by Colombo’s seafront. Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauri called on Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, and met senior defence officials. “The engagement was very positive, we look forward to building on our strong ties,” Captain Sood said. During Sri Lanka’s over three decade-civil war, India has played a crucial role, politically and at times, using its military. While the controversial Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) presence here, and ‘Operation Poomalai’ of 1987 — when the Indian Air Force dropped food supplies in Jaffna — drew criticism from sections, the Indian military’s “support” has been repeatedly acknowledged by Sri Lanka’s national leaders. In Sri Lanka’s post-war era, Indo-Lanka military partnership has focused mostly on training and capacity building. According to Captain Sood, about 1,200 Sri Lankan military personnel are trained in India every year. “That is about 50% of the total training we offer, and shows the priority we accord to Sri Lanka,” he said, adding that Sri Lanka had “huge potential” to contribute to regional security. Fire-fighting operation Last year, Indian Navy and Coast Guard personnel helped the Sri Lankan Navy in a crucial fire-fighting operation, when an oil tanker went up in flames, off the island’s east coast. Further, Sri Lanka’s strategic location makes it a crucial partner for all countries in the region. Pakistan’s Air Chief Marshal Mujahid Anwar Khan was also in Sri Lanka to attend the 70th year celebrations. “This visit signifies the strong bond and friendship between the two countries and their Armed Forces,” the Pakistani mission here said. Over the years, Sri Lanka is known to have maintained strong military ties with several partners in the region and beyond. Domestically, its defence sector is accorded high priority by all governments. A decade after the war, Sri Lanka allocates one of the biggest chunks of its annual budget to the defence sector — an estimated LKR 23,250 million for the year 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-reaffirms-lanka-defence-ties/article34001754.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s defence budget to cross $200 billion||China’s defence budget will for the first time cross $200 billion with the government on Friday announcing a 6.8% hike in defence spending for 2021. The announcement was made at the start of the week-long session of the National People’s Congress (NPC), the Communist Party-controlled legislature, in Beijing. The hike is only a slight raise from the 6.6% increase announced in 2020 amid the pandemic, which was the lowest increase in many years. The defence budget saw double-digit increases until 2015, and was hiked 7.5% in 2019. The budget for 2021 was announced as 1.35 trillion yuan ($209 billion), up from 1.27 trillion Yuan ($179 billion) last year. This will take China’s defence spending to more than four times India’s $49.75 billion budget, not including pensions. India’s budget last month announced a modest 1.48% hike in total defence spending to Rs. 4.78 lakh crore ($65.7 billion) including pensions, or Rs. 3.62 lakh crore ($49.75 billion) minus pensions. India also announced a record 18.5% increase in capital outlay to Rs. 1.35 lakh crore ($18.4 billion). In China, spending on pensions is not entirely from the defence budget, as it is also shared by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and provincial (state) governments, although part of the budget’s personnel allocation goes towards pensions. China also spends less than India on import acquisitions, and its outlay on capital is harder to ascertain considering the defence budget does not fully account the military spends by China’s vast military industries, most of which are state-controlled. China’s defence spending has in recent years evolved to reflect its on-going modernisation of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), with a shift away from the traditionally dominant army and a greater share going to the PLA Navy, the Rocket Force which is in charge of missiles, and the Strategic Support Force, which includes cyber warfare. This year, China will launch its third aircraft carrier, which will be its second homegrown one. The PLA Navy in 2019 unveiled its first homegrown aircraft carrier, and two more are under construction. Premier Li Keqiang said the Communist Party would, targeting its goals for the PLA’s centenary in 2027, “continue to enhance the political loyalty of the armed forces, strengthen them through reform, science and technology and the training of capable personnel, and run them in accordance with the law.” China has also announced a target for the PLA to complete its modernisation by 2050, by when it hopes its military will be “world class”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-defence-budget-to-cross-200-billion/article34001761.ece
06 March 2021||Tehran,||Plane hijacking thwarted: Iran||Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard on Friday said authorities thwarted an attempted hijacking of a passenger plane in flight the previous night, though it offered few details on what happened. The purported hijacking targeted an Iran Air Fokker 100 regional commercial jet heading from the southwestern city of Ahvaz to the northwestern city of Mashhad, the Guard said. The Guard’s announcement did not identify the hijacker, saying only the hijacker sought to divert the flight to the “southern shores of the Persian Gulf.” That description would include the countries of Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, three nations long suspicious of Iran’s intentions in the wider region. It said the Iran Air flight made an emergency landing in the central Iranian city of Isfahan, and no one was injured in the incident. It wasn’t immediately clear if the hijacker had been armed during the attempt. Iranian domestic flights reportedly carry armed air marshals from the Guard to disrupt any attempted attack or hijacking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/plane-hijacking-thwarted-iran/article34001760.ece
06 March 2021||Yangon,||More bloodshed in Myanmar as UNSC set to meet on crisis||A protester was shot dead in Myanmar on Friday in the latest round of bloodletting at anti-coup demonstrations, as the UN Security Council prepared to meet on the escalating crisis. Despite an increasingly brutal crackdown by the military authorities that has seen more than 50 people killed, protesters took to the streets again in towns around the country to denounce the February 1 coup. The violence has brought condemnation from around the world, with the UN rights chief demanding the junta “stop murdering and jailing protesters”, and the Security Council is set to discuss the crisis later Friday. But despite the mounting international pressure, the Generals have shown no sign of heeding calls for restraint. In Mandalay, Myanmar’s second largest city, hundreds of engineers took to the streets crying “Free our leader” in reference to ousted State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, detained by the military since the first night of the coup. The killing follows the deadliest day of the crackdown so far on Wednesday, when the UN said at least 38 people were killed as graphic images showed security forces firing into crowds and bloodied bodies dragged away. In the southern city of Dawei police fired tear gas at demonstrators, while there was defiance despite the danger at protests in the commercial capital Yangon. Meanwhile, in the country’s north, a number of people have crossed the border into India in a bid to escape the crackdown. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on the rights situation in Myanmar, Thomas Andrews, has called for a “global arms embargo” on the country as well as an International Criminal Court probe into alleged atrocities. In New York, there was a fresh twist in the saga of Myanmar’s representative to the UN. The newly appointed Ambassador resigned, saying his predecessor — sacked by the junta after dramatically condemning their seizure of power in a speech to the UN General Assembly — was still the legitimate envoy. Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy won November elections by a landslide, but the military insisted the polls were rigged as a justification for seizing power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/more-bloodshed-in-myanmar-as-unsc-set-to-meet-on-crisis/article34001759.ece
06 March 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar-YouTube||YouTube has removed five channels run by Myanmar’s military for violating its community guidelines and terms of service. The company said on Friday that it terminated channels of Myawaddy Media, MRTV, WD Online Broadcasting, MWD Variety and MWD Myanmar. Earlier, Facebook had removed all military-linked pages.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-youtube/article34001762.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Patching the gaps in India’s cybersecurity||On Sunday, February 28, there was a sensational report in The New York Times , “China appears to warn India: push too hard and the lights could go out” (https://nyti.ms/3c8wzqN), based on investigations by a United States-based cybersecurity firm. It raised the possibility that the power outage in Mumbai, on October 13, 2020, could have been the result of an attack by a Chinese state-sponsored group. Maharashtra’s Home Minister acknowledged that a report by the Maharashtra Cyber Cell showed that the grid failure was potentially the result of “cyber sabotage”. Meanwhile, the Union Power Ministry denied that the grid failure was linked to any cybersecurity incident, and blamed human error for it. We cannot say who is right since not enough information is available in the public domain. And therein lies the rub. While Maharashtra’s Home Minister has promised to table the report in the Assembly, this would be the first time, to our knowledge, that a cybersecurity incident has been discussed this openly by government officials. India has been a target earlier India has been attacked by suspected Chinese state-sponsored groups multiple times in the past. In 2009, a suspected cyber espionage network dubbed GhostNet was found to be targeting, amongst others, the Tibetan government in exile in India, and many Indian embassies. By pursuing the leads from that discovery, researchers found what they dubbed the Shadow Network, a vast cyberespionage operation which extensively targeted Indian entities, including military establishments, news publications, and even the National Security Council Secretariat itself, with clear evidence that confidential documents had been accessed by the attackers. In response to a question raised in Parliament, the then Minister Sachin Pilot noted an investigation was under way (https://bit.ly/3uXTLAr). There were a number of subsequent attacks that targeted India, including Stuxnet, which had also taken down nuclear reactors in Iran; Suckfly, which targeted not just government but also private entities including a firm that provided tech support to the National Stock Exchange; and Dtrack which first targeted Indian banks, and later the Kudankulam nuclear power plant (Tamil Nadu) in 2019. However, neither the report from the Shadow Network investigation, nor any other, has ever been tabled in Parliament, nor even a redacted version made public. Even when parliamentarians have raised serious questions, the government’s responses have only been perfunctory. Appraising lawmakers of the scale and depth of the damage wrought is critical to enabling meaningful public discussions and crafting a robust response. Further, doing so will enable the government to be able to own the narrative around these incidents. On a side note, while there is much evidence to show that Chinese state-sponsored groups were responsible for many of these attacks, Chinese cybersecurity agencies have also helped the security community in dismantling the infrastructure behind some of these attacks. And it must also be remembered that documents released by WikiLeaks show that groups such as the Central Intelligence Agency’s UMBRAGE project have advanced capabilities of misdirecting attribution to another nation-state (“false flag attacks”) by leaving behind false “fingerprints” for investigators to find. Given this, questions of attribution are always murky when it comes to cyber attacks — necessitating a robust institutional posture and political acumen in publicly dealing with these issues.  Institutional security Over the past two decades, India has made a significant effort at crafting institutional machinery focusing on cyber resilience spanning several government entities. The Prime Minister’s Office includes within it several cyber portfolios. Among these are the National Security Council, usually chaired by the National Security Adviser (NSA), and plays a key role in shaping India’s cyber policy ecosystem. The NSA also chairs the National Information Board, which is meant to be the apex body for cross-ministry coordination on cybersecurity policymaking. The National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre established under the National Technical Research Organisation in January 2014 was mandated to facilitate the protection of critical information infrastructure. In 2015, the Prime Minister established the office of the National Cyber Security Coordinator who advises the Prime Minister on strategic cybersecurity issues. India’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), which is the nodal entity responding to various cybersecurity threats to non-critical infrastructure comes under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY). The Ministry of Defence has recently upgraded the Defence Information Assurance and Research Agency to establish the Defence Cyber Agency, a tri-service command of the Indian armed forces to coordinate and control joint cyber operations, and craft India’s cyber doctrine. Finally, the Ministry of Home Affairs oversees multiple similarly-named “coordination centres” that focus on law enforcement efforts to address cybercrime, espionage and terrorism, while the Ministry of External Affairs coordinates India’s cyber diplomacy push — both bilaterally with other countries, and at international fora like the United Nations. This institutional framework, while seeking to create an ‘all of government’ approach to countering and mitigating cybersecurity threats at the national level, has also resulted in concerns around effective coordination, overlapping responsibilities and lack of clear institutional boundaries and accountability. This needs to be clarified in India’s National Cyber Security Strategy, which has been drafted by the NSC — a much-needed update to the National Cyber Security Policy 2013 — but is yet to be released. Ensuring coherence and coordination between these different actors should be its primary goal.  Doctrine on cyber conflicts India is also yet to clearly articulate a doctrine that holistically captures its approach to cyber conflict, either for conducting offensive cyber operations, or the extent and scope of countermeasures against cyber attacks. While reports indicate that India too engages in targeted cyber-attacks, the rules of engagement for that too are unclear. This is unlike India’s approach to other global security regimes. For example, the ‘No First Use’ nuclear posture has been critical in preventing a nuclear armageddon in a region fraught by political and military tensions, and continues to further India’s global reputation as a responsible nuclear state. Is it fair to argue that ‘cyber’ is different? Could secrecy and ambiguity surrounding a nation’s doctrine and capabilities provide a tactical advantage when engaging in cyber operations? This is hardly the case in today’s increasingly unstable geopolitical scenario. The existing asymmetry in capabilities does not currently favour India. The absence of a credible cyber deterrence strategy means that states and non-state actors alike remain incentivised to undertake low-scale cyber operations for a variety of purposes — espionage, cyber crime, and even the disruption of critical information infrastructure. Define the red lines The same argument must be made for India’s contribution to global regimes crafting norms for responsible state behaviour in cyberspace. India has been an active participant at processes within the First Committee of the United Nations General Assembly dealing with issues of disarmament and international security. While the Indian delegation has made public some of their intervention, India’s long-term strategic thinking on core issues of debate at these fora remains relatively unknown, barring a few statements by public officials, including Shivshankar Menon and Arvind Gupta. A key opportunity herein is a precise articulation of how international law applies to cyberspace, which could mould the global governance debate to further India’s strategic interests and capabilities. In particular, this should include positioning on not just non-binding norms but also legal obligations on ‘red lines’ with respect to cyberspace-targets that should be considered illegitimate due to their significance for human life, such as health-care systems, electricity grids, water supply, and financial systems. Clearer strategy and greater transparency are the need of the hour to improve India’s cybersecurity posture. To better detect and counter threats from both state actors and their proxies as well as online criminals, improved coordination is needed between the government and the private sector, as well as within the government itself — and at the national and State levels. A clear public posture on cyber defence and warfare boosts citizen confidence, helps build trust among allies, and clearly signals intent to potential adversaries, thus enabling a more stable and secure cyber ecosystem. Pranesh Prakash was a co-founder of the Centre for Internet and Society, and is an affiliated fellow at Yale Law School’s Information Society Project. Arindrajit Basu is Research Lead at the Centre for Internet and Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/patching-the-gaps-in-indias-cybersecurity/article34001731.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Kremlin’s buzzword now is Russia looking East||Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov declared last month that although the European Union (EU) was Russia’s biggest trading and investment partner, Moscow was “ready to break ties” with the EU after criticism of the jailing of Opposition figure Alexei Navalny. He added that Russia worked with the EU in only a few areas, dealings with the EU were “sporadic” and related mainly to energy and foreign policy issues such as Syria and Iran. The Kremlin later mitigated the Minister’s comments, denying that severance of diplomatic contacts was imminent, though such steps might be considered in response to EU sanctions affecting sensitive areas of the economy. Idea of a common home A Swedish soldier in the 18th century, Philipp-Johann von Strahlenberg, defined the Ural Mountains as the border between Russia and Europe, a view warmly endorsed by Russians associated with Tsar Peter the Great’s westernisation programme. In 1962, French President Charles de Gaulle proposed “a Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals”, the idea of a common European home echoed later by Soviet leaders Leonid Brezhnev and Mikhail Gorbachev. President Boris Yeltsin (1991-99) pursued this concept, but his commitment to refashion Russia after the European model failed to result in the inclusion of Russia in European security or political architecture or the removal of Cold War tensions. Instead, Moscow’s embrace of liberalism legitimised sovereign inequality, with the EU lecturing Russia on liberal norms and assuming a role to influence Russia’s domestic affairs, though treating Russian influence beyond its borders as illegitimate and ‘meddling’. The EU’s attitude was never sustainable since it rested on sovereign inequality. Democracy was advanced when the West assumed the right to promote liberal values in Russian civil society and shape its political opposition, but democracy was under attack whenever Russia attempted to influence the West. Moscow held the contrary view; that power and values could not be decoupled; and refusal to include Russia in European institutions such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the EU continued the structures of the Cold War, and consolidated the opposing Russian and European basic security interests. Where Europe went wrong Europe’s mistake in dealing with Russia after the re-unification of Germany in 1990 was in expecting it to westernise unilaterally. This ignored Gorbachev’s warning that “the states of Europe belong to different social systems; recognition of this fact and respect for the sovereign right of each people to choose their social system... are the most important prerequisites.” After its transitory revival in the 1990s, the objective of a common European home remains as unrealisable as ever. On the contrary, it seems that after 300 years, Russia will end its West-oriented approach although Europe and the United States have yet to acknowledge this historic shift. The West’s support for the 2014 Ukraine uprising, and the NATO and EU’s relentless forward policy in States bordering Russia are intensely resented in Moscow, and the EU’s claim to a monopoly of European values and identity fuels this animosity. The Kremlin’s Greater Europe concept has now been replaced by the more feasible Greater Eurasia Initiative, with Russia looking East for economic connectivity and institutional integration. The current emphasis is on Russia’s sovereignty and independence, the idea of a unified European civilisation replaced by competition in values, and instead of closer collaboration with Europe, the Russian and European integration initiatives will go their separate ways. The Russian liberals Ever since the French Revolution, the Napoleonic period and the Decembrist revolt against the Tsar, Russia has been suspicious about liberal political movements, thereby obliging Russian liberals to identify with foreign counterparts and appearing as a fifth column. Upon Russia’s humiliation in its war with Japan in 1905, Russian liberals sent messages congratulating the Japanese Emperor, and used the hardships of the First World War to delegitimise the authority of the Tsar, although it was the Bolsheviks who seized power in the ensuing chaos. Russia’s exclusion from post-Cold War Europe revived its distrust of domestic liberals, who draw encouragement from western support for colour revolutions and anticipate regime change during every street protest in Russia. U.S. President Biden, after pledging to pursue values-based diplomacy, now adopts Washington’s tried-and-failed toolkit of sanctions and use of force. The Moscow visit by the EU’s foreign policy chief Josep Borrell that provoked Mr. Lavrov’s outburst demonstrates that efforts to reset relations are compromised when mutual expectations about the form and nature of ties are far apart. Moscow rejects EU efforts to intervene in its domestic affairs while the EU feels disrespected and rebuffed. Russia is transitioning from Greater Europe to Greater Eurasia, and diplomatic disengagement may be expedient until the new reality is understood. Paradoxically, Russia’s emphasis on Greater Eurasia might improve the climate for Russian liberals, because a responsible liberal presence in the Russian political system is necessary, and could come about by decoupling liberalism from great power competition. India, under ever-closer international scrutiny over its human rights abuses, should scrutinise the EU-Russia stand-off and draw the relevant conclusions. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-kremlins-buzzword-now-is-russia-looking-east/article34001733.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Tactical retreat||As elections approach, drama and excitement will be a constant feature in the conduct of politics. In December last, it was veteran actor Rajinikanth who provided the theatrics to the political situation in Tamil Nadu by announcing his entry, and then his exit. Now, with the Assembly election hardly a month away, V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, surprised many by declaring that she would step aside from politics. After mobilising her supporters and making a political show of her return to the State on serving out her jail term in Bengaluru, she issued an appeal to the “true followers” of Jayalalithaa to “remain united, act wisely and work hard” during the Assembly election to prevent the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) from capturing power again. There is no clarity over what prompted her to make such an announcement when it was expected that she would play an active political role, going by her observations in the last one month. But regardless of her motives, the latest statement can be viewed as a tactical retreat on her part so that the ruling AIADMK does not suffer any disadvantage in the elections. Although her nephew, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, who heads the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), is still hoping to lead a coalition of his own, her statement is a shot in the arm for the AIADMK, which is trying to ward off the challenge from the principal opposition, the DMK. It has also laid to rest, for the time being, the debate over the possibility of her return to the AIADMK, which was reported to have turned down a suggestion from its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, on the matter. What the ruling party expects now is that the AMMK’s support base in the central and southern parts of the State will come back to it and help the party win the Assembly elections. There is expectation that the gap between the AIADMK-led front and the DMK-led coalition will narrow down, especially if some of the loyalists in the Sasikala camp are accommodated during distribution of the tickets by the AIADMK. But, elections rarely turn on any one factor, and certainly not on the limited support base of the breakaway group of Ms. Sasikala. On test will be the performance of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the last four years. Personality-based politics has taken a back seat this election with the passing of M. Karunanidhi of the DMK and Jayalalithaa of the AIADMK. Performance and promises are, therefore, more likely to dominate the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tactical-retreat/article34001726.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||New space||With the launch of Brazil’s Amazonia-1 satellite last week from Sriharikota, a new chapter has begun in India’s space history. The satellite, a 637-kilogram entity, was the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited, a two-year-old commercial arm of the Department of Space. This is not the first time that NSIL has organised a launch of foreign satellites aboard an Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launch vehicle. The organisation has had launches last November as well as in December 2019. However, the primary satellites aboard both these missions were Indian satellites — the RISAT-2BRI and the EOS-01 — with smaller satellites from several other countries, as well as India, piggybacking on them. The Amazonia mission also saw 18 other satellites being launched and was the first fully commercial mission. India has so far launched 342 foreign satellites from 34 countries using its Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle platform and many of them have involved ISRO’s first commercial entity, the Antrix Corporation. There is still confusion on how exactly the responsibilities of NSIL differ from those of Antrix. But with the formation of the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Center (IN-SPACe) — a regulatory agency — as well as plans of an independent tribunal to adjudicate disputes among private space entities, there is a potential explosion of market opportunities from space applications on the anvil. Though the private sector plays a major role in developing launch and satellite infrastructure for ISRO, there are now several companies that offer myriad services. Many of these companies want to launch their own satellites, of varying dimensions, and the experience with ISRO has not been smooth always. The most conspicuous has been the controversy involving Devas Multimedia, to which the Government of India owes nearly $1.2 billion going by an order of a tribunal of the International Chamber of Commerce and upheld by a United States federal court last year. NSIL, it is said, is also a move by India’s space establishment to insulate the prospects of the space industry in India from repercussions of the Devas-Antrix imbroglio. Much like unfettered access to the Internet has spawned industries that were inconceivable, similarly, space applications and mapping have barely scratched the surface in terms of the opportunities that they can create. NSIL has a broad ambit and will be involved in collaborations spanning from launches to new space-related industries. NSIL is also expected to be more than just a marketer of ISRO’s technologies; it is to find newer business opportunities and expand the sector itself. NSIL must endeavour to not be another Antrix but be continuously in start-up mode. It must conceive of ways to aid space start-ups reach out to rural India and facilitate more recruits from India’s young to facilitate careers in space applications and sciences. It must see itself both as an Indian ambassador and disruptor in the space arena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-space/article34001725.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||FM signals ‘duty’ to appeal the Cairn arbitration award||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday indicated the government’s intent to appeal against an arbitration panel asking India to return $1.4 billion to U.K.’s Cairn Energy Plc, saying it is her “duty” to appeal in cases where the sovereign authority to tax is questioned. Last year, the government lost two high-profile arbitrations over levy of taxes on British firms, using legislation that gave it the power to tax with retrospective effect. While the government has already challenged in a Singapore court an international arbitration tribunal verdict that overturned its demand for Rs. 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group, it hasn’t yet appealed an award asking India to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund stopped to adjust a Rs. 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn. “We have made our position clear on retrospective taxation. We have repeated it in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, till now. I don’t see any lack of clarity,” she said, referring to the Modi government’s stand of not raising any new tax demand using the 2012 legislation. “Where I find arbitration award questioning India’s sovereign authority to tax... if there is a question about the sovereign right to tax, I will appeal, it’s my duty to appeal,” she said. “An arbitration award, which questions the authority of government to tax, I will appeal on that.” She did not make any direct reference to the Cairn award. The statement comes days after officials held rounds of talks with Cairn executives to find a solution acceptable to both sides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-signals-duty-to-appeal-the-cairn-arbitration-award/article34001713.ece
06 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Secrecy shrouds proposed cryptocurrency Bill: IAMAI||There is some amount of ‘secrecy’ around the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, a new regulation expected to be cleared by the Centre soon, the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) said. “We don’t understand what is so secretive about this bill that is in the making,” the industry body said. “What makes it more strange is, not a single ecosystem player, industry representative or members of the public were consulted before its draft was prepared,” IAMAI added. India has more than 10 million buyers and sellers of cryptocurrency (mostly in bitcoins) constituting 10-15% of the global user base. Many entrepreneurs have already built their businesses around cryptocurrency and also hundreds of techies are deployed in building the required software platforms and trading infrastructure for crypto exchanges. “As of now the ecosystem players have only hearsay information and there is no clarity whatsoever about what the government is planning,” IAMAI said. “If the government has plans to ban crypto, why does it require a bill when it can be done through an executive order,” it asked. “There are hundreds of software developers working on blockchain projects in India using crypto,” Nishith Desai, founder, Nishith Desai Associates, said. “Besides, there are skilled graduates from technology institutes supported by well-known venture capital funds who are in the space,” he said. “Also, lakhs of people have made legitimate investments in crypto. To deprive them of opportunities may have constitutional issues,” Mr. Desai added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/secrecy-shrouds-proposed-cryptocurrency-bill-iamai/article34001705.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Concor set to source containers locally: CMD||State-owned Container Corporation of India Ltd. (Concor) on Friday said it plans to source its annual requirement of about 8,000 containers, till now imported from China, solely from domestic manufacturers. Concor, that spends about Rs. 200 crore a year on container procurement, had already given a developmental order for 1,000 units each to Bharat Heavy Electricals and Braithwaite & Co. — both PSUs. For the balance 6,000 containers, Concor would soon issue tenders in which only domestic firms would be able to participate. “As of now, all containers are imported because there is no manufacturing capability in India,” said V. Kalyana Rama, CMD. “We want to push India as a manufacturing hub for containers. Our requirement is 8,000 containers every year for the next five years,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/concor-set-to-source-containers-locally-cmd/article34001708.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto sector for incentives to OEMs, parts makers||The auto sector on Friday pitched for incentives to encourage domestic value-addition to leverage on the $25-billion import substitution opportunity, cautioning that such schemes should not ‘cannibalise’ the existing exporters by incentivising new players. The representation was made during a webinar on production linked incentive (PLI) schemes. Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) president Kenichi Ayukawa and CII Manufacturing Council chairperson Baba Kalyani noted that there was a need to incentivise, encourage and support Indian auto OEMs and auto component companies to develop on a global scale and create large Indian MNCs. The industry recommended that investments in technology development, R&D and innovation should be incentivised along with a need for long-term, stable, mutually agreed technology and a regulatory roadmap to encourage localisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-sector-for-incentives-to-oems-parts-makers/article34001710.ece
06 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Pandemic ate up Rs. 13-lakh crore household income’||Households have lost a whopping Rs. 13 lakh crore of their incomes from the pandemic-induced job losses, according to a report that also warns of the economy losing momentum by mid-2021 on a likely slowdown in consumption demand that has propped the economy in recent months. ‘Could slow by mid-2021’ Describing the growth momentum seen in the second and third quarters of FY21 as a positive surprise, economists at UBS Securities India led by Tanvee Gupta Jain said the economy could slow by mid-2021 as households that lost incomes during the pandemic to the tune of Rs. 13 lakh crore could drag consumption with a lag. In the second quarter of the current financial year, the GDP contraction narrowed to 7.5%, while in Q3, it grew 40 basis points (bps). Given this, sustainability of the recovery seen in the second and third quarters and also the growth outlook are dependent on the revival in new investment intentions and easing of financial sector stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-ate-up-rs-13-lakh-crore-household-income/article34001718.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||PLI plan will lead to output of $520 bn: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, introduced by the government for about 13 sectors, will lead to production worth $520 billion in the country over the next five years. He added the government was also working towards enhancing ease of doing business as well as reducing the compliance burden for the industry as he believed government interference in everything created more problems than solutions. He was speaking at a webinar on PLI scheme, organised by DPIIT and NITI Aayog.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pli-plan-will-lead-to-output-of-520-bn-pm/article34001706.ece
06 March 2021||MUMBAI,||‘ECLGS helps push MSME loan growth’||The emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) has helped in the credit growth for small businesses, aiding an index of growth in loans for the crucial sector ending a notch higher at the end of the September quarter. However, because of the special asset-quality recognition dispensations like the moratoriums and then the Supreme Court-decided standstill, the ‘strength index’ for the MSMEs will get clearer in the next few months, TransUnion CIBIL and SIDBI, who prepare the index, said. The latest MSME Credit Health Index indicates credit growth has accelerated, as the overall growth index inched up to 114 points, a three-point rise from 111 in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/eclgs-helps-push-msme-loan-growth/article34001711.ece
06 March 2021||Chennai,||Indian Bank okays divesting stake in ASREC||The board of public sector lender Indian Bank, on Friday, gave in-principle approval for either a partial or full disinvestment of its stake in ASREC India Ltd. “Today, the board met and gave its in-principle approval either for full or partial disinvestment of stake in ASREC as part of its move to monetise non-core assets,” a top bank official said. “The quantum of disinvestment will be decided at a later date depending upon the returns,” the official added. Indian Bank’s stake rose to 38.26% after its merger with the ertswhile Allahabad Bank in the joint venture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-okays-divesting-stake-in-asrec/article34001714.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Utkarsh SFB files papers for Rs. 1,350-cr. IPO||Utkarsh Small Finance Bank (SFB) has filed preliminary papers with markets’ regulator SEBI to raise Rs. 1,350 crore through an initial share sale. The initial public offer (IPO) comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs. 750 crore and an offer of sale to the tune of Rs. 600 crore by promoter Utkarsh Coreinvest Ltd., according to the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP). The Varanasi-headquartered lender said it may also consider raising Rs. 250 crore through a pre-IPO placement which would be in consultation with the lead managers to the issue. Proceeds would be utilised to augment tier 1 capital base to meet future capital requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/utkarsh-sfb-files-papers-for-rs-1350-cr-ipo/article34001719.ece
06 March 2021||Mumbai,||ICICI Bank cuts home loan rate to 6.70 per cent||ICICI Bank on Friday cut interest rate on home loans to 6.7%, at par with market leader SBI, as part of a limited period offer. The lender said the interest rate offering, valid till March 31, is the lowest in a decade. Over the last week, there have been similar announcements by lenders on interest rates which were at 16-year-low at the systemic level.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-cuts-home-loan-rate-to-670-per-cent/article34001716.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Xiaomi to bring smart TVs in India under Redmi brand||Chinese tech major Xiaomi will soon introduce smart TVs under the 'Redmi' brand in India as it looks to further expand its position in the burgeoning smart TV segment in the country. Speaking to PTI, Xiaomi India category lead (smart TV) Eshwar Nilakantan said, “We have grown with the market and sold over five million smart TVs."PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/xiaomi-to-bring-smart-tvs-in-india-under-redmi-brand/article34001720.ece
06 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Aneesh, Suvana create a ripple||Aneesh S. Gowda and Suvana C. Baskar bettered two meet records each among group 1 boys and girls respectively on day one of the State senior and junior swimming championships at the Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence on Friday. In all, nine new meet records were set. In the senior category, Kaustubh Agarwal and V. Malavika swept the men’s and women’s 400m, 800m and 1500m freestyle races.  The results (winners all):   Men: Freestyle: 400m: Kaustubh Agarwal (4:25.34); 800m: Kaustubh Agarwal (9:04.69); 1500m: Kaustubh Agarwal (17:28.65); Backstroke: 100m: Srihari Nataraj (55.37, NMR; OR: Srihari, 56.23, 2019); 200m: S. Siva (2:14.93); Breaststroke: 100m: S.P. Likith (1:02.67); Butterfly: 50m: Avinash Mani (26.36); 400 IM: S. Siva (4:50.95); 4x100m freestyle: BAC (3:51.47).   Women: Freestyle: 400m: V. Malavika (4:42.65); 800m: V. Malavika (9:44.20); 1500m: V. Malavika (18:36.34); Backstroke: 100m: Shriya R. Bhat (1:14.67); 200m: Vibha Aparna Bhounsle (2:46.05); Breaststroke: 100m: Saloni Dalal (1:18.55); Butterfly: 50m: T. Sneha (31.65); 400 IM: Vibha Aparna Bhounsle (5:53.19); 4x100m freestyle: BAC (5:26.26).   Boys: Group I: Freestyle: 400m: Aneesh S. Gowda (4:08.92, NMR; OR: Saurab Sangvekar, 4:10.85, 2011); 800m: Aneesh S. Gowda (8:30.18, NMR; OR: Aneesh Gowda, 8:34.36, 2021); 1500m: Aneesh S. Gowda (16:47.56); Backstroke: 100m: Utkarsh S. Patil (59.81); 200m: Utkarsh S. Patil (2:10.24); Breaststroke: 100m: Kalp S. Bohra (1:10.67); Butterfly: 50m: Tanish George Mathew (25.37, NMR; OR: Tanish George, 26.01, 2019); 400 IM: Shoan Ganguly (4:44.72, NMR; OR: M. Arvind, 4:50.49, 2013); 4x100m freestyle: BAC-A (3:42.33).   Group II: Freestyle: 400m: V. Amogh (4:29.50); 1500m: V. Amogh (17:18.26); Backstroke: 100m: M.C. Manan (1:07.95); 200m: M.C. Manan (2:29.44); Breaststroke: 100m: Vidith S. Shankar (1:07.41, NMR; OR: S.P. Likith, 1:08.73, 2012); Butterfly: 50m: Vidith S. Shankar (27.40); 400 IM: D. Pavan (5:07.70); 4x100m freestyle: Dolphin Aquatics 1 (4:01.81).   Girls: Group I: Freestyle: 400m: Ashmitha Chandra (4:50.94); 800m: Ashmitha Chandra (10:04.53); 1500m: Ashmitha Chandra (19:16.50); Backstroke: 100m: Suvana C. Baskar (1:06.09, NMR; OR: Suvana Baskar, 1:07.01, 2019); 200m: Suvana C. Baskar (2:25.58, NMR; OR: Suvana Baskar, 2:28.21, 2019); Breaststroke: 100m: Saanvi S. Rao (1:20.38); Butterfly: 50m: Nina Venkatesh (28.98); 400 IM: Gunn Mata (5:35.85); 4x100m freestyle: Dolphin Aquatics 1 (4:18.87).   Group II: Freestyle: 400m: Shirin (4:51.66); 1500m: Shirin (18:44.48); Backstroke: 100m: Ridhima V. Kumar (1:07.79); 200m: Ridhima V. Kumar (2:29.56, NMR; OR: Ridhima Kumar, 2:31.79, 2019); Breaststroke: 100m: Manavi Varma (1:19.05); Butterfly: 50m: Rishika U. Mangale (30.51); 400 IM: B.M. Rithika (5:32.14); 4x100m freestyle: Pooja Aquatic Center 1 (4:23.57).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aneesh-suvana-create-a-ripple/article34002435.ece
06 March 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Preetesh makes triple hundred||Twenty-five-year-old Preetesh A. Rawani scored a triple century (366, 40x4, 24x6) for Roshanara Cricket Club against Starlets in the A-3 Division (one-day) league cricket championship here on Friday.  The scores:   A2-Div. (two-day) league: Team Speed 236 in 67.3 overs vs Nizamabad Dist. 193/7 in 46.4 overs (Y. Murali Krishna 55 n.o., Rohit Kumar 31, D. Manish Goud 5/55).   CCOB 339 in 66.4 overs bt Ours 238 in 70.1 overs (V. Gowtham 55, K.R. Dhanush 53, D. Manish 37, Abdul Khaliq Khan 3/37, Syed Azizuddin 5/66).   PKM 242/9 in 90 overs lost to Venus Cybertech 246/7 in 59.2 overs (Rishit Reddy 57, M.S. Karthikeya 45, Chaitanya Charan 35, K. Naveen 52, B. Sujan Kumar 3/41, T. Sourabh 3/56).   Crown 220 in 65.2 overs lost to HB 222/5 in 44 overs (Vara Prasad 73, Yash Dubey 40 n.o.).   Elegant 258 in 51.1 overs lost to Adilabad Dist. 264/4 in 42.1 overs (Mahesh 125 n.o., Srinivas 87).   Cheerful Chums 260 in 73 overs bt Rakesh XI 70 in 30.3 overs (Kotesh 6/20).   Shalimar 317 in 62.5 overs bt HU 302 in 83.4 overs (Hussain Prudhvi Naik 30, Sree Madhav 56, Pranav Chandra 50).   Brothers XI 167 in 60.3 overs (Likith 30, Ajay 51, Ershad Pasha 3/32, Shyam Reddy 4/30) lost to Vijay 168/4 in 25 overs (B. Shiva 74 n.o., Badal 62).   Shanti XI 357 in 89 overs bt Hyd. Panthers 80 in 39.1 overs (S. Venkatesh 5/26, Venkat Chandra 3/27).   Adams XI 362 in 54.4 overs bt Bharat 277 in 61.4 overs (B. Bhargav 77, Aditya Varma 40, Suraj Rao 31 n.o., M. Balaji 3/3, Khaled Khan 4/72).   Hyd. Cricket Academy 277 in 70.5 overs bt SK Blues 152 in 32 overs (Mohd. Afzal Ali 38, Siddharth Rao 35, Zaheer Abbas 4/33, G. Gunavith 4/59).   Sec’bad Gymkhana 525/7 in 90 overs bt Mayura 61 in 30.5 overs (Vignesh 3/7).   Warangal Dist. 281 in 69.4 overs bt Vijaypuri Willowmen 197 in 75.5 overs (Aashlesh Vaman 54, N. Pavan Reddy 4/20).   A-3 Div. (one-day) league: Team Kun 160 in 47.3 overs (Navaneeth Reddy 30, Sai Charan 3/28, Raj Suryansh 3/34) lost to LN 161/5 in 23.2 overs (Gopi 38. Pranav 58 n.o., Palash 3/43).   Ranga Reddy 247/9 in 50 overs (Nimal Reddy 94, Neeraj 33, Arijit 3/37, Aryan Reddy 4/27) lost to Gunrock 252/6 in 36.2 overs (Shubham Sahu 30, Nagaraju 107, Utkarsh 3/61).   Roshanara 608/9 in 50 overs (Deeapk Tak 80, Preetesh A. Rawani 366, Karthik 6/115) bt Starlets 258 in 46 overs (Venkat 49, Praneeth 54, Shashank 41, Lokesh 3/54, Om Prakash 5/24).   Consult 199 in 34 overs (Abhinav 37, Vamsi 3/7) lost to Safilguda 120/1 in 23.2 overs (Lokesh 71 n.o., Ayush 39).   Satya 104 in 39.5 overs (Nanda 39, Pavan Sai 3/10) lost to Golconda 105/3 in 19.4 overs (Chatrapathi 40).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/preetesh-makes-triple-hundred/article34002528.ece
06 March 2021||PATIALA,||Neeraj betters National record||Neeraj Chopra, the brightest prospect to bring India’s first-ever Olympic medal in athletics, proved that he is right on track for Tokyo by bettering his own javelin throw National record in the Indian Grand Prix-3 on Friday. The 23-year-old’s 88.07m in his season-opener bettered his previous best — the 2018 Asian Games gold-winning throw — by a centimetre. The effort also carried Chopra, who had three throws above 83m, to the top of this year’s world list. And for the first time, the top three — Shivpal Singh (silver) and the 20-year-old Sahil Silwal — went over 80m in an Indian competition. Impressive The consistent Annu Rani, the Asian silver medallist, was also impressive in the women’s event, coming close to 62m twice before winning with 61.98m. Meanwhile, Avinash Sable was just three seconds off his National record in the 3000m steeplechase while shot putter Tajinderpal Singh Toor came up with a 20m-plus throw. Amoj improves time Amoj Jacob improved his 400m personal best for the second successive week, bringing it down to 45.70s. M.R. Poovamma, the women’s 400m champion, finished with a double, taking the 800m gold also. Hima Das, the only runner in the women’s 100m, clocked a personal best 11.67s.  The results: Men: 200m: 1. Muhammed Anas 21.48s, 2. Akshay Prakash 22.04, 3. Rahul Kadam 22.04.   400m: 1. Amoj Jacob 45.70s, 2. Sarthak Bhambri 47.11, 3. Jashanjot Singh 47.59; 800m: 1. Nikesh Rathod 1:53.94s, 2. Parveen Boora 1:55.03, 3. Arjun Khokhar 1:56.10; 5000m: 1. Kailash Kumar 20:19.84s; 400m Hurdles: A. Dharun 51.04s, 2. Aftab Alam 51.60, 3. Joravar Singh 55.83; 3000m steeplechase: 1. Avinash Sable 8:24.40s, 2. Naveen Dagar 8:56.36, 3. Balkishan 9:06.69.   Long jump: 1. M. Sreeshankar 7.91m, 2. Yugant Singh 7.68, 3. Muhammed Anees 7.60; Triple jump: 1. Eldhose Paul 15.80m, 2. Kamal Raj 15.67, 3. Punit Sharma; Shot put: 1. Tajinderpal Singh 20.09m, 2. Devinder Singh 18.24, 3. Sahib Singh 17.52; Javelin throw: 1. Neeraj Chopa 88.07m (NR, Old: 88.06m, self, 2018), 2. Shivpal Singh 81.63, 3. Sahil Silwal 80.65.   Women: 100m: Hima Das 11.67s; 400m: 1. M.R. Povamma 54.11s, 2. Subha Venkatesan 55.11, 3. V.K. Salini 56.50; 800m: 1. M.R. Poovamma 2:08.60s, 2. Urvashi 2:18.06, 3. Sukhwant Kaur 2:18.41; 5000m: 1. Parul Chaudhary 15:48.49, 2. Ruby Kashyap 18:23.79; 3000m steeplechase: 1. Chinta Yadav 10:27.06s, 2. Sapna Kishan 13:09.92.   Long jump: 1. Mareena George 5.97m, 2. Shiwangi Dubey 5.76, 3. Sowmiya Murugan 5.51; Javelin throw: 1. Annu Rani 61.98m, 2. Sanjana Choudhary 52.54, 3. Sharmila Kumari 50.77.   Shot put: 1. Shristri Vig 16.06m, 2. Kachnar Chaudhary 14.41, 3. Tunlai Narzary 14.07 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-betters-national-mark/article34001856.ece
06 March 2021||Ahmedabad,||Unstoppable Pant, immovable Washington seize the moment||James Anderson and Ben Stokes bowled their hearts out to push India onto the back foot. But Rishabh Pant’s methodical madness and Washington Sundar’s calm class changed the complexion of the fourth and final Test, India finishing the second day with a lead of 89 runs. Thanks to the 113-run association for the seventh wicket between the pair on Friday, India breezed past England’s first-innings total of 205. With Axar Patel lending support to Washington (60 batting) after Pant’s dismissal for 101, India went to stumps at 294 for seven. When Washington had walked out to join Pant 25 minutes before tea, India was tottering at 146 for six. They relied on their defence and rotated the strike till almost an hour after tea. The waiting game Pant waited for the England attack, which had entered the game a bowler short, to lose its zing. Once India had trudged close to England’s total and with the new ball imminent, Pant switched gears flawlessly. It started with two fours in three balls off Stokes to help India level the scores and the next over saw him repeat the dose against Joe Root’s part-time off-spin. By the time James Anderson — who till then had conceded just 19 runs off his 17 overs — ran in with the second red cherry, India had raced to a lead of 18 runs. The next passage of play saw the pendulum swing strongly in India’s favour. Pant welcomed Anderson with a lofted off-drive and a swat through the covers off the first two deliveries. The first ball of the next over saw Pant despatching Stokes through mid-wicket from outside off. While Pant was taking calculated risks, Washington crunched two more boundaries in the over, his cut through point being the highlight. Reverse-ramp Pant’s improvisation reached its peak when he reverse-ramped Anderson for a four over slips to enter the 90s. It was fitting then that he sent Root packing over the mid-wicket fence in the next over to raise his bat for a memorable hundred — his first at home and third overall. After being patient for his first 50 (82 balls), Pant took just 33 balls for his second. Despite Root latching on to a sharp chance in the 85th over to end Pant’s onslaught and give Anderson a reason to smile, Washington not only passed his fifty but also ensured along with Axar that England’s bowlers will continue to face the heat on the third morning. For the better part of the day, however, England was in control as Anderson, Stokes and Jack Leach bowled tight lines. While Leach accounted for Cheteshwar Pujara for the fourth time in the series, captain Virat Kohli fiddled at a short-ball from Stokes to nick behind. At 40 for three, the onus was on Rohit Sharma and Ajinkya Rahane to resurrect the innings. Rohit respected the bowlers while Rahane got off the blocks with a flurry of boundaries. But in the last over before lunch, Rahane poked at one from Anderson that pitched in the perfect corridor.  When Rohit (49) couldn’t tackle Stokes’ reverse-swing an hour after lunch and R. Ashwin fell to a soft dismissal not long afterwards, India was in a real spot of bother. But Pant and Washington ensured the home camp was full of smiles at the end of the day.  Pant has his own style of batting. Of course there have been messages from the team management as to how he needs to approach his innings, but he has his own style Rohit   When a guy is striking as well as he [Pant] has been this series, it is pretty daunting to have him come in at seven and score the way he does Jeetan Patel England’s spin bowling coach   In my opinion, it was one of his finest knocks as it came under pressure. We weren’t in a good position when he came in to bat and we saw a few sides of his batting today. He was cautious at the beginning and then flourished the way we know him Rohiton Pant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unstoppable-pant-immovable-washington-seize-the-moment/article34001829.ece
06 March 2021||Chennai,||Time to unearth genuine ’keepers, says Arasu||He was the Quick Gun Arasu. The man had the fastest hands in the State. The bails would be off in a flash. T.R. Arasu was a true blue wicket-keeper who could also contribute handily with the willow. Now, one of the senior State selectors, Arasu believes it is time Tamil Nadu finds a pool of players, who are not just good for the limited overs games, but can be developed into good Ranji Trophy cricketers. He said to The Hindu on Wednesday: “In a Twenty20 match, your mind-set is ‘Okay let me bowl these four overs then I am done.’ But cricket is far, far beyond that.” Arasu is pleased with Tamil Nadu’s Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 triumph but feels timely changes in the eleven [the captain has the final say in the eleven] could have helped in the Vijay Hazare one-day tournament. The absence of Ranji Trophy this season has saddened him. “We have broken a chain, haven’t we. That is the true test. You’ve got to bat, ‘keep and bowl for long periods. It is a comprehensive examination of character and skill.” And he is willing to do the hard yards to build depth for the Ranji Trophy. “I am prepared to watch second division, inter-college matches.” With the experienced Dinesh Karthik keeping wickets almost the entire season, and N. Jagadeesan playing as an opener, Arasu feels the time has come to unearth genuine ‘keepers. “Jagadeesan has got some ability but needs to improve his ‘keeping. There are some youngsters such as S. Lokeshwar but they need to be groomed.” Arasu says, “Wicket-keeping is something that comes naturally to you. You’ve got to be supple, flexible, balanced, have sharp reflexes, possess the ability to concentrate for long periods, and the mind-set for a thankless, gruelling, physically demanding job.” The Ranji dates for the next season could be advanced, he says. Arasu is on the job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-to-unearth-genuine-keepers-says-arasu/article34002467.ece
06 March 2021||BENGALURU:,||Ansaldo well-prepped to deliver in main event||Ansaldo, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Dr. C. Vittal Memorial Trophy (1,600m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Saturday (March 6). False rails (width about 2.5m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position. Jockeys for Shivalik Show (1st race) and Candlelightqueen (6th race) will be declared later. A carried over amount of Rs. 3,54,237 will added to the jackpot poll.  YADGIR PLATE (1,200m), rated 00 to 20, 5-y-o & over, 1-30 p.m.: 1. Nerva (5) Chethan G 60, 2. Nawabzaadi (4) Arvind K 58.5, 3. Glorious Days (2) Shreyas Singh 58, 4. Song And Dance (11) Naveen K 58, 5. Premier Premises (3) J.H. Arul 57.5, 6. Proudwish (10) B. Dharshan 57.5, 7. Florencia (8) H.M. Akshay 57, 8. Elite Agent (9) Angad 55.5, 9. Kruger Park (12) L.A. Rozario 55.5, 10. Special Stone (6) Ankit Yadav 55, 11. Shivalik Show (7) (—) 54.5 and 12. Barog (1) N.B. Kuldeep 53.5.  1. NERVA, 2. GLORIOUS DAYS,   3. PROUDWISH   TOPMOST PLATE (1,200m), 3-y-o only, (Terms), 2-00: 1. Divine Masculine (12) Sai Kiran 57, 2. Elite Crown (7) Darshan 57, 3. Flying Quest (8) Ashhad Asbar 57, 4. Flying Safe (10) Antony 57, 5. Obsidian (4) Sandesh 57, 6. Purple Legend (11) Jagadeesh 57, 7. Super Kind (3) Vivek 57, 8. Beautiful Oblivian (2) Kiran Rai 55.5, 9. Eternal Blaze (1) Trevor 55.5, 10. Perfect Empress (6) Neeraj 55.5, 11. Sky Princess (9) Nazerul 55.5 and 12. Suestado (5) R. Marshall 55.5.  1. OBSIDIAN, 2. PERFECT EMPRESS, 3. FLYING SAFE   KATIL PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only, 2-30: 1. Golden Memory (6) Darshan 60, 2. In A Breeze (5) Srinath 59.5, 3. Praia Do Cassino (9) L.A. Rozario 59.5, 4. Tenaris (1) P. Surya 59.5, 5. The Sovereign Orb (3) Trevor 59.5, 6. Al Buraaq (11) H.M. Akshay 58.5, 7. Altamonte (4) Vivek 58, 8. Osibisa (8) S. Sunil 58, 9. Rightly Noble (7) P. Ramesh 58, 10. Unyielding (2) Aakash Chavan 58, 11. Top News (10) Rayan 57.5 and 12. Hitomi Sakuma (12) R. Ravi 55.  1. IN A BREEZE, 2. GOLDEN MEMORY, 3. THE SOVEREIGN ORB   SHIVANASAMUDRA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 3-00: 1. Sun Splash (3) R. Pradeep 60, 2. Akasi (6) Nazerul 56.5, 3. Naayaab (5) Arshad 56, 4. Raw Gold (8) Vivek 56, 5. Aerospeed (9) S. Mubarak 55.5, 6. Light Of Love (—) (—) 55.5, 7. Arrogance (1) Neeraj 55, 8. Pastiche (2) Darshan 55, 9. Bahurupah (11) S. Saqlain 54.5, 10. Lifeisamiracle (4) Arvind K 54.5, 11. Heavenly Angel (7) Chandrashekar 53 and 12. Fortuneer (10) Sai Kumar 52.5.  1. PASTICHE, 2. FORTUNEER,   3. ARROGANCE   KATIL PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35, 4-y-o only, 3-30: 1. Papparazi (1) Antony 60, 2. Smithsonian (12) A. Imran 60, 3. Rosy Rapunzel (4) Gnaneshwar 59, 4. Arlette (9) Trevor 58.5, 5. Blazing Gold (7) Arvind K 56.5, 6. Mahalakshmi (10) Srinath 56, 7. Dreams Ahead (3) R. Pradeep 55.5, 8. Formidable Star (11) Darshan 55.5, 9. Lightning Charlie (8) B. Dharshan 55.5, 10. Max Mueller (6) Ashhad Asbar 55.5, 11. Flaming Orange (2) Sai Kumar 54 and 12. Activated (5) J.H. Arul 53.  1. ARLETTE, 2. SMITHSONIAN,   3. PAPPARAZI   TAJ MAHAL PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over, 4-00: 1. Schafenberg (8) Shreyas Singh 60, 2. Bold Move (9) S. Shareef 58.5, 3. Songkran (10) Rayan 58, 4. Aceros (11) Trevor 57, 5. Candlelightqueen (4) (—) 57, 6. Three Aces (1) Sai Vamshi 56, 7. Gypsy (6) S. Mubarak 55.5, 8. Mr Humble (7) P. Surya 55.5, 9. Port Of Beauty (2) R. Marshall 55.5, 10. Stari Grad (3) S. Imran 55.5, 11. Satisfy (12) Neeraj 53.5 and 12. Incitatus (5) Arshad 52.5.  1. ACEROS, 2. PORT OF BEAUTY,   3. SCHAFENBERG   DR. C. VITTAL MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,600m), rated 30 to 50, 4-30: 1. Rorito (3) Tousif Khan 60, 2. Bellator (5) Trevor 59, 3. Play Safe (4) A. Imran 59, 4. Show Girl (10) Anjar Alam 57, 5. Mighty Red (8) Darshan 56.5, 6. Treasure Striker (9) H.M. Akshay 56.5, 7. General Patton (6) Srinath 56, 8. Allabouther (1) Antony 55, 9. Livisilla (7) Neeraj 54 and 10. Ansaldo (2) Sandesh 53.  1. ANSALDO, 2. ALLABOUTHER,   3. BELLATOR   TAJ MAHAL PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 30 to 50, 5-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Land Of Liberty (1) Sai Kiran 60, 2. Musterion (7) Darshan 60, 3. Osiris (2) M. Naveen 59.5, 4. Sea Of Cortez (11) Likith Appu 59.5, 5. Winall (4) Antony 59.5, 6. Tokyo Rose (9) Gnaneshwar 58.5, 7. Perfect Rendition (10) Nazerul 57.5, 8. Darahasini (12) Ashhad Asbar 56, 9. Skyfire (3) P. Surya 56, 10. Ispelldangertoall (6) Naveen K 55, 11. Amazonite (8) H.M, Akshay 53.5 and 12. Ultimate Speed (5) Jagadeesh 53.5.  1. WINALL, 2. SEA OF CORTEZ,   3. MUSTERION   SHIVANASAMUDRA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 15 to 35, 5-y-o & over, 5-30: 1. Anakin (3) J.H. Arul 60, 2. Caesars Palace (5) Jagadeesh 59.5, 3. Reczai (12) Sai Kumar 59, 4. Lightning Attack (1) Sai Vamshi 58.5, 5. Tiger Returns (10) Srinath 58, 6. Areca Angel (4) Angad 57.5, 7. Cameleons Image (11) Chethan G 56.5, 8. Habanero (2) Trevor 56.5, 9. San Bernardino (6) M. Prabhakaran 56.5, 10. Perfectgoldenera (7) S. Shareef 55.5, 11. Orogenesis (9) Vinod Shinde 54.5 and 12. Zehnaseeb (8) S.K. Paswan 54.5.  1. TIGER RETURNS, 2. CAMELEONS IMAGE, 3. ANAKIN  Day’s best: ANSALDO  Double: PASTICHE — ARLETTE  Jkt: 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ansaldo-well-prepped-to-deliver-in-main-event/article34001722.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s NEUFC’s form vs ATKMB’s reputation||NorthEast United FC will look to consolidate the form of its unbeaten run in the last nine matches when it takes on a strong ATK Mohun Bagan FC in the first leg of the second Indian Super League semifinal at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim, on Saturday. Among the four teams in the play-offs, NorthEast’s ascendancy has been the most remarkable. It it recovered from a mid-season slump, which saw it drop deep in to the bottom half of the league table, before emerging as one of the title contenders. The man behind its spectacular turnaround is Khalid Jamil, who took over as the interim head coach during the crisis and helped the team make it to its second ever ISL play-offs. Creditable record Jamil, who had joined as an assistant coach in the previous season, remained unbeaten in all the nine games as NorthEast recorded a creditable six wins and three draws. “All the players have worked very hard. Because of them, we have reached here. I never think about the nine matches,” Jamil said on the eve of the match. “This is a very serious game and we will have to fight for everything. The boys have worked really through the season and hope they continue to do so in the next few matches.” ATKMB remains one of the most consistent sides in the tournament but slips in the last two matches cost it the League Winners Shield. Coach Antonio Habas, who won the title twice with ATK before the merger, will hope to arrest the slump and help the team regain its winning form. “We have to think positively and get back to the rhythm with which we have played so far. Our target will be winning the title and we have to put out best efforts to realise it,” Habas said. ATKMB is likely to miss injured central defender Sandesh Jhingan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-neufcs-form-vs-atkmbs-reputation/article34002124.ece
06 March 2021||BASEL,||Sindhu, Srikanth in last four||P.V. Sindhu, seeded second, overcame the fifth-seeded Thai Busanan Ongbamrungphan 21-16, 23-21 in 59 minutes to make the last four at the Swiss Open here on Friday. However, Ajay Jayaram and Sai Praneeth crashed out of the event after losing their quarterfinal matches in straight games. Thailand’s Kunlavut Vitidsarn dispatched Ajay Jayaram 21-9, 21-6 in 29 minutes, while Sai Praneeth fared slightly better against the second-seeded Zii Jia Lee before the Malaysian won 21-14, 21-17 in 45 minutes.    The results (quarterfinals):   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Busanan Ongbamrungphan (Tha) 21-16, 23-21.   Men: Zii Jia Lee (Mas) bt B. Sai Praneeth 21-14, 21-17; Kunlavut Vitidsarn (Tha) bt Ajay Jayaram 21-9, 21-6.   Mixed doubles: Tan Kian Meng & Lai Pei Jing (Mas) bt Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Ashwini Ponnappa 21-17, 16-21, 21-18 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-makes-the-semifinals/article34001826.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa, Mumbai level after first leg||FC Goa and Mumbai City FC played out an exciting 2-2 draw in the first leg of their 2020-21 Indian Super League semifinal fixture at the Fatorda Stadium in Margao on Friday.  Saviour Gama gave Goa the lead for the second time on the night via a brilliant solo effort. He got the ball on the left flank, sprinted towards goal and unleashed a shot from the edge of the box to beat Amrinder Singh. However, just three minutes later, Mourtada Fall equalised for Mumbai City off a brilliant header, thanks to Ahmed Jahouh’s cross. Later, Fall escaped a straight red card after a dangerous tackle on Princeton Rebello during the second-half stoppage-time much to the fury of manager Juan Ferrando in the Goa dugout. In the 20th minute, Mumbai City’s Mandar Rao Dessai brought down Jorge Ortiz inside the box and the referee immediately pointed to the spot. Igor Angulo converted the penalty. Eighteen minutes later, MCFC equalised through the returning Boumous, thanks to some sloppy defending from Goa. The second leg will happen at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on March 8, Monday.  The result: FC Goa 2 (Angulo 20-pen, Gama 59) drew with Mumbai City FC 2 (Boumous 38, Fall 62).   Saturday’s match: Second semifinal, first leg: NEUFC vs ATK Mohun Bagan, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goa-mumbai-finish-level/article34001833.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI:,||Knight In Armour wins feature||Knight In Armour, ridden by Antony Raj, won the (Div. I) Tamilnadu Race Horse Owners Association Cup, the main event of the extra day's races held here on Friday (March. 5). The winner is owned by Mr. K.K. Belliappa and trained by Mandanna. Trainer G.S. Parmar saddled three winners on the day.  Leading owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust (won stakesmoney Rs. 1,19,15,645).    Leading trainer: B. Suresh (23 winners).    Leading jockey: Akshay Kumar (15 wins).    Leading apprentice jockey: Azfar Syeed (nine wins).     1. SUN RAY PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: MAJESTIC CHARMER (Nakhat Singh) 1, Golden Streak (Akshay Kumar) 2, Icy River (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Sunday Warrior (P.K Gaddam) 4. 1-3/4, 5 and 3-3/4. 1m, 28.07s. Owner: Mr. C. Gnanavel. Trainer: N. Rupa.  2. MARCH PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: PARRYS GLORY (P. Surya) 1, Spirit Of Zion (S. Shareef) 2, Intox (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Eyes Of Falcon (H. Rahul) 4. 1, 1-1/4 and 1. 1m, 13.67s. Owner: Mr. G.S. Sarath Varun. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.  3. MARCH PLATE (Div. II), (1.200m)., 6-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: LADY BLAZER (Jagadeesh) 1, Platini (M. Bhaskar) 2, Song Of Glory (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Absolute Authority (Antony Raj) 4. 7, 3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m, 13.07s. Owners: Mr. D. Nagaraj, Mr. P.S. Jagadish & M. J. Ramesh. Trainer: P. Krishna.  4. DESTINY PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: TRENDING PRINCESS (Nazar Alam) 1, Star Fling (Iltaf Hussain) 2, Oberon (Brisson) 3 and Break The Silence (Abhay Singh) 4. Hd, 1-1/2 and 2. 1m, 12.72s. Owner: Mr. J. Ramesh & C.R. Bala Kumar. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.  5. TAMIL NADU RACE HORSE OWNERS ASSOCIATION CUP (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 40 to 65: SHALEM (Brisson), Lordship (Akshay Kumar) 2, Ganton (P.K. Gaddam) 3 and Shadow Of Love (Azfar Syeed) 4. 1-1/2, 2-3/4 and 3. 1m, 25.71s. Owner: Mr. Vazhaparmbil J. Joseph. Trainer: Sebastian.  6. TAMIL NADU RACE HORSE OWNERS ASSOCIATION CUP (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 40 to 65: KNIGHT IN ARMOUR (Antony Raj) 1, Renegade (Jagadeesh) 2, Torbert (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Fun Storm (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1, shd and snk. 1m, 26.19s. Owner: Mr. K.K. Belliappa. Trainer: Mandanna.  7. POTENTIAL CHAMPION PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: ARAPAHO (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Moment Of Life (Antony Raj) 2, Mayflower (Azfar Syeed) 3 and Full Of Surprise (Akshay Kumar) 4. 3/4, 1 and 1-1/4. 1m, 13.72s. Owners: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah & United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  8. GRYFFINDOR PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: THREE OF A KIND (Azfar Syeed) and AZERIA (P. Surya) 1, Vibrant Approach (Iltaf Hussain) 3 and Symphony In Style (Antony Raj) 4. Deadheat, 1 and 1. 1m, 15.22s. Three Of A Kind Owners: Mr. S. Shanker Narayanan, Mr. S. Ganapathy & Mr. S. Vijayanambi. Trainer: Mandanna. Azeria: Owners: Mr. J. Ramesh & Mr. C.R. Bala Kumar. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-in-armour-wins-feature/article34001721.ece
06 March 2021||Lucknow,||Shikha not dropped: Harmanpreet||The Indian women’s ODI vice-captain Harmanpreet Kaur on Friday said it was a “tough call” to leave veteran pacer Shikha Pandey out of the upcoming limited-overs series against South Africa and insisted that she has not been dropped for good. Indian women will play five ODIs and three T20Is against South Africa, starting here on Sunday. Shikha’s omission created quite a flutter. She was the India’s second highest wicket-taker in its previous assignment — the T20 World Cup. “I know it was a tough call, sometimes, you need to give chance to other players,” said Harmanpreet, who is also the captain of India’s T20 team, during a virtual press conference ahead of the first ODI. “She is not dropped... sometimes you need to take chances. After this tournament we will be able to settle our combination as we have a lot of cricket coming up in next two-three years.” The 31-year-old Shikha has played 52 ODIs and 50 T20Is, taking 73 and 36 wickets respectively.  Talking about the upcoming series, Harmanpreet said there is no rustiness in the side despite the prolonged time away from the game. “I don’t think we are feeling any rustiness, we are very exited, I know it is a long break, sometimes things are not in your control. I hope we will have a great tournament,” she said. “South Africa is one team which has done very well in last couple of years and for upcoming tournaments, it is an advantage for us to play well against them and regain our confidence since we are playing after a long time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shikha-not-dropped-harmanpreet/article34002133.ece
06 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||Saketh Myneni makes semifinals||Top seed Saketh Myneni kept the Indian hopes alive as he beat compatriot and former National champion Siddharth Vishwakarma 6-3, 7-6(2) in the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Friday. In the semifinals, Myneni will play third seed Aidan Mchugh of Britain. Myneni also made the doubles final in partnership with Yuki Bhambri. The two will face another all-India pair of Kaza Vinayak Sharma and Vijay Sundar Prashanth who ousted the top seeds Filip Bergevi and Jonathan Mridha of Sweden 13-11 in the super tie-break. The only other Indian figuring in the singles quarterfinals, second seed Sidharth Rawat was beaten 6-3, 6-2 by fifth seed Eric Vanshelboim of Ukraine. Vanshelboim will play Zane Khan of the US in the other semifinal.  The results: Quarterfinals: Saketh Myneni bt Siddharth Vishwakarma 6-3, 7-6(2); Aidan Mchugh bt Oliver Crawford (USA) 7-5, 6-2; Zane Khan (USA) bt Jonathan Mridha (Swe) 6-4, 6-1; Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles: Semifinals: Kaza Vinayak Sharma & Vijay Sundar Prashanth bt Filip Bergevi & Jonathan Mridha (Swe) 6-3, 2-6, [13-11]; Yuki Bhambri & Saketh Myneni bt S.D. Prajwal Dev & Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saketh-myneni-makes-semifinals/article34002126.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Mary Kom settles for bronze||Six-time world champion M.C. Mary Kom (51kg) settled for bronze in the 35th Boxam International Boxing Tournament in Castellon, Spain after going down to American Virginia Fuchs in an intensely-contested semifinal on Friday. The 37-year-old Olympics-bound star lost in a split decision after an exhausting contest that was also messy in equal measure. The opening three minutes had both the boxers playing the waiting game but the Indian became the aggressor in the second round. The third round was the most intense with both boxers trading several blows but the judges ruled in favour of the American even though her punches, for most part of the bout, did not seem to connect impact-fully. Satish Kumar (+91kg) and Ashish Kumar (75kg) entered the semifinals along with Sumit Sangwan (81kg). Satish, the first super heavyweight from the country to qualify for the Olympics, defeated Denmark’s Givskov Nielsen 5-0. Ashish got the better of Italy’s Remo Salvatti in a split 4-1 verdict to make the medal rounds. Sumit also triumphed 4-1, over Mohor El Ziad of Belgium. Vikas Krishan out-punched Vicenzo Mangiacapre to progress into the men’s 69kg semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-kom-settles-for-bronze/article34001864.ece
06 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||‘All I wanted was not to look like a fool’||With a twinkle in his eyes, legendary opener Sunil Gavaskar walked down memory lane, reminiscing about his debut Test, which began 50 years ago on this day at Port of Spain. Excerpts: You missed the first Test due to a well-documented tooth infection. Do you remember when you learnt you would be in the XI in Port of Spain? I was told on the eve of the match that I would be playing. My form leading up to that — after the first Test, there were three First Class games — was good, so clearly I knew that with the form I was in and the fact that they were looking for another opener, I had a chance to play. Then of course, my captain Ajit Wadekar said that I was going to make my debut the next day. That particular evening was very special. I was excited, elated, nervous, anxious because we were playing against Sir Garfield Sobers’ team. All those emotions were running through my mind, but luckily, we fielded first and I got the opportunity to wear my cap. At that stage, I used to bat bareheaded, that’s what I had got used to from school level. The fact that I got to wear my India cap when we fielded was a big moment. You played a key role, scoring 65 in the first innings and an unbeaten 67 in the chase. Can you recall one or two vivid moments that have stayed with you? One vivid memory [is] Salim Durani getting Clive Lloyd caught at short mid-wicket by Wadekar. In fact, Salim uncle, as I call him, insisted on being given the ball by Wadekar. He said, “ M ujhe de do, mujhe de do (give me the ball)”. And sure enough, he got the wicket of Lloyd and the next ball he clean-bowled Sir Garfield Sobers in the West Indies’ second innings. The game turned around from there because both these great batsmen would have taken the game away from us. And of course, hitting the winning runs. It was a googly from Arthur Barrett and I remember hitting it over midwicket for a boundary for the winning runs. Once the primary objective of playing for India had been achieved, did you at any point during that game set a target for yourself? No. Look, my career had gone step by step at school and university level, but at the First Class level, I played for Mumbai but I didn’t play for West Zone in the Duleep Trophy because the selection committee didn’t pick me. Then I was picked straight into the Indian team. I had missed that one step, so I was just a little bit nervous. To be honest, all I wanted at that stage was not to look like a fool on the cricket field at the Test level. That’s all I wanted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-i-wanted-was-to-not-look-like-a-fool/article34001831.ece
06 March 2021||Los Angeles,||Holiday’s buzzer-beater lifts Bucks||Milwaukee's Jrue Holiday drained a step-back jump-shot with two seconds remaining as the Bucks edged Memphis Grizzlies 112-111 on Thursday for a boost heading into the NBA All-Star break. The Bucks notched up their sixth victory in seven games, led by 26 points, 11 rebounds and eight assists from two-time defending Most Valuable Player Giannis Antetokounmpo.   The results:   Phoenix Suns 120 bt Golden State Warriors 98; San Antonio Spurs 102 lost to Oklahoma City Thunder 107; Indiana Pacers 103 lost to Denver Nuggets 113; New Orleans Pelicans 93 lost to Miami Heat 103; Portland Trail Blazdrs 123 bt Sacramento Kings 119; Memphis Grizzlies 111 lost to Milwaukee Bucks 112; Boston Celtics 132 bt Toronto Raptors 125; Washington Wizards 119 bt LA Clippers 117.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/holiday-lifts-bucks/article34001862.ece
06 March 2021||CHENNAI,||VRHA embarks on a new journey||The Vadipatti Raja’s Hockey Academy (VRHA), which was started in 2014, has been growing gradually mainly due to the former International’s strenuous efforts. After receiving affiliation from Hockey India and Hockey Unit of Tamil Nadu, the 31-year-old is embarking on a new journey. For the first time, his academy (V. Raja HA), will be competing in an all-India event — the Veer Singh J.U. Dev Memorial men’s tournament at Tikamgarh (Madhya Pradesh) beginning on March 7. Only two teams from Tamil Nadu will be participating, the other is Indian Bank. In fact, Raja is representing the bank as a player. “We have a good team. We have guest players from Odisha and Haryana. We are not going just to participate, but to make a mark. We are grateful to ARS Steel for sponsoring us,” Raja told The Hindu here on Friday on the sidelines of HRVA team jersey distribution function. Raja, who is looking for sponsors, has his task cut out. His Academy has quite a few tournaments on the radar — a 5-a-side tournament in Bengaluru, Bengaluru Hockey League and Hockey India first National inter-academy sub-junior championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vrha-embarks-on-a-new-journey/article34001860.ece
06 March 2021||Wellington,||Aussies force series-decider||Australia crushed New Zealand by 50 runs in a low-scoring fourth T20I here on Friday to level the series 2-2. The result sets up a winner-takes-all blockbuster at the same venue on Sunday, with Australia in red-hot form after struggling early in the series. Australia scored 156 for six in its 20 overs after electing to bat. In reply, New Zealand was all out for 106 in 18.5 overs. Captain Aaron Finch anchored the innings with a gritty 79, making him Australia’s most prolific T20I run-scorer on 2,310, ahead of David Warner’s 2,265. Finch chiselled out his 14th T20 half-century off 55 balls before cutting loose with four sixes in the final over, in which Kyle Jamieson conceded 26 runs. The Black Caps made a slow start, with openers Martin Guptill and Tim Seifert managing just one boundary apiece in the opening three overs. Guptill departed for seven but it was only the beginning of New Zealand’s woes as it lost a further six wickets for 30.  The scores: Australia 156/6 in 20 overs (A. Finch 79) bt New Zealand 106 in 18.5 overs (K. Jamieson 30; K. Richardson 3/19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-forces-series-decider/article34001859.ece
06 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Antwi gives Gokulam full points||Gokulam Kerala FC beat RoundGlass Punjab FC by a solitary goal to start its championship leg campaign of the I-League on a successful note on Friday. Ghanaian striker Dennis Antwi scored from a penalty spot early on in the first half to help Gokulam pocket full points. With the top six sides of the first phase playing five matches each to decide the champion, the winning start gave Gokulam an early advantage. Earlier, Fredsan Marshall’s goal in added time helped Churchill Brothers record a 2-1 victory over Real Kashmir FC in another championship leg match at the Salt Lake Stadium. Luka Majcen put Churchill ahead in the first half before Lukman Adefemi levelled for Real Kashmir. Marshall’s long-ranger then fetched full points for Churchill. In another match, Bidyasagar Singh performed a hat-trick to help TRAU FC blank Mohammedan Sporting 4-0. Phalguni Singh scored the other goal.  The results (championship leg):   Real Kashmir FC 1 (Lukman Adefemi 67) lost to Churchill Brothers 2 (Luka Majcen 45+1, Fredsan Marshall 90+4); Mohammedan Sporting 0 lost to TRAU FC 4 (Phalguni Singh 29, Bidyasagar Singh 39, 42, 65); RoundGlass Punjab FC 0 lost to Gokulam Kerala FC 1 (Dennis Antwi 17-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/antwi-gives-gokulam-full-points/article34001861.ece
06 March 2021||London,||Chelsea adds to Liverpool’s woes||Five straight home defeats for the first time in the club’s 128-year history. More than 10 hours since a goal from open play at Anfield. The stadium that was once a fortress for Liverpool is the now the scene of a scarcely believable implosion by the soon-to-be-deposed English champion. Liverpool’s 1-0 loss to Chelsea on Thursday continued a staggering run of home form that came after Jurgen Klopp’s team went 68 games in a row unbeaten at Anfield. Liverpool only managed one effort on goal against Chelsea. Mohamed Salah was substituted after barely an hour; Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino barely threatened either. Mason Mount scored the winner in the 42nd minute, cutting in from the left and curling home from the edge of the area for a goal that sent Chelsea into the top four and dropped Liverpool to seventh. It was Chelsea’s first win at Anfield since 2014.  Alexis Sanchez scored twice to help Inter Milan win 2-1 at relegation-threatened Parma on Thursday to open up a six-point gap at the top of Serie A. Romelu Lukaku had a hand in both Inter goals in the second half before Hernani pulled one back for Parma.   The results:   Premier League: Fulham 0 lost to Tottenham 1 (Tosin 19-og); Liverpool 0 lost to Chelsea 1 (Mount 42); West Brom 0 lost to Everton 1 (Richarlison 65).   Serie A: Parma 1 (Hernani 71) lost to Inter Milan 2 (Sanchez 54, 62).   5 - Liverpool has lost five consecutive home games (league and all comps) for the first time in its history, while also being the first reigning English top-flight champion to lose five home league games in a row. 5 - All five of Mason Mount’s Premier League goals this season have come away from home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chelsea-adds-to-liverpools-woes/article34001865.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Zeel lone Indian in semifinals||Zeel Desai was the sole Indian in the semifinals after she beat Humera Baharmus 6-4, 4-6, 6-3 in an entertaining quarterfinal contest in the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis here on Friday. In a hard-fought baseline battle that lasted nearly three hours, it was the calm approach and sound strokes of Zeel that prevailed over the gutsy Humera, who lacked the experience at this level. The fourth seeded Zeel will now play the seventh seeded Pia Lovric of Slovenia, who was pushed to her wit’s end by the explosive game of Jennifer Luikham. The Slovenian prevailed 7-5, 5-7, 7-5 in an energy-sapping contest that lasted three hours and 13 minutes under a scorching sun. Jennifer had beaten top seed Riya Bhatia in the earlier round and showed hints of a bright career ahead for herself. Jennifer should be a powerful player to reckon with once she gathers experience in the international circuit. Third seed Rutuja Bhosale fought equally hard despite not being at her best and was tamed by the tall eighth seed Adrienn Nagy of Hungary in three sets. The fourth quarterfinal also went to three sets as doubles partners Irina Khromacheva of Russia and second seed Miriam Bianca Bulgaru of Romania engaged in a no holds barred fight. Irina pulled through after losing the first set. The duo, seeded No. 1, gave a walkover to Lovric and Nagy in the doubles semifinals. Sowjanya Bavisetti and Prarthana Thombare were given a scare by the young pair of Yubarani Banerjee and Vaidehi Chaudhari before experience won in the end, 10-8 in the super tie-break.  The results: Singles: Quarterfinals: Pia Lovric (Slo) bt Jennifer Luikham 7-5, 5-7, 7-5; Zeel Desai bt Humara Baharmus 6-4, 4-6, 6-3; Adrienn Nagy (Hun) bt Rutuja Bhosale 6-1, 3-6, 6-2; Irina Khromacheva (Rus) bt Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) 1-6, 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Semifinals: Lovric & Nagy w/o Bulgaru & Khromacheva; Sowjanya Bavisetti & Prarthana Thombare bt Yubarani Banerjee & Vaidehi Chaudhari 7-6(7), 3-6, [10-8].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zeel-lone-indian-in-semifinals/article34002129.ece
06 March 2021||Rome,||Sarita to fight for gold||Asian Championship gold medallist Sarita Mor assured herself of at least a silver by reaching the women’s 57kg final while India’s Greco Roman wrestlers Neeraj and Naveen bagged bronze medals in the UWW Ranking Series event — Matteo Pellicone — here on Friday. The 25-year-old Sarita won both her bouts in dominant fashion. She first outplayed Kazakhstan’s Altynay Satylgan 4-1 in the quarterfinals and then followed it up with a victory by fall against Emma Tissinma, also a Kazkah. Sarita will now fight for gold against Brazil’s Giullia Rodrigues, who defeated Anshu Malik 10-7 in the other semifinal. Earlier, Anshu scored a 11-6 win over Evelina Georgieva Nikolova in the quarterfinals.   Important results: Women: Semifinals: 57kg: Sarita Mor bt Emma Tissinma (Kaz) by fall; Guillia Rodrigues (Bra) bt Anshu Malik 10-7. Quarterfinals: 57kg: Sarita bt Altynay Satylgan (Kaz) 4-1; Anshu Malik bt Evelina Georgieva Nikolova (Bul) 11-6. 76kg: Elmira Syzdykova (Kaz) bt Kiran 10-3. Men: Repechage: 63kg: Neeraj bt Samuel Lee Jones (US) 6-4; 103kg: Naveen bt Stepan David (Cze) 1-1, scored last point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarita-to-fight-for-gold/article34001866.ece
06 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Luca SC aiming high in KPL||Abreco Luca SC is aiming for a breakthrough performance in the KPL this season. The Malappuram based professional football club, which narrowly failed to qualify for the knock-out last year, has set its sights on figuring in the I-League second division qualification round this season and is treating KPL as a launchpad. For the past two months, Luca SC has been training meticulously at the Calicut University Stadium under head coach K.V. Navas. The team has played eight practice matches against local sides which has enabled the team management to find the right combination for the KPL. The club has also been boosted by the signing of two experienced overseas players — the Nigerian Bala Alhassan and Koffi Konan Kevin from Ivory Coast — just before KPL. “Both Bala and Koffi are versatile players who can don multiple roles and can play in any position. But we will be using Bala’s experience in the midfield while Koffi will play as our main striker,” said Waibav Srivasta the CEO of Luca SC. “We also have Akash Dave, the former Jamshedpur FC striker, and Akhil Unnikrishnan, who will pair with Koffi upfront. We have drafted five players from our academy sides into the main team. “The boys have trained very hard in the little time they got. This is a big tournament for most of them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/luca-sc-aiming-high-in-kpl/article34002134.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,||New Nordic javelin did the trick||This was a season-opener and the winds were not helpful but javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra still managed to break his National record in the Indian Grand Prix on Friday. “I was expecting something like 85-86m. The crosswinds disturbed me but I got one good throw with the (new) Nordic javelin,” said Neeraj. “I’m planning to try the Nordic more in competitions.” This is probably the first time Neeraj had found success with the Nordic. He had been throwing with the Nemeth javelin in competitions earlier. He said his target is to go over 90m this season and after the Federation Cup in Patiala (March 15-18), the plan is to try and compete in the Diamond League. Adille Sumariwalla, the AFI president, said he was trying to send the javelin throwers to Europe for training before the Olympics. “We are talking to our counterparts in countries like Finland and Poland to see which part is safer,” said Sumariwalla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-nordic-javelin-did-the-trick/article34002120.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Bedi out of ICU||Former India captain Bishan Singh Bedi, who underwent surgery to remove a blood clot in his brain a few days ago, has been shifted to a private room from the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and is doing well, according to a source close to him. "He (Bedi) was shifted to a private room yesterday. He is fine now. They (doctors) will monitor him for a few more days," the source told PTI. Bedi had undergone bypass surgery at the hospital last month after he complained of heart problems. He underwent the procedure to remove the blood clot after the bypass surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bedi-out-of-icu/article34001857.ece
06 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Maruri sisters triumph||The Maruri sisters, Reshma and Suhitha, outplayed the Belgians Flo Helsen and Mirthe Moens 6-0, 6-2 to capture the girls’ doubles title in the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex on Friday. In the boys’ doubles final, top seeds Nishant Dabas and Chirag Duhan beat Bushan Haobam and Yuvan Nandal in straight sets.  The results (doubles, finals): Boys: Nishant Dabas & Chirag Duhan bt Bushan Haobam & Yuvan Nandal 6-3, 6-4.   Girls: Reshma Maruri & Suhittha Maruri bt Flo Helsen & Mirthe Moens (Bel) 6-0, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maruri-sisters-triumph/article34002125.ece
06 March 2021||KOCHI,||Coach Snesarev passes away||Nikolai Snesarev, who virtually changed the distance running scene in the country, passed away at the NIS Patiala on Friday. The 72-year-old Belarussian landed in the country a few days ago to train 3000m steeple chaser Avinash Sable. Having first come to India in 2005, Snesarev coached 10,000m runners Preeja Sreedharan and Kavita Raut to a 1-2 finish in the 2010 Asian Games and steeplechaser Sudha Singh to gold. Later, he advised Lalita Babar to try the steeple chase, an event where she reached the Olympic final in 2016 in Rio. “We are stunned by the news that coach Nikolai was found dead in his room today. We will cherish his long association with Indian athletics and will miss him,” said AFI president Adille Sumariwalla. “As someone who believed in research, he showed us the way with his pioneering efforts towards improving the endurance and speed of his athletes. He insisted that athletes never touch any medicines while training with him, imposing a blanket ban on all kinds of medication, even prescribed ones.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-snesarev-passes-away/article34001834.ece
06 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Nagal loses to Ramos-Vinolas||Sumit Nagal’s challenge at the Argentina Open ATP 250 ended with a tight 6-4, 2-6, 5-7 quarterfinal loss to Spain’s Albert Ramos-Vinolas in Buenos Aires on Friday. The Indian clawed his way back from 2-5 down in the deciding set and even held a break point on the Ramos-Vinolas serve at 5-5, but couldn’t capitalise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-loses-to-ramos-vinolas/article34002431.ece
06 March 2021||PARIS,||F1 confirms May 2 date for Portuguese GP||Formula One confirmed on Friday that the vacant May 2 slot in the record-breaking 23-race championship calendar, will be filled by the Portuguese Grand Prix. The Portimao circuit will thus host a Grand Prix for the second time, the previous being last October. “We are thrilled to announce that Formula 1 will be racing again in Portimao after the huge success of the race last year,” said Stefano Domenicali, President and CEO of Formula 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/f1-confirms-may-2-date-for-portuguese-gp/article34002529.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prajnesh gets past Duckworth||Prajnesh Gunneswaran defeated James Duckworth 6-4, 2-6, 7-6(1) in the quarterfinals of the $156,240 Challenger tennis tournament in Nur Sultan, Kazakhstan, on Friday. In the semifinals, Prajnesh will meet Tomas Machac of the Czech Republic who knocked out top seed Soonwoo Kwon of Korea.  The results:   $156,240 Challenger, Nur Sultan, Kazakhstan: Singles (quarterfinals): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt James Duckworth (Aus) 6-4, 2-6, 7-6(1).   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Singles (quarterfinals): Sasikumar Mukund bt Martins Podzus (Lat) 6-3, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-gets-past-duckworth/article34002128.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Nisarga at the helm||S.B. Nisarga will lead the Karnataka team in the 11th Hockey India sub-junior girls’ National championship, which commences at Simdega (Jharkhand) on March 10.  The squad:   S.B. Nisarga (Capt.), Vidyashree, Prekshika, P.M. Bollamma, N.A. Ananya, S. Koushalya, Thaj Belliappa, Priyanka Suryavanshi, Thashma Belliappa, M.S. Manasa, Meghavathi, Yamuna, K.J. Dilan, B. Preethi, B.M. Keerthana, Disha Ponnamma, Aditi Gangamma, and Thushara; Coach: B.M. Komala .    Subramanian Balachander defeated Durai Mariappan 6-1, 6-2 in the men’s semifinals of the KSLTA-AITA wheelchair tennis tournament at KSLTA on Friday.  The results (semifinals):   Men: Subramanian Balachander bt Durai Mariappan 6-1, 6-2; Veerasamy Shekhar bt Karunakaran Kartik 6-3, 6-0.   Women: Pratima Rao bt Nalina Kumari 6-4, 6-1; K.P. Shilpa bt A. Sudha 6-0, 6-0 .      BUFC whipped Slamzers FC 4-1 in the KSFA women’s super division football league on Friday.  The result:   BUFC 4 (Amoolya 23, Paromita Sait 4, Khushbu Kumar 57, Purnima Rao 71) bt Slamzers FC 1 (Anjali Hindalgekar 74).      Student Union FC blanked ADE FC 3-0 in the BDFA super division men’s football league here on Friday.  The results:   Student Union FC 3 (Pavan Kumar 5-og, Sunil 79, Murali Srinivas 89) bt ADE FC 0; Bangalore Eagles FC 2 (Ananthu Murali 54, Pratik Swami 88) bt FC Deccan 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nisarga-at-the-helm/article34002433.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TNCA league, II div. Elite final, IOB vs UFCC (T. Nagar), MAC stadium, 9 a.m.   DCAC league, Bavanarayanan MCC vs Prahlad CC (7.30 a.m.), Southern Railway Institute (Tbm) vs Asiatic CC (11 a.m.), Mani Memorial vs Central Bank (2.30 p.m.), Agni Engg. College.   Thiruvallur DCA inter-collegiate T20 tournament, quarterfinals, DRBCCC Hindu College vs Veltech Hightech (OCF), 12.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34002468.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Communion with devotees||Throughout the Bhagavata Purana, it is shown that close communion with the devotees of the Lord is far more valuable in engendering a strong devotional experience in the devotees. The Rudra Gita section in the Bhagavata Purana comprises Siva’s instruction to the sons of Prachina Barhis, who are together known as Prachetasas. They proceed westwards towards the sea to engage in penance and worship of Hari. Siva is pleased with their penance and blesses them with this mantra that sings the praises of the Lord as much as of His devotees, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. As a great Vishnu devotee, Siva holds other such devotees close to his heart and shares his God experience with them in this hymn. Even those engaged in righteous conduct and duties can perhaps attain the position enjoyed by him or Brahma. But a devotee of Vishnu attains His abode directly. The Lord is the subtle and eternal truth pervading the entire universe. He rules the entire universe. He is also the sole ruler of the mind, senses and the heart and dwells in the pure heart. Siva teaches the way to attain single minded devotion to the Lord by propitiating His charming form and auspicious qualities. Devotees of Vishnu perceive His presence everywhere and remain with His thoughts just as iron filings get attracted to the magnet. Association with such devotees helps one to be immersed in the ocean of the Lord’s auspicious attributes. Just as the dip in waters of sacred rivers, it is most efficacious in purifying one’s heart and mind. By God’s grace, those who contemplate on His gunas, come to see clearly that objects of the world are sweet at the beginning but will bring disaster by and by. They try to overcome this delusion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/communion-with-devotees/article34001823.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 10:03 IST,||Sudoku — March 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-march-6-2021/article34003051.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||All things lime and lemony||I don’t have a green thumb, but there is one plant on my balcony I have taken good care of – and that’s my potted lemongrass. The stalks are green and tall, and wave out to me cheerily when I am anywhere around it. I get its fragrance, and look at the plant a bit sorrowfully. I am sorry, but one day you are going to get added to my soup, I tell the plant. And when it does, it will greatly enhance the flavour of the soup -- just like the lemongrass that gave zest to the tom yam soup I had a few days ago. The soup had been tempered with Thai herbs, and the presence of lemongrass in it was unmistakable. I scooped out the small shrimps in the broth and, with that, started quite a memorable Oriental meal delivered by a new outlet called Azuma Kara. Based in Shahpur Jat, it delivers food with the help of Swiggy and Zomato, and its own delivery service. It is open every day of the week, from 12pm to 12am (Ph no: +917827906772) I opened the elegantly designed menu card on the net, and found that it had some of my favourite dishes. I am greatly fond of Thai food – and can’t have enough of the flavours that kaffir lime leaves, lemongrass and galangal add to the cuisine. So even though the menu has Japanese and other kinds of cuisines, I stuck (more or less) to my favourite Southeast Asian region. I asked for chicken Thai herb dim sums and Prawn kaffir lime dim sums (Rs. 390 each), char sui bao pork (Rs. 490), Thai green curry chicken (Rs. 680), pad Thai noodles (Rs. 280) and lemongrass tiramisu (Rs. 380). The tom yam prawn soup (Rs. 340) was hearty, if a bit salty. It was pleasantly aromatic, and I had it with a crusty piece of bread. I moved on to the dim sums. The filling in the dim sum casings were robust – the chicken with Thai herbs had a nice flavour, as did the prawn with kaffir lime leaves. I then had a piece of the bao – and enjoyed the pork belly filling on spicy mayo. I am a green curry fan, and enjoyed it thoroughly. The chicken had soaked in the tastes and aromas of the herbs – especially the lemongrass – and I had it with some sticky rice and vegetable pad Thai. The icing was the lemongrass tiramisu – the herb gave the soft and cheesy dessert a delicious kick and aftertaste. The menu is an interesting one, and I am not surprised, for the chef at Azuma Kara was earlier at Blue Ginger, known for its Vietnamese cuisine, in Taj Palace. It has Vietnamese summer rolls on the menu, and the soup list includes cauliflower miso soup and Thai coconut soup (both Rs. 350). On the sushi list are rolls with mango and avocado, salmon and tuna (Rs. 460-890). Among the interesting dishes are its one-meal bowls – spicy tuna poke bowl (Rs. 690), tofu poke bowl (Rs. 620), massaman pork curry with sticky rice and Asian greens (Rs. 840) and Peruvian potatoes, wild mushroom and winter truffles (Rs. 940). But I was happy with my dishes. In these troubled times, it was nice to get the old familiar fragrance of Thai herbs in my food. The lemongrass plant in the pot – still intact – seemed happy as well. It gave me a whiff of its heady scent when I stepped out to the balcony the next morning. (The writer is a seasoned food critic)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-things-lime-and-lemony/article34002655.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Kodiyala’s weave architects||The story of the Padmashali community of Kodiyala, the weaving village in Karnataka’s Mandya district, isn’t too different from many others in India. Once patronised by royals (it is believed that in the 1750s, Tipu Sultan invited them over from Andhra Pradesh), their handwoven craft had given way to the lure of power looms, until only around four of the 400 families worked with hand looms. Then Kshitija Mruthyunjaya visited them early last year. The architecture student (of Nuova Accademia di Belle Arti, Milan, Italy) had reached out to The Registry of Sarees, founded by entrepreneur and perfumer Ahalya Matthan, for her MA Design thesis, just when the Bengaluru-based research and curatorial platform was looking for someone to spearhead the revival of the traditionally minimal Kodiyala sari. Discussions with the weavers — and a collaboration with Shrenis Trust, an outfit that empowers artisanal communities through skill development and digital opportunities — has since seen a reclamation of the Padmashalis’ identity.  Of legends and looms  Having an architect at the helm has made a difference. Mruthyunjaya not only looked at reviving the textiles, but also the basic infrastructure needs and systems. “We approached the project in a 360° way. For example, spatially, can the weaver’s chair convert into a flat surface? They spend 10 hours a day doing physical labour and often complain of a backache,” she says. For the product — shorn of the heavy ornamentation that had been adopted from neighbouring craft clusters — she went back to the original blueprint. Long conversations with master weavers Laksshmannraav and Sridhar revealed the storytelling behind their weaves. The Padmashalis believe they are descendants of Bhavana — a rishi (sage) who built a loom from his body parts and wove clothes for the gods from lotus threads that emerged from Lord Vishnu’s navel. So, for the first collection, Hosa Arambha (new beginning in Telugu), Mruthyunjaya took them back to their roots. Each of the seven new motifs created — such as the yagna (fire), maggam (loom), and kamalam (lotus stem) — is derived from the legend, and is further accented with the Telugu script, the language of the Padmashalis. The collection features saris in indigo blue, madder red and conch shell white, with a plain body and intricately-woven motifs on its thin pallu . And each one is named after the flowers found in the village, such as Mallige (jasmine), Mandara (hibiscus) and Parijataamu (night flowering jasmine). What also caught my attention was how they championed the weavers’ story. Each of the 110 saris has a QR code woven into it, and when a buyer scans it, it pulls up all the information about the weaver, thus “initiating a conversation”.  Sisal stories  Interestingly, the weavers have not only been involved in the design but are also part of its image building. The face of the campaign is Sridhar’s wife Mala, along with dancer and actor Rukmini Vijayakumar. Mruthyunjaya echoes the sentiments of all revivalists: “Weavers don’t need sympathy, they need their craft and skill to be celebrated.” Plenty of challenges still remain. In the next phase, they hope to strengthen the ecosystem: increase the number of looms, invite more weavers and spinners to come back to the community, reinstate natural dyeing units (currently they use azo-free dyes), and introduce Ambar Charkha yarn (to replace the mill-made ones presently sourced from Salem). Most importantly, there will also be a renewed research commitment to sisal. The plant grows abundantly locally and, besides providing fibre for the fabric, it can be used to build a new kind of loom — one with more comfortable seats, bottle holders, and hooks to hang the weavers’ shirts. It is still a long ride into the future, but one that Mruthyunjaya and the weavers are looking forward to.  Saris between Rs. 5,998 and Rs. 7,140 on yali.store||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kodiyalas-weave-architects/article34002399.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||In Bhatt’s kingdom||Years ago, director Alankrita Srivastava’s mother, an IIM (Ahmedabad) graduate, told her that there were only four women in her batch and none of them pursued a ‘full-fledged corporate career’. This got the 41-year-old thinking about women and ambition. Somewhere along the way, this crystallised into an idea that is now Netflix India’s latest offering, Bombay Begums . Set in the high stakes world of banking and finance, the story follows Rani (Pooja Bhatt), Fatima (Shahana Goswami), Ayesha (Plabita Borthakur), Lily (Amruta Subhash) and Shai (Aadhya Anand), whose circumstances are different but whose lives are interconnected. As in her earlier work, Srivastava has trained her lens to examine the ‘complex inner lives of women’. “Ever since the economy opened up in India there were many more women in the corporate workforce, but they have always had to do a balancing act. There’s this pressure of having a perfect life — being great in your family life, managing your home, and excelling at work,” says the filmmaker. Of the five women, Lily’s character is the only one that seems to be an outlier of sorts. “Lily was the last character I thought of and she came in because I felt this world was too sanitised. I felt like I needed someone from another world — to juxtapose them and see what one arrives at,” she adds. Female body as subtext Along with a cameo in the eminently forgettable Sadak 2 (2020), Bombay Begums marks Bhatt’s return to the front of the camera after a gap of 21 years. Her character, the CEO of a bank and a stepmother of two, is unlike anything she’s played before. “Alankrita was very clear that this character is a combination of power, strength and great vulnerability. What she said to me is that real power does not scream. While Rani is quite over-the-top in that she’s perfectly turned out, with not a strand of hair out of place, even at home, that’s her shield. Yet, her body is falling apart,” says the actor. The female body and its transformations is a subtext that Srivastava explores with each of the five characters. For Bhatt, the level of detailing that went into making the show is a sign of how storytelling is changing. “When I walked into the cabin that was created for my character and stood behind that desk, I felt this sense of power that made me feel like this was my kingdom. It was created with every prop that was there; everything was thought through. Even the artwork that Shai is doing, for example, is so detailed. There were so many such little things that the audience will never really see but it adds so much in terms of authenticity to an actor’s performance.” A pleasantly surprising Easter egg thrown into the mix is how each of the show’s six episodes have been named. “They are named after all the books by and about women that I love. They have all had some kind of impact on me,” shares Srivastava. Chasing complexities While Srivastava was a part of the writing team of the much-acclaimed Amazon Prime show Made in Heaven , she has created, co-written (with Iti Agarwal and Bornila Chatterjee) and co-directed (with Chatterjee)Bombay Begums. Her filmography — Turning 30 , Lipstick Under My Burkha and Dolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare — is testament to exactly the kind of stories she is interested in telling. “I don’t want to make films for the heck of making films. These are the stories I’m drawn to and the characters and worlds I want to explore,” she says, adding, “I don’t want to say that I’ll never make a film with a male protagonist — I am doing Made in Heaven . But again, one of the lead characters there is a woman and the other a gay man. I think I’m interested in people who don’t have it all. Somehow I have nothing to say or examine about an upper-caste, cis-gender man. Right now I’m very happy to work on more stories about women, their thoughts, their lives and their complexities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/in-bhatts-kingdom/article34002344.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Happy Women’s (36-hour) Day||Describe your growth in the last year Exponentially, Sir, but then I’m not sure that you’re interested in the three extra arms I grew. To scrub off a stain while typing a mail while negotiating with a client while unclogging the sink while rinsing the dog’s paws of peanut butter. Now that I have also to send in my replies to this performance review (not meeting deadlines for personal reasons is such a ‘typically female’ excuse), I’ve just noticed a sixth arm beginning to sprout. To what extent have you performed your role?  I have performed seven people’s roles during the last year — plumber, cook — oh yes, no excuses! I shouldn’t mention my colleague who attended his son’s PTA (note how inspiring it is that modern men share the parenting load!) leaving me to do his spreadsheets. So let’s make that eight. How have you adjusted to working from home?  To politely rephrase this question, it is working AT home, and women have always been doing it. Remember how adorable ( s uch a hands-on dad!) the VP was called when his child waddled in and flung herself at the screen, till an efficient woman peeled her away? We women, however, have invisible children. It is our special skill. How could we ever afford to leave a call for a screaming baby choking on a building block? How disorgani s ed and unprofessional that would be! The efficient women who peel kids away from other people’s screens, you see, is us. What are your areas of improvement for the coming year?  To improve my communication skills, to appropriately communicate (and not whine, as these responses will be termed) about my last year. I would also love to improve my home office , which moves from kitchen counter to hanging-off-balcony to bathroom pot. Have you learnt any new skills in this period?  To apologise for my red eyes after working on the presentation all night, to take calls when I’m cooking dinner, to promise to be ‘on it’ and send a mail while thesabziburns. To look highly pleased at some mansplaining by someone watching a match while on the call. To pretend the ridiculous targets are most achievable. To realise that none of these responses will ever make it officially into my review form. Is there anything you would like to add?  Please overlook the blank responses in this form, as I’ve deleted all the answers so as not to be called unprofessional. Thank you for not firing me, and imposing a 30% paycut instead. I am full of support for the organisation’s challenges at this tough time, and totally understand that the organisation does not support mine. Thank you for giving my male colleague the promotion instead, for his full-time commitment to the job. Be assured I will work night and day from now on. After all, who needs to sleep?! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/happy-womens-36-hour-day/article34002349.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||4 women in spirits||There’s change rippling through the Indian alcobev industry with 2021 seeing women take the helm at the Indian arms of two of the largest alcohol companies in the world: Diageo (in July 2021) and Moet Hennessy. Women also have key positions across most beverage multinationals, reflecting not just increased diversity, but also the changing face of their consumer. The other seismic shift that has taken place is in the craft spirits space in the country, where a slew of mostly young entrepreneurs of both sexes have captured the zeitgeist, and made Indian brands cool and aspirational. However, while there have been changes in the producer profile, the actual business still gets done via distributors, retailers, and bars and pubs. These are largely male-run and owned, with women being allowed to bartend in select states and only a handful working behind the bar. The supply chain for these companies — sourcing raw material, packaging — is still male dominated; in many cases, with traditional mindsets and ways of working. Therefore, it is a challenging space for a woman entrepreneur to enter. That said, the four bosses featured here are the first to point out that with the trials have also come the unique advantages of working in a space like premium alcohol. Where a strong design aesthetic and a keen grasp of the consumer mindset are both key — natural advantages for a woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/4-women-in-spirits/article34002382.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Good Earth, 2||Memory is a funny thing; you never know what can trigger it. A sound, perhaps, or a smell. At Good Earth, it is the fragrance of neroli with hints of frankincense. The signature scent has greeted customers since the design house’s first store opened at Mumbai’s Kemps Corner in January 1996. Another sensory teaser: founder Anita Lal’s curated playlists. For a recap, head to Spotify — the Good Earth Flashback25 has songs from the ’90s playlist, Mohammed Rafi tunes to Elvis Presley’s ‘ Jailhouse Rock ’ and even Selena Lopez’s ‘ Quizas Quizas Quizas ’. But the biggest trigger is its motifs, from flowering vines to coconut palms, that adorn cushions and quilts, coffee mugs and apparel — be it in your aunt’s parlour or (as a brand that is widely copied) on knockoffs at roadside stalls. In the last 25 years, Good Earth has become a part of the framework of Indian home interiors. Enough has been written about Lal, a studio potter turned entrepreneur, starting it as a passion project to create products that were universal yet envisioned through an Indian prism “to bridge the gap between our rural potters and the urban consumer”. “Over the years, this philosophy has informed our work with the kansa utensil makers of Orissa, the Naqashi papier-mâché artisans of Kashmir, the block printers in Machilipatnam and Jaipur, the natural dye printers of ajrakh , and the incredible weavers of Banaras,” says Lal, who is celebrating her brand’s silver anniversary this year with a retrospective that pays homage to their most loved designs — across textiles, tableware, and décor. In the months to come, expect limited-edition launches, such as the Songline Series, a range of ceramic tableware created in collaboration with potter Vineet Kacker, and Iris Garden, a 20-year-old vintage design that is being revived with a fresh colour palette on hand block printed textiles and tableware.   Meanwhile, we are curious. What has Good Earth’s journey been like, what happens behind the scenes, what have been the biggest hits? Asha Madan, the brand’s head designer and one of its first team members, tells us:  The first bestseller: The Periyar collection. It was one of the first lines I designed and, as a Malayali, I drew what I grew up seeing — the coconut palms, mango trees and banana palms, the hills, the backwaters, the elephants. It is also one of the most copied of our themes. Another motif that has been extensively appropriated is the Rainforest collection. Even a brand in Paris has done so. This year, we are reviving the line and putting out our artwork to show what the original was.     Key breakthrough: For me, it would be our hand block print quilts. Using original designs blocked on the finest fabrics, they are hand quilted by women in Jaipur. They are fluffier and lighter than most of the competition, with colours that are more refined. For our block prints, we have been working with the same craftsmen for almost two decades.     Brainstorming: We work around an annual theme, and inspirations are rooted in India, the subcontinent and Asia. We often travel to the source of the inspiration. One of the most memorable trips was to Uzbekistan a few years ago. We were a group of about 20, on a craft tour to the Fergana Valley, Samarkand and Bukhara. It was spring, so the apple blossoms were in full bloom. We experienced the warmth of the people, and their love for India and Bollywood. We observed their pottery, visited museums and bazaars, and saw antique suzanis and ikkats . One of the motifs that came out of this trip depicts apple blossom trees surrounded by the arch at Registan square.     A big risk that paid off: The Sustain brand. The apparel brand grew out of wanting simple, beautiful clothes rooted in India. It was a risk because we didn’t know much about clothes. We just jumped in and, over the last 11 years, it has found its trusted clientele.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/good-earth-2/article34002394.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Diving breaks in the Maldives||Manu Nair felt like he was in a different world. For a while, it was all blue; a dark, surreal blue. He could see nothing else and everything happened in slow motion. Then the translucent beings emerged from this deep-blue darkness — slow-moving whale sharks, dancing Manta rays, small fish schools, varicoloured coral reefs. “It was…” pauses Nair, searching for the right word, before settling on “magical”. An aspiring astronaut, he is among the few people selected for Project PoSSUM, a NASA-supported suborbital research programme to study global climate. It requires the participants to have scuba-diving experience. What he shares with me is from the Maldives — in Maaya Thila, considered one of the world’s best dive sites. The sea is like the sky in some ways, he explains, adding, “Most of my training would be underwater because it simulates the microgravity environment. When you are on land, you know nothing can harm you. But it’s not the case under the ocean; you surrender to it and what you see is something surreal”. Lockdown destination The Maldives, one of the world’s best diving destinations, has of late been luring scores of Indians to its shores. According to the Indian High Commission in Maldives, 62,905 Indian tourists holidayed there in 2020. It accounted for 11.3% of the island country’s total tourism market share — the most by any country. The air travel bubble (enabling the free flow of international flights) that India shares with Maldives, the three-hour flight time, and the tourist visa on arrival are some of its attractions. “Maldives has not decimated its fish population. There are no large waves and the clarity [under water] is very good. Because you are in an atoll [a ring-shaped reef], you are not hit by the ocean,” explains Nitish Chengappa. He first visited archipelagic state in 2002 along with his brother, TV host Nikhil Chinapa. In 2015, they set up Fleetfoot Adventures in Bengaluru, which organises diving trips to the Maldives and Egypt among other locations, adding that they have taken over 250 clients every year to the Maldives since then. 2020, however, was a different story due to the pandemic. There were no trips from March to November but things are slowly picking up, says Chengappa, who has made four trips since November and gets several hundred enquiries every month. “The Maldives spoils you. In other locations, you might not get to see the magnificent creatures like the sharks, mantas and eagle rays. But here you see them all the time,” says beverage expert Karina Aggarwal (@Gigglewater411) who made her second liveaboard trip there with a group of 10 people last month. A regular diver for the last six years with 120 dives across several spots, including in the Andamans, Thailand, and Philippines, hers was a 40m liveaboard vessel with air-conditioned suites and open-air dining. For serious divers The liveaboard diving trips — you stay on a vessel for one or more nights, going from one dive site to another — are best suited for serious divers, says another regular, Anees Adenwala, the director of Mumbai-based Orca Dive Club. Typically, they are a week long and comprise three dives a day. “You can even sail from Malé to the southernmost island called Gan, discover the entire chain of dive sites and atolls. Or you can just be in a resort with great food and a bit of diving and other water sports,” he says. Since the boats have a capacity of 20 passengers, Chengappa reckons liveaboard trips are best enjoyed when you go with a familiar group. “It is very important that you put together a socially compatible bunch. Because you’re going to be spending six nights together,” he says. Budgets for all seasons Can’t afford a luxury resort? There are guest houses run by the locals. “You can spend $2,000 a night. Or just $80 a night with bed and breakfast,” explains another regular, Adenwala. Diving is also cheaper if you know your way around. “An open-water diver’s course costs $800 at a resort, whereas it is about $450 on a local island,” says Madhava Reddy whose Planet Scuba India in Bengaluru offers diving courses. He recently visited the Maldives with a contingent of 20 divers. And one of the divers was Project PoSSUM’s Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/diving-breaks-in-the-maldives/article34002353.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Luxury 2021: How private clubs are changing||Its ‘corridor of power’ is still lined with RK Laxman’s iconic works of illustrious Indians, and the lofty view of Lutyens’ Delhi remains as stunning as ever. But much has changed at The Chambers, one of the most sought after business clubs in the country, at New Delhi’s Taj Mahal hotel. As it opens its doors this weekend after an ambitious revamp (with a party whose invites are currently hot property), the club — for long seen as a hub of powerful politicians and rich industrialists — is seeking to draw younger blood into its fold, and to reboot in the post-Covid world. The new avatar is more expansive: spread over two floors (not one, as earlier), there is a larger members-only restaurant, a new Blue Label bar with a display of Diageo’s expensive whiskies, a cigar lounge with Davidoff’s latest limited-edition Year of the Ox gordo, a Stephano Ricci-designed meeting room (plus six others), dinnerware from Bernardaud, glassware from Riedel, and similar bric-a-brac connoting old luxury. And, symbolic of the new luxury befitting our times, a spanking new air purification system with medical-grade filters. But these are just the physicalities. As Chambers looks at a wider pool of achievers — think start-up captains and cultural influencers — and a global footprint (it opens in Bengaluru later this year and then in London), the idea definitely is to be relevant to today’s realities. “While retaining its unmatched exclusivity, the reimagined The Chambers will extend an invite to the globally-acclaimed — the new generation of achievers of India,” says Satyajeet Krishnan, Area Director and General Manager of Taj Mahal. Membership remains by invitation and through referrals, but one of the most significant new benefits is a one-time transfer of a lifetime membership to a son or daughter. The young are being sought in more ways than one.   Leaning towards experiences   Events and curations are being tailored to fit a new definition of post-pandemic luxury for this audience. Meals may thus be local and healthy instead of the baked brie or pumpkin gnocchi of yore, gin selections will arrive on trolleys, and tickets to exclusive experiences such as meals by star global chefs or conversations between newsmakers will be up for grabs. All these experiences, says Krishnan, will be crafted for the new generation “who are more accessible, believe in a borderless world, and appreciate experiences that are ultra unique”. If Chambers is pivoting, so are other sought-after private clubs in India and across the globe, as ideas of exclusivity and socialising in smaller, curated groups assume greater significance in a world shaken by the pandemic. New digital realities and emerging at-home lifestyles mean that, in fact, the club is transforming into more than a physical space. Soho House, the world’s most sought-after membership for “creative souls” (that allegedly left out the suits from Wall Street from its membership), has a new SH.App. Members must now book bedrooms, tables, events, the gym or invite guest to the House through it, to ensure less crowded venues. But paradoxically, the app is also connecting more members globally and bringing the club home. “I want the SH.App to be like having a House in your pocket: allowing you to do everything that you can do in our physical spaces, digitally,” says founder Nick Jones in an exclusive interview with The Hindu Weekend .  Opening up the network  This takes forward the idea of a globally-connected, spread-out creative community that is at the core of Soho House. “I had to stay on in Stockholm for seven months during the pandemic, but thanks to the ‘Cities Without Houses’ set up [a membership type that allows people to connect in cities that don’t yet have a House], I met up with the community in Sweden and connected with many amazing people,” says Cecilia Oldne, Asia head for wine investment firm Amphora, and a global member of Soho House. New membership categories such as Soho Friends are clearly aimed at extending this network (there are several different categories with fees ranging from Rs. 85,000 to Rs. 3 lakh plus, for which applications can be made online). This one, recently introduced internationally, does not offer access to the Houses all over the world when they travel, but does give entry to studios (only in London as yet, these are spaces for members to meet/eat together), and other benefits such as at restaurants. “We will bring this to Mumbai later this year,” says Jones. Itis this sense of community that Soho House has managed to uphold that is today more attractive than ever, as we contend with physically boxed-in lives. It could explain why Soho House globally retained 90% of its paying members through 2020 even as it was forced to shut its Houses (now reopened). Through that time, engagement came through strongly-curated, digital programming such as home hair care tutorials with Queer Eye’s Jonathan Van Ness, cocktail masterclasses, and idea and expertise sharing sessions. Going forward, this digital curation seems likely to be an important way to keep up engagement with and between members, even as the company plans a public listing in New York with a whopping $3 billion valuation, as per the Financial Times .  Embracing change  One of the most talked about new entrants into the private clubs space in India currently is The Quorum, with an address in Gurugram since 2018 and another one set to launch in Mumbai next month. The club has built its reputation with an eclectic programming around art, music, business and current affairs. The pandemic, says its CEO Vivek Narain, will give a fillip to ventures such as his as “the need for spaces like ours has become more prevalent”, with members seeking quality experiences but where the rules of engagement can be more controlled than at open venues. “I think dining at a private club now has more prestige than dining at the latest restaurant,” says Anant Rishi, a young Delhi-based entrepreneur who joined The Quorum because he “liked the vibe, its cocktail culture and the events and talks they host where we can meet other professionals”. As privacy becomes a more important element of luxury, other hospitality groups too are focussing on creating clubs. In Goa, the Jamming Goat at Calangute is starting a supper club with curations that include a series of dinners by top chefs. Meanwhile, clubs are also offering strong personalisation. At À Ta Maison (ATM) Delhi, a beverage concierge not only offers customised drinks and hosts popular social mixers, but also gives tips on “how to get the most exclusive mescal” for home bars, says Rakshay Dhariwal, founder. “In the post-pandemic world, as people want to engage with others in smaller groups, the private club category will get bigger,” he says, adding, “But the flip side is that only those with deep pockets should get into this business because it takes a long time to build a good network and membership base. And real estate, [especially] in cities like Delhi and Mumbai, is very high and will eat into your revenue.” The good thing though with club class expanding is that many of those who aspire to it may as yet get to enjoy it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/luxury-2021-how-private-clubs-are-changing/article34002375.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||collab central||Lalique x Dictador A 1976 vintage Dictador in a Lalique decanter became one of the most expensive bottles of rum sold at auction after fetching £30,000 during a Sotheby’s sale on February 26. Magandeep Singh, columnist atThe Hindu Weekend, who got to sample this fine spirit earlier this week, shares that there are 300 bottles available, priced at €12,000 each. These are not rational sounding prices, and definitely not for rum, he says. But with the collaboration between the Columbian rum brand and the famed crystal house bringing alive the undulating waves of the Caribbean Sea, perhaps it can be justified? Read about his experience and tasting notes at weekend.thehindu.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/collab-central/article34002403.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||On | Site: Bikaner House in New Delhi is the location for an ongoing collaborative project by four leading galleries — Chemould Prescott Road, Experimenter, Nature Morte and Vadehra Art Gallery. Forty artists, including conceptual artist Mithu Sen, are showcasing their work through solo shows, curated group exhibitions and more. Till March 9. @chemouldprescottroad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34002355.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The red carpet is back||After watching Anya Taylor-Joy and Nicole Kidman dazzle at the 2021 Golden Globes in custom Dior and Louis Vuitton respectively (catch our picks from the virtual ‘red carpet’ on thehindu.com), city fashionistas can choose from designer wear at luxe pop-up The Armoire. Fifteen designers are featured such as Payal Singhal. At The Folly at Amethyst, on March 10. And at Evoluzione, Amrapali Jewels’ Tarang Arora is visiting from Jaipur to showcase their regal pieces at a trunk show. On Khader Nawaz Khan Road, March 6.28333627||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-red-carpet-is-back/article34002357.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Book fair and deals||After a year of being closed, Tara Books is welcoming bibliophiles to their quirky Book Building in Thiruvanmiyur. The space sports a fresh coat of paint and there is a 25% discount on products till March-end.9150323115. As many as 700 stalls have been set up at the Chennai Book Fair, which began on February 24, at the YMCA Grounds, Nandanam. There has been a demand for Avamanam by Saadat Hasan Manto since actor-turned-politician Kamal Hassan recommended it on Big Boss Season 4. Till March 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/book-fair-and-deals/article34002359.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lacoste x Ricky Regal||French brand Lacoste, which has introduced the Loop Polo made out of 30% recycled cotton, has collaborated with singer Bruno Mars for his first clothing line. Mars channeled his designer alter ego, Ricky Regal, for the capsule collection which features tracksuits, polo shirts, and pants in bold colours. Closer home, designer Tarun Tahiliani has partnered with Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd. Plans are underway to introduce contemporary men’s ethnic wear later this year and to operate 250 stores in five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lacoste-x-ricky-regal/article34002361.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Eternal Sunshine Productions: More producers, better content? Following in the footsteps of Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Anushka Sharma, actor Alia Bhatt has launched her own production house, Eternal Sunshine Productions. First up is Darlings, in association with Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan’s Red Chillies Entertainment, starring Shefali Shah, Vijay Varma and Roshan Mathew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34002363.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mentoring designers||Apply to the largest sustainable design competition — the Redress Design Award. The winner will join the Timberland brand for a collaboration. Those with less than four years’ professional experience can apply till March 15. Visit redressdesignaward.com. Elsewhere, the Fashion Forward Fellowship, presented by The ReFashion Hub and non-profit YWater, has eight designers chosen from 56 applicants learning from 13 mentors over five weeks. The winner will receive Rs. 1 lakh to bring their collection to life. ywater.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mentoring-designers/article34002365.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Girls deserve more||At ITC Grand Chola, the ‘Eva the Diva’ offer includes a session at Kaya Kalp The Royal Spa, a Fabelle masterclass, and 25% discount on meals at select restaurants. Rs. 3,500. Till March 8. Dinner by the pool for a group of four at Rs. 20,000.49065271. Wonderla in Bengaluru, Kochi and Hyderabad will be open only to women on March 8. Women can also buy a ticket at Rs. 999 and get a ticket free. Wonderla Bengaluru, with Covid-free certification by inspection company Bureau Veritas, has packages too. wonderla.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/girls-deserve-more/article34002367.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Break into song||Tired of listening to someone else’s songs? Learn concepts such as writing lyrics to a beat from indie artiste Raghav Meattle, who has been helping aspiring musicians through The Conemunity, a platform he started last year. On March 6 at 5 pm. Rs. 399 on insider.in. Theatre personality Raell Padamsee’s ACE Productions presentsSherlock Holmes, a workshop plus play. Participants will hone their acting skills, while looking for clues. For ages 10 to 13. Saturdays, March 6 to May 22. Rs. 4,800. On bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/break-into-song/article34002369.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The royal interview||Prince Harry and Meghan Markle tell their side of the story in a “no subject is off limits” interview with media mogul Oprah Winfrey, airing on March 7. In sneak peeks, the Prince is seen talking about his mother, the late Princess Diana, and the pressures she faced alone. Earlier in the week, he had some fun on The Late Late Show with James Corden , sipping tea on a tour bus (the tea trolley crashes at one point!), visiting The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air house and thrashing Corden in a military style obstacle course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-royal-interview/article34002371.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Luxury 2021: How private clubs are changing||Its ‘corridor of power’ is still lined with RK Laxman’s iconic works of illustrious Indians, and the lofty view of Lutyens’ Delhi remains as stunning as ever. But much has changed at The Chambers, one of the most sought after business clubs in the country, at New Delhi’s Taj Mahal hotel. As it opens its doors this weekend after an ambitious revamp (with a party whose invites are currently hot property), the club — for long seen as a hub of powerful politicians and rich industrialists — is seeking to draw younger blood into its fold, and to reboot in the post-Covid world. The new avatar is more expansive: spread over two floors (not one, as earlier), there is a larger members-only restaurant, a new Blue Label bar with a display of Diageo’s expensive whiskies, a cigar lounge with Davidoff’s latest limited-edition Year of the Ox gordo, a Stephano Ricci-designed meeting room (plus six others), dinnerware from Bernardaud, glassware from Riedel, and similar bric-a-brac connoting old luxury. And, symbolic of the new luxury befitting our times, a spanking new air purification system with medical-grade filters. But these are just the physicalities. As Chambers looks at a wider pool of achievers — think start-up captains and cultural influencers — and a global footprint (it opens in Bengaluru later this year and then in London), the idea definitely is to be relevant to today’s realities. “While retaining its unmatched exclusivity, the reimagined The Chambers will extend an invite to the globally-acclaimed — the new generation of achievers of India,” says Satyajeet Krishnan, Area Director and General Manager of Taj Mahal. Membership remains by invitation and through referrals, but one of the most significant new benefits is a one-time transfer of a lifetime membership to a son or daughter. The young are being sought in more ways than one.   Leaning towards experiences   Events and curations are being tailored to fit a new definition of post-pandemic luxury for this audience. Meals may thus be local and healthy instead of the baked brie or pumpkin gnocchi of yore, gin selections will arrive on trolleys, and tickets to exclusive experiences such as meals by star global chefs or conversations between newsmakers will be up for grabs. All these experiences, says Krishnan, will be crafted for the new generation “who are more accessible, believe in a borderless world, and appreciate experiences that are ultra unique”. If Chambers is pivoting, so are other sought-after private clubs in India and across the globe, as ideas of exclusivity and socialising in smaller, curated groups assume greater significance in a world shaken by the pandemic. New digital realities and emerging at-home lifestyles mean that, in fact, the club is transforming into more than a physical space. Soho House, the world’s most sought-after membership for “creative souls” (that allegedly left out the suits from Wall Street from its membership), has a new SH.App. Members must now book bedrooms, tables, events, the gym or invite guest to the House through it, to ensure less crowded venues. But paradoxically, the app is also connecting more members globally and bringing the club home. “I want the SH.App to be like having a House in your pocket: allowing you to do everything that you can do in our physical spaces, digitally,” says founder Nick Jones in an exclusive interview with The Hindu Weekend .  Opening up the network  This takes forward the idea of a globally-connected, spread-out creative community that is at the core of Soho House. “I had to stay on in Stockholm for seven months during the pandemic, but thanks to the ‘Cities Without Houses’ set up [a membership type that allows people to connect in cities that don’t yet have a House], I met up with the community in Sweden and connected with many amazing people,” says Cecilia Oldne, Asia head for wine investment firm Amphora, and a global member of Soho House. New membership categories such as Soho Friends are clearly aimed at extending this network (there are several different categories with fees ranging from Rs. 85,000 to Rs. 3 lakh plus, for which applications can be made online). This one, recently introduced internationally, does not offer access to the Houses all over the world when they travel, but does give entry to studios (only in London as yet, these are spaces for members to meet/eat together), and other benefits such as at restaurants. “We will bring this to Mumbai later this year,” says Jones. Itis this sense of community that Soho House has managed to uphold that is today more attractive than ever, as we contend with physically boxed-in lives. It could explain why Soho House globally retained 90% of its paying members through 2020 even as it was forced to shut its Houses (now reopened). Through that time, engagement came through strongly-curated, digital programming such as home hair care tutorials with Queer Eye’s Jonathan Van Ness, cocktail masterclasses, and idea and expertise sharing sessions. Going forward, this digital curation seems likely to be an important way to keep up engagement with and between members, even as the company plans a public listing in New York with a whopping $3 billion valuation, as per the Financial Times .  Embracing change  One of the most talked about new entrants into the private clubs space in India currently is The Quorum, with an address in Gurugram since 2018 and another one set to launch in Mumbai next month. The club has built its reputation with an eclectic programming around art, music, business and current affairs. The pandemic, says its CEO Vivek Narain, will give a fillip to ventures such as his as “the need for spaces like ours has become more prevalent”, with members seeking quality experiences but where the rules of engagement can be more controlled than at open venues. “I think dining at a private club now has more prestige than dining at the latest restaurant,” says Anant Rishi, a young Delhi-based entrepreneur who joined The Quorum because he “liked the vibe, its cocktail culture and the events and talks they host where we can meet other professionals”. As privacy becomes a more important element of luxury, other hospitality groups too are focussing on creating clubs. In Goa, the Jamming Goat at Calangute is starting a supper club with curations that include a series of dinners by top chefs. Meanwhile, clubs are also offering strong personalisation. At À Ta Maison (ATM) Delhi, a beverage concierge not only offers customised drinks and hosts popular social mixers, but also gives tips on “how to get the most exclusive mescal” for home bars, says Rakshay Dhariwal, founder. “In the post-pandemic world, as people want to engage with others in smaller groups, the private club category will get bigger,” he says, adding, “But the flip side is that only those with deep pockets should get into this business because it takes a long time to build a good network and membership base. And real estate, [especially] in cities like Delhi and Mumbai, is very high and will eat into your revenue.” The good thing though with club class expanding is that many of those who aspire to it may as yet get to enjoy it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/luxury-2021-how-private-clubs-are-changing/article34002331.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Women in real estate||On the journey from being part of the home buying process to driving it, today’s financially strong Indian women have emerged as a powerful demographic in Anarock’s latest consumer sentiment survey published last month. Prashant Thakur, Director and Head — Research, Anarock Property Consultants, says, “The survey reveals that many Indian women now consider housing not just the bedrock of financial security but also essential to diversify their investment portfolios. 62% of women respondents confirmed housing as their preferred asset class - even more than men. 54% of men who participated in the survey preferred real estate above the other options — stock market, fixed deposits and gold.” The pandemic effect Interestingly, women’s preference for real estate has risen post-COVID-19 — from 57% votes in the pre-COVID survey to 62% in the current edition. Of the total of 3,900 survey participants, 36% of respondents were women and among these, at least 70% consider the current time as ideal for buying a home. Their main sentiment drivers — housing affordability is currently optimal, developers’ offers and discounts are attractive, and home loan rates are at a 15-year low. Use vs. investment Most surveyed women respondents (82%) plan to buy a home for their personal use, and 18% for investment. Among men respondents, the end-use to investment ratio was 68:32. The survey also revealed that most polled women home buyers prefer ready-to-move-in homes, reflecting a strong aversion to the perceived investment risk of under-construction properties. Nearly 71% of women respondents want to buy ready homes, followed by 11% each for homes that will be available for possession in the next 6 months, and newly-launched projects. If we consider the overall survey results for both genders, ready homes had 29% votes in their favour. Other notable women-centric findings: - While most women preferred properties priced within Rs. 90 lakh (at least 66% women home buyers), 5% voted for ultra-luxury real estate priced >Rs. 2.5 crore. - In the overall survey, the 2BHK was the most-preferred configuration — but further analysis reveals that most women preferred higher BHK-configurations. At least 46% of women favoured 3BHKs, and only 30% were scouting for 2BHKs. Interestingly, 10% were also looking for 4BHKs. - The psychological assurance of physical assets influences 31% of women home buyers; 28% responded favourably towards the availability of cheaper home loans, and 22% will buy homes because of ongoing offers and deals by developers. Benefits There are various government policies that support and promote women home ownership in India. For instance, to avail homes under the government’s flagship scheme Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY), introduced in 2015, homes have to be mandatorily registered either in a woman’s name or with women as co-owners. This was done to empower women of the lower-income segments. Lower stamp duty is another benefit that women enjoy while buying a property. Stamp duty charges are lower if property registration is executed in the name of a woman, although these charges vary from state to state. The exemption for women varies between 1-2% across different states. In some cases, it might even vary within a particular state, based on the classification of regions as ‘urban’ and ‘rural’. For instance, Delhi, UP, Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana offer relaxation in stamp duty for women buyers. Punjab has a 4% difference between male and female homebuyers. Many banks such as SBI, ICICI, HDFC, etc. offer discounted home loan rates to women as compared to men. This again varies from bank to bank, but the difference can be as much as 0.25%. The prevailing low property rates coupled with home loans rates at a 15-year low are certainly an advantage. To avail of certain tax benefits, a woman can also become the joint owner of a property with her husband and, if she has a separate source of income, both can claim tax deductions individually.  Anarock Property Consultants   62% of women respondents confirmed housing as their preferred asset class||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/women-in-real-estate/article34002415.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a mature market||What appeared to be a short term pull back from institutional investments in Indian real estate in the first three quarters of 2020, came back with bang in the last quarter with large deals. While most investors remained cautious as asset pricing and revenue stability became challenging, large portfolio deals during the last quarter led to total investments of over $5 billion during 2020.The total value of deals in 2019 stood at $5,431 mn compared to $5034 mn in 2020, according to ‘India Real Estate Outlook – A Growth Cycle’, a recently-released report by JLL. Office space with a total deal valuation at $3,102 mn lead the pack among asset classes in real estate. The primary markets witnessed a strong response to listed REITs, providing a new avenue for retail and institutional investors. “India’s emerging REITs market is expected to attract cross border flows and further improve transparency and asset pricing leading to more mature markets. This loop of increasing maturity and capital flows will lead to investments scaling new peaks. Office market is on its road to recovery as it is likely to witness an increased number of new completions of close to 38 mn sq. ft, while net absorption is likely to hover around 30 mn sq. ft,” says Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research, JLL India. Key highlights include: REITs aid investment momentum The REITs market has been the biggest catalyst to keep investment momentum up. Foreign investors looking for stable yield and regular returns, have been able to see the benefits of a good sponsor quality, track record, transparency and delivering predictable returns in the REITs market. Landlords owning income yielding core office assets have been forming strategies to list their assets through REITs. Listing of new REITs is expected to provide opportunities for institutional investors to build asset portfolios or co-invest with existing platforms before the IPO. The provision of the Union Budget 2021-22, allowing to raise debt from foreign portfolio investors at low cost will lead to more asset acquisitions by REITs. Higher visibility on asset pricing Asset pricing is expected to improve with resumption of full economic activity during the year. Core office assets with steady incomes are likely to benefit from better price discovery. On the other hand, opportunistic assets are expected to witness more price adjustments as they lack income certainty and entail more risk. Sustained recovery momentum in Q2 2020 Business activities resumed with the gradual opening of the economy in the third quarter of 2020 and the office market witnessed green shoots of recovery. Sentiments improved further in the last quarter of 2020 with the news of potential vaccine development, and the office market continued its recovery momentum. Net absorption increased by 52%, while new completions grew by 39% when compared to the preceding quarter. Strong fundamentals to drive the office market Sustained demand from IT/ITeS occupiers; increased demand from e-commerce, healthcare and FMCG . The resilience displayed by the office market in India since the pandemic owes much to the fact that the IT/ITeS sector has been largely unaffected by the economic downturn. IT/ITeS occupiers continued to account for most of the office leasing activity in 2020. At the same time, the year witnessed increased traction from sectors such as e-commerce, manufacturing and healthcare. In 2021, we expect the IT/ITeS sector to remain the key occupier group while demand from emerging sectors such as e-commerce, manufacturing and healthcare is likely to increase further. Range-bound vacancies and stable rents Vacancies for Grade A office spaces in India have stayed below the 15% mark since 2017. Even during a pandemic riddled year, vacancy increased marginally and is expected to remain range-bound in 2021 as well. Landlords across markets were more flexible in providing increased rent-free periods, reduced rental escalation and fully furnished deals to prominent occupiers which reduced their net outgo. But the reduction of headline rents was not a popular phenomenon. With stable rental values and low vacancy levels, the office market in India will continue to be characterised by strong fundamentals in 2021.  Flex is the future The current market penetration of flex spaces in total office space stands at ~3.0%. In 2021, India is expected to witness deeper penetration of flex spaces as corporate occupiers continue to shift away from long-term capital-intensive commitments. Flexible space solutions will be leveraged to satisfy temporary space needs, support a more mobile workforce and enter new geographies. We expect the size of the flex space market to reach nearly 39 million sq. ft in 2021.    What to expect in 2021? In 2020, a nationwide lockdown forced corporates to adopt work from home practices. This mass remote working experiment was relatively successful, which challenged traditional notions and prompted corporate occupiers to rethink workplace design and utilisation. Corporate occupiers started prioritising business continuity and building mechanisms to insulate against sudden economic fluctuations. Additionally, a cautious approach to capital expenditure was adopted. These changes are likely to shape the future of the office market in India. It is important to note that companies have started welcoming employees back to offices. The proportion of the workforce that has returned has increased in the past few months and this trend is expected to continue. However, many companies might retain a hybrid work style combining remote working with office use. The post-COVID ‘new normal’ for offices will be characterised by hybrid work models with an enhanced focus on sustainability, wellness and user experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/towards-a-mature-market/article34002404.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Land holding for redevelopment||I am planning to purchase a property. While validating the property documents, I noticed the following discrepancies: - The patta is available for 34.56 cents - The sale deed is available for 35 cents - The owner provided the Power Deed for 35.9 cents - The government layout approval was 35.9 cents Can I buy this plot? Please advise. S Kannan Chennai Minor discrepancies in extents mentioned in the title documents, patta and actual measurements are common. While granting approvals, the authorities take the least of them into consideration. You may purchase the property provided the title of the property is otherwise in order. I reside in a 45-year-old colony – that has over 80 residents – in Nandanam. If we need to demolish and reconstruct it with the assistance of a builder, what steps do we need to take? Secondly, can the interior roads, that were given to the Corporation earlier, be taken back for proper planning purposes? T. Thayumanavar Chennai If the roads have been gifted already and are treated as public roads, the same cannot be considered for your redevelopment. The present land holding of all the owners based on their documents and patta can be developed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/land-holding-for-redevelopment/article34002406.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Colours for productivity||Almost a year into working from home and we’re all now in the same boat. Well, most of us are as many offices have either gone entirely remote or have developed new ways to work. For those working entirely from the home desk, how do you ensure that remote work doesn’t hit your productivity? We suggest you choose the right colour to get you started. For apart from affecting your mood and overall health, colours play a huge role in one’s productivity. A University of Texas study found that grey, beige and white offices induced feelings of sadness and depression, especially in women. Men, on the other hand, experienced gloomy feelings in purple and orange work spaces. So, if you are looking at getting your remote office spruced up, here are a few suggestions for your colour pallette:   The colour of trust, peace and reliability, blue is associated with depth and stability. The favourite shade of every third person in the world, blue is known to significantly enhance productivity. The stable and calming colour helps focus and concentrate better, so painting the entire home office blue and adding other accents is a great idea.   If your work involves physical activity of any kind, make red your go-to hue. Red increases the heart rate, blood flow, and also invokes passion and emotion. If you want to draw attention, go for red. This colour works well for creative types, stoking their energy and fire, and ensuring that they are raring to go.   The colour of optimism, yellow is known to help stimulate creativity. Designers and others who need inspiration and dollops of creativity to get their work done should look for yellow accents for their work space. The colour of the mind and the intellect, yellow stimulates mental faculties and enhances mental agility.   The colour of balance and harmony, green creates equilibrium between the head and the heart. Green is known to be calming and healing, making it a particularly good choice for those who work long hours. People who work almost all day on their computers —well, who doesn't? — should know that a green background lessens eye fatigue. The colour that will enhance productivity differs for everyone, so make your choice based on your gut feeling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/colours-for-productivity/article34002409.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Findings from State of India’s Environment Report||The recently-launched State of India’s Environment (SoE) report — an annual publication of Down To Earth magazine, brought out in association with the Centre of Science and Environment (CSE) brings to the fore a host of crucial environmental concerns. Jointly released in an online event by 60 environmental thinkers and activists, journalists and academics from across India, the report’s 2021 edition is a 442-page compendium of news, views and analysis. Speaking at the virtual event, Sunita Narain, director general, CSE, said, “The defining event of the year that has gone by has been the Covid-19 pandemic, something which the world is still struggling to come to terms with. The time has now come to investigate what the pandemic is going to leave behind for us in the longer term – a lost generation, scarred by ill-health, malnourishment, acute poverty and a debilitating break in educational accomplishments. This is what the State of India’s Environment (2021) Annual reports and brings to life.” Here are a few highlights from SoE 2021: On the pandemic The country is all set to usher in a ‘pandemic generation’: 375 million children (from newborn to 14-year-olds) may suffer long-lasting impacts, ranging from being underweight, stunting and increased child mortality, to losses in education and work productivity. The pandemic also has its hidden victims — over 500 million children forced out of school globally. India accounts for more than 50% of them. In her appraisal in the SoE, Narain added, “The pandemic is a shock response to our dystopian relationship with nature. It has amplified the inequity and deep divisions in our world. The places where the disease is most likely to breed are where there are no urban services; where settlements are overcrowded; where water supply and sanitation is inadequate; and where people have no way to stay safe.” On air pollution  Nearly 1.67 million Indians died due to air pollution in 2019. The economic cost was over US $36,000 million, equivalent to 1.36 per cent of India’s GDP. India desperately needs a vehicle scrappage policy. By 2025, we will have over 20 million vehicles nearing the end of their lives. These will add to the pollution and environmental damage. On water  Drinking water to all households of rural India is one objective that has eluded India forever: 11 past deadlines have been missed. The Jal Jeevan Mission’s target to provide drinking water to all rural households by 2024 will need to focus on making the water source sustainable; recharge of groundwater and rainwater harvesting will be critical. In all the gloom, there is one good news: since 2014-15, an average 34%  of MGNREGA funds have been spent on water-related works, leading to creation of almost 11 million assets in half a million villages. Contrary to popular belief, India’s rivers did not see any significant improvement in their water quality during the lockdown. Of India’s 19 major rivers, five, including Ganga, ran dirtier in the Covid-19 period. On biodiversity, forests and wildlife  What is well known is that India’s flora and fauna is under threat. What is relatively unknown is the scale — 438 plant species (of which 95% are flowering plants, including food crops) and 889 vertebrates and invertebrates are threatened. Environmental crime cases are piling up, and disposal is slow. 34,671 crimes were registered in 2019, and 49,877 cases are pending trial. To clear the backlog in a year, courts need to dispose of 137 cases a day. Has India’s forest cover really grown by 5,188 sq km since 2017, as claimed? Maybe not, as the Forest Survey of India mistakes “trees for forests”: it counts orchards, plantations and even trees along highways as parts of forest and tree cover. There is data confusion on tigers as well. India has added 714 more tigers, but the area occupied by tigers has shrunk by over 17,000 sq km (in the last four years). Forestland diversion continues unabated. Over 11,000 hectares were diverted in 22 states in 2019. Eight coal projects granted clearance in ‘No-Go’ areas will divert 19,614 ha of forestland, fell over 1 million trees, and evict over 10,000 families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/findings-from-state-of-indias-environment-report/article34002411.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES  Segment 2021 2016  (INR per sq.ft.)   Luxury NA 12,000 apartments  Premium 10,000 9,250 apartments   Budget 8,500 8,000 apartments  Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article34002412.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a mature market||What appeared to be a short term pull back from institutional investments in Indian real estate in the first three quarters of 2020, came back with bang in the last quarter with large deals. While most investors remained cautious as asset pricing and revenue stability became challenging, large portfolio deals during the last quarter led to total investments of over $5 billion during 2020.The total value of deals in 2019 stood at $5,431 mn compared to $5034 mn in 2020, according to ‘India Real Estate Outlook – A Growth Cycle’, a recently-released report by JLL. Office space with a total deal valuation at $3,102 mn lead the pack among asset classes in real estate. The primary markets witnessed a strong response to listed REITs, providing a new avenue for retail and institutional investors. “India’s emerging REITs market is expected to attract cross border flows and further improve transparency and asset pricing leading to more mature markets. This loop of increasing maturity and capital flows will lead to investments scaling new peaks. Office market is on its road to recovery as it is likely to witness an increased number of new completions of close to 38 mn sq. ft, while net absorption is likely to hover around 30 mn sq. ft,” says Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head of Research, JLL India. Key highlights include: REITs aid investment momentum The REITs market has been the biggest catalyst to keep investment momentum up. Foreign investors looking for stable yield and regular returns, have been able to see the benefits of a good sponsor quality, track record, transparency and delivering predictable returns in the REITs market. Landlords owning income yielding core office assets have been forming strategies to list their assets through REITs. Listing of new REITs is expected to provide opportunities for institutional investors to build asset portfolios or co-invest with existing platforms before the IPO. The provision of the Union Budget 2021-22, allowing to raise debt from foreign portfolio investors at low cost will lead to more asset acquisitions by REITs. Higher visibility on asset pricing Asset pricing is expected to improve with resumption of full economic activity during the year. Core office assets with steady incomes are likely to benefit from better price discovery. On the other hand, opportunistic assets are expected to witness more price adjustments as they lack income certainty and entail more risk. Sustained recovery momentum in Q2 2020 Business activities resumed with the gradual opening of the economy in the third quarter of 2020 and the office market witnessed green shoots of recovery. Sentiments improved further in the last quarter of 2020 with the news of potential vaccine development, and the office market continued its recovery momentum. Net absorption increased by 52%, while new completions grew by 39% when compared to the preceding quarter. Strong fundamentals to drive the office market Sustained demand from IT/ITeS occupiers; increased demand from e-commerce, healthcare and FMCG . The resilience displayed by the office market in India since the pandemic owes much to the fact that the IT/ITeS sector has been largely unaffected by the economic downturn. IT/ITeS occupiers continued to account for most of the office leasing activity in 2020. At the same time, the year witnessed increased traction from sectors such as e-commerce, manufacturing and healthcare. In 2021, we expect the IT/ITeS sector to remain the key occupier group while demand from emerging sectors such as e-commerce, manufacturing and healthcare is likely to increase further. Range-bound vacancies and stable rents Vacancies for Grade A office spaces in India have stayed below the 15% mark since 2017. Even during a pandemic riddled year, vacancy increased marginally and is expected to remain range-bound in 2021 as well. Landlords across markets were more flexible in providing increased rent-free periods, reduced rental escalation and fully furnished deals to prominent occupiers which reduced their net outgo. But the reduction of headline rents was not a popular phenomenon. With stable rental values and low vacancy levels, the office market in India will continue to be characterised by strong fundamentals in 2021.  Flex is the future The current market penetration of flex spaces in total office space stands at ~3.0%. In 2021, India is expected to witness deeper penetration of flex spaces as corporate occupiers continue to shift away from long-term capital-intensive commitments. Flexible space solutions will be leveraged to satisfy temporary space needs, support a more mobile workforce and enter new geographies. We expect the size of the flex space market to reach nearly 39 million sq. ft in 2021.    What to expect in 2021? In 2020, a nationwide lockdown forced corporates to adopt work from home practices. This mass remote working experiment was relatively successful, which challenged traditional notions and prompted corporate occupiers to rethink workplace design and utilisation. Corporate occupiers started prioritising business continuity and building mechanisms to insulate against sudden economic fluctuations. Additionally, a cautious approach to capital expenditure was adopted. These changes are likely to shape the future of the office market in India. It is important to note that companies have started welcoming employees back to offices. The proportion of the workforce that has returned has increased in the past few months and this trend is expected to continue. However, many companies might retain a hybrid work style combining remote working with office use. The post-COVID ‘new normal’ for offices will be characterised by hybrid work models with an enhanced focus on sustainability, wellness and user experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/towards-a-mature-market/article34002419.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Happy Women’s (36-hour) Day||Describe your growth in the last year Exponentially, Sir, but then I’m not sure that you’re interested in the three extra arms I grew. To scrub off a stain while typing a mail while negotiating with a client while unclogging the sink while rinsing the dog’s paws of peanut butter. Now that I have also to send in my replies to this performance review (not meeting deadlines for personal reasons is such a ‘typically female’ excuse), I’ve just noticed a sixth arm beginning to sprout. To what extent have you performed your role?  I have performed seven people’s roles during the last year — plumber, cook — oh yes, no excuses! I shouldn’t mention my colleague who attended his son’s PTA (note how inspiring it is that modern men share the parenting load!) leaving me to do his spreadsheets. So let’s make that eight. How have you adjusted to working from home?  To politely rephrase this question, it is working AT home, and women have always been doing it. Remember how adorable ( s uch a hands-on dad!) the VP was called when his child waddled in and flung herself at the screen, till an efficient woman peeled her away? We women, however, have invisible children. It is our special skill. How could we ever afford to leave a call for a screaming baby choking on a building block? How disorgani s ed and unprofessional that would be! The efficient women who peel kids away from other people’s screens, you see, is us. What are your areas of improvement for the coming year?  To improve my communication skills, to appropriately communicate (and not whine, as these responses will be termed) about my last year. I would also love to improve my home office , which moves from kitchen counter to hanging-off-balcony to bathroom pot. Have you learnt any new skills in this period?  To apologise for my red eyes after working on the presentation all night, to take calls when I’m cooking dinner, to promise to be ‘on it’ and send a mail while thesabziburns. To look highly pleased at some mansplaining by someone watching a match while on the call. To pretend the ridiculous targets are most achievable. To realise that none of these responses will ever make it officially into my review form. Is there anything you would like to add?  Please overlook the blank responses in this form, as I’ve deleted all the answers so as not to be called unprofessional. Thank you for not firing me, and imposing a 30% paycut instead. I am full of support for the organisation’s challenges at this tough time, and totally understand that the organisation does not support mine. Thank you for giving my male colleague the promotion instead, for his full-time commitment to the job. Be assured I will work night and day from now on. After all, who needs to sleep?! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/happy-womens-36-hour-day/article34002636.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Kodiyala’s weave architects||The story of the Padmashali community of Kodiyala, the weaving village in Karnataka’s Mandya district, isn’t too different from many others in India. Once patronised by royals (it is believed that in the 1750s, Tipu Sultan invited them over from Andhra Pradesh), their handwoven craft had given way to the lure of power looms, until only around four of the 400 families worked with hand looms. Then Kshitija Mruthyunjaya visited them early last year. The architecture student (of Nuova Accademia di Belle Arti, Milan, Italy) had reached out to The Registry of Sarees, founded by entrepreneur and perfumer Ahalya Matthan, for her MA Design thesis, just when the Bengaluru-based research and curatorial platform was looking for someone to spearhead the revival of the traditionally minimal Kodiyala sari. Discussions with the weavers — and a collaboration with Shrenis Trust, an outfit that empowers artisanal communities through skill development and digital opportunities — has since seen a reclamation of the Padmashalis’ identity.  Of legends and looms  Having an architect at the helm has made a difference. Mruthyunjaya not only looked at reviving the textiles, but also the basic infrastructure needs and systems. “We approached the project in a 360° way. For example, spatially, can the weaver’s chair convert into a flat surface? They spend 10 hours a day doing physical labour and often complain of a backache,” she says. Long conversations with master weavers Laksshmannraav and Sridhar revealed the storytelling behind their weaves. The Padmashalis believe they are descendants of Bhavana — a rishi (sage) who built a loom from his body parts and wove clothes for the gods from lotus threads that emerged from Lord Vishnu’s navel. So, for the first collection, Hosa Arambha (new beginning in Telugu), Mruthyunjaya took them back to their roots. Each of the seven new motifs created — such as the yagna (fire), maggam (loom), and kamalam (lotus stem) — is derived from the legend. The collection features saris in indigo blue, madder red and conch shell white, with a plain body and intricately-woven motifs on its thin pallu . And each one is named after the flowers found in the village, such as Mallige (jasmine), Mandara (hibiscus) and Parijataamu (night flowering jasmine). Each of the 110 saris has a QR code woven into it, and when a buyer scans it, it pulls up all the information about the weaver, thus “initiating a conversation”.  Sisal stories  The face of the campaign is Sridhar’s wife Mala, along with dancer and actor Rukmini Vijayakumar. Mruthyunjaya echoes the sentiments of all revivalists: “Weavers don’t need sympathy, they need their craft and skill to be celebrated.” Plenty of challenges still remain. In the next phase, they hope to strengthen the ecosystem: increase the number of looms, invite more weavers and spinners to come back to the community, reinstate natural dyeing units (currently they use azo-free dyes), and introduce Ambar Charkha yarn (to replace the mill-made ones presently sourced from Salem). Most importantly, there will also be a renewed research commitment to sisal. The plant grows abundantly locally and, besides providing fibre for the fabric, it can be used to build a new kind of loom — one with more comfortable seats, bottle holders, and hooks to hang the weavers’ shirts. It is still a long ride into the future, but one that Mruthyunjaya and the weavers are looking forward to.  Saris between Rs. 5,998 and Rs. 7,140 on yali.store||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kodiyalas-weave-architects/article34002650.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||In Bhatt’s kingdom||Years ago, director Alankrita Srivastava’s mother, an IIM (Ahmedabad) graduate, told her that there were only four women in her batch and none of them pursued a ‘full-fledged corporate career’. This got the 41-year-old thinking about women and ambition. Somewhere along the way, this crystallised into an idea that is now Netflix India’s latest offering, Bombay Begums . Set in the high stakes world of banking and finance, the story follows Rani (Pooja Bhatt), Fatima (Shahana Goswami), Ayesha (Plabita Borthakur), Lily (Amruta Subhash) and Shai (Aadhya Anand), whose circumstances are different but whose lives are interconnected. As in her earlier work, Srivastava has trained her lens to examine the ‘complex inner lives of women’. “Ever since the economy opened up in India there were many more women in the corporate workforce, but they have always had to do a balancing act. There’s this pressure of having a perfect life — being great in your family life, managing your home, and excelling at work,” says the filmmaker. Of the five women, Lily’s character is the only one that seems to be an outlier of sorts. “Lily was the last character I thought of and she came in because I felt this world was too sanitised. I felt like I needed someone from another world — to juxtapose them and see what one arrives at,” she adds. Female body as subtext Along with a cameo in the eminently forgettable Sadak 2 (2020), Bombay Begums marks Bhatt’s return to the front of the camera after a gap of 21 years. Her character, the CEO of a bank and a stepmother of two, is unlike anything she’s played before. “Alankrita was very clear that this character is a combination of power, strength and great vulnerability. What she said to me is that real power does not scream. While Rani is quite over-the-top in that she’s perfectly turned out, with not a strand of hair out of place, even at home, that’s her shield. Yet, her body is falling apart,” says the actor. The female body and its transformations is a subtext that Srivastava explores with each of the five characters. For Bhatt, the level of detailing that went into making the show is a sign of how storytelling is changing. “When I walked into the cabin that was created for my character and stood behind that desk, I felt this sense of power that made me feel like this was my kingdom. It was created with every prop that was there; everything was thought through. Even the artwork that Shai is doing, for example, is so detailed. There were so many such little things that the audience will never really see but it adds so much in terms of authenticity to an actor’s performance.” A pleasantly surprising Easter egg thrown into the mix is how each of the show’s six episodes have been named. “They are named after all the books by and about women that I love. They have all had some kind of impact on me,” shares Srivastava. Chasing complexities While Srivastava was a part of the writing team of the much-acclaimed Amazon Prime show Made in Heaven , she has created, co-written (with Iti Agarwal and Bornila Chatterjee) and co-directed (with Chatterjee)Bombay Begums. Her filmography — Turning 30 , Lipstick Under My Burkha and Dolly Kitty Aur Woh Chamakte Sitare — is testament to exactly the kind of stories she is interested in telling. “I don’t want to make films for the heck of making films. These are the stories I’m drawn to and the characters and worlds I want to explore,” she says, adding, “I don’t want to say that I’ll never make a film with a male protagonist — I am doing Made in Heaven . But again, one of the lead characters there is a woman and the other a gay man. I think I’m interested in people who don’t have it all. Somehow I have nothing to say or examine about an upper-caste, cis-gender man. Right now I’m very happy to work on more stories about women, their thoughts, their lives and their complexities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-bhatts-kingdom/article34002656.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Diving breaks in the Maldives||Manu Nair felt like he was in a different world. For a while, it was all blue; a dark, surreal blue. He could see nothing else and everything happened in slow motion. Then the translucent beings emerged from this deep-blue darkness — slow-moving whale sharks, dancing Manta rays, small fish schools, varicoloured coral reefs. “It was…” pauses Nair, searching for the right word, before settling on “magical”. An aspiring astronaut, he is among the few people selected for Project PoSSUM, a NASA-supported suborbital research programme to study global climate. It requires the participants to have scuba-diving experience. What he shares with me is from the Maldives — in Maaya Thila, considered one of the world’s best dive sites. The sea is like the sky in some ways, he explains, adding, “Most of my training would be underwater because it simulates the microgravity environment. When you are on land, you know nothing can harm you. But it’s not the case under the ocean; you surrender to it and what you see is something surreal”. Lockdown destination The Maldives, one of the world’s best diving destinations, has of late been luring scores of Indians to its shores. According to the Indian High Commission in Maldives, 62,905 Indian tourists holidayed there in 2020. It accounted for 11.3% of the island country’s total tourism market share — the most by any country. The air travel bubble (enabling the free flow of international flights) that India shares with Maldives, the three-hour flight time, and the tourist visa on arrival are some of its attractions. “Maldives has not decimated its fish population. There are no large waves and the clarity [under water] is very good. Because you are in an atoll [a ring-shaped reef], you are not hit by the ocean,” explains Nitish Chengappa. He first visited archipelagic state in 2002 along with his brother, TV host Nikhil Chinapa. In 2015, they set up Fleetfoot Adventures in Bengaluru, which organises diving trips to the Maldives and Egypt among other locations, adding that they have taken over 250 clients every year to the Maldives since then. 2020, however, was a different story due to the pandemic. There were no trips from March to November but things are slowly picking up, says Chengappa, who has made four trips since November and gets several hundred enquiries every month. “The Maldives spoils you. In other locations, you might not get to see the magnificent creatures like the sharks, mantas and eagle rays. But here you see them all the time,” says beverage expert Karina Aggarwal (@Gigglewater411) who made her second liveaboard trip there with a group of 10 people last month. A regular diver for the last six years with 120 dives across several spots, including in the Andamans, Thailand, and Philippines, hers was a 40m liveaboard vessel with air-conditioned suites and open-air dining. For serious divers The liveaboard diving trips — you stay on a vessel for one or more nights, going from one dive site to another — are best suited for serious divers, says another regular, Anees Adenwala, the director of Mumbai-based Orca Dive Club. Typically, they are a week long and comprise three dives a day. “You can even sail from Malé to the southernmost island called Gan, discover the entire chain of dive sites and atolls. Or you can just be in a resort with great food and a bit of diving and other water sports,” he says. Since the boats have a capacity of 20 passengers, Chengappa reckons liveaboard trips are best enjoyed when you go with a familiar group. “It is very important that you put together a socially compatible bunch. Because you’re going to be spending six nights together,” he says. Budgets for all seasons Can’t afford a luxury resort? There are guest houses run by the locals. “You can spend $2,000 a night. Or just $80 a night with bed and breakfast,” explains another regular, Adenwala. Diving is also cheaper if you know your way around. “An open-water diver’s course costs $800 at a resort, whereas it is about $450 on a local island,” says Madhava Reddy whose Planet Scuba India in Bengaluru offers diving courses. He recently visited the Maldives with a contingent of 20 divers. And one of the divers was Project PoSSUM’s Nair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/diving-breaks-in-the-maldives/article34002637.ece
06 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||‘Farmers can’t be left at mercy of market forces’||“During the pandemic, we were advised to cover our mouth and nose, but it seems the BJP people covered their eyes and ears as well. That’s why they could not see the plight of the farmers and listen to their demands,” said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday. He was addressing a kisan panchayat in Tappal area of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. This was the first such panchayat held by the Samajwadi Party against the contentious farm laws. These laws, Mr. Yadav said, were made by those who have never done farming and are used to work from 10 to 5. “A farmer doesn’t work that way. Given an opportunity, we will throw them out,” he said. He said it was the farmer who saves the country’s economy during the pandemic. “When all of us were forced to sit at home, it was the farmer who worked relentlessly to save the country from economic distress,” he said. From the experience of the pandemic, Mr. Yadav charged, the corporates have realised the future lies in pharmaceutical and agriculture business. “It seems they have pushed their friends in the government to come up with these farm laws,” he said.  ‘Farmers’ support must’ Mr. Yadav said farmers and agriculture could not be left at the mercy of the market forces. Giving an example of the U.S., he said agriculture was one sector that demands constant support of the government. “You cannot dream of becoming a Vishwa guru, without the support of farmers,” he remarked. Criticising the policies of the BJP-led Central government, he said the Prime Minister promised demonetisation would bring black money back into the system. “Had that been the case, there should not have been any paucity of funds. The government should tell us how much black money has been brought back. They asked us to deposit all our money into banks. Even housewives and old women were not spared. But neither the black money has come, nor the corruption has come to an end,” he said. Fuel price hike flayed He also criticised the government for the increase in diesel, petrol and LPG prices. Taking on the Uttar Pradesh government for the spurt in rape cases, Mr. Yadav said the law-and-order situation was deteriorating every day because of the ‘Thok Do’ (Shoot them) policy of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-cant-be-left-at-mercy-of-market-forces/article34002092.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||100 days on, protesters promise to stand firm till farm laws repealed||As the farmers’ stir entered its 100th day, protesters at the Singhu Border on Friday remained firm on their demands and said they are in here for the long haul. Farmers from Delhi’s neighbouring States have been camping at the borders, demanding a legal guarantee of minimum support price and a repeal of the three controversial farm laws brought in by the Centre last year. Stating that there was very little expectation from the government, a 60-year-old farmer from Punjab, Shaant Singh, said: “How can we expect that our issues will be resolved soon? This is a long fight and 100 days is nothing. We can only hope that through our sustained protest, they [government] will ultimately listen to us. If we return without our demands being met, then we will die of hunger. So what is the point of returning now?” Daljinder Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala district, said: “The movement has indeed continued successfully for a very long time and we are as determined as we were on the first day. We are not bothered about how long this will continue. We will remain firm on our demands and we will not move from here unless the laws are repealed.” He also said that they have adapted to all kinds of scenarios. “We have no problem here whatsoever. We have put coolers inside the trolleys and if required we will get air conditioners as well. Nothing can stop us and this movement will continue till the laws are repealed,” he said. ‘Stay till 2024 if needed’ Seen constructing shack-like structures with bamboo and hay, Manjinder Singh, another farmer from Punjab’s Roopnagar district, said: “We have made enough arrangements for ourselves here and will continue doing so for as long as required. Whatever the unions tell us, we will act accordingly regarding the future plan of action. As of now, we are here to stay, even if that means that we are made to stay here till 2024.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/100-days-on-protesters-promise-to-stand-firm-till-farm-laws-repealed/article34002522.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||‘Iron Lady’ of OROP stir inspires women to back farmers’ cause||Sudesh Goyat, an Indian Army veteran’s wife, has been mobilising women from rural Haryana to be a part of the farmers’ protest and empowering them in more ways than one over the last three months. Ms. Goyat is also fondly known as the ‘Iron Lady’ of the One Rank One Pension (OROP) protests at Jantar Mantar, during which she was on a relay hunger strike for close to two years and had sought to raise issues related to war widows. On Thursday, standing on the fringe of a group of five women on the stage at the farmers’ protest site in west Delhi’s Tikri Border, she smiles proudly while providing the background harmony to their traditional Haryanvi raag kavita , demanding the repeal of the farm laws. “I have been coming to the stir since November and was moved by the zeal and the number of women from Punjab making their way here day by day not just to help men with living arrangements but also to protest,” said Ms. Goyat, who travels to the site every day from her residence in central Delhi unless she is part of a night-long hunger strike necessitating that she stays back. “I began visiting villages in Haryana to directly appeal to the women to seek inspiration from our sisters in Punjab and participate even if it was for a few minutes on the stage. Most of them were reluctant about standing in front of so many people — something they had never even thought of doing in their household-centric lives — but, gradually, they came,” she added. Equal rights As farmers prepare to honour over a hundred others like her at a grand ceremony on International Women’s Day this Monday, Ms. Goyat, a farmer’s daughter from the Sisar village in Haryana’s Hisar, said the protests had given women from Haryana, the opportunity to prove they were equal to the men by sitting shoulder to shoulder with them on the streets after decades of standing shoulder to shoulder with them in agricultural fields was rewarding enough in itself. Rajpati from Hisar’s Bhudha Bhana, who led the raag kavita recitation, could barely contain her excitement or restrain exhibiting her gratitude to Ms. Goyat after walking down from the stage. “For a lot of women from villages in Haryana, this is perhaps the first time they have stepped into the public space which explains their initial reluctance which, however, does not persist for long after their first performance on stage,” Ms. Goyat said. “ Naari komal hai, par kamzor nahin [Woman is gentle but not weak]; hundreds of women who never thought of stepping beyond the threshold of their house are here now bolstering the perseverance of their men on the streets,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/iron-lady-of-orop-stir-inspires-women-to-back-farmers-cause/article34002515.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Decomposed bodies of couple found inside rented house||The police on Friday said they have recovered decomposed bodies of a couple from a house in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar. The case came to the fore when the neighbours called the police on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, complaining of a foul smell coming from the house. ‘No external injuries’ When the team reached the spot, they found the door locked from inside and broke it open. “Two decomposed bodies of a man and a woman were found lying on the floor. No external injuries were seen on the bodies. An almost empty liquor bottle and some supplements, and wrappers of tablets were also found at the spot,” an officer said. The woman, Priyanka Bist, from Nanital was working with a consultancy firm in Gurugram while her 29-year-old friend Pawan Paliwal from Uttam Nagar, was a gym trainer and also into modelling, they said. The woman used to live in a rented accommodation in old Mahabir Nagar. Two days ago, her freind had come to meet her at her place. No foul play suspected, an officer said, adding that they did not find any note. Post-mortem reports are awaited to ascertain the exact cause of death. Families of the deceased have been informed. They told the police that the two were friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/decomposed-bodies-of-couple-found-inside-rented-house/article34002519.ece
06 March 2021||New Delhi,||Woman, two children found dead inside house||A 22-year-old woman and her two children were found dead at their residence in north-west Delhi’s Shakarpur on Thursday night, the police said on Friday.  The police suspect that the woman killed her children — 4-year-old son and six-month-old daughter — before taking her own life. Her family, however, suspects foul play. A senior officer said a PCR call was received at 10.30 p.m. regarding the incident. Following this, a team reached the spot. An officer said that the case came to the fore when the husband returned home from work. ‘Broke open door’ He told the police that when his wife did not open the door for a long time, he peeped through a window and saw his family lying dead. “Then, with the help of neighbours, he broke open the door,” the officer said. The police said the couple had an argument in the morning over a mundan ceremony [ritual] of a relative’s child back in their village in Bihar’s Madhubani. Married for 5 years The woman’s brother said the couple had been fighting since they got married five years ago. “They had moved to Delhi a year ago but back in Bihar, his mother and other family members didn’t want her to stay with them and used to beat her regularly. Her husband also thrashed my sister often,” he said. ‘She seemed fine’ The brother said he spoke to her on Thursday evening and she “seemed fine”. The police said a magisterial inquiry has been initiated.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-two-children-found-dead-inside-house/article34002517.ece
06 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Unruly scenes in Punjab Assembly||Unruly scenes were witnessed in Punjab Assembly on Friday as MLAs of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) stormed the well of the House, raising slogans against the ruling government amid Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s speech on discussion on motion of thanks to the Governor’s address. As SAD MLAs continued their slogan shouting despite his repeated appeals, Speaker Rana K.P. Singh suspended all the party MLAs for the rest of the budget session for disrupting the proceedings of the House. Adjourning the House for 15 minutes, the Speaker also asked the Marshals to remove the Akali Dal members from the House over their “disorderly behaviour”. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister, speaking on the farmers’ agitation during his speech, accused the SAD of taking a ‘U-turn’ on the farm laws, terming it as ‘shameful’. He also hit out at BJP leaders over their statements against the farmers and the ongoing farmers’ agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unruly-scenes-in-punjab-assembly/article34002094.ece
06 March 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. to move no-trust motion on March 10||A no-confidence motion will be moved by the Congress party against the ruling BJP-JJP government in Haryana on March 10. After Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda sought to bring the no-confidence motion on the first day of the budget session itself, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said that the Mr. Hooda could move the no-confidence motion on March 10, which could be then taken up for discussion. Haryana Assembly’s budget session started with Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya’s address here on Friday. Mr. Hooda talking to reporters outside the Assembly, said the no-confidence motion given by the Congress has been approved.  ‘Stand will be clear’ “It will be debated on March 10 and it will be known which MLA votes in support of farmers and which in support of the anti-farmer government,” the former Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-to-move-no-trust-motion-on-march-10/article34002093.ece
06 March 2021||GURUGRAM,||Compensation ordered in ‘custodial death’ case||The Haryana Human Rights Commission on Friday recommended to the State government to give Rs. 7 lakh compensation to the next of kin of deceased in a case of unnatural death in police custody. The commission, in its order, said the government was entitled to recover the amount from the wrongdoers — Inspector Yogesh and his accomplices — and the amount be disbursed within eight weeks. In an 11-page order, Chairperson Justice S.K. Mittal and member Deep Bhatia, directed the Director General of Police that the probe into the murder case registered against Inspector Yogesh and others at the instance of the deceased’s father Rattan Singh be conducted by a senior police officer of impeccable integrity and character. The FIR against the police officer and the others was registered at Chandni Bagh Police Station on December 17, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/compensation-ordered-in-custodial-death-case/article34002097.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||School dropouts held for duping woman of Rs. 7 lakh||Two school dropouts have been arrested for allegedly duping people on the pretext of KYC updation, the police said on Friday. On December 18 last, complainant Pooja Sarin from Mehrauli told the police that she got a call from an unknown number; the caller introduced himself as a bank official. He obtained her documents on the pretext of KYC updation and also took an OTP from the complainant. Next, she saw that Rs. 7 lakh was deducted from her account. The police then registered an FIR in the matter. During investigation, it was revealed that the cheated amount was transferred to various banks and wallets. Accordingly, the account statements of the alleged accounts were analysed and linked details were checked. “During analysis of transactions, it was found that one person was using the linked mobile at Himmat Nagar, Gujarat. A team was sent to Himmat Nagar. Acting on a tip-off, a person named Azad was apprehended,” said Atul Thakur, DCP (South). During interrogation, he confessed to the crime. He said that he had come in contact with one Rahul Kumar from Bihar. They met at Bhiwadi in Rajasthan. “Rahul knew a man, Vartha, from Nadiya in West Bengal who asked him to provide him bank accounts to shift cheated amounts on a commission basis. Rahul contacted Azad for the same,” said Mr. Thakur. Further probe is on to arrest Vartha.  The accused dupe people on pretext of KYC updation. They transfer cheated amounts to various accounts on commission basis Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/school-dropouts-held-for-duping-woman-of-rs-7-lakh/article34002518.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Draw for scheme to be held on March 10: DDA||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday said the draw for this year’s housing scheme will be held on March 10. “The draw of allotment will be based on a random number generation system and will be held in the presence of judges and senior officers of the DDA,” the urban body said, adding that the general public will be able to view the live telecast on the DDA website. The housing scheme was launched on January 2 this year with 1,354 flats on offer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/draw-for-scheme-to-be-held-on-march-10-dda/article34002520.ece
06 March 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Forest fires rage in Odisha||At a time when raging forest fire in Similipal Biosphere in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district continued to cause concern among wildlife activists, large forest tracts have been found affected by fire in other parts of the State. Of the 886 large fires detected across different forests in India on Friday, Odisha is leading the table with 233 forest fires. Meanwhile,the State government has kept additional firefighters on standby to douse the fire in Similipal. The most affected areas in Similipal were Podadiha and Thakurmunda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/forest-fires-rage-in-odisha/article34002096.ece
06 March 2021||Jaipur,||25 students of Rajasthan govt. school test positive||Twenty-five students, a teacher and two employees of a government boarding school for visually impaired children in Rajasthan’s Udaipur city tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, sending the district administration into a tizzy. The school campus and the nearby localities were declared as “containment zone” and a massive sanitisation work was started in the area. Udaipur Collector Chetan Deora said the action had been launched to prevent the spread of virus in other areas of the city. The infected students, earlier staying in the hostel of Pragya Chakshu Andh Vidyalaya, have been shifted and quarantined in another building under the supervision of doctors. A teacher of the school had tested positive on Thursday after he returned from a programme of the Education Department, which was also attended by the students. The samples of students and staff were thereafter collected and sent for testing, leading to confirmation of 28 cases of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/25-students-of-rajasthan-govt-school-test-positive/article34002095.ece
06 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi Police detained us on way to gurdwara’||A group of women protesters from the Singhu border alleged that Delhi Police detained them on their way to Rakabganj Gurdwara on Wednesday. However, the police have refuted the allegations. Samyukta Kisan Morcha said: “Just because they had flags of Nishan Sahib and Kisan Union on their cars, the police stopped them for checking. They were asked to remove the flags. When they refused to do so, they were detained at Tilak Marg police station,” the statement read. SKM also said the group included a 2-year-old girl. The police called this information “fake”. “It is clarified here that no such incident has happened near Mandir marg police station and no persons have been detained in this context...,” tweeted SHO of the police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-police-detained-us-on-way-to-gurdwara/article34002516.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Luxury 2021: How private clubs are changing||Its ‘corridor of power’ is still lined with R.K. Laxman’s iconic works of illustrious Indians, and the lofty view of Lutyens’ Delhi remains as stunning as ever. But much has changed at The Chambers, one of the most sought after business clubs in the country, at New Delhi’s Taj Mahal hotel. As it opens its doors this weekend after an ambitious revamp (with a party whose invites are currently hot property), the club — for long seen as a hub of powerful politicians and rich industrialists — is seeking to draw younger blood into its fold, and to reboot in the post-Covid world. The new avatar is more expansive: spread over two floors (not one, as earlier), there is a larger members-only restaurant, a new Blue Label bar with a display of Diageo’s expensive whiskies, a cigar lounge with Davidoff’s latest limited-edition Year of the Ox gordo, a Stephano Ricci-designed meeting room (plus six others), dinnerware from Bernardaud, glassware from Riedel, and similar bric-a-brac connoting old luxury. And, symbolic of the new luxury befitting our times, a spanking new air purification system with medical-grade filters. But these are just the physicalities. As Chambers looks at a wider pool of achievers — think start-up captains and cultural influencers — and a global footprint (it opens in Bengaluru later this year and then in London), the idea definitely is to be relevant to today’s realities. “While retaining its unmatched exclusivity, the reimagined The Chambers will extend an invite to the globally-acclaimed — the new generation of achievers of India,” says Satyajeet Krishnan, Area Director and General Manager of Taj Mahal. Membership remains by invitation and through referrals, but one of the most significant new benefits is a one-time transfer of a lifetime membership to a son or daughter. The young are being sought in more ways than one.   Leaning towards experiences   Events and curations are being tailored to fit a new definition of post-pandemic luxury for this audience. Meals may thus be local and healthy instead of the baked brie or pumpkin gnocchi of yore, gin selections will arrive on trolleys, and tickets to exclusive experiences such as meals by star global chefs or conversations between newsmakers will be up for grabs. All these experiences, says Krishnan, will be crafted for the new generation “who are more accessible, believe in a borderless world, and appreciate experiences that are ultra unique”. If Chambers is pivoting, so are other sought-after private clubs in India and across the globe, as ideas of exclusivity and socialising in smaller, curated groups assume greater significance in a world shaken by the pandemic. New digital realities and emerging at-home lifestyles mean that, in fact, the club is transforming into more than a physical space. Soho House, the world’s most sought after membership for “creative souls” (that allegedly left out the suits from Wall Street from its membership), has a new SH.App. Members must now book bedrooms, tables, events, the gym or invite guest to the House through it, to ensure less crowded venues. But paradoxically, the app is also connecting more members globally and bringing the club home. “I want the SH.App to be like having a House in your pocket: allowing you to do everything that you can do in our physical spaces, digitally,” says founder Nick Jones in an exclusive interview with The Hindu Weekend .  Opening up the network  This takes forward the idea of a globally-connected, spread-out creative community that is at the core of Soho House. “I had to stay on in Stockholm for seven months during the pandemic, but thanks to the ‘Cities Without Houses’ set up [a membership type that allows people to connect in cities that don’t yet have a House], I met up with the community in Sweden and connected with many amazing people,” says Cecilia Oldne, Asia head for wine investment firm Amphora, and a global member of Soho House. New membership categories such as Soho Friends are clearly aimed at extending this network (there are several different categories with fees ranging from Rs. 85,000 to Rs. 3 lakh plus, for which applications can be made online). This one, recently introduced internationally, does not offer access to the Houses all over the world when they travel, but does give entry to studios (only in London as yet, these are spaces for members to meet/eat together), and other benefits such as at restaurants. “We will bring this to Mumbai later this year,” says Jones. Itis this sense of community that Soho House has managed to uphold that is today more attractive than ever, as we contend with physically boxed-in lives. It could explain why Soho House globally retained 90% of its paying members through 2020 even as it was forced to shut its Houses (now reopened). Through that time, engagement came through strongly-curated, digital programming such as home hair care tutorials with Queer Eye’s Jonathan Van Ness, cocktail masterclasses, and idea and expertise sharing sessions. Going forward, this digital curation seems likely to be an important way to keep up engagement with and between members, even as the company plans a public listing in New York with a whopping $3 billion valuation, as per the Financial Times .  Embracing change  One of the most talked about new entrants into the private clubs space in India currently is The Quorum, with an address in Gurugram since 2018 and another one set to launch in Mumbai next month. The club has built its reputation with an eclectic programming around art, music, business and current affairs. The pandemic, says its CEO Vivek Narain, will give a fillip to ventures such as his as “the need for spaces like ours has become more prevalent”, with members seeking quality experiences but where the rules of engagement can be more controlled than at open venues. “I think dining at a private club now has more prestige than dining at the latest restaurant,” says Anant Rishi, a young Delhi-based entrepreneur who joined The Quorum because he “liked the vibe, its cocktail culture and the events and talks they host where we can meet other professionals”. As privacy becomes a more important element of luxury, other hospitality groups too are focussing on creating clubs. In Goa, the Jamming Goat at Calangute is starting a supper club with curations that include a series of dinners by top chefs. Meanwhile, clubs are also offering strong personalisation. At À Ta Maison (ATM) Delhi, a beverage concierge not only offers customised drinks and hosts popular social mixers, but also gives tips on “how to get the most exclusive mescal” for home bars, says Rakshay Dhariwal, founder. “In the post-pandemic world, as people want to engage with others in smaller groups, the private club category will get bigger,” he says, adding, “But the flip side is that only those with deep pockets should get into this business because it takes a long time to build a good network and membership base. And real estate, [especially] in cities like Delhi and Mumbai, is very high and will eat into your revenue.” The good thing though with club class expanding is that many of those who aspire to it may as yet get to enjoy it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/luxury-2021-how-private-clubs-are-changing/article34002057.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||On | Site: Bikaner House in New Delhi is the location for an ongoing collaborative project by four leading galleries — Chemould Prescott Road, Experimenter, Nature Morte and Vadehra Art Gallery. Forty artists, including conceptual artist Mithu Sen, are showcasing their work through solo shows, curated group exhibitions and more. Till March 9. @chemouldprescottroad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34002638.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Textiles through art||Fibre of our lives is a group show of seniorcontemporary artistscurated by Pranamita Borgohain that brings in different perspectives ofusage of fabricor thread to demonstrate the vitality of the medium. Ankon Mitra, Gopika Nath, Jagannath Panda and Subodh Kerkar have showcased their finest works exploring the connotations and facades of textiles, the versatility of weaving and embroidery techniques. AtGallery Art Positive,F-213/B, Old MB Road, Lado Sarai, Delhi, till April 5. Monday to Saturday, 11 am to 7 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/textiles-through-art/article34002640.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Antarctica sojourn||Aphotographic journeyto Antarctica with kidney transplant surgeon, hypnotist, cricket commentator, and wildlife photographer Dr. Ajit K. Huilgol,is available online till March 14. Visit www.iicdelhi.in The exhibition titled‘Antarctica – The Last frontier’is a collection of photographs of penguins, seals, icebergs, early explorers and other wonders taken by Huilgol during his month’s stay on the iconic landscape, characterized by high winds, rain, snow, ice and cold temperatures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-antarctica-sojourn/article34002642.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lacoste x Ricky Regal||French brand Lacoste, which has introduced the Loop Polo made out of 30% recycled cotton, has collaborated with singer Bruno Mars for his first clothing line. Mars channeled his designer alter ego, Ricky Regal, for the capsule collection which features tracksuits, polo shirts, and pants in bold colours. Closer home, designer Tarun Tahiliani has partnered with Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd. Plans are underway to introduce contemporary men’s ethnic wear later this year and to operate 250 stores in five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lacoste-x-ricky-regal/article34002643.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Eternal Sunshine Productions: More producers, better content? Following in the footsteps of Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Anushka Sharma, actor Alia Bhatt has launched her own production house, Eternal Sunshine Productions. First up is Darlings, in association with Shah Rukh and Gauri Khan’s Red Chillies Entertainment, starring Shefali Shah, Vijay Varma and Roshan Mathew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34002644.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mentoring designers||Apply to the largest sustainable design competition — the Redress Design Award. The winner will join the Timberland brand for a collaboration. Those with less than four years’ professional experience can apply till March 15. Visit redressdesignaward.com. Elsewhere, the Fashion Forward Fellowship, presented by The ReFashion Hub and non-profit YWater, has eight designers chosen from 56 applicants learning from 13 mentors over five weeks. The winner will receive Rs. 1 lakh to bring their collection to life. ywater.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mentoring-designers/article34002645.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Break into song||Tired of listening to someone else’s songs? Learn concepts such as writing lyrics to a beat from indie artiste Raghav Meattle, who has been helping aspiring musicians through The Conemunity, a platform he started last year. On March 6 at 5 pm. Rs. 399 on insider.in. Theatre personality Raell Padamsee’s ACE Productions presentsSherlock Holmes, a workshop plus play. Participants will hone their acting skills, while looking for clues. For ages 10 to 13. Saturdays, March 6 to May 22. Rs. 4,800. On bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/break-into-song/article34002646.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The royal interview||Prince Harry and Meghan Markle tell their side of the story in a “no subject is off limits” interview with media mogul Oprah Winfrey, airing on March 7. In sneak peeks, the Prince is seen talking about his mother, the late Princess Diana, and the pressures she faced alone. Earlier in the week, he had some fun on The Late Late Show with James Corden , sipping tea on a tour bus (the tea trolley crashes at one point!), visiting The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air house and thrashing Corden in a military style obstacle course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-royal-interview/article34002647.ece
06 March 2021||March 06 2021 00:00 IST,||New avatar||The Fatty Bao’s Asian recipes and cocktails are back in Delhi after a hiatus with a unique Pop-Up menu for a month. Get the special curry-up fatty menu home delivered through Swiggy or Zomato. Or enjoy the street foods of asian countries at The Monkey Bar, Vasant Kunj. On till March 28. The festival offers Malacca Nyonya sweet and curry laksa with seafood, the Javanese sayur lodeh with vegetables and the pork humba. Available daily from 1 pm, to 11 pm. Meal for two costs between Rs. 1, 600 to Rs. 2,200||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-avatar/article34002649.ece
