08 March 2021||Kolkata,||Modi pitches for ‘ Asol Paribartan’||Promising to usher in “ Asol Paribartan ” (real change) by bringing in development in West Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday targeted Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying this was not the same “Didi” who had removed the Left Front from power. Describing the public rally at the Brigade parade ground as one of biggest he had ever addressed, Mr. Modi, in his hour-long speech, went to great lengths to explain what “ Asol Paribartan ” meant. “From this Brigade ground, I want to give you assurance of real change… assurance of development of Bengal, assurance of things to change in Bengal, of increasing investment in Bengal, and assurance that for youth, farmers and workers, we will work 24 hours,” the Prime Minister said. Mr. Modi said that the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) government in Bengal would draw its inspiration from the mantra of “ Asol Paribartan”, which would mean a situation where there were jobs for youth, there was no migration of youth, industries could prosper, and there would be “infrastructure of the 21st century”. He also spoke about why Kolkata was called the “City of joy” and stated that there was no reason why Kolkata could not be “the city of the future”. Mr. Modi said that on one side, there was the Trinamool Congress, the Left parties and the Congress, and on the other there were the people of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-pitches-for-asol-paribartan/article34015809.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||China gives green light for first downstream dams on Brahmaputra||A draft of China’s new Five-Year Plan (2021-2025), which is set to be formally approved on Thursday, has given the green light for the first dams to be built on the lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo river, as the Brahmaputra is known in Tibet, before it flows into India. The draft outline of the new Five-Year Plan (FYP) for 2025 and “long range objectives through the year 2035”, submitted before the National People’s Congress (NPC), China’s ceremonial legislature, on Friday, specifically mentions the building of hydropower bases on the lower reaches of the river as among the priority energy projects to be undertaken in the next five years. The lower reaches refer to the sections of the river in Tibet before it flows into India. Fresh exploitation The inclusion of the projects in the draft plan suggests the authorities have given the go-ahead to begin tapping the lower reaches for the first time, which marks a new chapter in the hydropower exploitation of the river. The FYP’s backing for the projects also suggests that a number of long-pending proposals from Chinese hydropower companies to build dams on the lower reaches, including near the border with India, may be given the green light. The draft plan will be formally approved before the NPC session ends on Thursday. The final version is unlikely to have major changes as the largely ceremonial and Communist Party-controlled legislature rarely overhauls the proposals sent before it. On the top of a list of energy construction projects for the next five years, mentioned on page 30 of the 142-page draft document in Mandarin — it has not yet been published in English — calls for “building a hydropower base on the lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo river”, along with “clean energy bases” in the upper and lower reaches of Jinsha river (the upper course of Yangtze river in western China). Other major projects include the construction of coastal nuclear power plants and power transmission channels. Infrastructure strategy The high importance given to building dams on the “lower reaches” of the Yarlung Zangbo is underlined in the plan, where it is also mentioned on page 38 of the document among significant planned investments in infrastructure that serve major national strategies. The project is also listed along with the Sichuan-Tibet railway and the national water network.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-gives-green-light-for-first-downstream-dams-on-brahmaputra/article34015807.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra leads surge in cases across six States||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are reporting high daily COVID-19 cases with these six States collectively accounting for 84.71% of the 18,711 new cases reported in last 24 hours, said a release issued by the Health Ministry on Sunday. The active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, going up to 1,84,523, which now comprises 1.65% of the total infections. While the country’s total case count has gone up to 1,12,10,799, the number of people who have recovered from the disease also increased to 1,08,68,520. However, this translated to a drop in the recovery rate to 96.95%. The case fatality rate, meanwhile, stands at 1.41%. Maharashtra continues to report the highest number of daily new cases at 10,187, followed by Kerala with 2,791 and Punjab with 1,159. Eight States Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, with the country’s total active caseload currently at 1.84 lakh (1,84,523). India has also reported 100 COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours and six States account for 87% of the new casualties with Maharashtra registering the highest of 47, Kerala 16 and Punjab 12 daily deaths. This has brought the total deaths in the country due to COVID-19 up to 1,57,756. The Ministry stressed that over 70% of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-leads-surge-in-cases-across-six-states/article34015811.ece
08 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) candidates’ list likely this week||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] is likely to finalise its list of candidates by March 10. The party is going through the convulsions of candidate selection. Much of the action appeared concentrated in CPI(M) district committees. Last week, the district committees had submitted a panel of potential candidates to the CPI(M) State committee. After much deliberations, it had sent an amended list back to the district committees. The district committees would send the proposals back with their suggestions to the party. The State secretariat would vet the district committees’ proposals and forward the names of likely contestants to the Polit Bureau. The CPI(M) State committee had decided not to assign seats to members who had contested the Assembly elections on two consecutive occasions. A party insider said district committees were unlikely to go against the State committee norm. The likelihood of any modification of the State committee line on candidate selection was remote. “There might be debates on the pros and cons of the decision. Any waiver, if at all, would have to come from the Polit Bureau, which was far fetched but not implausible,” he said. Several prominent leaders, including high-profile ministers, had found themselves without party tickets due to the two-term norm. It had caused some disquiet among their supporters. The uneasiness had manifested as posters in Alappuzha, Kannur and Palakkad districts. It also found an echo in social media. Poster campaign CPI(M) leaders quickly distanced themselves from the poster and social media campaign. P. Jayarajan, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, and Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran disavowed the voices of dissent. The CPI(M) also cracked the whip on indiscipline by suspending a member in Kannur for publicly commenting on the party's internal processes. Law Minister A.K. Balan was the latest victim of the poster campaign. Anonymous persons had stuck bills against the reported candidature of his wife P.K. Jameela in Tarur in Palakkad. The Congress has sought to exploit the perceived dispute in the CPI(M) in Kannur over Mr. Jayarajan's "exclusion" from the electoral fray. Congress working president K. Sudhakaran said the debarment of Mr. Jayarajan indicated the worsening factionalism in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-candidates-list-likely-this-week/article34015941.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra adds 11,141 fresh cases, 38 fatalities||After reporting more than 10,000 fresh novel coronavirus positive cases on two days in a row, Maharashtra on Sunday added 11,141 new infections, taking the tally to 22,19,727 while 38 deaths pushed the toll to 52,478, the State Health Department said. On Friday and Saturday, the State recorded 10,216 and 10,187 cases, respectively. Mumbai city reported 1,361 fresh cases during the day while Mumbai division, including Mumbai and satellite cities, logged 2,493 new infections. Mumbai city’s case tally reached 3,35,569 while the overall death toll rose by four to 11,504, the department said. As against 11,141 new infections during the day, 6,013 people were discharged, taking the count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 20,68,044, the department said, adding the case recovery rate in the State now stood at 93.17% and the mortality rate was 2.36%. The recovery rate in 21 districts including Mumbai was more than the State’s average recovery rate, it said. The doubling rate of cases in Maharashtra now stood at 170.94 days which was now left with 97,983 active cases, the department said. Currently, 4,39,055 people are in home quarantine while 4,650other remain admitted in institutional quarantine. With 91,235 new tests, the number of samples tested for novel coronavirus so far in Maharashtra went up to 1,68,67,286, the department said. The State Cabinet which met under Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday discussed various aspects to tackle the rising number of cases, sources said, adding that no decision was taken on the exact measures to be adopted. The government was keeping a close eye on the situation, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-adds-11141-fresh-cases-38-fatalities/article34016232.ece
08 March 2021||Guwahati,||BJP and allies reaffirm commitment to NDA||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its two main regional allies on Sunday reaffirmed their commitment towards the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) while making light of the reported dissidence over the denial of ticket to 15 MLAs. The BJP is contesting the three-phase Assam Assembly elections with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), the latter replacing the Bodoland People’s Front as the saffron party’s ally in areas under the Bodoland Territorial Council covering 12 constituencies. Of the 15 MLAs denied ticket, 11, including a Minister, are from the BJP, and four from the AGP. The BJP had on March 5 announced the names of 70 candidates for the first phase of polling on March 27 and the second phase on April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-and-allies-reaffirm-commitment-to-nda/article34015952.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||SKM to lobby JJP MLAs, Independents to support no-confidence motion||Protesting farm union leaders have urged the people of Haryana to lobby their representatives in the State Assembly to support the no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government on March 10. The people should threaten to “teach a lesson” to those MLAs who support the government, they said. The Opposition Congress had sought to bring the no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal government on the first day of the budget session on Friday. The Assembly Speaker approved the motion to be taken up for discussion on March 10.  Plea to people In a public appeal to Haryana citizens, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha accused the State government of siding with the Centre against the farmers on the issue of the three contentious farm reform laws and attempting to suppress the movement. “Legislators belonging to the Jannayak Janta Party and Independents will be specially approached and asked to vote for the motion against the government. People would never forgive them if they do not stand up at this critical moment when the livelihood of the people is at stake,” said All India Kisan Sabha Haryana vice-president Inderjit Singh. Memos should be submitted to Haryana legislators at their residences on March 9, said the SKM, which also provided a model letter for citizens to send to their representatives. “This BJP-JJP alliance has so far demonstrated its anti-farmer and anti-people attitude in many ways. The Haryana government is adopting an attitude of insensitivity towards the ongoing agitation regarding the three laws and the MSP guarantee. Public anger is increasing with regard to this,” said the letter. “This is the only way in which anti-people governments will learn an important lesson. If you vote in support of the government, the public will be forced to teach you a lesson in this constituency,” it added. In the 90-member Assembly, of which two seats are vacant, the BJP and the JJP have 40 and 10 members respectively, while Independent MLAs hold seven seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/skm-to-lobby-jjp-mlas-independents-to-support-no-confidence-motion/article34016014.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,||Bhainsa witnesses communal clash again||At least four persons were injured in alleged clashes between two groups in Bhainsa, a town in Telangana’s Nirmal district, on Sunday evening. The violence took place at Zulfiqar mosque in the town at around 8.45 p.m. and instances of arson were also reported, where three houses and at least four two-wheelers were burnt by unidentified miscreants, apart from damaging paan shops and other small establishments, confirmed district’s in-charge Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier. Additional police forces were deployed in the town to control the situation. “As of now the situation is under control,” Mr. Warrier told The Hindu . He said that tension began after a heated argument took place between a biker and people from another community, which led to the clashes in an already communally sensitive town. Nearly 50 persons from each group came near the mosque and started pelting stones at each other, police said. “There is no loss of life,” Mr. Warrier, who rushed to Bhainsa town, said. Top police officials said that curfew under Section 144 of Cr.PC will be imposed in the town. Last year, two communal clashes — one in January and another in May — took place in the town, in which more than 30 people were injured and several houses and vehicles set on fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhainsa-witnesses-communal-clash-again/article34016175.ece
08 March 2021||SIDDIPET,||Teacher tests positive for COVID in Siddipet||A teacher at a government school in Rajakkapet village of Dubbak mandal tested positive for COVID-19. According to District Education Officer K. Ravikanth Rao, one of the teachers in the school tested positive and he was sent on leave and asked to stay in isolation. The school premises was sanitised. Mr. Ravikanth Rao, however, has denied reports on the social media that the school was closed. According to the sources, the teacher developed symptoms of fever and got tested for coronavirus about two days ago. As he tested positive, he went on leave. Tests were also conducted for other teachers and students and the test results are awaited. There are about 10 teachers and 180 students in the school. The students are coming on alternate days to the school. About 60 students are attending school. Though officially the school was not closed, sources informed that none of the teachers or the students are attending school after the teacher complained of fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teacher-tests-positive-in-siddipet/article34016194.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR announces holiday for women employees||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced the government’s decision to give a holiday to women employees in the State on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday. Following the announcement, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued an order treating the holiday as special casual leave. Mr. Rao, in his greetings to women, said Telangana was in the forefront as far as welfare programmes for them was concerned. Women competed with men in all fields. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said she saluted the spirit of sacrifice and bravery shown by women as caregivers and frontline warriors during the COVID 19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-announces-holiday-for-women-employees/article34016174.ece
08 March 2021||B. Kolappan Tiruchi,||Stalin promises Rs. 1,000 a month for housewives||Unveiling his 10-year vision statement for seven priority areas to facilitate the development of Tamil Nadu at a well-attended public gathering in Tiruchi, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday promised a monthly honorarium of Rs. 1,000 for housewives (per ration cardholder) and the creation of 10 lakh jobs. Calling upon the voters to elect the DMK for consecutive terms to enable him to implement his promises over the next decade, he said, “Voting out the AIADMK government is not enough. You have to vote continuously for the DMK to enable it to implement its promises.” Mr. Stalin laid thrust on development in the fields of economy, agriculture, water resources, education and health, urban development, rural infrastructure and social justice. “The education assistance provided to the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes will be increased two-fold. We will eradicate manual scavenging,” he said. Mr. Stalin said it was the objective of the DMK government [once elected] to achieve double-digit growth and make Tamil Nadu a Rs. 35 lakh crore economy, with a rise in per capita income to Rs. 4 lakh per annum. Pointing out that he had taken into account the views of party functionaries and experts in various fields, Mr. Stalin said his vision was to create 10 lakh jobs to reduce unemployment by half. “We will ensure that Tamil Nadu is a State where no one is living below the poverty line by rehabilitating one crore people living below the poverty line,” he said. The DMK leader said that currently, the State had 60% cultivable land, and the objective was to increase it to 75% by bringing another 11.75 lakh hectares under cultivation. “At present, only 10 lakh hectares are covered by two crops. My vision is to increase it to 20 lakh hectares,” he added. He said the annual per capita drinking water supply would be increased from nine lakh litres to 10 lakh litres. “It is our goal to bring down the wastage of water from 50% to 15%,” Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-promises-rs-1000-a-month-for-housewives/article34015853.ece
08 March 2021||KADAPA,||Kadapa doctor offers check-ups for Rs. 10||A medical practitioner in Kadapa has carved a name for herself by offering medical check-ups to the poor for a consultation fee of Rs. 10. Dr. Noori Parveen has become a household name in thousands of homes, making medical care accessible to families that were unable to afford the expensive consultation fees at corporate hospitals. It all started with children hailing from lower income and socio-economic groups bringing their sick siblings to her clinic in Kadapa city. “They can hardly afford Rs. 250 or Rs. 350 as consultation fee, and I thought I should reach out. It was then that I decided to charge a flat consultation fee of Rs. 10 from every patient,” Dr. Noori told The Hindu . In a special interview on the eve of Women’s Day, she explained her childhood ambition of not only becoming a doctor, but also following in the footsteps of her grandfather Noor Mohammad, a Communist leader in the 1980s, and her father Mohammad Maqbool, a businessman with a charitable bent of mind. She studied up to the fourth standard in Challapalli of Krishna district and then moved to Vijayawada for pursuing high school in Urdu medium. Upon getting a medical seat under minority quota, she joined MBBS at Fatima Institute of Medical Sciences (FIMS), Kadapa. Her social activities started at college when she and her classmates reached out to the local orphanage and old age homes, which continued even after she started her medical practice and launched Dr. Noori’s Health Care. She soon became known among patients as the ‘Rs. 10 doctor’. Dr. Noori has recently launched a women’s hospital where gynaecology services are also offered for Rs. 10. “Most people with medical complications do not know whom to contact. I refer them to the concerned specialists in neurology, orthopaedics or gynaecology, again, for just Rs. 10,” Dr. Noori explained. Though her gesture has brought laurels, she struggles to make ends meet. “Unlike my peers in the medical field, I still ask my father for money to meet my needs, and have no qualms in depending on my spouse after marriage,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kadapa-doctor-offers-check-ups-for-rs-10/article34015773.ece
08 March 2021||Kolkata,||Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP, Trinamool slams move||Veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty on Sunday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and started his new political journey with a new dialogue “ Ek chobol chobi ” (death in one strike). The actor was once a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamool Congress and close to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. He resigned from the Upper House in 2016. He joined the BJP at a rally at Brigade parade grounds, minutes before Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the gathering. Mr. Modi described Mr. Chakraborty as “Bengal’s own son”, whose life exemplified “struggle and success”. “I had never imagined that I would be sharing the dais with the biggest leader of the biggest democracy...” Mr. Chakraborty said. He added that he had a “dream to work for the poor, downtrodden, which it is being seen as being fulfilled”. Mr. Chakraborty is one of West Bengal’s cultural icons and has a considerable fan following across the State. The actor repeated a dialogue from one of his films: “ Ami jol dhorao noi, bele borao noi, ami ekta cobra, jat ghokhro, ek chhobole chhobi [I am not a jol dhora (water snake), I am not bele bora (another species of non-poisonous snake), I am a cobra, I will bring death in one strike].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mithun-chakraborty-joins-bjp-trinamool-slams-move/article34015950.ece
08 March 2021||Kolkata,||Modi-Shah only syndicate in India: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday alleged that the biggest syndicate in the country was being run by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah themselves. “Syndicate? What syndicate? India knows only one syndicate and that is Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. There is no other syndicate,” Ms. Banerjee said, after addressing a rally at Siliguri in north Bengal. The BJP leadership in the State has been accusing the Trinamool Congress of running a syndicate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-shah-only-syndicate-in-india-mamata/article34015808.ece
08 March 2021||Guwahati,||Kolkata nearby||After the Congress-led mahajot , trouble seems to be brewing in the regional front of the newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal, headed by jailed rights activist Akhil Gogoi. The Raijor Dal on Saturday evening announced its list of 18 candidates, 12 for the first phase of election on March 27 and six for the second phase on April 1. According to the list, Mr. Gogoi would be contesting the Sivasagar Assembly seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article34015951.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi nearing end of pandemic phase: Jain||Despite the number of daily cases witnessing an upward trend over the past week, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said COVID-19 was nearing an “endemic” phase in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-nearing-end-of-pandemic-phase-jain/article34016015.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘APMCs have started reporting fall in arrivals’||Karnataka has provided the first signal of the destruction of the APMCs owing to changes brought in to the APMC Act, said Yogendra Yadav of Samyuktha Kisan Morcha on Sunday. He said that the average arrivals of farm produce in APMCs across the State had already fallen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apmcs-have-started-reporting-fall-in-arrivals/article34016216.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray has written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to ensure that the oil refinery project proposed to be set up at Nanar village in Ratnagiri district does not go out of the State. Mr. Raj Thackeray and the Shiv Sena had earlier opposed this project. “This is a massive project of nearly Rs. 3 lakh crore. We surely cannot afford to lose this project to another State,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article34016235.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,||State Budget to be presented today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will present his eighth State Budget at noon on Monday. He has indicated it will not be a harsh Budget, considering the plight of the people hit by the rise in fuel prices and the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-budget-to-be-presented-today/article34015913.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M)-led alliance’s stand is narrow, short-sighted: CPI(ML)||The CPI(M)-led alliance has taken a “narrow, short-sighted, suicidal” political line underestimating the BJP while targeting Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress, CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya has said. Mr. Bhattacharya told The Hindu that the CPI(ML) took a deliberate decision to distance itself from the CPI(M)-led front and decided to go it alone in Bengal. “The West Bengal Assembly election should not be looked only through the prism of anti-incumbency against the Trinamool Congress government. The growth of the BJP should also not be attributed to this factor alone,” he said. He said despite the aggressive stand against the State government, the CPI(M)’s own vote share is declining and their supporters have been switching over to the BJP. “If their policy is successful then this would not have happened. Despite this, they are following a narrow, short-sighted suicidal policy that the Trinamool Congress has to be removed even if the BJP were to come to power,” he said. ‘No serious reflection’ Even in the first joint rally of the alliance, Mr. Bhattacharya said, there was no serious reflection on the working of the BJP-led Union government. “In fact, the Brigade Grounds rally was used as a launch pad for Abbas Siddiqui [head of the newly formed Indian Secular Front],” he said. He said Mr. Siddiqui said the more the BJP is attacked the more they grow. “It is very surprising that a seasoned party like the CPI(M) gave so many seats to a newly formed party like the ISF.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-led-alliances-stand-is-narrow-short-sighted-cpiml/article34015785.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers mark 100 days of protest||After completing 100-days “not out century” of protest at the Ghazipur border, the farmers said they were ready for a “double century” (200 days) if the government continues to ignore their demand for a repeal of the farm laws. “Many news channels are regularly reporting thin crowds at borders. I would like to clarify that the crowds may be thin, but the spirit of the protesters is high. Many protesters have gone back for some household work and to take care of farms, but that doesn’t mean they are not with us. Thousands of protesters are on standby in western U.P. and Haryana,” said Gopal Jaat, a farmer. On International Women’s day, the protest will be led by women at all the borders on Monday. Women protesters will take charge of the stage and the speakers, too, will be women. A march has been called by women at all protest sites. “The protest on Women’s Day will be led by women protesters who are at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border for the past 100 days, along with the men. Women have contributed equally in the fight against the farm laws. We are taking care of everything from langars to cleaning at the protest sites. This fight is for the future of farmers and the survival of their upcoming generations,” said Jaspinder Singh. Ms. Singh added that women contribute equally to the farming community, but they don’t get recognised. Protesters said a large meeting has been called at the Ghazipur border on Monday to discuss the strategy for the future of the protest. People from various districts of western Uttar Pradesh will attend the meeting to be addressed by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait. Meanwhile, protesting farm union leaders have urged the people of Haryana to lobby their representatives in the State Assembly to support the no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government on March 10. The people should threaten to “teach a lesson” to those MLAs who supported the government, they said. In a public appeal to Haryana citizens, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) accused the State government of supporting the Centre against the farmers on the issue of the three contentious farm laws, and attempting to suppress the movement. “Legislators belonging to the JJP and independents will be specially approached and asked to vote for the motion against the government. People would never forgive them if they do not stand up at this critical moment when the livelihood of the people was at stake,” said All India Kisan Sabha Haryana vice-president Inderjit Singh.  (With inputs from   Priscilla Jebaraj)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-mark-100-days-of-protest/article34015795.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,||CD scandal: complainant wants to withdraw case||In a twist to the CD scandal case purportedly containing former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s intimate moments with a woman whom he is alleged to have abused after promising a government job, the complainant, Dinesh Kallahalli, filed a petition before the police on Sunday seeking withdrawal of the case. However, the police said the probe into the case, which had led to Mr. Jarkiholi’s resignation as Minister, would continue. Mr. Kallahalli, a social activist, who had earlier filed a police complaint that Mr. Jarkiholi abused the woman, submitted the petition through his advocate to withdraw the complaint on the grounds that the victim was being looked at as a “criminal” by social media and that he was pained by former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s allegations that the CD scandal involved a deal to the tune of Rs. 5 crore. A senior police officer, who is part of the probe, said that Mr. Kallahalli would be asked to appear before the investigating officer (IO) and record his statement to ascertain the reasons behind his decision. “There could be many reasons, including him being pressurised or blackmailed by someone. There is also a possibility of him trying to misuse the police for his personal use. All these aspects will be ascertained before taking a decision,” the officer said. “The case is still being treated as an non-cognisable report and probe is on to trace the woman. Though it is the discretion of the IO to decide on the fate of the case at the station level, the police decided to continue the probe and record the statement of the woman, who will have a crucial role to play in the case. Based on her statement, the future course of the case will be decided,” a police officer said. The woman is yet to be traced. Earlier, Mr. Kallahalli, through his advocate Kumar Patil, submitted a five-page petition to the Cubbon Park police requesting them to withdraw the case. “I am being targeted unnecessarily for performing my duties. It is like shooting the messenger. These baseless allegations are casting aspersions on my image. I have done my job and filed a complaint as a responsible citizen. Now, it is up to the police to decide. This does not mean that I have stepped back. I will challenge the allegations levelled against me legally and ensure that the victim will get justice,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Kumaraswamy on Sunday maintained that neither he had named Mr. Kallahalli nor had he accused him of seeking financial favours with respect to the CD scandal. “Have I said that he did it? Have I taken his name? So why should he feel hurt? I had spoken based on the information that I received over the last three months. I do not know why he has withdrawn the case. The government can still continue the probe into the case suo motu ,” Mr. Kumaraswamy told presspersons in Kolar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cd-scandal-complainant-wants-to-withdraw-case/article34015770.ece
08 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Free-for-all at vaccination centres in Kerala||A mad scramble among people to secure the COVID-19 vaccine at the earliest and a lack of coordination between the Health Department and the district administration threatens to derail the vaccination process and create a vaccine shortage in Kerala. The Health Department had earlier announced that the vaccination process would be streamlined by fixing the number of vaccinations per site and by limiting spot registrations and online appointments. The districts were asked to start mass vaccination points so that the task of vaccinating 3.3 lakh poll officials could be completed on a priority basis. However, on Sunday, with vaccination centres becoming a free-for-all, even people who did not belong to the eligible categories and those who had secured online appointments for a later date rushed to get the vaccine. In the capital district, the vaccination process was limited to just the Jimmy George indoor stadium, where on-the-spot vaccination was arranged for the elderly, poll officials, and those in the 45-59 age group with co-morbidities. By mid-morning, it was clear that things were totally out of the control of the Health Department, as many government officials, even those who were not assigned to poll duty, some with family members and friends, walked in for vaccination. Messages spreading like wild fire across social media that one could “walk in to Jimmy George stadium, get vaccinated first and registration later”, only made matters worse. “If everyone was to be allowed to take vaccine at their will and wish, why fix the criteria at all? Already we have had to limit the vaccine supply to private hospitals to 100 doses on Sunday. With the district administration taking over the show, the Health Department has no role in the mess,” a senior Health Department official said. Many private hospitals, already seeking additional supply, would get replenished only when the next lot arrives on March 9, he added. “We do not have the capacity to vaccinate 40-50 lakh people in a week. People should be patient. None will be left out,” he said. District Collector Navjot Khosa, however, denied that ineligible people were allowed to be vaccinated or that the district could face vaccine shortage. Yet, there is a palpable fear that the supply shortage felt in Thiruvananthapuram could trigger such a trend in other districts as well. A Health Department official from Kozhikode said a shortage had been felt in the district. Some Health Department staff kept aside tokens for their kith and kin.  (With inputs from Kozhikode and Kochi bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-for-all-at-vaccination-centres-in-kerala/article34015778.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Janaushadhi is helping the poor, says Modi||Urging people to buy affordable medicines from Janaushadhi Kendras, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated the 7,500th Janaushadhi Kendra at NEIGRIHMS, Shillong through videoconference as part of his address on ‘Janaushadhi Divas’ celebrations. “You are my family and your ailments are ailments of my family members. That is why I want all my countrymen to stay healthy. Janaushadhi scheme relieved the poor of high medical expenses,” the Prime Minister said while interacting with the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana. ‘Service, employment’ “Janaushadhi Yojana is becoming a big friend to poor and middle class families. It is becoming the medium of both service and employment. There were not even 100 centres in India six years ago and we hope to achieve the target of 10,000 centres. Poor and middle class families are saving about Rs. 3,600 crore every year on expensive medicines,” he said. Adding that the scheme was promoting “Aatamnirbharta [self-reliance]” among women as more than 1,000 centres were being run by them, the Prime Minister said in order to promote the scheme, the incentive had been enhanced from Rs. 2.5 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, with an additional incentive of Rs. 2 lakh, for Dalit, Adivasi women and for people from the northeast. Demand for medicines Mr. Modi noted that the demand for Indian-made medicines and surgery had increased. “Production is also increasing to keep up with the increasing demand. A large number of employment opportunities are also being created. Now, 75 AYUSH medicines are also available in the Janaushadhi centres. Patients will benefit by getting AYUSH medicines at a reduced cost. The field of Ayurveda and AYUSH Medicine will also be benefited.” Pointing out the enormous burden of medical treatment on poor families, the Prime Minister said in recent years, efforts had been made to remove all types of discrimination and treatment had been made accessible to every poor person of the country. For this, prices of essential medicines, heart stents and knee surgery-related equipment had been reduced manifold, he said. Ayushman Yojana had ensured free treatment of up to Rs. 5 lakh for the country’s more than 50 crore poor families. So far, more than 1.5 crore had taken advantage of it and saved about Rs. 30,000 crore, Mr. Modi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/janaushadhi-is-helping-the-poor-says-modi/article34015799.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||No foul play in Muthoot chief’s death: Delhi police||Delhi police investigating the death of Muthoot group chairman, said on Sunday that there was no foul play in his death after the preliminary enquiry. M.G. George, 72, died on Friday evening after he allegedly fell from the fourth floor of his house in southeast Delhi’s East of Kailash. A senior police officer said a crime team visited the spot where the incident happened. They have scanned all CCTVs in the house, including the one facing the entry to the terrace which Mr. George was seen entering after leaving the lift cabin. “Mr. George was captured on the CCTV entering the terrace at 6.30 p.m. They have also found one chair next to the railing. The height of railing is around five feet. The crime and forensic team have taken measurements of the trajectory of the fall to confirm if he fell off the chair. The location in the terrace from where he actually fell was out of CCTV range,” said the officer He added that the police have spoken to the drivers and care takers of the house who were the first responders and found Mr. George lying on the ground floor. They informed the family members and rushed him to a hospital. “The family said Mr. George used to stay on the first floor of the house and he often went to the terrace. We have checked the past recordings of CCTV at the terrace and nothing suspicious was found. We will try to speak to family members after the mourning period to get details of Mr. George’s medical history if any,” the officer said. The family members also do not suspect any foul play, he said. Police said that on Friday at 9.21 p.m., information was received at Amar Colony police station that Mr. George had fallen from the fourth floor of his residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-foul-play-in-muthoot-chiefs-death-delhi-police/article34015974.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,||PV, caste, money, religion creep into MLC polls||The political atmosphere in Telangana is getting shriller by the day while the tempers are rising along with the mercury levels, and for outsiders, it throws up a picture of the State going to Assembly polls and not the two Graduate MLC constituencies with about 12 lakh voters. Caste, money, religion and former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao have creeped into the highly divisive election campaign. An otherwise more of an apolitical contest has taken total political hue this time with allegations and charges against the Central and State governments by the opposition parties. The core issues related to this election where graduates, intellectuals, professionals, teachers, employees and employment, which otherwise were to hog the limelight, are dominated by the allegations and counter-allegations on a daily basis by the ruling Telagnana Rashtra Samiti (TRS), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and the Independents. The late PM P.V. Narasimha Rao is quite surprisingly the focus of the election campaign with the TRS trying to capture his legacy while the BJP too, talks high of this Telangana’s son trying to own him as well. The Congress, to which PV belonged to, looks convincingly hapless unable to own him. No Congress poster carries his picture while he occupies a prime place in TRS posters. The selection of PV’s daughter S. Vani Devi as the TRS candidate itself is seen as a shrewd political move by TRS chief K. Chandrasekhar Rao to counter the sitting MLC and BJP candidate N. Ramchander Rao, who also belongs to the same social group. G. Chinna Reddy is the Congress candidate while Prof. Nageshwar is supported by the Left parties. No wonder, a new trend that emerged is seeking the support of caste and religious groups and associations that have little to do with these elections. Ministers and MLAs are busy organising caste group meetings and so are leaders of opposition parties, and none is secretive about it. Money factor too, has slowly emerged in the campaign scene and is expected to play a big role in the elections as well. The TRS with strong financial muscle is at an advantage and so is the BJP that rules the Central government. Candidates from Congress and other Independents are obviously struggling, according to the contestants. The ‘unfulfilled promises’ of both the Central and State governments have been converted into real election issues. TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao’s entire focus is on attacking the BJP-led Central government. The rising fuel and cooking gas prices have come in handy for him to criticise the BJP and so are the denial of projects like ITIR, and Railway Wagon factory promised in the Bifurcation Act. Expose the BJP is what he has been asking his party MLAs and cadre. The BJP’s primary strategy is on exploiting the anger among student groups and youngsters, who had high hopes on TRS on recruitment in the government and generating employment opportunities. Despite the TRS releasing job statistics with specific numbers in each department, the perception is otherwise. Both the BJP and the Congress are targeting the government specifically on this. Winning the two seats are a matter of prestige for the TRS and BJP, that hold one seat each now. If TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy is able to retain the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat, it will be seen as a good omen for the Nagarjunasagar by-election coming up in Nalgonda district. But if TJS chief M. Kodandaram or BJP candidate Premender Reddy grabs it, the morale of TRS will be certainly hit. Former MLC Ramulu Naik is the Congress candidate here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pv-caste-money-religion-creep-into-mlc-polls/article34016190.ece
08 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||In Assam, BJP and its allies reaffirm commitment to NDA||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its two main regional allies on Sunday reaffirmed their commitment towards the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) while making light of the reported dissidence over the denial of ticket to 15 MLAs. The BJP is contesting the three-phase Assam Assembly elections with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), the latter replacing the Bodoland People’s Front as the saffron party’s ally in areas under the Bodoland Territorial Council covering 12 constituencies. Of the 15 MLAs denied tickets, 11, including a Minister, are from the BJP, and four from the AGP. ‘Successful govt.’ The BJP had on March 5 announced the names of 70 candidates for the first phase of polling on March 27 and the second phase on April 1. According to the seat-sharing agreement, the AGP would contest in a total of 26 seats and the UPPL in eight. “Our government has been successful in all aspects. People thus believe in the BJP and the AGP, which has been a partner in the government, and our new friend UPPL that has endeared itself within three months of ruling the Bodoland Territorial Council [BTC] with us,” State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass told mediapersons on Sunday. He added that the three parties and the Rabha Joutha Mancha would be able to achieve the alliance’s mission of winning 100 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats. He addressed the media along with Agriculture Minister and AGP president Atul Bora and UPPL president Pramod Boro, who is also the Chief Executive Member of the BTC. “Our workers will help the BJP and UPPL candidates where AGP is not contesting. Every worker wants to support candidates from his or her own party, but compromises have to be made for the greater good. We have chosen this path to defeat the unholy alliance of Congress and AIUDF (All India United Democratic Front),” Mr. Bora said. He dismissed reports of dissidence with the party. “This happens in every election. A party has to take certain decisions keeping the overall picture in mind,” he said.  Our workers will help the BJP and UPPL candidates where AGP is not contesting Atul Bora AGP chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-assam-bjp-and-its-allies-reaffirm-commitment-to-nda/article34015780.ece
08 March 2021||Kolkata,||Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP, Trinamool slams move||Veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty on Sunday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and started his new political journey with a new dialogue “ Ek chobol chobi ” (death in one strike). The actor was once a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamool Congress and close to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. He resigned from the Upper House in 2016. He joined the BJP at a rally at Brigade parade grounds, minutes before Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the gathering. Mr. Modi described Mr. Chakraborty as “Bengal’s own son”, whose life exemplified “struggle and success”. “I had never imagined that I would be sharing the dais with the biggest leader of the biggest democracy...” Mr. Chakraborty said. He added that he had a “dream to work for the poor, downtrodden, which is seen as being fulfilled”. Mr. Chakraborty is one of West Bengal’s cultural icons and has a considerable fan following across the State. He was greeted with huge cheers at the gathering. The actor repeated a dialogue from one of his films: “ Ami jol dhorao noi, bele borao noi, ami ekta cobra, jat ghokhro, ek chhobole chhobi [I am not a jol dhora (water snake), I am not bele bora (another species of non-poisonous snake), I am a cobra, I will bring death in one strike].” Later, speaking to mediapersons, the actor said he would not point fingers at anyone on why he had left the Trinamool. “I can only say it was my bad [wrong] decision ... You can call me selfish but all I can say is that I want to stand by the poor ... We all will work towards the realisation of the Prime Minister’s making of ‘ Sonar Bangla ’ (golden Bengal),” said Mr. Chakraborty. The Trinamool Congress leadership expressed disappointment over the development. Party MP Sougata Roy said Mr. Chakraborty had been a supporter of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), after which he campaigned for the Trinamool Congress in 2014, following which he was sent to the Rajya Sabha with the support of the Trinamool. Mr. Roy wondered when Mr. Chakraborty would make a political U-turn again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mithun-chakraborty-joins-bjp-trinamool-slams-move/article34015783.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. to push for debate on fuel prices||The Congress will be moving an adjournment motion demanding a debate on the rising fuel prices in both Houses of Parliament, on the first day of the second part of the Budget session on Monday. “The rising fuel prices are impacting every person. If the middle class is feeling the pinch because of the increase in their monthly transport budgets, the poor are also affected with the cascading effect of fuel price hike on essential commodities. The government needs to give a cogent explanation on why it has failed to control these prices for so long,” Lok Sabha chief whip of Congress Kodikunnil Suresh told The Hindu . The Congress is also in touch with the allies to have a joint opposition effort on the issue. The Opposition benches, however, will be severely whittled down because of the Assembly elections. Many Trinamool, DMK and Left leaders will be skipping much of the session. The government has informally approached the opposition seeking to curtail the session within two weeks owing to the campaign for the Assembly elections. The issue was discussed at a strategy meeting chaired by Congress President Sonia Gandhi. “The State elections alone should not be the reason to curtail the Parliament. If we agree once, the government will use it as an excuse for all ensuing sessions," a senior Congress party member said. The opposition parties are also likely to protest against the new IT rules that seek to give greater control to the government on social media and regulate Over-The-Top platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-push-for-debate-on-fuel-prices/article34015784.ece
08 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Support for Myanmar resistance rises||Amid reports of the increasing crackdown on protesters in neighbouring Myanmar, organisations in Manipur and Nagaland have joined their counterparts in Mizoram in extending support to the civil disobedience movement (CDM) against the military junta. Officials in Mizoram said more than 50 people from Myanmar, including at least eight police personnel, have crossed over fearing punitive action by the Tatmadaw — the Myanmar military — for opposing the coup that took place in February. Four northeastern States — Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram — not only share a 1,643-km border with Myanmar but also ethnic ties with groups across the border. The dominant Mizo community in Mizoram are ethnically related to the Chins in the adjoining Chin State across the border. The Chins are also related to the Kuki-Zomi group in Manipur. Myanmar also has several Naga communities with affinity to Nagas spread across Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. “Martial law by means of military coup is direct horrendous suppression of people’s participation in a government… The international community regardless of any political, religious or ideological affinity must step in to restore normalcy in Myanmar and save lives due to the presence state-sponsored terrorism,” Romeo Bungdon, working president of the All Manipur Tribal Union (AMTU), said in his appeal to the United Nations Security Council. The AMTU expressed solidarity with the people of Myanmar resisting the military and condemned the overthrow of a democratically elected government, as did the Tenyimi Students’ Union in Nagaland. Tenyimi is an umbrella group comprising 10 Naga communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/support-for-myanmar-resistance-rises/article34015793.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Shah challenges Pinarayi for debate on allegations||Reacting sharply to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's charge that the BJP government was using Central agencies for political ends, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday challenged Mr. Vijayan with a slew of questions. Inaugurating the valedictory of the Vijay Yatra led by BJP State president K. Surendran ahead of the Assembly elections in the State, Mr. Shah wanted the Chief Minister's reply on whether the main accused in the foreign currency and gold smuggling cases had worked in his office or not. Gold smuggling cases Mr. Vijayan should make it clear whether his government had paid the accused Rs. 3 lakh as monthly salary, and whether his former principal secretary had offered the accused a top job on the basis of fake certificates, he said. Mr. Vijayan should also clarify as to whether the accused female had accompanied him and his principal secretary on foreign trips. The people of Kerala also wanted to know whether she had visited the official residence of the Chief Minister, Mr. Shah said. Mr. Shah also demanded Mr. Vijayan to clarify whether or not the Chief Minister's office had laid undue pressure on Customs officials after they seized the smuggled gold at the airport. He also wanted to know whether a proper investigation was conducted into a “suspicious death.” The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) are merely worried about vote bank politics in Kerala, Mr. Shah alleged. Both fronts are engaged in a “healthy competition” over scams. Urging the people of Kerala to give the BJP a chance, he said that his party would transform Kerala into the 'Number One' State in the country. Sabarimala Mr. Shah said that the BJP was of the opinion that the interests of the devotees should be paramount in Sabarimala. He blamed the LDF government of failing to contain the COVID-19 pandemic despite an effective roll-out of the vaccination programme by the Narendra Modi government. Commending Metroman E. Sreedharan for joining the BJP, Mr. Shah said he saluted Mr. Sreedharan’s energy and enthusiasm. Mr. Sreedharan, who was present, said he was prepared to take up any responsibility given to him by the party. Mr. Sreedharan said he was entering politics after nearly 67 years of service in the government.  ‘Still strong’ And many people have asked him why he was taking the plunge into politics at his age. “I have only one answer to that. During this period, I was able to complete several projects for the country. I feel that I am still strong physically and mentally and can do something for Kerala. That is why I have joined the BJP,” he said. Mr. Shah also released the logo and slogan “Puthiya Keralam Modikoppam” (The new Kerala stands with Modi) of the party for the upcoming elections. BJP State president K. Surendran presided. Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and senior BJP leaders were present. Mr. Shah also attended a core committee meeting of the party later in the day.  Welcoming the Metroman to BJP, Amit Shah says he salutes Mr. Sreedharan’s energy and enthusiasm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-challenges-pinarayi-for-debate-on-allegations/article34015775.ece
08 March 2021||Srinagar,||Panic grips displaced Rohingya in Jammu||Panic gripped the displaced Rohingya population in Jammu on Sunday, a day after the Jammu & Kashmir administration rounded up over 150 immigrants as part of “a verification process”. “We will go one day. It’s just that the situation in Myanmar is not safe for us. The police are summoning our people [in Jammu]. Thirteen men who were asked to visit the police stations on Saturday have not returned,” said Salamtullah, a Rohingya Muslim who escaped the genocide in Myanmar between 2016-17. He said there were Rohingya families where the elders were rounded up and the children were left behind. “I thank India for the hospitality and giving us the opportunity to earn our livelihood. But the children who are left behind after the latest drive are crying inconsolably. They should be allowed to meet their families,” he said. Another Rohingya man, whose brother-in-law was also detained, said he fears for his life if deported to Myanmar. “It’s known that around 10 lakh Muslims were killed in Myanmar. The Army has even detained the Prime Minister there. We fear for our lives if deported,” he said. Scores of Rohingya were seen fleeing the camps erected in several localities of Jammu. According to official estimates, around 6,500 Rohingya are staying there. Official sources said a verification process was started on Saturday on the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and over 150, including children, men, women, and elderly were assembled at the M.A.M. Stadium. Sources said many have been put up in “holding centres”. However, police sources said no one was detained on Sunday. Congress leader Salman Nizami questioned the government’s move. “In Jammu, there are 7,690 Tibetans and 5,743 Rohingya refugees. But 155 Rohingya were sent to holding centres. Why verification for Rohingya only? Just because they are Muslims? This exposes the BJP government’s Islamophobic and inhumane nature!” he said on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panic-grips-displaced-rohingya-in-jammu/article34015782.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||Jaishankar, Zalmay Khalilzad discuss Afghan peace talks||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and United States special envoy for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad spoke over phone on Sunday and discussed the latest developments pertaining to the Afghan peace talks. Last November too, Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Khalilzad had held talks during the latter’s visit on the historic peace negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government and related issues. “Received a call from US Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad @US4AfghanPeace. Discussed latest developments pertaining to peace talks. We will remain in touch,” Mr. Jaishankar said on Twitter on Sunday. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the U.S. signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February last year. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains on Washington’s 18-year war with Taliban. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any “ungoverned spaces” where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been a major stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has extended $3-billion developmental assistance in the last few years to the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-zalmay-khalilzad-discuss-afghan-peace-talks/article34015786.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||All-woman crew of SCI vessel makes history||To acknowledge the efforts of women in breaking down the stereotypes in the erstwhile male-dominated maritime sector, Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has flagged off an all-woman crew onboard Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) vesselm.t. Swarna Krishna, the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways said on Sunday. The vessel was virtually flagged off by the Minister on March 6, it said. “The Shipping Corporation of India, as part of its ongoing diamond jubilee celebrations and also to commemorate International Women’s Day on March 8, 2021, achieved another feat when Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Ports, Shipping & Waterways, virtually flagged off the ‘All Women Officers’ Sailing’ onm.t. Swarna Krishna— SCI’s product carrier from JNPT Liquid Berth Jetty on March 6, 2021,” the Ministry said. This is the first time in the world maritime history that a ship is being sailed by all women officers, it said. Mr. Mandaviya acknowledged the contribution and sacrifice of the women seafarers who acted as the Indian ambassadors to the global maritime community and had made the nation proud, it said. H.K. Joshi, CMD, SCI, spoke of the unabated and relentless pursuit of the SCI to realise the “paradigm shift” in the maritime sector. Shipping Secretary Sanjeev Ranjan, JNPT Chairman Sanjay Sethi, Chairman, Mumbai Port Trust, Rajiv Jalota, and DG Shipping Amitabh Kumar attended the ceremony virtually and commended the efforts of the women seafarers. “The move demonstrated the gradual shift in the perception of seafaring as a male-oriented profession and the principles of Diversity & Inclusion that SCI upholds. The SCI has been a pioneer in employing women seafarers onboard its vessels and has implemented various initiatives including age relaxations and fee concessions to aspiring female cadets through its Maritime Training Institute to promote their integration into the maritime sector,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-woman-crew-of-sci-vessel-makes-history/article34015798.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||3 Sri Lankan boats seized by Coast Guard||Three Sri Lankan boats that were allegedly carrying unauthorised telecommunication equipment and narcotics were seized by the Indian Coast Guard and brought to the Vizhinjam harbour here on Sunday. The boats, carrying 19 crew members, were intercepted by the Coast Guard ship Varaha seven nautical miles south-south west off Minicoy in Indian territorial waters on March 5, according to the Defence public relations office in Thiruvananthapuram. Thrown overboard In a preliminary investigation, it was found that Sri Lankan boats, Akarsha Duwa , Chathu Rani 03 and Chathu Rani 08 , had carried on board narcotics and communication equipment. The skipper of a boat confessed to have thrown them overboard upon being intercepted.  From a Pak. boat The crew of Akarsha Duwa purportedly admitted to have received 200 kg of heroin and 60 kg of hashish from a Pakistani boat around 400 nautical miles west off Lakshadweep. There were apparently five packets of the contraband. An official release said the skipper of Akarsha Duwa contacted its ‘main operator,’ identified as Sanjay Anna, using a Thuraya communication set, on noticing the Coast Guard ship. While they were allegedly advised to ‘flee with full speed,’ the skipper reported it was not possible and dumped the communication set and the packets in the sea. On being brought to the Vizhinjam harbour, the boats were handed over to security agencies for detailed investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lankan-boats-seized-by-coast-guard/article34015774.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||China clears new dams on Brahmaputra||China’s media reported in November that State-owned hydropower company POWERCHINA had signed “a strategic cooperation agreement” with the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) government to “implement hydropower exploitation in the downstream of the Yarlung Zangbo River”. In 2015 China operationalised its first hydropower project at Zangmu in Tibet, while three other dams at Dagu, Jiexu and Jiacha are being developed, all on the upper and middle reaches of the river. While POWERCHINA is not the first hydropower company to push for dams downstream and previous plans did not pass technical feasibility studies because of concerns over the environmental impact, the inclusion of the projects in the draft FYP suggests a high-level sanction has been given. Yan Zhiyong, POWERCHINA’s chairman, told a conference of the China Society for Hydropower Engineering last year “there is no parallel in history” to the plans and the downstream reaches of the river offered “a historic opportunity for the Chinese hydropower industry”. Mr. Yan did not mention the location of the planned project but spoke about the particular potential offered at the “Great Bend” of the Brahmaputra and at the Yarlung Zangbo Grand Canyon in Medog county, where the river falls over a 2,000 metre-drop and turns sharply to flow across the border into Arunachal Pradesh. India has expressed concerns to China over the four planned dams on the upper and middle reaches, though Indian officials have said the dams are not likely to greatly impact the quantity of the Brahmaputra’s flows in India because they are only storing water for power generation, and the Brahmaputra is not entirely dependent on upstream flows with an estimated 35% of its basin in India. Dams on the lower reaches and at the Great Bend would, however, raise fresh concerns because of the location across the border from Arunachal Pradesh and the potential impact downstream. Mr. Yan said the 50-km section at the Great Bend alone offered the potential of 70 million kWh “which equals more than three Three Gorges power stations” and “will play a significant role in realising China’s goal of reaching a carbon emissions peak before 2030 and carbon neutrality in 2060”, a target mentioned by Premier Li Keqiang on Friday at the opening of the NPC and also highlighted in the draft outline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-clears-new-dams-on-brahmaputra/article34015767.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||In Bengal, Modi pitches for ‘Asol Paribartan’||He also spoke about why Kolkata was called the “City of joy” and said there was no reason why it could not be “the city of the future”. Mr. Modi said that on one side, there was the Trinamool Congress, the Left parties and the Congress, and on the other there were people of the State. The PM accused the Left parties’ governments of bringing in vote bank politics in the State, and using an old slogan of the Left parties “Congress er kalo haath gudie dao bhenge dao (break and grind the evil hand of Congress)”, also took a swipe at the Left-Congress alliance in West Bengal. Mr. Modi said after three decades of Left rule, the people of Bengal had trusted Ms. Banerjee to bring in “p aribartan ” (change) but that she had betrayed its people and insulted them. “Bengal chose you in the role of ‘Didi’ (elder sister) but you preferred being bua (aunt) to your bhatija (nephew),” Mr. Modi said, targeting the CM. He said that the chief ministership had fallen prey to the very “dynasty rule” that Ms. Banerjee had revolted against in the Congress to form her own party. Mr. Modi went on to raise the issue of why the Chief Minister was so angry with him that she called him a “ daitya ” (demon).He said he had known Ms. Banerjee for quite some time and while it was the same “Didi” who had removed the Left Front from power, he said, “We hear that Didi ’s remote control is in someone else hands.” The Brigade grounds rally was an occasion for a show of strength by the BJP in the poll-bound State. “If the lotus blooms in West Bengal, it is because of the muck your party has spread in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-bengal-modi-pitches-for-asol-paribartan/article34015769.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra leads surge in cases across six States||Eight States Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, with the country’s total active caseload currently at 1.84 lakh (1,84,523). India has also reported 100 COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours and six States account for 87% of the new casualties with Maharashtra registering the highest of 47, Kerala 16 and Punjab 12 daily deaths. This has brought the total deaths in the country due to COVID-19 up to 1,57,756. The Ministry stressed that over 70% of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research 22,14,30,507 samples have been tested up to March 6 with 7,37,830 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-leads-surge-in-cases-across-six-states/article34015779.ece
08 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||Raijor Dal to contest four seats against ally AJP||After the Congress-led mahajot , trouble seems to be brewing in the regional front of the newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal, which is headed by jailed rights activist Akhil Gogoi. The Raijor Dal on Saturday evening announced its list of 18 candidates, 12 for the first phase of election on March 27 and six for the second phase on April 1. According to the list, Mr. Gogoi would be contesting the Sivasagar Assembly seat in eastern Assam. But the party ended up naming candidates for four seats where ally AJP had already nominated its candidates. These seats are Bihpuria, Dhing, Rangapara and Thowra. On March 5, the AJP nominated Achyut Saikia, Anjar Hussain, Ajay Tanti and Dipen Tanti for these seats. Barely 24 hours later, the Raijor Dal named Anup Saikia, Mehboob Muktab, Bijay Tirki and Dhairya Konwar respectively. Mr. Konwar is the general secretary of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, a peasants’ rights group Mr. Gogoi had founded. Furthermore, the Raijor Dal announced the possibility of contesting the Dhemaji and Mariani seats too. The AJP has named Chittaranjan Basumatary and Rajib Kumar Hazarika for these seats. Raijor Dal’s working president, Bhasco De Saikia, said the issues over seat-sharing would be discussed with the AJP. Members of his party attributed the “misunderstanding” between the two parties to a lack of proper communication. The party is expected to contest 10 seats in the third phase, scheduled on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raijor-dal-to-contest-four-seats-against-ally-ajp/article34015781.ece
08 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. to launch ‘focused’ testing drive during Holi||With the Holi festival coming up, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to launch a focused drive for testing migrant workers and other persons for COVID-19. The State will run a 15-day “focused sampling” drive from March 13 to 27, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary, Health.  ‘Return home’ During Holi, many from other States and areas come back to their homes to celebrate, he said. “There is a lot of movement,” Mr. Prasad added. Those included in the focused drive would be persons returning from States with high rates of infection, those who sell colours and water guns, those working in restaurants and dhabas (eateries) and also those involved in the liquor and bhang shops, said the official in a press briefing here. Meanwhile, the State said it had become the first in the country to administer 20 lakh doses of the vaccine. While over 14.85 lakh shots were given in the first phase, in the second phase for persons above 60 and those between 45 and 60, doses had been administered to over 5.29 lakh persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-to-launch-focused-testing-drive-during-holi/article34015788.ece
08 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Cong. will always stand by farmers, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday that farmers should not beg for their rights and should ask for their dues firmly from the government. “It is time to take the movement that started at the Delhi borders to the villages,” she said at a kisan panchayat organised by the Congress at Kaili village of Sardhana tehsil in Meerut. This was her fifth panchayat in western Uttar Pradesh in the past one month. Promising to fight for the farmers’ cause till her last breath, Ms. Vadra, who arrived at the meeting on a tractor, said whenever a farmer faced a problem, the Congress would stand by him. “For us, it is not the politics of the vote. We are indebted to you as you are the soul of the country... Your fight is my fight. Don’t lose confidence. It has been 100 days, but we will be with you for 100 weeks, 100 years,” she said. Ms. Vadra said like the colonial government, the BJP government had been exploiting farmers. “If the farm laws are good for farmers, why are lakhs of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders despite all odds?” She said the contentious farm laws were against the interests of farmers and that they would lead to a gradual closure of government-run mandis . “They will provide an opportunity for corporates to hoard and diminish the MSP regime,” she said. Taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she said he was more concerned about the interests of his corporate friends than the farmers. “He tours different parts of the world, but has no time to visit the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. It shows his disrespect for farmers,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-will-always-stand-by-farmers-says-priyanka/article34015790.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Campaign for rights of frontline women workers||Several trade unions, feminists and research groups and policy advocates have come together on International Women’s Day to campaign for the rights of anganwadi workers, helpers and ASHAs with MPs and to highlight their plight during the pandemic. The Frontline Workers’ Solidarity Campaign will be addressing several MPs as Parliament reconvenes for the second part of the Budget Session on Monday. The drive is being spearheaded by the Feminist Policy Collective, which is a mix of individual researchers, academics, policy advocates and feminist organisations, as well as UN Women. “The COVID-19 pandemic has shown the glaring gaps in public health systems when the only force available on the ground were community-based frontline women workers. These women workers are pressed into service, sometimes appearing as the only face of the state health system in certain areas. During COVID-19, they have been pressed into additional roles. Despite the hard work they put in, their regular payments were stalled for many months, and they have not been properly compensated for the high risk and extra burden of work,” reads the campaign letter. It adds that while being on the frontlines, these workers had to conduct surveillance and tracking duties to curb the spread of COVID-19, often without any protective equipment or remuneration for their labour. On the contrary, they had to face delays in the payment of salaries and were forced to go on protest marches to demand their basic compensation. It is estimated that there are nearly 75 lakh frontline health workers, including 28 lakh anganwadi workers and helpers; 25 lakh mid-day meal cooks and helpers; and close to 10 lakh ASHAs. The 12 demands laid down by the campaign include recognition of frontline health “volunteers” as workers and formalisation of their jobs. It also demands a “living wage” as remuneration for them, which is above the minimum wages of Rs. 18,000 per month. It seeks that the health workers be enrolled into all existing social security schemes, including the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), maternity benefits under Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY), and free health coverage for all frontline workers and their families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-for-rights-of-frontline-women-workers/article34015792.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||Car found near Ambani residence sent for tests||The Mumbai Police have sent for forensic analysis the car and gelatin sticks found in it near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence here last month, officials said on Sunday. The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina will check the car for any bloodstains, hair or any other clue to help identify the person who drove it and those present in the vehicle when it was parked near Mr. Ambani’s residence, an official said. The lab will submit its report to police in a week, he said. The car, a Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near Antilia, Mr. Ambani’s multi-storey residence in south Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. The gelatin sticks were also sent to the forensic lab on Friday and it will find out what was the percentage of gelatin in the sticks, an official said. The FSL, with the help of experts, will also try to find out if the chassis number of the car was changed, to help identify the real owner of the vehicle. The forensic lab has taken the case on priority and will submit its report in a week, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/car-found-near-ambanis-residence-sent-for-tests/article34015797.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi-Shah only syndicate in India, says Mamata||The BJP leadership in the State has been accusing the Trinamool Congress of running a syndicate. Ms. Banerjee alleged that even the leaders of the BJP were “scared to raise their voice against Modi and Shah”. On Sunday, after leading an all-women’s rally at Siliguri in north Bengal, the Trinamool Congress chairperson targeted the BJP government at the Centre, saying that while it accused the Trinamool of “ tolabaazi ” (extortion), the BJP was selling the country. “If you are increasing LPG price, why would women and sisters not leave you?” she asked, adding that the light in the Ujjwala Scheme had faded because of the hike in LPG prices. Ms. Banerjee also ridiculed the BJP’s slogan “ Sonar Bangla ” (golden Bengal). “They will make ‘ Sonar Bangla ’ by selling the assets as they have done in Delhi. The only thing left is changing the name of India to Modi,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-shah-only-syndicate-in-india-says-mamata/article34015768.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,||Ramesh Jarkiholi’s brother demands CBI investigation||Terming the CD that purportedly had intimate scenes of the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi as “fake that was created to defame the family and finish off its political career”, KMF chairman and his brother Balachandra Jarkiholi on Sunday sought a CBI inquiry into the CD episode since the contents were uploaded in Russia. Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi told presspersons that several people and unknown hands were behind the creation of the CD which he described as “fake”. “We now have information that as many as 17 servers were booked in Russia to upload the video on Youtube, three hours prior to Dinesh Kallahalli approaching the police. Between Rs. 10 crore and Rs. 15 crore has been spent to book the servers to bring disrepute to the family and the BJP,” he added. Further, he said, “We also have come to know that the woman in the CD has been promised Rs. 50 lakh and a job in Dubai. I also request you not to call her a victim because there is a conspiracy behind this.” While Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi was defending his brother, he also referred the whole event as being a honeytrap. When he was asked how this could be a honeytrap when he is calling the CD fake, the KMF chairman maintained that he was referring to about two to four teams that were also planning to honeytrap. “There is a team working for honeytrap in the State.” “We will approach the [Bengaluru] Police Commissioner to send the CD to a lab to ascertain its genuineness. We will also seek investigation by an agency that will help bring out truth,” he told presspersons. Appeal to Ramesh When asked why Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi was not coming forward to complain to the police, Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi said he was also appealing to his brother either to come forward to complain to the police or authorise someone to pursue the case. Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi said, “Dinesh Kallahalli could have been misguided and he may not have received full information. He may have been used as well. We will consult an advocate to decide future course of action.” When asked if the Jarkiholis had turned soft towards Mr. Kallahalli or had met him before Sunday, Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi said that no one met him nor they were going soft. When his views were sought on legal action against Mr. Kallahalli, he said they would take a decision after consulting lawyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramesh-jarkiholis-brother-demands-cbi-investigation/article34015771.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,||Companies keen on jab for staff||A few private companies, including IT companies, appear to be keen on getting their employee resume work from office. Managements of the companies have contacted Telangana Health department officials to enquire if their employees would be given COVID-19 vaccine. The senior officials said that they will continue to vaccinate people only from the priority groups, and estimated that vaccination for others might take a few more months at least. Private employees started to work from home after lock down was implemented in the State from March 23 of 2020 to May 30. Thereafter, partial relaxation to the lock down was implemented. Employees from scores of private companies continue to work from home to this day. Many of them who are not from the city have left to their native place and work from there. Senior officials said that they have received queries from the private companies managements about COVID-19 vaccination. Currently, the vaccination is being offered to people from high-risk groups. Health Care Workers and Front Line Workers have been performing duties right from the time the pandemic broke out. They are at high risk of contracting the infectious disease. After them, people who are 60-years or above, and those from 45-59 years with co-morbidities are being vaccinated. The officials said that highest number of COVID-19 mortalities were among senior citizens.  Highest number of COVID-19 mortalities were among senior citizens. Officials, Health Dept.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/companies-keen-on-jab-for-staff/article34015916.ece
08 March 2021||Hassan,||Schools forced to dispose of rotten food items||The residential schools of the Minority Welfare Department in Chitradurga are all set to dispose of 33,081 kg of rotten food items. The local officers of the department have been instructed to dump the items in deep pits and cover them. The items include 12,043 kg of rice, 17,420 kg of wheat, and 380 kg of edible oil, besides packets of tea powder, biscuits, groundnut, salt, jaggery, and dry fruits. Many packed items have crossed the expiry date. Chitradurga Deputy Commissioner Kavitha S. Mannikeri, on March 3, instructed the officers and the Minorities Welfare Department to dispose of the stock so that neither animals nor birds get access it. The whole process has to be videographed. Pandemic These items were supplied to the residential schools located at Chitradurga, Hiriyur, Hosadurga, and Challakere taluks last year. As the educational institutes had remained closed on account of the pandemic since March 2020, the items were not used. The hostels do not have the facility for safe storage of food items for long. G. Rekha, district officer of the Minority Welfare Department, told The Hindu that the items were supplied for eight months in advance last year. As the schools were closed because of COVID-19, the department instructed the hostels to sell foodgrains to the district administration, which was distributing them to people affected by the pandemic. “The then Deputy Commissioner, however, said there were no funds for purchase. Hence, the stock remained in the hostels and now we cannot use them for cooking. As per the instructions from the department heads, now we are preparing to dump them in pits in the wasteland,” she said.  The district administration had initially considered supplying the rotten food items for goshalas through the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. However, the veterinarians felt the rotten foodgrains would affect the health of the cattle. Ms. Mannikeri told The Hindu that the food items were infested with worms and could not be used for cooking. “The rotten items are not good even for cattle. Hence, we have decided to dispose of them in deep pits,” she said. During the pandemic, the officer said, the then Deputy Commissioner had utilised the foodgrains supplied by donors for free distribution among the affected people, instead of purchasing from the hostels.  The rotten food items are not good even for cattle. Hence, we have decided to dispose of them in deep pits Kavitha S. Mannikeri, Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/residential-schools-forced-to-dispose-of-rotten-food-items/article34015934.ece
08 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana govt. to discuss job quota today||The Haryana government is open to including suggestions from industry bodies while framing rules for a law that provides 75% reservation in the private sector to jobseekers from the State, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday. The first meeting for framing the rules will be held here on Monday, he said. Last week, Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, which provides 75% reservation for those who have a domicile certificate and are seeking private-sector jobs with a monthly salary of less than Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-govt-to-discuss-job-quota-today/article34015787.ece
08 March 2021||Jammu,||‘Thaw in India, Pak. ties will benefit J&K’||National Conference (NC) president Dr. Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the latest agreement between India and Pakistan on the ceasefire should hold because “either the two countries have to grow a friendship and prosper or continue the enmity at the cost of prosperity”. “Peace is in the larger interest of the region,” Dr. Abdullah, MP from Srinagar, said. He said the thaw in the relations between India and Pakistan “will hugely benefit the people of J&K”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thaw-in-india-pak-ties-will-benefit-jk/article34015794.ece
08 March 2021||Tiruchi,||Stalin promises Rs. 1,000 a month for housewives||Unveiling his 10-year vision statement for seven priority areas for the development of Tamil Nadu at a massively attended public gathering in Tiruchi, DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday assured a monthly honorarium of Rs. 1,000 for housewives (per ration card holder) and creation of 10 lakh jobs. He called upon the electorate to elect the DMK for consecutive terms to implement his promises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stalin-promises-rs-1000-a-month-for-housewives/article34016167.ece
08 March 2021||Patna,||Bihar oppn slams Minister’s call to ‘beat up’ unresponsive officials||A day after Union Minister Giriraj Singh advised people in Begusarai, Uttar Pradesh to “beat up representatives and officials if they don’t listen to you”, Opposition leaders asked why the Centre had not taken any action against him. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) hit out at the BJP leader’s remark. “Are these two parties [BJP-JD(U)] running a government or a mahajungle raj (utter lawlessness) in the State?” the RJD tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-oppn-slams-ministers-call-to-beat-up-unresponsive-officials/article34015789.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Hawala’ racket: 700 entities under ED scanner||About 700 entities that had taken the assistance of a ‘hawala’ racket allegedly operated by Naresh Jain and his associates are under the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) scanner for suspected laundering of undisclosed income running into thousands of crores. The entities allegedly paid commissions to the syndicate to rotate funds and also send the money overseas using hundreds of shell companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hawala-racket-700-entities-under-ed-scanner/article34015791.ece
08 March 2021||London,||Air France flight makes emergency landing because of ‘rowdy’ Indian passenger||A “rowdy” Indian passenger on board an Air France flight from Ghana via Paris to New Delhi forced the plane to make an emergency landing at Bulgaria’s capital here, according to a media report. The Indian, whose identity was not made public, has been detained for 72 hours, Bulgarian News Agency BTA said on Saturday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-france-flight-makes-emergency-landing-because-of-rowdy-indian-passenger/article34015796.ece
08 March 2021||IMPHAL,||Manipur rebel ‘executed’ by insurgents for kidnapping and murdering girl||A rebel leader identified as Nando was “executed” by a proscribed insurgent group on March 2, local media reports said on Sunday. Police believe that the execution took place somewhere in a foreign country. Reports said the kangaroo court found him guilty of kidnapping and murdering Luiningla Elizabeth, an eight-year-old student and daughter of Francis Ngajokpa, who was a Cabinet Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-rebel-executed-by-insurgents-for-kidnapping-and-murdering-girl/article34015800.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials begin efforts to increase voter turnout at 173 polling stations||Chennai district election officials will conduct SVEEP (Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation) activities at 173 polling locations with low turnout of less than 50% in the previous election in the 16 Assembly constituencies of the city. “We are planning to conduct awareness programmes at the doorsteps of residents. We have already launched an awareness programme in commercial areas by visiting every shop, urging electors to vote,” said an official. The Chennai district election office is planning to distribute pamphlets during the supply of essential items to houses. Many polling stations located in planned residential areas, such as Anna Nagar, have reported low turnout of less than 50% in the previous election, officials said. The Villivakkam Assembly constituency registered the highest number of polling stations with less than 50% turnout during the previous Parliamentary election. In 2019, a total of 32 polling stations registered less than 50% turnout in Villivakkam segment. In the 2014 Parliamentary election, the turnout in Villivakkam was low in 19 polling stations. The number of polling stations with low turnout was 22 in Villivakkam in the 2016 Assembly election. In the Anna Nagar Assembly constituency, 20 polling stations reported very low turnout in the previous election. “People in well-planned residential areas have been unwilling to vote. This election, we will focus on increasing turnout in such areas,” said an official. In commercial areas such as T. Nagar, Corporation officials have started visiting shops to explain the significance of voting to customers. During the last Parliamentary election, the T. Nagar Assembly segment registered the lowest turnout, with 50.41%. The highest turnout in the city was reported in the Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar Assembly segment (69.42%) in 2019. Most polling stations in the Assembly constituencies of Royapuram, Kolathur, Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, Perambur and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar have registered better turnout when compared to other constituencies in the city. Just three polling stations in Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, Royapuram and Kolathur registered less than 50% turnout during the previous election in 2019. Chennai Corporation officials will conduct awareness programmes in each household in the areas covered by the three polling stations in Royapuram, Kolathur and Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar and study the reasons for the low turnout. Thirty polling stations in Velachery and Saidapet reported low turnout of less than 50% in the Parliamentary election in 2019. SVEEP activities would be intensified in such areas this week, officials said. On Sunday, SVEEP activities were conducted at the Book Fair and at the Namma Chennai selfie point on the Marina beach. Cultural events were organised at the locations to create awareness of voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-begin-efforts-to-increase-voter-turnout-at-173-polling-stations/article34016141.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Objective is to ensure BJP does not hold reins of govt.’||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury elaborates on his thoughts over seat sharing in Tamil Nadu , his party’s position on the third front and the BJP, among others. Edited excerpts:  When will the CPI(M) conclude seat-sharing talks with the DMK for the Assembly election? Well, talks are on. It is essentially on the number of seats that each one will contest. But I think it will be completed by tomorrow [Monday] or the day after. DMK’s allies appear to have reluctantly settled for fewer seats, citing the need to fight the BJP. Is such a compromise necessary? Well, this is not really a compromise because it is a political understanding that in today’s situation in the country, the paramount objective is to ensure that the BJP does not hold the reins of any government. [This is] because of the experience in the last six years of how they are destroying everything guaranteed by the Indian Constitution, including independent Constitutional authorities. Beginning with Parliament itself, on how all of them are being undermined — Parliament, the judiciary, the Election Commission, the CBI, the ED, and the last two are being used as political instruments by the State. And at the same time, the sort of economic policy that they are pursuing, enriching the rich and impoverishing the poor; the polarisation that they are working towards and the brazen anti-Constitutional laws that they are bringing in. Look at love jihad, which is anti-Constitutional — every individual, who is an adult, has the right to choose his/her life partner. Now, that is being denied. So, what they are doing actually is creating a new India. The character of the Indian Republic is being changed. That is not in the interest of the country or the people. So, defeating them is the primary political objective. So, it is not a compromise. It is about the best way you defeat them. There has to be a give and take by everybody. There may be some dissatisfaction with the number of seats because never before would the CPI(M) have contested in such few seats. But a large number of forces are also coming together. Everybody has to be accommodated. Did the Left parties fail to see the emergence of the BJP and Modi as a political behemoth? No. In fact, the sad part is that we had been warning, but the others failed to take it seriously. Now they are. If you remember, it was the Left that had insisted way back in 1996 when the BJP emerged as the single largest party under Mr. Vajpayee... that it cannot be allowed in India’s interest. Unfortunately, our apprehensions of the BJP and Modi behemoth have become all the more reconfirmed after Gujarat. That is what is going to happen in the country if they are in office. Why is the Left, once synonymous with the third front, not pursuing an alternative front in Tamil Nadu? See, the question is that at a time of intense polarisation, no third front is actually sustainable because the people are divided between two polarised political groupings. In such a situation, the point is that you want to save India for the time and for the immediate agenda. Let us be very clear. The BJP is a political agent of the RSS. It is a political arm of the RSS. The RSS all along believed and believes today more strongly that India is a monolithic Hindu state. And which is rapidly intolerant and fascist in its nature. And that is what they want to transform India into. It means this Constitution has to go if that has to come. What we see now is that process... they are undermining the Constitution. So, the third front right now is not a viable option. The point is to have maximum unity among secular and democratic forces. But you support the third front in West Bengal... That is because of the concrete assessment of the situation. Unfortunately, many people make the mistake of treating politics as arithmetic. But politics is based on ground realities. In West Bengal, the anti-incumbency against the Trinamool government is very, very high. Is there a need for a national alliance to take on the BJP? If so, who should lead it? See, who will lead will depend on, again, the people’s support. Today, the principal Opposition party in the country is Congress. The Left and... the regional parties also have an important role. So you will have to bring together all these forces. What you require is an alternative programme, an alternative policy. The Congress and the DMK have been pushed to declare that they are not opposed to Hinduism? Does this reflect that the BJP has succeeded in pushing them to a corner on the Hindutva plank? No, Hinduism and Hindutva are different things. In fact, the person who coined the term Hindutva, Savarkar, makes it explicitly clear that Hindutva has nothing to do with Hindu religiosity. Hindutva is a political project. And the political project of Hindutva is exactly the RSS’ vision of a Hindu State or a Hindu country. Sometimes, some people fall prey to soft Hindutva. The more they talk about soft Hindutva, the more they are strengthening the hard Hindutva. So that is the danger I think many parties are realising. Do you think the BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ will have an effect on Hindus? You see, may be momentarily, they would have had some sort of a fleeting effect. But, in the final analysis, that hypocrisy is also exposed. Do you think that the Election Commission will succeed in curbing the distribution of money to voters in Tamil Nadu this time? Well, we hope they succeed. The Election Commission has been lenient and very porous in many of its decisions that helped the ruling party. And we hope that it will not be so [this time] and we hope that they will be successful in catching the money power that is distorting democracy in our country.  (For full interview, visit http://bit.ly/Yechury)   At a time of intense polarisation, no third front is actually sustainable because the people are divided between two polarised political groupings. In such a situation, the point is that you want to save India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/objective-is-to-ensure-bjp-does-not-hold-reins-of-govt/article34015876.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeman to contest from Thiruvottriyur||Naam Tamilar Katchi coordinator Seeman on Sunday introduced the party’s 234 candidates – an equal proportion of women and men – for the Assembly election at a public meeting in Royapettah, Chennai. With the 117 men and 117 women candidates seated on the either side of the stage, Mr. Seeman stood in the centre and delivered a speech focussing on his pet topics – making farming a government enterprise, eliminating corruption, criticising policies of Dravidian parties and the greatness of Tamil language/culture etc., – peppered with quotes from leaders around the world. However, after openly stating that he will contest against DMK president M.K. Stalin in Kolathur, Mr. Seeman announced that he will be contesting from Thiruvotriyur Assembly constituency in Chennai. On 50% women candidates, he said, “This is our duty. We don’t say a woman is equal to a man. We consider men and women are equal. We cannot free our lands if our women are not free.” Mr. Seeman claimed he is contesting alone because there are no worthy alliance partners who will want to remove corruption. “I am not ready to lose the final victory for a temporary loss. We have a dream. We are standing for the truth and we will win,” he said. Mr. Seeman mocked his critics saying, “Wait and see, I will give farmers above the age of 60 a pension. We are importing food but exporting cars. I will reverse it.” He criticised the successive Dravidian parties for announcing farm loan waivers but not making enough efforts to make sure farmers don’t get caught in a debt cycle. Veteran film maker Bharathiraaja was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeman-to-contest-from-thiruvottriyur/article34016210.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMH residents all set to put baked goodies on sale||From baking and supplying fresh loaves of bread for patients of a government hospital, a group of residents of the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) will soon bake cakes, cookies, doughnuts and varieties of bread, and put them on sale at a café to be set up on the premises of the institute’s outpatient department (OPD) building in Ayanavaram. Collaborating with restaurateur M. Mahadevan, founder of Hot Breads Bakery, the IMH is all set to take the next step for its residents, who have improved with treatment. As part of occupational therapy, a group of five to six residents are already involved in baking bread at a bakery on the premises. Training the residents “As of now, we are supplying bread to the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital. Mr. Mahadevan had trained some of our residents in baking bread. Now, our residents will start baking varieties of breads, cookies and so on. These will be sold on the OPD premises,” P. Poorna Chandrika, director, said. The aim was to help in reintegrating residents into society, she said, adding: “Due to mental illness, they lose employment and self-confidence. To reintegrate them into society, they need to gain self-confidence. Making them self-sufficient and giving them employment helps them to gain confidence. This will also reduce stigma,” she added. Mr. Mahadevan said they had trained five to six residents in producing bread. “The supply has been limited to the KMC. We want to set up a café with three containers and install two to three machines at the existing bakery. We want to increase the product range, offering European and south Indian snacks at reasonable prices,” he said. Already, five residents were trained on the service side for Writer’s Café, he said, adding: “We will take more people for the service side, and also for the production side. More products will bring more revenue for IMH, which will be ploughed back into the residents’ welfare.” Mr. Mahadevan has also launched the brand ‘Freedom’ along with Puzhal Prison, ‘Winners’ bakery with the Greater Chennai Corporation and Give Life (Loyola College). Explaining the idea behind the initiatives, he said, “It is a sustainable charity project as we donate machines and the revenue generated pays for the running of the unit and excess of income over expenditure goes to the community cause,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imh-residents-all-set-to-put-baked-goodies-on-sale/article34016144.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor lighting on service roads poses risk to MRTS commuters||Hundreds of commuters using the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) stations at Taramani, Perungudi and Velachery are facing severe hardship due to poor lighting on the service roads leading to the premises. While commuters note that lighting has improved on the elevated platforms of the MRTS stations, complaints persist about inadequate illumination and, in some cases, the absence of street lights on the service roads leading to the stations, which pose a security risk. P. Srinivasan, a resident of Baby Nagar, said that since the three stations were located on the periphery of the Pallikaranai marshland and the outskirts of busy localities, the street lights on the access roads to these stations remained poor. Women commuters, in particular, were finding it difficult to use these stations during night, he added. Though Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel are manning the platforms on the elevated corridor, commuters complain of poor security on the ground floor and the service roads. They also point out that the incomplete service road running parallel to the tracks between the Velachery and Taramani stations has no street lights. A senior official of the Southern Railway said street lights that had remained non-functional due to the stoppage of suburban train services had been fixed in the Taramani and Perungudi stations. Regarding the absence of street lights on the service road along the three railway stations on Velachery-Taramani route, he said the tenders for installing them had been called for, and new lights would soon be installed.  Women commuters in particular are finding it difficult to use these stations during the night P. Srinivasan Resident, Baby Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-lighting-on-service-roads-poses-risk-to-mrts-commuters/article34016145.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Secularism has united parties in this alliance, says K.S. Alagiri||The Congress and the DMK on Sunday signed a seat-sharing agreement as per which the national party will contest in 25 Assembly constituencies and the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha bypoll as part of the Secular Progressive Alliance. The agreement was signed by DMK president M.K. Stalin and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief K.S. Alagiri in the presence of senior leaders of both parties at Anna Arivayalam, the Dravidian party’s headquarters in Chennai. Addressing reporters, Mr. Alagiri said “secularism” had united the parties in this alliance in the same straight line. “The BJP has grown into a disease and they are trying to spread it across India. They have infiltrated into several parties to break them, weaken them, poach leaders and topple the government,” he charged. Mr. Alagiri alleged that the Congress government in Puducherry was toppled by the Lt. Governor with the help of the Centre. “The Congress joined the alliance aiming to stop the BJP from exerting influence in the State and to ensure that the AIADMK shouldn’t get another chance to form the government and to remove anti-social justice forces,” he said. Explaining the point of view of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi with respect to this election, he said, “Rahul Gandhi told us that the election is not just about the alliance. It is a war between two ideologies. If the AIADMK-BJP alliance wins, it will mean that an ideology has been defeated and another ideology has taken root.” He added that everybody should get together to pull the chariot. Rajya Sabha seat When asked how seats allotted to the Congress had been steadily reducing, Mr. Alagiri said, “In politics, it is common to have ups and downs. Great leaders have lost the elections and then won them. The seat-sharing agreement depends on the political ground that exists,” he said. He added that one Rajya Sabha seat for the Congress was “under consideration.” AICC Tamil Nadu in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said the seat-sharing agreement was signed in the spirit of co-operation and the party was happy with the numbers. “The country is facing a big threat today...not just in terms of an ideological battle but to save democracy. We have seen how BJP is running the country like a dictatorship. They are toppling governments and destroying democratic institutions using government power. Their agenda in Tamil Nadu is the same. By entering into an alliance with the AIADMK, the BJP’s intention is to finish off the AIADMK also. They want to have a one party, one man rule,” he charged, adding this was a dangerous situation. ‘Will sweep the polls’ “This alliance is a secular front, which will send a message to the country that we must stop fascist forces. We have had lot of discussions but after all that, we have come to the conclusion. The DMK, Congress, Left and VCK are going to sweep the election,” he said. Mr. Rao said that the decision to sign the agreement was taken in consultation with all senior Congress leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/secularism-has-united-parties-in-this-alliance-says-ks-alagiri/article34016157.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palani temple rehabilitates beggars, destitute persons||It was a challenge that the Palani temple administration took upon itself these past few weeks and succeeded at it too - the rehabilitation of 108 persons from the foothills, who were found begging, those abandoned by their families, persons with disabilities, those needing de-addiction and even some with mental illnesses. Joining hands with volunteers from various agencies, including Social Welfare Department, Police, Atchayam Trust, an Erode-based NGO, and students of Arulmigu Palani Andavar College in Palani, the temple managed to communicate with these persons and bring them to one place where they were counselled. “It was a daunting task since many were non-communicative. They would even beat us with sticks or bite and slap us. But at the end of it all, when they were bathed, cleaned and neatly robed, it seemed worth all the trouble,” said a volunteer. “Families also prefer to leave those with illnesses here since it is believed that the deity has medicinal properties and will cure them. The numbers are less since it is off-season. Usually, during the season the number of such persons swells to around 300,” said a temple official. Of the 108 persons rescued, 18 chose to go back home, three were sent for psychiatric care, around 60 to old-age homes, three abled bodied persons to Atchaya’s centre for reskilling. A few went missing. A former official of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department said that many temples in the State have similar issues. However, since there is no standard operating procedure to deal with beggars and destitute persons, they are given food and told to stay at the temple entrances. “Two temples had old age homes but those do not function at present. The Act stipulates that homes be established and maintained for the destitute, the helpless and persons with disabilities. But temples no longer seem to be performing such services,” he said. Another former official pointed out that many orphanages managed by temples too are no longer functional. “These spaces can be put to use by having a tie up with the Social Welfare department so that socially disadvantaged children can be helped, ” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palani-temple-rehabilitates-beggars-destitute-persons/article34015912.ece
08 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 cases zoom past 500||An additional 567 persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection on Sunday taking the total number of cases till date to 8,55,121. At the same time 521 more persons were discharged post treatment in a day. With this so far 8,38,606 persons have been treated for the infection, state health authorities said. With one more person losing life to the infection the State’s death toll stood at 12,518 persons. As on date 3,997 persons are undergoing treatment either at home or in healthcare facility, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. In Chennai district, 251 more people were diagnosed as positive for the infection in the last 24 hours and another 228 persons were discharged post-treatment. The district recorded one death. As on date in the district 1,878 persons are under treatment. Till date 2,36,978 persons have been infected in the district and health officials said 2,30,936 have been discharged. In Chennai, 4,164 persons have died of the infection so far. Among the districts, Coimbatore with 49 additional cases; Chengalpattu with 45 new infections and Tiruvallur with 38 new cases had the highest numbers. However, Ariyalur, Tirupathur, Kallakurichi and Sivaganga recorded no infections. A 78-year-old woman from Chennai who was admitted in a private hospital on March 3 tested positive for the infection the next day. She had been hospitalised with complaints of fever for five days; cough for two days and difficulty in breathing for a day. She died on Saturday morning. The hospital recorded her death as due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Of the 33,52,322 passengers who have come into the State through various routes 7,090 persons have tested positive, according to health officials. They also said till date the State had done 1,78,46,391 RT-PCR tests with 1,75,29,190 persons being tested so far.  Central region The central region on Sunday reported 34 fresh cases of COVID-19, depicting a slight dip compared to the previous days. No COVID-19 death was reported in the districts. In Thanjavur, 11 patients tested positive for COVID-19, and in Tiruchi, nine. Six patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Four cases each were reported in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. Three patients tested positive for COVID-19 in Pudukottai. Perambalur district, which had reported no fresh cases on Saturday reported two on Sunday. Karur reported one fresh case while no case was reported in Ariyalur for the second consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-cases-zoom-past-500-one-death-recorded/article34015866.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New infections zoom past 500 for third day||An additional 567 persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection in the State on Sunday, taking the case tally to 8,55,121. At the same time, 521 more persons were discharged after treatment. So far 8,38,606 persons have been treated for the infection, State health authorities said. With one more person losing life to the infection the State’s death toll stands at 12,518. As on date, 3,997 persons are undergoing treatment either at home or in healthcare facilities, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. In Chennai district, 251 more people tested positive and another 228 persons were discharged. The district recorded one death. In the district, currently 1,878 persons are under treatment. Till date 2,36,978 persons have been infected in the district and health officials said 2,30,936 had been discharged. In Chennai, 4,164 persons have died of the infection so far. Among the districts, Coimbatore with 49 additional cases; Chengalpattu with 45 new infections and Tiruvallur with 38 new cases had the highest numbers. However, Ariyalur, Tirupathur, Kallakurichi and Sivaganga recorded no infections. A 78-year-old woman in Chennai who was admitted to a private hospital on March 3 tested positive for the infection the next day. She had been hospitalised with complaints of fever for five days, cough for two days and difficulty in breathing for a day. She died on Saturday morning due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Of the 33,52,322 passengers who have come into the State through various routes, 7,090 have tested positive, according to health officials. They also said till date the State had done 1,78,46,391 RT-PCR tests with 1,75,29,190 persons being tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-infections-zoom-past-500-for-third-day-in-tamil-nadu/article34015881.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palani temple rehabilitates beggars, destitute persons||It was a challenge that the Palani temple administration took upon itself these past few weeks and succeeded at it too - the rehabilitation of 108 persons from the foothills, who were found begging, those abandoned by their families, persons with disabilities, those needing de-addiction and even some with mental illnesses. Joining hands with volunteers from various agencies including Social Welfare Department, Police, Atchayam Trust, an Erode-based NGO, and students of Arulmigu Palani Andavae College in Palani, the temple managed to communicate with these persons and bring them to one place where they were counselled. “It was a daunting task since many were non-communicative. They would even beat us with sticks or bite and slap us. But at the end of it all, when they were bathed, cleaned and neatly robed, it seemed worth all the trouble,” said a volunteer. “Families also prefer to leave those with illnesses here since it is believed that the deity has medicinal properties and will cure them. The numbers are less since it is off-season. Usually, during the season the number of such persons swells to around 300,” said a temple official. Of the 108 persons rescued, 18 chose to go back home, three were sent for psychiatric care, around 60 to oldage homes, three abled bodied persons to Atchayam Trust’s centre for re-skilling. A few of them went missing. A former official of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department said that many temples in the State have similar issues. However, since there is no standard operating procedure to deal with beggars and destitute persons, they are given food and told to stay at the temple entrances. “Two temples had oldage homes but those do not function at present. The Act stipulates that homes be established and maintained for the destitute, the helpless and persons with disabilities. But temples no longer seem to be performing such services,” he said. Another former official pointed out that many orphanages managed by temples too are no longer functional. “These spaces can be put to use by having a tie up with the Social Welfare department so that socially disadvantaged children can be helped. The government used to provide an annual grant for these children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palani-temple-rehabilitates-beggars-destitute-persons/article34015880.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||These veterans have picked up the hockey stick again||For a group of women and girls, this year’s Women’s Day has been all about proving their hockey skills. A total of 15 veteran women players of a hockey club pooled money to organise a tournament for teams from Chennai and its neighbouring districts on Sunday. The tournament, titled ‘We are For Hockey Trophy - Women Nine A Side’, and hosted by We Are For Hockey Club, was held at the Mayor Radhakrishnan Hockey Stadium, Egmore, from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. “We wanted to celebrate Women’s Day in a unique manner, and since we are all veteran players who picked up the hockey stick again after nearly two decades, we decided to host a hockey tournament,” said Rekha J., president of the club that has 15 members, including Sheela Sukumar, vice-president, Lakshmi Vaikunth, secretary, Rasna Anthony, joint secretary, and members Thilagam Karthik, Teena Sumesh, Thenmozhi Varadarajan, Menaka Munisekhar, Mecklish James, Teresa Bella, Menega, Meghalatha N., Lakshmi Prabha, Rajeshwari L. and Sarumathi Ramesh. Sixteen teams from Chennai and its neighbouring districts, including Chengalpattu, took part in the competition. “Usually, a team consists of 11 players and seven substitutes, and a match would be held for an hour, split into four quarters. But since this is a one-day tournament, we are organising matches with nine members per team, and each match would last half an hour,” Ms. Rekha said. The team members said they pooled money to organise the event. “We asked our relatives for funds. Some offered banners at a subsidised price. We just want people to come and enjoy the tournament. There will be many stalls too,” she added, speaking before the event. M. Renuka Lakshmi, general secretary, Hockey unit of Tamil Nadu, said the future was bright for women’s hockey. “Many senior players wanted to take part in the tournament,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/these-veterans-have-picked-up-the-hockey-stick-again/article34016146.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MGR Medical University hosts women surgeons’ meet||The Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, along with the Association of Surgeons of India, Chennai city, organised a national women surgeons’ conference to mark International Women’s Day, falling on March 8. University Vice-Chancellor Sudha Seshayyan, who inaugurated the conference, said it was apt that the event was being aired from the university, of which the first Vice-Chancellor was a woman. “The life of a woman surgeon is not a bed of roses because much is expected of her professionally, socially, and on the domestic and official front, by her kith and kin and patients,” she said. A woman surgeon was expected to meet these expectations, and she often exceeded them. The seminar was organised “to salute such women of grit and greatness”, she said. The conference was in hybrid mode, with part of it held physically. The participants were eminent women surgeons teaching at medical institutions across the country. The topics included open and laparoscopic surgery, said M. Kanagavel, chairman of the Association of Surgeons, Chennai city. The Association of Surgeons, which was established in 1938, has 27,500 members, including 2,900 women. The procedures discussed at the conference included laparoscopic gallbladder and hernia surgeries, surgery for cancer of breast and thyroid, surgery for piles and fistula and issues relating to surgery in women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mgr-medical-university-hosts-women-surgeons-meet/article34016149.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man, who went missing 18 months ago, was murdered||The Kancheepuram district police have cracked the case of a man who went missing 18 months ago by arresting seven persons and recovering the decomposed body of the victim from a concrete-laden barrel that was thrown into a well. The deceased was identified as Konji Adaikkan, 40, a native of Kondayampatti in Pudukottai district. He was working as a technician at the Hyundai factory in Irungattukottai, and was staying with his wife and daughter in Kancheepuram town. One day, in August 2019, he didn’t return home. His wife, Palaniammal, lodged a complaint with the Kancheepuram taluk police. Acting on the orders of Kancheepuram Superintendent of Police D. Shanmuga Priya, the police personnel recently intensified investigation into the case. They got a clue after coming to know that Rs. 3 lakh had been withdrawn from the victim’s bank account. Ezhumalai, 26, who withdrew the amount, was apprehended by the police. During interrogation, he told them that the missing man was murdered by a gang. According to the police, the victim had an illicit relationship with Chitra, 40, who was his cousin’s wife. He lived with her and her children for a few years before marrying Palaniammal. Chitra frequently harassed him, demanding money and a share of his property. She hatched a plot to murder him over this. At her instance, her son, Ranjith, 24, approached Elumalai to execute the plan with the help of hirelings. As per the plan, Chitra asked Konji Adaikkan to come to a place near Mannivakkam, supposedly to have a chat. When he reached the spot, the gang, comprising Elumalai and others, took him to the Mannivakkam bridge, where he was murdered. His body was taken to a secluded place in Salamangalam village. “Acting on the advice of one of the accused, who was a civil engineer, the gang put the body into a barrel and filled the container with concrete. After waiting for three days for the concrete to set, they threw the barrel into a well,” a police officer said. “We have arrested seven persons. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the murder was committed for gain. Further investigation is on,” the Kancheepuram SP said. The police said Chitra, Ranjith and his associates Elumalai, Tarjan, 29, Vivek, 26, Sathish, 26, and Subramani, 30, were arrested for the kidnap and murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-who-went-missing-18-months-ago-was-murdered/article34016154.ece
08 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Decks cleared for mini-IT Parks in four districts||The Tamil Nadu government has cleared the decks for establishing mini-IT Parks in four districts identified in the first phase. Approving a proposal of TIDEL Park Ltd. to create mini-IT Parks with an area of 50,000-1 lakh sq.ft space to start with based on market demand and assessment, the government agreed to take up the project in Salem, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Theni districts. Collectors in these districts were directed to identify non-objectionable government lands, to the tune of 10-20 acres as desired by TIDEL Park, suitable for the project. Stating that the project was capable of bringing in a lot of social benefits and had the potential to steer IT sector growth in tier 2 and 3 towns, TIDEL Park’s Managing Director in his proposal called for formation of a separate Special Project Vehicle between TIDEL Park Ltd., and Government or agency nominated by the government for the purpose of implementing the project. According sanction for transfer of non-objectionable government lands as required by TIDEL Park to the SPV, the State directed that the land cost as fixed by the respective District Collectors shall be equity contribution of the government and TIDEL Park Ltd., could invest in the project through its own resources or loans raised from other sources. The Collectors were also authorised to give enter upon permission to TIDEL/SPV pending the land transfer as per rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decks-cleared-for-mini-it-parks-in-four-districts/article34015911.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State approves proposal of TIDEL Park to set up facility in tier 2, 3 towns||The Tamil Nadu Government has cleared the decks for establishing mini-IT Parks in four districts identified in the first phase. Approving a proposal of TIDEL Park Ltd. to create mini-IT Parks with an area of 50,000-1 lakh square feet space to start with based on market demand and assessment, the government agreed to take up the project in Salem, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Theni districts. Collectors in these districts were directed to identify non-objectionable government lands, to the tune of 10-20 acres as desired by TIDEL Park, suitable for the project. Stating that the project was capable of bringing in a lot of social benefits and had the potential to steer IT sector growth in tier 2 and 3 towns, TIDEL Park’s Managing Director in his proposal called for formation of a separate Special Project Vehicle between TIDEL Park Ltd., and Government or agency nominated by the government for the purpose of implementing the project. According sanction for transfer of non-objectionable government lands as required by TIDEL Park to the SPV, the State directed that the land cost as fixed by the respective District Collectors shall be equity contribution of the government and TIDEL Park Ltd., could invest in the project through its own resources or loans raised from other sources. The Collectors were also authorised to give enter upon permission to TIDEL/SPV pending the land transfer as per rules. The Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) would represent the government in the SPV. TIDEL Park Ltd., was established in the year 2000 as a joint venture between TIDCO) and Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (ELCOT) at a cost of Rs. 292 crore and it provides network connectivity with direct satellite uplink.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-approves-proposal-of-tidel-park-to-set-up-facility-in-tier-2-3-towns/article34015879.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,452 licensed weapons surrendered||With the model code of conduct coming into force, as many as 1,452 licensees surrendered their weapons to police authorities for safe storage. The poll authorities had asked all those in possession of licensed weapons to surrender them at the licensed weapons storage centre, which is in the control of the city police. However, those in Central or State uniformed services and armed guards of banks were exempted. The city police have been taking several steps, including against history-sheeters and trouble-mongers, to prevent untoward incidents in the run-up to the Assembly election. According to sources, police initiated “bound over” proceedings against over 2,600 history-sheeters and trouble mongers in the city. The police on Sunday conducted a flag march in the Tambaram and St. Thomas Mount police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1452-licensed-weapons-surrendered/article34016142.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PNB conducts meeting with IOCL dealers||The Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Friday conducted a meeting for petroleum dealers retailing fuel for Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL). The bank officials explained the details of the PNB Electronic Dealer Scheme for IOCL. The scheme aims to provide short-term credit of up to Rs. 2 crore to authorised, exclusive dealers of the company. The meeting was chaired by Binod Kumar, zonal manager, Chennai zone of PNB, and Abhishek Sharma, general manager (Retail Sales), IOCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pnb-conducts-meeting-with-iocl-dealers/article34016151.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMDK resume seat-sharing talks||The AIADMK and the DMDK have resumed seat-sharing talks for the Assembly election. A DMDK source told The Hindu that party founder Vijayakant’s brother-in-law, L.K. Sudhish, visited Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s residence on Sunday evening. “No decision has been taken. It may be known only on Monday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmdk-resume-seat-sharing-talks/article34016155.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New infections zoom past 500 for third day, 251 cases in Chennai||An additional 567 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 8,55,121. At the same time, 521 persons were discharged after treatment. So far, 8,38,606 persons have been discharged, health officials said. With one more person dying of the infection, the toll went up to 12,518. At present, 3,997 persons are undergoing treatment either at home or at healthcare facilities, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. 228 discharged In Chennai district, 251 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours and 228 persons were discharged. The district recorded one death, and 1,878 persons are under treatment. So far, 2,36,978 persons have been infected and 2,30,936 have been discharged. So far, 4,164 persons have died. Among the districts with the highest number of cases, Coimbatore reported 49, Chengalpattu 45, and Tiruvallur 38. However, Ariyalur, Tirupathur, Kallakurichi and Sivaganga recorded no fresh cases. A 78-year-old woman from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital on March 3 with complaints of fever for five days, cough for two days, and difficulty in breathing for a day. She tested positive the next day. She died on Saturday morning. The hospital cited COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause of death. Of the 33,52,322 passengers who have entered the State through various routes, 7,090 have tested positive, according to health officials. The State has so far conducted 1,78,46,391 RT-PCR tests, with 1,75,29,190 persons tested.  Among the districts with the highest number of cases, Coimbatore reported 49, Chengalpattu, 45, and Tiruvallur, 38||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-infections-zoom-past-500-for-third-day-251-cases-in-chennai/article34015908.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal accuses DMK of lifting MNM’s ideas||MNM founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday alleged that the DMK had lifted several ideas of his party, including the monthly honorarium for housewives and broadband for rural areas. Speaking at a public meeting, Mr. Haasan said he was being forced to reiterate that the MNM introduced these ideas. “The reason why I keep repeating these things is that they will claim they came up with these ideas,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the Congress party, which fought against British rule, was now in an alliance with “dacoits”. “Those who say they don’t believe in a third front … held discussions with us. They say it is a rumour. I say it isn’t,” he said. He questioned the Left parties for having formed an alliance with the DMK “for a few seats”.  Those who say they don’t believe in a third front…held discussions with us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-accuses-dmk-of-lifting-mnms-ideas/article34016156.ece
08 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Undisclosed income of more than Rs. 1,000cr. found at two Chennai-based groups||The Income Tax Department found over Rs. 1,000 crore in undisclosed income and seized unaccounted-for cash to the tune of Rs. 1.2 crore during searches conducted on March 3 on the premises of two Chennai-based groups, including a leading bullion trader in Tamil Nadu and one of the biggest jewellery retailers in south India. A source, who took part in the operation, said its focus was on Lalithaa Jewellery and Shiv Sahai and Sons, and searches were carried out on 27 premises located in Chennai, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchi, Thrissur, Nellore, Jaipur and Indore. Evidence found at the premises of the bullion trader revealed unaccounted-for cash sales, bogus cash credits from its branches, cash credits into dummy accounts in the guise of an advance for purchases, unexplained cash deposits during the demonetisation period, bogus outstanding to sundry creditors, and huge, unexplained stock variations. The evidence found on the premises of the jewellery retailer revealed that the taxpayer had received and repaid cash loans from local financiers, given cash loans to builders and made cash investments in real estate properties, made unaccounted-for gold bullion purchases, claimed wrongful bad debts, and inflated wastage in the conversion of old gold into fine gold and in jewellery making. Further investigation is on.  Searches were carried out on 27 premises in Chennai, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchi, Thrissur, Nellore, Jaipur and Indore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/undisclosed-income-of-more-than-rs-1000cr-found-at-two-chennai-based-firms/article34015858.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M to raise $2 million||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) has planned to raise a $2 million endowment by the end of the year to fund projects, recruit, develop and nurture women faculty, researchers and students. The ‘Women Leading IITM’ programme will receive the inaugural grant on Monday, International Women’s Day. The Institute proposes to raise the amount through its alumni and CSR grants. Each year, grants will be provided to accelerate women technologists’ careers. In the first year, the endowment fund aims to grant Rs. 70 lakh. Corporate organisations and alumni who wish to contribute may do so through:https://joyofgiving.alumni. iitm.ac.in/endowmens /other/women-leading-iitm -endowment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-to-raise-2-million/article34016139.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GEM hospital gets new centre of excellence||Governor of Telangana and Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday virtually inaugurated a ‘Minimally Invasive Gynaecology Surgery Centre of Excellence’ at GEM Hospital here. Speaking at the inauguration, which was arranged as part of the International Women’s Day celebration, Dr. Soundararajan extended her wishes for the new centre to contribute towards betterment of women’s health. Stressing on the need for early detection of cancers, such as cervical cancer and breast cancer, C. Palanivelu, founder and chairman, GEM Hospital, said the lives of cancer patients were becoming better with new methods of diagnosis and treatment like laparoscopy and robotic surgeries. “Minimally invasive surgeries offer added advantages in terms of lesser blood loss, smaller scars, lesser pain, faster discharge and earlier initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy,” he added. S. Asokan, CEO, GEM Hospital, said that apart from the focus on benign gynaecological conditions, such as fibroid uterus, ovarian cyst and malignant gynaecological conditions, the new centre would help in further focusing on urogynaecological issues, such as urinary incontinence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gem-hospital-gets-new-centre-of-excellence/article34016140.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh norms issued for travellers||E-pass is compulsory for all international and domestic passengers who land in the city except those from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry. Business travellers arriving in Chennai will be exempt from home quarantine if they are here for a stay of 72 hours, according to the new rules issued by the State government. Transit passengers from the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, whose final destination is Tamil Nadu, should have a COVID-19 negative certificate and must also give a swab for testing at the airport. Passengers landing in Tamil Nadu from Europe and the Middle East (except United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa) will have to submit a self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal (www.newdelhiairport.in) before they travel and also declare their travel history (of 14 days ahead of travel). Passengers from Kerala and Maharashtra must go through seven days of home quarantine and also monitor their health for another seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-norms-issued-for-travellers/article34016148.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeman to contest from Thiruvottriyur||Naam Tamilar Katchi coordinator Seeman on Sunday introduced the party’s 234 candidates — an equal number of women and men — at a public meeting held at Royapettah in Chennai. With 117 men and 117 women candidates seated on either side of the stage, Mr. Seeman stood in the centre and delivered a speech focusing on his favourite topics — making agriculture a government enterprise, eliminating corruption, criticising the policies of the Dravidian parties and the greatness of Tamil language and culture. However, after declaring that he would take on DMK president M.K. Stalin at Kolathur, Mr. Seeman announced that he would seek election from Thiruvottriyur in Chennai. Referring to the equal number of women and men candidates, he said, “This is our duty. We don’t say a woman is equal to a man. We consider men and women equal. We cannot free our land if our women are not free.” Mr. Seeman said he was going it alone because there were no worthy allies willing to stamp out corruption. “I am not ready to lose the final victory for a temporary loss. We have a dream. We are standing for the truth, and we will win,” he said. “Wait and see. I will give farmers aged above 60 a pension. We are importing food but exporting cars. I will reverse this trend,” he said in remarks aimed at critics. He criticised the successive governments of the Dravidian parties for announc- ing farm loan waivers without trying to prevent farmers from getting into debt. Veteran filmmaker Bharathiraja was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeman-to-contest-from-thiruvottriyur/article34016159.ece
08 March 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin, Sonia phone call sealed the pact||A phone call between DMK president M.K. Stalin and Sonia Gandhi late on Saturday night sealed the Assembly election seat-sharing deal between the DMK and the Congress, a source in the national party in Delhi said. DMK MP Kanimozhi also played a role in bringing together the two sides, sources in the two parties said. With the Congress unwilling to scale down its demand for 30 seats [it later pitched for 29 seats], Mr. Stalin is learnt to have stepped in and spoken to Ms. Gandhi over the phone and offered 25 seats to the Congress. Mr. Stalin also offered a Rajya Sabha seat to the Congress, though this does not figure in the official announcement made on Sunday morning. “The offer of the Rajya Sabha seat sealed the deal for us. The top leadership of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee was brought on board to discuss the issue and everyone agreed that the party should take the offer,” the Congress source said. Sources in the two parties said Ms. Kanimozhi had engaged with the Congress over the past four to five days and convinced them of the need to fight the polls together. With almost all the alliance parties, barring the CPI (M) agreeing to the offers made by the DMK to each of them, the Congress found itself in a difficult position of having to go it alone, or fight in another alliance -- a prospect that was ruled out by Congress Rajya Sabha MP P. Chidambaram on Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-sonia-phone-call-sealed-the-pact/article34015906.ece
08 March 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Whitewash||Special Correspondent   No doubt the poll announcement by the Election Commission of India has caught everyone by surprise, but one group was left pretty disappointed — wall painters. After the announcement, as is procedure, all walls have been washed clean of poll graffiti. Before the announcement came, a group of painters say they had contracts to paint several walls. But even before they could start their work, they had to erase all the graffiti!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whitewash/article34015875.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Damaged roads trouble residents||Every few metres or seconds road users are forced to pump breaks to negotiate damaged stretches on roads or avoid falling or damaging bumpers in Cheran Managar or areas south thereof. For, the Coimbatore Corporation that had dug the roads to lay water supply pipelines was yet to restore the damaged road or rebuild the roads, complained residents while adding that they were undergoing the ordeal for over a new year now. In Cheran Managar, the Corporation dug all areas except the main road – the bus route – over a year ago and the bus routes a few months ago. When it started the work, the digging was along the road for laying the main supply line. Thereafter the Corporation cut across the road to provide house service connections. As a result, the corporation had reduced the motorable road width by not only half but also made it worse by cutting across the stretch, said N.R. Ravishankar, a resident and president Consumer Awareness and Protection Association. He said the association had written to the corporation in this regard in October 2019 but there was no solution in sight. South of Cheran Managar, in around six localities that are north and south of the Kumudham Nagar Main Road, the plight of motorists is no different. The worst place to drive around were the roads in the area during monsoon, said resident S. Padmanabhan. The damaged roads posed a threat to the safety of motorists, particularly during night and led to accidents between two-wheelers and four-wheelers as the riders while suddenly swerving vehicles right or left to avoid riding over the damaged stretches hit cars. Mr. Padmanabhan also said that the contractor who had laid the pipelines should have at least restored the road surface by flattening them for easy ride. Sources in the corporation said while it was true that the roads were damaged for over a year, the civic body had taken steps to repair them. It had a couple of weeks ago began work to restore the roads. In the next couple of weeks, the corporation would rebuild all the damaged roads in the area and also in other areas in Ward 32, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/damaged-roads-trouble-residents/article34016160.ece
08 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Technical glitches delayed issuance of vaccination certificate: CMCH||Following complaints of delay in the issuance of certificate and reference number to takers of COVID-19 vaccine, the administration of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday said that it was due to technical glitches. CMCH Dean A. Nirmala said that the hospital received a few complaints from vaccine takers who were not issued reference number or certificate of the administration of the vaccine. A vaccine taker, a doctor who did not want to be named, claimed that he did not receive the reference number even after taking the second shot. Officials overseeing the administration of vaccine at the hospital said that there was a delay in the issuance of certificate and reference number to persons who walked in to the centre without registering their names in the portal and apps as recommended by the government. App upgraded Persons, who were administered the vaccine when the version of one of the apps for registration was upgraded, were also not issued the reference number or the certificate. Registration of the details of such beneficiaries were to be upgraded soon, according to the officials. With a large number of beneficiaries having administered the vaccine from the centre at CMCH, the procedure saw a delay, they said. Dr. Nirmala said that necessary action has been taken to rectify the issue at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technical-glitches-delayed-issuance-of-vaccination-certificate-cmch/article34016163.ece
08 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TPDK to support DMK-led front||Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) has decided to support the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led Secular Progressive Alliance in the coming Assembly elections. It would conduct innovative campaign in constituencies where the BJP would contest, the outfit’s general secretary K. Ramakrishnan told reporters here on Sunday. According to him, the TPDK chose to support the DMK front because the BJP that ruled in the Centre and the “AIADMK that was subservient to it” had frittered away hard-fought social justice, state’s rights and linguistic rights to pave way for the return of ‘Manu Dharma’. Therefore, it became imperative to defeat the BJP and AIADMK. Only if the DMK were to return to power would it be possible to stop the BJP juggernaut in the State, make Tamil Nadu a truly secular state and ensure social justice, he contended. ‘A betrayal’ The AIADMK allocating 20 seats to the BJP was a betrayal of its founder M. G. Ramachandran’s ideals and also of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s stand, who in the last election asked the people to choose between ‘lady or Modi,’ Mr. Ramakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpdk-to-support-dmk-led-front/article34015898.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK writes to CEO on extension given to corporation official||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Coimbatore East Urban unit in-charge N. Karthik has written to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Tamil Nadu, on the extension given to and transfer of an assistant commissioner in the Coimbatore Corporation. Transferred Mr. Karthik alleged that at the behest of Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, the corporation had transferred from South Zone to West Zone Assistant Commissioner Ravi, who was on extension. Mr. Ravi, who had served for five years in the South Zone, was on extension since 2018. The corporation had last extended his service by a year on June 30. Now, with his transfer to the West Zone, he would be in charge of the area comprising the Government College of Technology, Thadagam Road, where the counting for the 10 Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district would take place. The officer, who had his service extended because of the Minister, could act in the latter’s favour. Probe sought The CEO should probe the extension given to Mr. Ravi and his transfer to the West Zone, Mr. Karthik said in the letter and added that it should ensure fair conduct of election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-writes-to-ceo-on-extension-given-to-corporation-official/article34016161.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BJP following fascist principles: CPI||The victory of DMK-led front in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections will be for the good of not only the State but the country, said D. Raja, national general secretary of Communist Party of India (CPI). Speaking at a function here on Sunday, he said there is a need to protect the country’s secular nature, social justice, and economic equality. The BJP is following fascist principles. The BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is having policies that will enable corporate companies realise huge profits. That is why it has come out with anti-farmer and anti-labour policies. Any political party that joins hands with Mr. Modi and talks of welfare of Tamil Nadu is not genuine, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-following-fascist-principles-cpi/article34015910.ece
08 March 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Include freeing temples from govt. control in manifestos’||Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev on Saturday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and DMK president M.K. Stalin to include the assurance of freeing temples from the State government control in their respective election manifestos. In an open letter shared on Twitter, he called on both the leaders to highlight the intentions and plans in their manifestos to hand over the management of the Tamil Nadu temples to the hands of devotees. “I have requested the Chief Minister and the Opposition Leader to declare their intent with regard to freeing temples in State control. We cannot preside over decades of neglect and apathy. Amounts to spiritual suicide for Community [sic],” he said in the tweet. The letters also presented other demands such as revitalising River Cauvery and enhancing incomes of farmers. According to a press release, Isha volunteers submitted the letters in person on behalf of Mr. Vasudev to Mr. Palaniswami and to Mr. Stalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-freeing-temples-from-govt-control-in-manifestos/article34015896.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||Officials engaged in poll duty on Sunday seized Rs. 1.04 lakh in Mettupalayam Assembly constituency. Another team of officials seized 24 liquor bottles and 66 other items in Singanallur Assembly constituency, said official sources. Forms distributed The day also saw booth-level officers go door-to-door to distribute Form 12-D to enable voters exercise their franchise through postal ballots. The officers gave the forms to those voters who were over 80 years of age and differently abled, whom they identified from the voters’ list. The officers also gave the forms to those who had tested COVID-19 positive by obtaining the list of such persons from the office of the Deputy Director, Public Health. While giving the forms to the COVID-19 positive persons, the officers followed all the safety protocols, the sources added. The day also saw Assembly constituency-wise training to personnel who would be manning the polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-officials-seize-cash/article34015897.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Siblings found drowned in water tank||A man and his sister who allegedly went missing from their house at Periyanaickenpalayam here on Saturday, were found dead in a water tank on Sunday. The police suspect that the two ended their life as they had left a note stating that no one was responsible for their leaving the house. The deceased were identified as P. Arunkumar (25) and his sister P. Preetha (30), residents of J.M.G.R. Nagar at G. Kavundampalayam.  Complaint lodged The police said that the siblings’ mother P. Alamelu lodged a complaint on Saturday night stating that her son and daughter were missing. Their father had passed away five months ago. Her complaint said that the siblings left the house around 3 p.m. after which they did not return. IT employee According to the police, the youth who was working in the IT field and his sister, a mentally challenged woman, were found dead in a tank near their house. The bodies were retrieved and sent to a Government hospital for post-mortem. The police said that the siblings were reportedly not happy with the way their mother treated them after their father’s death.  Helpline  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-found-dead-in-water-tank/article34015900.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested||The Peelamedu police arrested two persons who robbed a man of his money by threatening him using an air pistol and knife on Saturday. The arrested have been identified as S. Ravi (33) from Poonga Nagar at Civil Aerodrome post and S. Logeshwaran (23) from Ashok Street (North) at Udayampalayam. They took away Rs. 1,300 from P. Nagarajan (36) of Sowripalayam when he was walking near SIHS Colony. They were produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested/article34016164.ece
08 March 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery, cash recovered, one held||A special team of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Saturday arrested a Kerala-based history-sheeter who stole 17.5 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 2 lakh from a house at Negamam, near Pollachi. A. Sajath (61), a native of Nedumangadu in Thiruvananthapuram district in Kerala, was arrested by a special team led by Pollachi Deputy Superintendent of Police K.G. Sivakumar and Negamam inspector D. Vetrivelrajan. The special team arrested him from the toll gate at Thuvakudi in Tiruchi on Saturday and brought to Negamam. It recovered 17.5 sovereigns of jewellery, Rs. 2,05,000 and a two-wheeler from him.Sajath was produced before the second judicial magistrate court at Pollachi and the court remanded him in judicial custody. The police said that the man was involved in several thefts and housebreaks in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-arrested/article34015899.ece
08 March 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Veerappan||L. Srikrishna   Sandalwood brigand Veerappan’s wife V. Muthulakshmi offered prayers at a Kali temple in Dindigul district to ensure the DMK’s victory in the ensuing poll. Speaking at a function, she said the Vanniyars in the State could not be deceived by the AIADMK government with the 10.5% reservation. She took a pledge at the temple that the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) would be defeated for its shady deal “that was announced in a hurried manner”. She also said that the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s soul would not allow such mischievous acts of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veerappan/article34015873.ece
08 March 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance work at Periyandipalayam sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on March 9 (Tuesday) at Uthukuli Road, Melapalayam, P.K. Pudur, Paniyampalli, Thottampatti, Vaipadi Pudur, Kavundampalayam, Madukattipalayam, Elayampalayam, Thulukampalayam and Palani Andavar Steels area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34015892.ece
08 March 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Occupy Walls||S. Prasad   All major parties are yet to announce candidates for the Assembly election, but the DMK, the main Opposition, has already taken over most of the space on the walls in the district. The party has left space relating to names of the candidates blank, but has filled the remaining space with its party symbol and slogans on walls in several villages in Rishivandhiyam and Kallakurichi Assembly segments. Confident that the party will put up its own candidates after finalising sharing of seats with allies, the DMK cadre say they just have to fill in the names when the announcement is made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/occupy-walls/article34015874.ece
08 March 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle checks intensify||Close on the heels of frequent seizure of cash, election officials have intensified vehicle checks in the district. Of the four Assembly constituencies: Karur, Aravakurichi, Krishnarayapuram and Kulithalai in the district, the first and second have been classified as sensitive constituencies in terms of expenditure. Even before the announcement of poll dates, main political parties such as DMK and AIADMK swung into election mode and intensified electioneering. There were allegations that many voters in Karur constituency were given stainless steel plates, saris and dhoties. Many believe that the first round of distribution is over and more rounds are to follow once the seat sharing talks end and candidates are announced by the AIADMK and the DMK. On their part, the officials have put the election machinery on alert to seize illegal cash, gifts and materials. At least six instances of transport of cash and materials were reported in the district since the model code of conduct came into being. On Sunday, a team of officials intercepted a car on Karur-Erode road. They found cash to the tune of Rs. 67,500 in it. Sivabalan of Madurantagam in Chengalpet district, who was travelling in the car, did not possess valid documents for the cash. The cash was subsequently seized and handed over to the Treasury Department. In another incident, the officials seized Rs. 1.05 lakh from Sudhakaran of Mannachallur. It was seized when the officials checked his vehicle at Vathiam in Kulithalai constituency. With the two seizures on Sunday, the total amount seized in the district has gone up to about Rs. 8 lakh since the enforcement of model code of conduct took effect on February 26. Collector S. Malarvizhi said that vehicle checks had been intensified in different parts of the district. Eighteen static surveillance teams and 18 flying squads have been formed to enforce model code of conduct. They have been tasked to check all vehicles entering the district and they would function on round the clock basis. They have been asked to check the distribution of cash or gifts to voters if any. Karur and Aravakurichi constituencies have been brought under close surveillance, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-checks-intensify/article34015868.ece
08 March 2021||Kathelene Antony,TAMIL NADU||Throw your garbage, learn about the jab||In an attempt to encourage city residents to get vaccinated against COVID-19, Tiruchi Corporation has begun airing recorded audio messages through its solid waste management vehicles. Details of those who are eligible to be vaccinated under phase III of the COVID-19 vaccination roll-out, where they can get the jab, and its importance are conveyed through the messages. The move will help the information reach the people, especially older residents who are the target group of the current vaccination drive, senior officials said. Along with the early morning whistle of the garbage collection vehicle, one can also learn about the eligibility criteria for the COVID-19 vaccine and where one can get the jab. It is the most effective way to reach more number of people, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu . “We did not have to invest in any additional equipment. The speaker was already fitted on the vehicles which were playing a Swachh Bharat theme. A separate audio file was recorded and is being played,” he said. The audio message says the jab can be taken at government healthcare facilities for free, while at empanelled private hospitals, it would cost Rs. 250. The Corporation Commissioner too was heard speaking on the audio, requesting the public to remember their responsibilities as citizens. “Senior citizens who live alone, or those with no access to news will be informed this way. Vaccination is the only way to fight against the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Meanwhile, according to data compiled by the Directorate of Public Health for Tiruchi district, members of the public over the age of 60 were receiving the COVID-19 jab actively. “While healthcare workers and frontline workers continue to hesitate due to various reasons, senior citizens are taking the injection with enthusiasm. They are among the most affected groups by the viral infection, and so, they want to stay safe,” a health official said.  Those eligible to take the vaccine under phase III of the vaccination drive can either register themselves onwww.cowin.gov.inor approach the nearest government healthcare facility or an empanelled private hospital with a photo identity card and Aadhaar card to receive the shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/throw-your-garbage-learn-about-the-jab/article34016285.ece
08 March 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Periyar statue vandalised||A statue of social reformer “Periyar” E.V. Ramasamy installed at Samathuvapuram here was found vandalised on Sunday. Residents staged a protest demanding immediate action against the miscreants. According to police, unidentified persons flung a burning tyre on the Periyar bust. The area residents condemned the attack and demanded action. They wanted an iron fence erected around the statue. Maharajakadai police are inquiring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/periyar-statue-vandalised/article34015893.ece
08 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dust, gravel and a backbreaking ride||Residents and vehicle users complain about the appalling condition of Thathaneri Main Road at Kailasapuram in the city which leads to Thathaneri cremation ground. The State Highways department is relaying Thathaneri Main Road between Arapalayam bridge and the cremation grounds. The road is being relaid under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development programme. The entire stretch is riddled with potholes. It has been almost 20 days since the Highways department filled the stretch with crushed stone, said P. Selvaraj, a meatshop owner. “However, no further step has been taken to relay this stretch of the Thathaneri Main Road,” he said. Residents as well as vehicle users are put to much hardship because of the dust pollution on this stretch. “The fine dust settles down on the doors of shops and houses, causing severe inconvenience to the public,” said Mr. Selvaraj. J. Narasimhan, a functionary of Communist Party of India (Marxist), said the residents had staged several protests demanding that the Thathaneri Main Road be relaid. “Though some portion of the Thathaneri Main Road has been relaid, the authorities must expedite to complete the work on the entire stretch,” he said. V. P. Manikandan, a social worker who conducts last rites for abandoned persons, said this was an important stretch as many people travel to the cremation ground through this route. He stressed the need to expedite the road relaying work. An official from the State Highways department said the road will be relaid within the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dust-gravel-and-a-backbreaking-ride/article34016211.ece
08 March 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Emphasis on protecting dignity of special children at home, outside||The Special Needs Park near Lotus Tank on Alagarkoil Road here reopened on Sunday after a gap of nearly a year since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Madurai Group Living Foundation, which runs the park, organised an event to celebrate the International Women’s Day to coincide with the reopening of the park. S. Selvagomathi, Managing Trustee of SOCO Trust, said special children had all the basic human rights as any normal child. Human dignity must be ensured to special children at home and in public spaces. The schools and colleges must be inclusive of special children and ensure their participation. The government’s policies played an important role in forming community-based living for the special children and their parents, she said. M.D. Vijayalakshmi, a counsellor, said every parent of a special child must be confident, motivated and accept their children. She said a special park must be opened in every two wards of the city. “In other parks, the special children are often ridiculed, which disheartens the parents,” she said. T. Bhuvaneshwari, Principal of Aakash Special School, said there was a lack of awareness about special educators. Although there are rules on inclusive education, most of the normal schools do not admit special children to their schools, she said. Moogambigai, who runs BUDS Special School, spoke about how to obtain I.D. card and monthly allowances for special children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emphasis-on-protecting-dignity-of-special-children-at-home-outside/article34016213.ece
08 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah stresses good Centre-State relations||A day after the BJP announced the candidature of former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan for the Kanniyakumar Lok Sabha bypoll, party leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday kicked off a ‘Send Pon Radhakrishnan to New Delhi’ campaign-cum-slogan in the district. Mr Shah, who hit the ground with the a door-to-door meeting of voters, harped on the need for good centre-state relations for development, and called for re-electing the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu in the Assembly election. The senior leader, who arrived at Thiruvananthapuram airport from New Delhi, landed by a helicopter at the AR Police Grounds. He was accorded a rousing reception by State BJP unit president L Murugan, senior BJP leader C T Ravi, Mr Pon Radhakrishnan, and AIADMK leader Thalavai Sundaram among others. The by-poll to the Lok Sabha constituency had been necessitated following the death of H Vasantha Kumar (Congress) last year. Addressing a BJP workers’ meeting, Mr Shah wished that the AIADMK-led combine must sweep the Assembly elections. The Home Minister said the Edappadi K Palaniswami government had ensured peace all through the last five years. Tamil Nadu had remained a peaceful state, which had attracted not only domestic investments from other States, but also been the most preferred destination for MNCs, he said. Earlier, he was accorded a “poorna kumbham’ reception at the Thanumalya Swami Temple, where he performed special pujas. Waving to the crowds at a rally from Chettikulam intersection, the BJP leader garlanded the statue of former Chief Minister and iconic Congress leader Kamaraj. After addressing a closed-door meeting with party functionaries at the Udupi Hotel, he left for Thiruvananthapuram at 3.15 p.m. In a chat with reporters, he said the crowd here showed that the people wanted the BJP combine to rule the nation. “When Ponnar [Pon Radhakrishnan] was an MP and central minister since 2014, he had brought in a number of development programmes for Kanniyakumari. All the good works would continue,” he said and wished the people elected him as their representative now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amit-shah-stresses-good-centre-state-relations/article34015860.ece
08 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Good Centre-State relations a must for development: Shah||A day after the BJP announced the candidature of former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan for the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha bypoll, party leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday kicked off a ‘Send Pon Radhakrishnan to New Delhi’ campaign-cum-slogan in the district. Mr. Shah, who hit the ground with a door-to-door meeting of voters, harped on the need for good Centre-State relations for development, and called for re-electing the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu in the Assembly election. He assured the electorate that the Union government would continue to implement its welfare programmes. Mr. Shah, who arrived at Thiruvananthapuram airport from New Delhi, landed by a helicopter at the A.R. Police Grounds. He was accorded a rousing reception by State BJP unit president L Murugan, senior BJP leader C.T. Ravi, Mr. Radhakrishnan, and AIADMK leader Thalavai Sundaram. The bypoll to the Lok Sabha constiteuncy was necessitated following the death of H. Vasantha Kumar (Congress) last year. Addressing a BJP workers’ meeting, Mr. Shah wished that the AIADMK-led combine must sweep the Assembly election. The BJP would help in taking the State to the top in all spheres of development through programmes from the Central government, he said. He said the Edappadi K. Palaniswami government had ensured peace in the past five years. Tamil Nadu had remained a peaceful State, and had attracted not only domestic investment from other States but also was the most preferred destination for MNCs, he said. For growth and development, a good understanding and working relationship between the Centre and the State was essential. With Narendra Modi at the helm of affairs in the Centre, the country would grow manifold to greater heights, he said. Urging the party workers and functionaries to ensure that the DMK-Congress combine was kept away from power, he said that they should not win as their agenda was entirely different and the “State would be ruined in all aspects”. ‘Be vigilant’ Mr. Shah appealed to the booth-level workers to be vigilant till April 6, the date of polling in Tamil Nadu. Earlier, he was accorded a ‘poorna kumbham’ reception at the Thanumalya Swami Temple, where he performed special pujas. In a brief chat with reporters, he said the impressive crowd showed that the people wanted the BJP combine to rule the nation. “When Ponnar was an MP and Central Minister since 2014, he brought in a number of development programmes for Kanniyakumari. All the good works will continue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-centre-state-relations-a-must-for-development-says-amit-shah/article34016158.ece
08 March 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Bring back nine fishermen jailed in Iran’||The Union government should help to immediately bring back nine fishermen from Kanniyakumari district, who had been detained in a prison in Iran for over a year, said International Fishermen Development Trust Founder P. Justin Antony here on Sunday. Submitting a memorandum to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was here to launch the BJP’s election campaign, the fishermen leader appealed to the Centre to pressurise the Iranian government to release the nine fishermen. The nine fishermen, who were employed by a Kuwaiti employer, had ventured into the sea on January 15, 2020. The Iranian authorities arrested them, who were engaged in deep sea fishing, on a charge of trespassing into the territorial waters of the country and jailed them. Several steps taken in the past had not yet fetched the desired results so far, Mr. Antony said and urged the Home Minister to intervene into the issue. The Home Minister, according to the fishermen leader, assured them that he would take up the issue through diplomatic channels and help to bring back the nine fishermen soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bring-back-nine-fishermen-jailed-in-iran/article34015886.ece
08 March 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Mini-marathon creates awareness among voters||A mini-marathon was organised here on Sunday to create awareness among the public on the importance of voting and to ensure 100% voting during the upcoming Assembly elections. The mini-marathon, organised by the district administration in association with the District Athletic Association and Arignyar Anna Government Arts College, was flagged off by District Collector K. Megraj at the college. The run was held under two categories - men (10 km) and women (6 km). N. Aravind of Muthayammal Arts and Science College finished first among men and R. Krithika from Selvam Arts and Science College finished first among women. The winners were awarded cash prize of Rs. 3,000. The first runners-up received cash prize of Rs. 2,000. Senior officials took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-marathon-creates-awareness-among-voters/article34015902.ece
08 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Congress and DMK begin seat-sharing talks||With the DMK in Tamil Nadu sealing a seat-sharing deal on Saturday night with the Congress for the April 6 election, negotiations began to reach an understanding between the principal parties in Puducherry on Sunday. The initiation of talks also puts to rest speculation of the DMK wanting to break away from its ally for this election and go it alone. In fact, in January, the party executive committee meeting had even given a clarion call to its cadre to prepare to contest all the 30 seats. Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam, former Minister M. Kandasamy and PCC chief A. V Subramanian met DMK conveners for Puducherry region R. Siva and S.P. Sivakumar at the PCC office. “As this was a preliminary meeting, the discussions were more of a broad nature, where both sides presented their views and suggestions,” Mr. V. Narayanasamy told reporters later. The allocation of seats among the Congress, the DMK and other parties under the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance will be finalised during subsequent negotiations. “Only the first round of talks has taken place. The sharing of seats will evolve over ongoing talks,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. In the 2016 election, the Congress contested 21 of the 30 constituencies while the DMK fielded its candidates in nine Assembly seats. The combine came to power, winning 18 seats (Congress-15, DMK-2 and an Independent). The exit of several Congress leaders from the party ahead of the poll has opened up a handful of seats. “Today's meeting was only a general consultation and we have given the Congress a wish list of seats to be contested. We wanted to contest more seats this time but a final call on the number of seats will be decided by our party president and the Congress high command,” said a DMK leader. “We are sure of arriving at an amicable solution. There will not be any issues as DMK leaders have reiterated that the relationship with the Congress is ideological and is not purely based on numbers. The seat-sharing talks will be concluded in two to three days,” a senior Congress leader told The Hindu . Mr. Narayanasamy said the negotiations between the two parties, which share the goal of defeating the communal forces, went smoothly. The election manifesto of the Congress would be prepared with a focus on Statehood and safeguarding the identity of Puducherry, he said. The leadership had also started deliberations with the Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Kathchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-and-dmk-begin-seat-sharing-talks/article34016262.ece
08 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination among senior citizens clocks a healthy rate||The immunisation against COVID-19 among senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with underlying morbidity clocked a healthy rate with over 3,000 persons getting their first dose in the first week of rollout. During the last 24 hours, 652 persons in the target group took the jab against 268 healthcare workers and 185 frontline workers. According to official data, 3,195 target beneficiaries had taken their first shot in six days, quickly outstripping the 3,099 frontline workers to date to be immunised over 23 days. So far, 17,243 persons, including 10,949 healthcare workers, have been vaccinated in the Union Territory. Meanwhile, the Union Territory saw 25 new cases being reported and 22 patients registering recovery. Cuddalore district reported 13 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 25,231. In Villupuram district, four persons tested positive. No positive case was reported in Kallakurichi district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-among-senior-citizens-clocks-a-healthy-rate/article34016261.ece
08 March 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Member removed||The Congress on Sunday removed from the party A.K.D. Arumugam, former member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) for “anti-party activities”. Puducherry PCC chief A.V. Subramanian said that Mr. Arumugam had been permanently removed from all responsibilities in the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/member-removed/article34016263.ece
08 March 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Two die in accident||Two passengers, including a woman died, and 29 others were injured after an omni bus rammed a paddy harvesting vehicle on the Tiruchi-Pudukottai national highway at Bommadimalai near Keeranur, early on Sunday. The deceased were identified as A. Saranya (26) of Ramanathapuram and C. Venkatesh (23) of Tirunelveli. The bus was on its way to Rameswaram from Chennai when it overtook a lorry and collided head-on with the paddy harvesting vehicle that was oncoming in the opposite direction at around 3 a.m. The bus overturned a few metres away from the spot in the impact of the collision, said police sources. Senior police officers rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers who were caught inside the vehicle. The bodies were taken for autopsies to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital where the injured passengers were sent for treatment. Police said the bus was plying at high speed and rammed the paddy harvesting vehicle. The Keeranur Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-in-accident/article34015867.ece
08 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Abdul Kalam’s elder brother dies at 104||Mohammed Muthu Meera Lebbai Maraikayar, the elder brother of former President of India A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, passed away at his residence in Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram district on Sunday. He was 104. According to family members, Maraikayar, who was born in November 1916, breathed his last in the evening. Though he had some age-related issues, he attended to his daily routines even on Sunday morning, they said. Like the former President, Maraikayar also lived a simple life and helped the needy in the neighbourhood. “Fond of the late President, he always urged the youngsters to acquire knowledge and disseminated the ideals of Kalam Ayya to think big,” Salim Kalam, his grand nephew, said. Abdul Kalam was the youngest of the five siblings. The last rites of Maraikayar would be performed on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kalams-brother-dies-at-104/article34015861.ece
08 March 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Kalam’s elder brother dies at 104||Mohammed Muthu Meera Lebbai Maraikayar, the elder brother of former President of India A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, passed away at his residence in Ramanathapuram district on Sunday. He was 104. According to family members, the centenarian, who was born in November 1916, breathed his last in the evening due to age-related issues. He was normal and attended to his daily routines as usual even this morning, they said. Like the former President, his elder brother also lived a simple life and helped the needy in the neighbourhood. “Fond of the late President, he always stressed the youngsters to acquire knowledge and disseminated the ideals of Kalam Ayya to think big,” Salim Kalam, his grand nephew said. Kalam was the youngest among the five siblings, who hailed from Rameswaram. The last rites of Mohammed Muthu Meera Lebbai Maraikayar would be performed on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kalams-elder-brother-dies-at-104/article34015907.ece
08 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||New park to come up near Yercaud lake||The Horticulture Department has begun works to set up a new park near the Yercaud lake for the upcoming Summer Festival in the hill station. According to official sources, the department is readying about 3 acres of land under its control near the lake to set up new attractions for the tourists. The existing trees on the land would be retained and new ornamental varieties would be planted. The park is expected to be readied for the Summer Festival. The department already maintains six parks- Anna park, Lake park, Rose Garden, Government Botanical Garden I and II and Genetic Heritage Garden. Meanwhile, works are under way for the flower show at these parks. Flower pots According to officials, about 10,000-12,000 flower pots will be on display at the Government Botanical Garden II. The department is planning to introduce exotic varieties such as Gerbera and Gavioli this year. The department has also planted 675 rose varieties in these parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-park-to-come-up-near-yercaud-lake/article34015905.ece
08 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Four counting centres in Salem||The district administration has identified four places to set up counting centres for the Assembly elections to 11 constituencies here. According to election officials, the counting centres are as follows: Karuppur Government Engineering College for Omalur, Mettur, Salem West and Salem North constituencies; Ganesh Arts and Science College (Ammapet) for Yercaud, Salem South and Veerapandi constituencies; Maruthi Educational Institutions (Thalaivasal) for Attur and Gengavalli constituencies; Swamy Vivekanandha Naturopathy and Yoga College and Vivekanandha Pharmacy College for Women for Edappadi and Sankagiri constituencies. Works are under way to set up various amenities at these centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-counting-centres-in-salem/article34015904.ece
08 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem sees six new COVID-19 cases||Six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Sunday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Of the eight cases reported in Namakkal, three persons had returned from Chennai, Erode and Bengaluru. Krishnagiri reported eight new indigenous cases and Dharmapuri three new cases. Erode reported 12 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-sees-six-new-covid-19-cases/article34015894.ece
08 March 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Glaucoma Awareness Day observed||The Eye Foundation and the School of Allied Health Sciences, Vinayaka Missions Research Foundation, organised a human chain as part of Glaucoma Awareness Day here on Sunday. According to a release, over 200 students formed the human chain and held awareness placards on glaucoma. Vishnu Kupusamy Ponraj, CMO of The Eye Foundation, inaugurated the programme and emphasised the importance of annual eye check-ups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/glaucoma-awareness-day-observed/article34015903.ece
08 March 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Cannot blame DMK for allotting only 25 seats to Congress’||The DMK could not be blamed for allotting only 25 Assembly seats to the Congress, said senior leader of the national party P. Chidambaram in Sivaganga on Sunday. Addressing a meeting of party workers at Keezhaseevalpatti in Tirupathur Assembly Constituency, he said that in 2011, the Congress was given 63 seats, and it won five of them. In the subsequent election (2016), the party got 41 seats and emerged victorious in eight seats. Hence, the party could not find fault with or blame the DMK for giving 25 seats now. The need of the hour was, Mr. Chidambaram said, the party should work hard and win all the 25 seats. This would give the much-needed fillip and rejuvenation for the party. To achieve this goal, the party had to have a time-bound plan. The agenda was clear: to keep the AIADMK away from power and to ensure that the BJP did not win even a single seat. By doing so, the DMK-Congress combine could restore their lost glory and legacy in Tamil Nadu, he said. The BJP, he said, was a “poisonous plant” and should not be allowed to grow in Tamil Nadu. The Congress, with its rich tradition as a national party, would strive to bring back the sheen to the Tamils and the Dravidian culture by a landslide victory, the Congress leader said. The AIADMK, in order to retain power, had allowed the BJP into Tamil Nadu, he charged. Both Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam would have to pay the price for committing such a blunder, he said. He appealed to the party workers to campaign vigorously. Mr. Chidambaram said that he would start campaigning against the BJP candidates across the State soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cannot-blame-dmk-for-allotting-only-25-seats-to-congress/article34015882.ece
08 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA emerges winner||SASTRA Law School emerged winner yet again in the 11th K.R. Ramamani Tax Moot Court competition, organised by SOEL, Chennai. In the last eight years, SASTRA has won five times, increasing its competitive foothold in tax law moot, a press release said. This time, an all women’s team, comprising Pratiksha Easwar, Aravindini U. and Kavitha Ravi, won the trophy. A total of 30 teams had participated — the highest till date. In the finals, SASTRA Law School prevailed over NLIU Bhopal to be adjudged the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-emerges-winner/article34016150.ece
08 March 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA emerges winner||SASTRA Law School emerged winner yet again in the 11th KR Ramamani Tax Moot Court competition organised by SOEL, Chennai. In the last eight years, SASTRA has won five times increasing its competitive foothold on Tax Law Moot, a press release issued by the deemed to be university said. This time, all women's team comprising Pratiksha Easwar, fifth year BCOM LLB (HONS), Aravindini U (fifth year BA LLB (Hons) and Kavitha Ravi (Fifth year BA LLB (Hons) won the trophy coinciding with the International Women's Day. The moot problem was on an intricate issue on curative and retrospective provisions of Section 40 of the Income Tax Act. 30 teams A total of 30 teams had participated, highest till date. Symbiosis Pune, TNNLU Tiruchi, Law Centre 1, Faculty of Law Delhi, RGNUL Punjab, Christ University Bangalore, Nirma University Ahmedabad, and NLIU Bhopal made it to the quarter finals. In the semi-finals, SASTRA beat Christ University and in preliminary round a premier National Law School. In the finals, SASTRA Law School prevailed over NLIU Bhopal to be adjudged the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-emerges-winner/article34015863.ece
08 March 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Face masks mandatory at polling stations’||Conducting intensive campaigns across the district for 100 % voting, the officials led by District Election Officer K Senthil Raj said that all the eligible electorate should cast their votes without fail on April 6. Launching a skating rally at the Roche Park, he said that the Election Commission of India had already organised special camps to enrol the qualified persons. Hence, those whose names figured in the voter list, should exercise their votes without fail, he said. The district election wing had also organised Rangoli, folk arts, silambam and ' poi kaal kuthirai" by artists to create awareness among the public about the significance of casting their votes. Dr Senthil Raj said that with covid-19 pandemic, the ECI had given a number of guidelines to be followed by the officials at the time of polling. For the benefit of the voters, the number of polling stations had been enhanced from 1603 to 2097 in the district. The objective was to ensure physical distancing. Face Masks were mandatory for the voters, while stepping into the stations. He said that 247 polling stations in the district were identified as sensitive from various angles. Later, he went around a few polling stations in the Corporation limits and checked for basic amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/face-masks-mandatory-at-polling-stations/article34016286.ece
08 March 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Cast your votes’||Conducting intensive campaigns across the district for 100 % voting, the officials led by District Election Officer K Senthil Raj said all the eligible electorate should cast their votes without fail on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cast-your-votes/article34015883.ece
08 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Poochorithal festival held||Devotees in large numbers offered flowers to Goddess Sri Mariamman and worshipped the deity at the Arulmigu Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram near here in connection with the annual ‘Poochorithal’ festival that commenced on Sunday. The festival started in the morning with ‘Vigneshwarar pooja’, ‘Punyaka vaajanam’, ‘vaasthu santhi’ and ‘anguraarpanam’. Temple officials carried flowers in baskets and plates made of bamboo in a procession and offered them to the deity. Following this, devotees carrying flowers were allowed to offer them to the deity at the shrine. The ‘Poochorithal’ (flower sprinkling) festival is one of the important religious events at this temple. During the festival, flowers are sprinkled on the goddess at the sanctum sanctorum. The festival marks the commencement of the holy fast (Pachai Pattini Viratham) by Goddess Mariamman starting from last Sunday of the Tamil month ‘Maasi’ to the last Sunday of the Tamil month ‘Panguni’. Devotees would offer flowers to the goddess on all the Sundays during the course of the festival. During the holy fast period, the Goddess would be offered ‘Thullu Maavu’, buttermilk, sugarcane juice and tender coconut juice instead of ‘Thaligai’. A heavy posse of police personnel was deployed in Samayapuram town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poochorithal-festival-held/article34015862.ece
08 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DMK meet leads to traffic snarl on highway||Vehicular movements on both directions of the Tiruchi - Chennai national highway slowed down to a snail's pace in the late evening hours on Sunday due to the mega public meeting organised by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam adjoining the road at Siruganur near here. Party functionaries from various places in the State came by vehicles and converged at the venue to listen to the speech of M. K. Stalin. The heavy turn out of party functionaries for the mega meeting organised in the run up to the Assembly elections led to traffic snarls along the highway especially near Siruganur. Teams of police personnel were deployed to regulate vehicular movements along the highway. Police sources said the movement of vehicles remained slow from evening and continued even after the conclusion of the mega meeting. The traffic snarl was felt more towards the Perambalur side, while the carriageway towards Tiruchi was relatively better, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-meet-leads-to-traffic-snarl-on-highway/article34015864.ece
08 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Student drowns at Mukkombu||An 18-year-old college student drowned in the Cauvery river at Mukkombu near here on Saturday evening. Police identified the deceased as S. Manikandan of Vendhaikurichi near Manapparai. Manikandan who was a first year undergraduate student in an aided college in Tiruchi came to Mukkombu along with his friends. He ventured deep into the river apparently unaware of the depth and drowned. The body was retrieved later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-drowns-at-mukkombu/article34015869.ece
08 March 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 102.36 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 482 cusecs and the discharge was 1,500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34015870.ece
08 March 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to nab accused in elephant killing case||The Forest Department is using the assistance of the Nilgiris district police in tracing 31-year-old M. Ricky Rayan, one of the three men responsible for throwing a fire-bomb on an elephant in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), who has been absconding for the last one-and-a-half months. Speaking to The Hindu , Field Director of MTR, K.K. Kaushal, said that Rayan, who along with his brother M. Raymond Dean, and another resident S. Prasath threw the fire-bomb at the elephant, had switched off his mobile phone and is on the run. The other two men were arrested on January 22, after a video of the three men hurling a burning projectile at the elephant went viral on social media. Deputy Director of MTR, L.C.S. Srikanth, said that it is proving to be a challenge for the Forest Department to trace the accused. “We are receiving inputs that he is being seen in other districts, but we are unable to trace and arrest him. So, we are using the help of the police,” said Mr. Srikanth. Anticipatory bail which had been applied for by Ricky Rayan had earlier been rejected by an Ooty court. Officials added that efforts are continuing to book the two men, who are in judicial custody, under the Goondas Act.  Rayan has switched off his mobile phone and is on the run  K.K. Kaushal Field Director of MTR||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-nab-accused-in-elephant-killing-case/article34015909.ece
08 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||EVMs, VVPATs sent to seven Assembly constituencies||Electronic voting machines and VVPATs were dispatched to seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district from a godown here on Sunday. Amid tight security provided by armed policemen, ballot units, control units and VVPATs, following a randomisation process on Saturday, were handed over to Returning Officers of the constituencies. “Armed police personnel will accompany the EVMs from the godown to the strongrooms located in colleges in all seven constituencies,” said Virudhunagar District Returning Officer R. Kannan. The strong rooms would be sealed by the Returning Officers and armed guards would be posted there round the clock, Mr. Kannan said. “We have fixed closed circuit television cameras in the strong room for monitoring,” said Sivakasi Assembly Constituency Returning Officer C. Dinesh Kumar. The EVMs would be taken out for candidate setting after the final list of candidates were announced for each constituency. “The second round of randomisation will be taken up to allot EVMs and VVPATs for each booth in the constituency the day before polling,” Mr. Kannan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evms-vvpats-sent-to-seven-assembly-constituencies/article34015889.ece
08 March 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Invitations||S. Sundar ,  President of the S. Kallupatti panchayat in Virudhunagar district, C. Lakshmanan, has chosen to reach out to voters in a very traditional way — he has distributed printed invitations, stressing the need for 100% voter turnout on April 6, along with betel leaves and nuts. “This is the most respectful way of inviting people for functions in our houses. We chose the traditional way for voters too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/invitations/article34015872.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||358 active cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district had 358 active cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. This included 49 persons who tested positive for the disease on Sunday. According to the Health Department, 55 persons from Coimbatore district who were undergoing treatment for the disease got discharged from hospitals on Sunday after recovery. A total of 113 persons from Tiruppur district were undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the region. The district reported 14 new cases of the disease. The Health Department said that 22 persons from the district who recovered from COVID-19 got discharged from various hospitals. In the Nilgiris, six people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,389. The number of deaths in the district stood at 48 on Sunday while 35 people are undergoing treatment. Six persons tested positive in Salem. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Namakkal reported eight cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/358-active-cases-in-coimbatore/article34016165.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled persons being forced to opt for postal ballots, says association||Differently abled persons in various parts of the State are being forced to opt for postal ballots introduced for the first time for them in the ensuing Assembly election, according to Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC). Addressing journalists in Virudhunagar on Sunday, association State general secretary S. Namburajan said the association welcomed the new move as it would help bedridden persons and those with difficulty in mobility. “However, in the last few days, government employees are visiting differently abled persons at their homes with consent forms opting for postal ballots and compelling them to sign them,” he alleged. Such incidents had occurred in Tiruvannamalai, Krishnagiri, Thoothukudi and Thanjavur districts. “We have received complaints from people that if they do not give their consent, they are being forced to give in writing that they are not willing to opt for postal ballots,” Mr. Namburajan said. Once the differently abled persons signed the consent forms, they lost the right to visit the polling booth. The Election Commission, which had to provide hindrance-free environment for the aged and the differently abled at polling booths, wanted to ignore its responsibility and was acting against the rights of differently abled persons. The facility of postal ballots should be an option to those who could not make it to the polling booth based on their choice. However, the way the officials were dealing with it was against the independence of 10 lakh differently abled persons in the State. The Election Commission should order to stop such anti-democratic activities of goovernment employees, Mr. Namburajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-persons-being-forced-to-opt-for-postal-ballots-association/article34015888.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Do not close down fireworks manufacturing units, stop safety violations, says CITU||Virudhunagar district unit of Centre of Indian Trade Union has appealed to the State and Centre to set right violations of safety norms found in fireworks units to safeguard the lives of workers rather than suspend their licences. In a statement, unit secretary P.N. Deva and president M. Mahalakshmi have said that the special teams formed by the district administration have suspended the licences of 28 fireworks units after fatal accidents at two places that claimed 29 lives in February. Suspension of licences will lead to unemployment to workers and their livelihood will be affected. Circular The statement has also flayed Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation for its recent circular advising fireworks units to follow Supreme Court directives. Suspension of licences of 11 units by PESO for violation of safety norms will affect the fireworks industry. The action by PESO will cripple the industry. The officials, instead of suspending the licences, should regulate units that are found to have violated safety rules. “Otherwise, the government should provide wages to workers who lose their livelihood on account of closure of units,” Mr. Deva said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-close-down-fireworks-manufacturing-units-stop-safety-violations-says-citu/article34015887.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin promises Rs. 1,000 a month for housewives||The distribution of recycled water will be increased from 5% to 20%, Mr. Stalin said. Placing a special thrust on agriculture, he said the green cover will be increased from 20.27% to 25% by covering an additional 7.5 lakh hectares. Mr. Stalin said the allocation for education and health will be increased three-fold and efforts will be made to bring down the school dropout rate from 16% to 5%. “We will set up model schools and hospitals in all panchayat unions. The number of doctors, nurses and engineering graduates will be doubled,” he said. Mr. Stalin said it was his vision to make Tamil Nadu “a State of beautiful cities”, and promised drinking water supply to 36 lakh more households.“All urban areas will have solid waste management projects. By constructing 9.75 lakh concrete houses, we will reduce the figure of those living in huts from 16.6% to 5%,” he said. As for rural development, he said 20 lakh concrete houses will be constructed to increase coverage from 57% to 85%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-promises-rs-1000-a-month-for-housewives/article34016287.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin promises Rs. 1,000 a month for housewives||The distribution of recycled water will be increased from 5% to 20%, Mr. Stalin said. Placing a special thrust on agriculture, he said the green cover will be increased from 20.27% to 25% by covering an additional 7.5 lakh hectares. Mr. Stalin said the allocation for education and health will be increased three-fold and efforts will be made to bring down the school dropout rate from 16% to 5%. "We will set up model schools and hospitals in all panchayat unions. The number of doctors, nurses and engineering graduates will be doubled," he said. Mr. Stalin said it was his vision to make Tamil Nadu "a State of beautiful cities", and promised drinking water supply to 36 lakh more households. "All urban areas will have solid waste management projects. By constructing 9.75 lakh concrete houses, we will reduce the figure of those living in huts from 16.6% to 5%," he said. As for rural development, he said 20 lakh concrete houses will be constructed to increase coverage from 57% to 85%. Broadband, roads that can withstand any calamities, and drinking water supply to every village were among his other promises.  We will set up model schools and hospitals in all panchayat unions. The number of doctors, nurses and engineering graduates will be doubled||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-promises-rs-1000-a-month-for-housewives/article34015865.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Women’s Day celebrations||Sri Shanmugha College of Engineering and Technology, Salem : 11 a.m.  V.M.K.V Engineering College, Salem: 10 a.m.  Muthayammal Memorial College of Arts and Science, Rasipuram: 10 a.m.  Muthayammal Engineering Institutions, Rasipuram : 2 p.m.  Trinity College for Women, Namakkal : 2 p.m.  P.K.R. Arts College for Women, Gobichettipalayam: 11 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science, Erode: 10 a.m.  Builders Engineering College, Kangeyam: 10 a.m.    V.M.K.V. Engineering College: Virtual campus drive, 2.30 p.m.    K.S.Rangasamy College of Technology: Webinar series on ‘Database Management Systems’, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-day-celebrations/article34015901.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Government Arts and Science College, Lalgudi: International Women's Day celebration, talk by D. Palaniammal, Inspector, All Women Police Station, Lalgudi, College Principal K. Mariammal presides, 10.30 a.m.  Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: International Women's Day celebration, talk by Pudhugai Bharathi, College Secretary and Former Vice-Chancellor of Bharathidasan University K. Meena presides, 10.30 a.m.  Kalai Kaviri College of Fine Arts: International Women's Day celebration, Second Judicial Magistrate D. Triveni and transgender folk artiste K. Varsha deliver talks, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article34016284.ece
08 March 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Demand for reservation justified’||The demand by some groups to provide reservation to various communities in proportion to their population is justified, B. Sriramulu, Social Welfare Minister, said in Hubballi on Sunday. “Several communities are asking for higher quantum of reservation or re-categorisation of reservation. Kurubas are demanding to be listed under Scheduled Tribes, while Panchamsali Lingayats are demanding to be moved to 2A from 3B among Backward Classes. Leaders of these communities are saying that such issues could be resolved if the total quantum of reservation increased. There are suggestions that SC reservation be increased to 17%, ST to 7.5%, and the total reservation slab could be increased in proportion of other backward castes. The State government is considering all these suggestions,” he said. He was speaking after inaugurating Ambedkar Bhavan in Hubballi built at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore. The Minister said that he would request Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to increase the quantum of reservation. “We know that the demand for increasing the quantum of reservation has been pending. Implementation of the recommendation of Justice Nagmohan Das Committee is being delayed. Senior Cabinet members like Jagadish Shettar has supported adding Kurubas to the Scheduled Tribes list. We will try to resolve all these issues after convincing the CM,” he said. He said the State government will work towards strengthening government hostels and residential schools and colleges. “At present, over 1.68 lakh students study in government hostels. We hope to increase that and to provide better amenities to them,” he said. He hoped that Ambedkar Bhavans would evolve into institutions that will provoke a new thought and promote the spirit of inquiry. He said that PM Modi had implemented several programmes to popularise the work of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar across the world. He gave away incentives, cash prizes, and scholarships to students, children of Devadasis, and inter-caste couples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-reservation-justified/article34015925.ece
08 March 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sriramulu defends Ministers going to court||Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu defended some Ministers who went to court seeking injunction against defamatory content against them, saying that some political forces were trying to target them to tarnish them.  ‘Character assassination’ “Some political forces are indulged in character assassination of Ramesh Jarkiholi and other Ministers, only because they defected from the Congress to the BJP,” the Minister said in Hubballi on Sunday. “Those Ministers have gone to court now as they have got a hint that they could be targets of such propaganda too. That explains why they have sought injunctions,” he said. “Such incidents bring pain and embarrassment when we realise that there is such propaganda against those who brought our party to power by sacrificing their positions. But we hope that they will get justice in inquiries and the court,” he said. He suspected that such political forces were likely to make allegations against leaders who left the Congress to join the BJP. “We all know that the allegations against the leaders are baseless. But if they were allowed to be broadcast, then the leaders will suffer great insults. That is why they have gone to court,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sriramulu-defends-ministers-going-to-court/article34015940.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A new normal, complete with fresh vernacular||On March 8, 2020, when news of the first COVID-19 case hit Karnataka, no one could have imagined that the novel SARS-CoV-2 would bring in a “new normal”. Now, exactly a year on, our very vocabulary has been altered, with terms such as “pandemic”, “social distancing”, and “lockdown” becoming everyday words. In one year, COVID-19 has infected over 9.5 lakh people and claimed the lives of over 12,000 in the State. Nearly 43% of the total caseload and over 36% of the total fatalities are from Bengaluru Urban. The country’s first death was reported from Kalaburagi on March 12, 2020. The pandemic that shook the government health authorities also made them realise that combating the disease meant strengthening the surveillance system as well as coordinating with the private healthcare sector. There were many lessons to be learnt along the way, through trial and error. Early experiments Karnataka started its combat against the pandemic by converting the government-run Victoria Hospital into a dedicated COVID-19 facility. However, when the disease started spreading, the Health Department roped in private hospitals, most of whom were reluctant to turn into dedicated facilities initially. A centralised bed allotment system was worked out, but only after patients lost their lives waiting for beds. One of the few States to have taken the assistance of a Technical Advisory Committee and an expert committee in pandemic management, Karnataka strengthened surveillance for early detection and isolation. Logistics for contact tracing and control measures were put in place. A war room was set up and eight in-house applications developed for better management. Testing labs and critical care facilities, including providing oxygenated beds, were ramped up exponentially in the public health sector, even though there were allegations of corruption in the process. Wake-up call “The pandemic was a wake-up call for comprehensive, up-to-date policies. We have learnt how effective implementation of preventive steps need to be scaled up by partnering with the general public,” said Giridhara R. Babu, a TAC member. “Investments in public health with evidence-based approach are the need of the hour.” TAC chairman M.K. Sudharshan, who asserted that Karnataka had performed fairly well when compared to other States, said testing, contact tracing, and screening of international travellers were the State’s strengths. “But we could not properly triage and monitor patients under home isolation. This coupled with complacency in people resulted in home-isolated patients landing in hospitals with complications. Also, targeted testing was an issue as people did not cooperate,” he said, before adding that things were looking up on that front now. V. Ravi, former head of the Department of Neurovirology at National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, who was tasked by the Indian Council of Medical Research to assist the State in setting up more laboratories, said the testing facilities were scaled up to 175 by November 30, from 10 in April. Dr. Ravi, who is also a member of the TAC and the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said the State had failed to inculcate COVID-appropriate behaviour among people. “We did not communicate well and this remains a weakness even today,” he said. ‘Don’t drop guard’ C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, said although the vaccine had arrived people should not let their guard down. “COVID-appropriate behaviour is more important now when a second wave is expected. Just because the vaccine has come, it does not mean the virus has disappeared,” he said, emphasising the need for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-new-normal-complete-with-fresh-vernacular/article34015930.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘APMCs in State have started reporting reduction in arrivals’||Karnataka has already provided the first signal of the destruction of the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) owing to changes brought in to the APMC Act, said Yogendra Yadav of Samyuktha Kisan Morcha on Sunday and added that the average arrivals of farm produce in the APMCs across the State had already reduced despite an increase in production. Listing out details of a few crops in the State, Mr. Yadav said the arrival of paddy in the APMCs had reduced by 27%, maize by 26%, toor by 24% and chana by 29%. This despite 8% increase in production of paddy, 26% in maize, and 16% in toor, he pointed out. He said the data had been compiled between May 15, 2020, when the new the APMC legislation that brought decontrol came into effect, and February 28.The decline is in comparison with the corresponding period of the previous year, he added. “The APMCs will lose their significance after the decline in arrivals by 60% to 70%. The Prime Minister may ask you for examples of the APMC being closed due to the new laws. The closure will be gradual. Probably by fourth year, the APMCs will start shutting down as arrivals decline.” MSP losses Mr. Yadav also said that while the Prime Minister speaks about the minimum support price (MSP) not being withdrawn, farmers currently were not getting the MSP. “As per the government figure, 72% of crops in Karnataka are sold below the MSP. It is a cruel joke on farmers. Under the current MSP formula, farmers in 2019 alone lost Rs. 3,119 crore for selling their produce below the MSP. If the same is calculated as per the recommendation of the M.S. Swaminathan Commission, the losses will amount to more than Rs. 20,300 crore.” For illustration, he quoted the prevailing price of several produce on Saturday in Ballari as against the MSP fixed for them. He said the implementation of the MSP shows the political will to do so. “As per our calculation, the State government may have to spend around Rs. 10,000 crore annually to ensure farmers gets a scientific price under the MSP.” Mr. Yadav said the Samyuktha Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading protest in Delhi for over 100 days, wanted to expand the protest to different parts of the country in the next phase. “We are witnessing a historic farmers’ strike, and there has been insincere efforts on the part of the Central government. It has been 100 days of repression on farmers by the arrogance of the government.  The Prime Minister may ask you for examples of the APMC being closed due to new laws. The closure will be gradual. Probably by fourth year, the APMCs will start shutting down as arrivals decline. Yogendra Yadav,Samyuktha Kisan Morcha leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apmcs-in-state-have-started-reporting-reduction-in-arrivals/article34015939.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Backbone of healthcare||Last April, a month after the pandemic hit Karnataka, a video clip of Sugandha Korikoppa, a nurse from Belagavi under quarantine, and her three-year-old daughter crying for not being allowed to go near her mother had gone viral on social media. In July, a 51-year-old senior staff nurse Selvi Pandian, who was in charge of the ICU in a private hospital in Bengaluru, battled for life in the ICU of the same hospital after her COVID-19 infection worsened. The irony was that there was no staff to attend to her, as most of her colleagues were also infected. She was shifted to the ICU in Victoria hospital; she died within a day. These nurses are just two among thousands of women, who have remained the backbone of the healthcare system when the pandemic was at its peak in Karnataka. While they worked endless hours in hospitals, they also faced stigma. There were stories of landlords asking those on COVID-19 duty to vacate their houses. “We entered the isolation ward wearing full-body protective gear, but our jobs carried the greatest risk of exposure. We could not have our food on time or even drink water frequently as we have to remove the protective gear.... But things have changed now, thankfully,” said Shanta M., Nursing Officer at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), that was the first hospital identified for COVID-19 treatment in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/backbone-of-healthcare/article34016109.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Battling ‘invisible enemy’||On March 31, 2020, during the lockdown, ACP Tabarak Fathima was patrolling Pulakeshi Nagar on her two-wheeler. She was not looking for offenders but talking to people about the pandemic and trying to raise the spirits of residents worried about what the future had in store for them. She used her loudspeaker to reach out to people holed up in their apartments and sang, ‘We shall overcome’ with them. ACP Fathima is among women personnel who put in long hours and sacrificed family time to ensure people’s safety. “Being a police officer and a COVID-19 warrior, we had to lead from the front,” she said. The months that followed were some of the most challenging times as the virus took its toll on society. From enforcing the lockdown to distributing rations and helping migrants, women police personnel were at the forefront. Rohini Sepat Katoch (currently heading cyber crime), then the DCP South, deployed beat constables along with push cart vendors to ensure everyone got essential supplies, and there was no hoarding. “Ensuring people stayed at home was a major challenge,” she said. As nodal officer, DCP Command Centre Isha Pant was coordinating with different agencies. “We were in a battle with an invisible enemy, and every move had to be well calculated. But we worked as a team,” said Ms. Pant. “Even Hoysala patrolling vehicles turned into make-shift ambulances and cab services to ferry people who were facing emergency situations. Having experienced this, now I feel confident that I can handle any situation,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/battling-invisible-enemy/article34016108.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Notice to Centre on plea on refixation of pension||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the Ministry of Defence on a PIL plea seeking direction to take immediate steps to refix the One Rank, One Pension (OROP) scheme for ex-servicemen with effect from July 1, 2019. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on a petition filed by 65-year-old G.B. Athri, a retired Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force. The petitioner has also sought a direction to the ministry to implement the recommendation of the one-man judicial committee resolving anomalies in the implementation of the OROP scheme to all those drawing pension as on July 1, 2014. It has been claimed in the petition that around 20 lakh ex-servicemen and four lakh widows were awaiting refixation of the OROP scheme as the cost ofliving had gone up. Pointing out that OROP was notified on November 7, 2015, with retrospective effect from July 1, 2014, the petitioner said that as per the feature of pension under OROP, the scheme was required to be refixed once every five years. The petitioner pointed out that he had submitted a representation to the ministry in September 2019 and in November 2019, and the ministry had informed him that action for revision of pension under OROP had been initiated and a committee was set up on June 14, 2019, to work out out modalities and methodology of implementing the next revision of pension. It was also claimed in the petition that the ministry had refused to give him a copy of the recommendation of the one-man judicial committee, saying the report was not yet in public domain and was under consideration of an internal committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notice-to-centre-on-plea-on-refixation-of-pension/article34015929.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru’s journey from calm to storm and back||When the first COVID-19 case was reported in the city a year ago, little did anyone imagine the paradigm shift it would bring to the way we lived; masks, sanitisers, and social distancing have now become the norm. And Bengaluru, which to this day reports the maximum number of cases in the State, has gone through the whole curve — from strict lockdown to easing of restrictions, which caused a huge spike in cases, and a subsequent dip in cases. The city also witnessed a change in leadership, with the transfer of the then Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. Mr. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that several initiatives taken up in the city to contain the spread of the virus were a first in the country, including setting up a war room, defining containment zones, setting up COVID care centres, coordinating with RWAs, monitoring containment zones, and supplying essentials and medicines to sealed areas/localities. Despite these firsts, cases in the city threatened to spiral out of control following the easing of restrictions. The only solution to check this, according to civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad, who took over from Mr. Anil Kumar, was to ramp up testing of the targeted population, including those with ILI/SARI, senior citizens, and those with co-morbidities. From around 5,000 tests a day, the numbers were increased to nearly 60,000. The other challenges were the shortage of ambulances, enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviour, and dispelling fear and stigma by spreading awareness. Both Mr. Anil Kumar and Mr. Prasad maintained that the trajectory of the spread would have been quite different had private healthcare institutions joined hands with the government. “Government hospitals were overwhelmed and there was a shortage of beds. If the private healthcare institutions had come on board sooner, the number of fatalities could have been lower,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. His successor said that many came on board only after show-cause notices were issued and cases filed under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengalurus-journey-from-calm-to-storm-and-back/article34015931.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bringing petroleum products under GST will sound the death knell for States: HDK||Accusing the Union government of turning the anger among people against the rising petrol and diesel prices to start a debate on bringing petroleum products under the Goods and Service Tax (GST) regime, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said that such a move would sound the death knell to the economy of the States. The Union government is using the situation to initiate an organised discussion on the issue, the former Chief Minister said, taking to twitter. “The cess on petroleum products is among the important sourcesof income to the States. The Centre imposes huge taxes and collects revenue that is more than the collection of the States. Now, it is planning to take away the income of the States by bringing petroleum products under the GST.” He said the Union government had not shared the GST revenue as per the original agreement when States agreed to have the tax regime. “The compensation part and the share in GST revenue is yet to come. Several thousands of crores due is still pending. States are drained after repeatedly begging the Centre for their dues. The fate of State finances will further worsen if petroleum products are brought under the GST,” he added. Mr. Kumaraswamy warned, “In the absence of declining income and reduced funds for development works, there could be a situation where States have to present deficit Budget or reduce the size of the Budget. This will be going backward. Every citizen has to face the ill-effects of this.” He further said, “If the Union government is keen on bringing prices down, it should first reduce the taxes and then ask States to reduce the cess.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bringing-petroleum-products-under-gst-will-sound-the-death-knell-for-states-hdk/article34015938.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Adapting to new challenges||While the COVID-19 pandemic was undoubtedly challenging for the healthcare sector, it also brought about huge changes in the education sector. Teachers and college lecturers, a majority of whom are women, quickly adapted from the chalk and blackboard to screen, keyboard and the mouse. Teachers went beyond their call of duty and tried to make education accessible to students by finding donors who could provide gadgets so that students could attend online classes. In addition, a majority of teachers were roped in for COVID-19 duty as well and had to collect primary data. Pramila Shankar, vice president, Karnataka Government College Teachers Association, said many lecturers juggled between their college duties and the pandemic. “Even after colleges reopened, teachers continued to be on COVID-19 duty and were not relieved from other responsibilities. Many of them completed their work in the evening and would schedule classes after 6 p.m. so that they could conduct lessons in the interest of students,” she said. Padmalatha G., vice president, Karnataka State Primary Teachers Association, said that teachers were involved in various awareness programmes. They went on door-to-door campaigns and also conducted meetings among the local residents. “We were happy that our campaigns were very well received in villages. Teachers find it easy to persuade people as they have a strong rapport in the community,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adapting-to-new-challenges/article34016110.ece
08 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Soon, more greenery in Shivamogga||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said Shivamogga will look greener with the implementation of the Smart City project. Under this, 15 places in the city measuring 45 acres will be developed. Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in-charge of Shivamogga district, spoke after taking part in a programme at Keerthi Nagar in the city on Sunday. As part of the Smart City project, Rs. 2.46 crore would be spent on planting 8,630 saplings of 50 different species at Keerthi Nagar. The contractor would maintain the garden for three years. “We are committed to increase the green cover in the city. People’s cooperation is required to make the project a success,” he said. The project was done in some localities. The increase in the number of trees would make the city more comfortable for people, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/soon-more-greenery-in-shivamogga/article34015921.ece
08 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt., private hospitals to offer vaccination from today||From Monday onwards, the COVID-19 vaccine will be available in 41 government, and 8 private hospitals of Shivamogga district. All those aged above 60 and between 45 and 59 with comorbidities can visit any of these centres and get vaccinated, said Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar in a press release. Those between 45 and 59 years with comorbidities have to carry medical certificates issued by doctors, along with Aadhaar cards or any other ID proof. Healthworkers and other frontline workers can also get vaccinated at these centres. The vaccine is available for free at government hospitals. Private hospitals would charge Rs. 250. The list of the vaccination centres has been published online and the public can register by accessing the Arogya Setu application or on the Co-WIN portal, he said. Besides this, the district administration has set up a pink booth at Maternity Clinic at Tunga Nagar in Shivamogga to mark International Women’s Day. The DC appealed to the public to make use of the facility and get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-private-hospitals-to-offer-vaccination-from-today/article34016006.ece
08 March 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nod for new research centre||Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra has said the efforts to get a research centre of Defence Research and Development Organisation in Shivamogga received a positive response from the Centre. Two expert teams from DRDO had already visited the district, he said in a consultative meeting held in Shivamogga on Saturday. He chaired a meeting of scientists, research scholars and experts from different fields on submitting project proposals to seek a research centre and a laboratory of the DRDO. He had approached Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for the centre. Mr. Singh had responded positively. Later, a team visited Shivamogga in September 2020 and another team visited recently. “Shivamogga is rich with natural forestry. The forest produce could be considered for medicinal purposes. We need such proposals from the district to set up the research centre or a lab. I wish scholars and experts from different fields contribute,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nod-for-new-research-centre/article34016007.ece
08 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Panchamasalis want CM to set time limit||The ongoing political developments in the State, after the Ramesh Jarkiholi scandal, seem to have dissuaded the Lingayat Panchamasali community, which is on an agitation seeking inclusion under category 2A of the other backward classes list in the State, from intensifying the protest. However, the community is not happy with the decision of the State government on setting up a three-member committee headed by the former judge of the High Court of Karnataka to look into the demands to increase and make changes in reservation for various communities in the State, which are on the path of agitation. Committee opposed Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha, Kudalasangama, who came on a 700-km march to Bengaluru andis continuing his agitation in the State capital, told The Hindu he does not accept the government’s decision on the committee.“There is no time limit for the committee and moreover the committee’s terms of reference are broad comprising of demands from various communities. It will only further delay a decision,” the seer said. The community’s contention is that when the Chief Minister has already referred the matter to the backward classes commission seeking a detailed study, there was no need for another committee on the issue. But they seem to have softened their stand with regard to intensifying agitation. As per the earlier plan of action, the seer was to launch indefinite hunger strike by this time. But the political developments seem to have forced a postponement. “We want Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to fix a time limit for the commission by making a statement on the floor of the House during the ongoing Budget session of the State legislature. We want him to get a study report from the commission at the earliest and set a time limit. Any decision on the next step will be taken only after the CM’s decision during the session,” the seer said. Meanwhile, Tontada Siddarama Swami of Tontadarya Mutt, Gadag, has welcomed the State government’s decision on the committee as it would facilitate a comprehensive study and provide grounds for supporting the claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasalis-want-cm-to-set-time-limit/article34015936.ece
08 March 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KVG Bank to help farmers set up processing units||In a bid to help farmers set up cost effective processing units, the Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Our Food Pvt. Ltd., Visakhapatnam. According to the MOU signed recently, the vendor will ensure supply, delivery and installation of high quality, standardised and branded equipment/machinery as per the requirement of the farmer/farmer franchisee, and also purchase of processed products. The vendors also ensure regular recovery towards such loan accounts and also support the bank in end utilisation of the loan, a press release said. The MOU was signed in the presence of bank chairman P. Gopi Krishna, general manager Chandrashekhar D. Moro, and managing director of M/s Our Food Pvt. Ltd. Bala Reddy. Mr. Krishna said there was need for having MoUs with big companies for technology and marketing and observed that lack of such agreements will create problems of marketing the agriculture produce. Mr. Krishna said that through bank loan the firm would not only extend assistance in setting up processing units but also in procuring the processed materials and sell it to bulk buyers. Mr. Reddy said the company would motivate unemployed educated youths to establish processing units as per local requirements. Under the MOU, the company would ensure to the farmers 20% and 25% more than the market rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvg-bank-to-help-farmers-set-up-processing-units/article34015918.ece
08 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Jadhav: Institutions must create opportunities for the deprived||Highlighting the lack of opportunities for the students in rural areas, especially in backward regions like Kalyana Karnataka, Umesh Jadhav, MP, called upon the educational institutions to encourage the deprived minds by creating opportunities. He was addressing a public meeting after inaugurating National Science Day at the Regional Centre of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) here on Sunday. The event was organised by VTU in association with the Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology, the Indian Society for Technological Education, and the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers. “Scientific inventions can emerge from anywhere. A remote village can produce a great scientist. We have very talented young minds in the vast rural areas. They are unable to come out and flourish as they lack opportunities. The educational institutions and those in power need to put efforts to encourage those deprived people by creating better opportunities,” he said. N.V. Prasad, Regional Commissioner (Kalaburagi Division), expressed concerns over the falling quality of research in the study of basic science as a result of brilliant students increasingly preferring job-oriented and lucrative job-yielding courses instead of basic science. He stressed the need of making basic science an interesting subject of career-building to attract more students. Admitting the lack of opportunities to the students in rural areas, especially in areas like Kalyana Karnataka, Bhimashankar Bilgundi, president of the Hyderabad Karnataka Education Society, appealed to Dr. Jadhav and Mr. Prasad for help to address the issue. Baswaraj Gadgay, Regional Director of VTU, briefed how his institution was making serious efforts to create opportunities for the deprived classes and appealed to Dr. Jadhav to extend all possible support. Successful students in the essay competition that was organised were honoured with awards on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jadhav-institutions-must-create-opportunities-for-the-deprived/article34015923.ece
08 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Chitra Santhe registers drop in footfall this time||The change in location has impacted footfall at the 8th edition of ‘Chitra Santhe’ – an art festival organised by Drushya Belaku Samskritika Samsthe and Central University of Karnataka, Gulbarga University, and Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agriculture and Cultural Society, here on Sunday. Normally, art lovers and people in large numbers would visit the exhibition when it was conducted open air on the main streets of the city. This time, it was organised in an auditorium at Kannada Bhavan, and people said this was the main reason for the poor turnout at the Chitra Santhe. More than 240 professional artists and students of Bachelors and Masters in Fine Arts used to display their works, but this time only 90 artists participated. Many paintings inspired by photographs and combined with creative thoughts in different forms like abstract, charcoal sketches, portraits, fibre-works were on the display. 101-year-old artist Mallikarjun Korwarkar had put up his oil paintings on mythological subjects that remind one of the works of renowned artist S.M. Pandit. Mr. Korwarkar, from Kalaburagi, claimed that he was a student of Pandit. He said he did his diploma in painting from J.J. School of Art Mumbai in 1968 and then worked in Hindi films as a poster designer for five decades. “Inspired by the beautiful paintings of Kalatapasvi Dr. Pandit, I reproduced many of his paintings,” he says. The sale of paintings and artworks generated Rs. 95,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chitra-santhe-registers-drop-in-footfall-this-time/article34015922.ece
08 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Truck terminal to be built in all districts to deal with traffic||D.S. Veeraiah, president of D. Devaraj Urs Truck Terminals Ltd., said that truck terminals with all infrastructures will be built in all the district to reduce the traffic pressure. Addressing a press conference here recently, he said that the truck terminal building projects will be taken up under the public-private partnership considering the financial condition of the company. “We don’t have enough money to take up the project on our own. If the government provides more funds, we can build the truck terminals on our own. As of now, have planned to go ahead with the PPP model. Presently, we have truck terminals in Yeshwanthpur (Bengaluru), Dharwad, and Mysuru-Nanjangud Road. We have built one more at Dasanpur in Bengaluru on a 46-acre plot. We have also reserved 56 acres in Hubballi and 48 acres in Hosapete for building new terminals. We will gradually expand the truck terminal network across the State in the days to come,” he said. To a question, Mr. Veeraiah said that building a spacious truck terminal in Kalaburagi was on the top priority considering the heavy truck traffic in the region due to the presence of cement and other industries. “I have discussed with officials and told them our intention of building a spacious truck terminal on around 50 acres of land. They informed me of the availability of two plots – one near Kamalapur and other off Shahabad Road. We will finalise the plot and take up the project shortly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truck-terminal-to-be-built-in-all-districts-to-deal-with-traffic/article34015924.ece
08 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Manjamma Jogati’s autobiography selected as university textbook||Naduve Suliva Hennu , an autobiography of transgender folk artist and Padma Shri award winner B. Manjamma Jogati has been selected as the basic Kannada textbook for B.Sc. 4th semester of Gulbarga University. The autobiography, drafted by writer Arun Joladkudligi in Kannada and published by Pallava Prakashana, will remain as the textbook for the next three years starting 2021-22. Earlier, the Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University, Vijayapura, had introduced a part of Manjamma Jogati’s biography narrated Chandrappa Sobati in its textbooks. As per sources in the university, the publisher has been asked to prepare a 100-page concise summary of the work to increase readability. “The University Grant Commission had introduced the Choice Based Credit System to offer opportunities explore additional avenues of learning beyond the core subjects for the holistic development of an individual and the autobiography of Manjamma Jogati is selected as a textbook under this system. Earlier, autobiographies and biographies of great writers from the South or Coastal Karnataka region are normally selected as textbooks. Later, we decided to introduce local achievers who have made significant contributions in different fields – art, culture, music, politics, science and technology, spirituality and sports – along with the literature. I think we are the first university to introduce a complete autobiography of a transgender achiever as textbook for students,” H.T. Pote, chairman of the 10-member Board of Studies that selected the work, told The Hindu.  Thanking the university for selecting an autobiography of an achiever from “one of the most oppressed and humiliated communities”, Mr. Joladkudligi said the study of Manjamma Jogati’s autobiography would help students change their mindset towards the community. “Transgender community is one of the most oppressed and humiliated communities in India. The society never treated them as equal fellow human beings. Fighting against all odds and humiliations, Manjamma Jogati rose to emerge as a folk artist popularising the Jogati dance,” Mr. Joladkudligi said. Manjamma Jogati was the first transgender chairperson of the Karnataka Janapada Academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manjamma-jogatis-autobiography-selected-as-university-textbook/article34015920.ece
08 March 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Artworks from nine countries on display||The Indian Royal Academy of Art and Culture in collaboration with the Department of Fine Art at Nutan Vidyalaya Degree College will be organising the three-day Women’s International Art Exhibition and Women of the Year Award for 25 artists chosen from across the globe, from March 9. Kavita Patil, director, Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), will inaugurate the exhibition. Nutan Vidyalaya Society member Meena Patki Deshpande will be the chief guest on the ocassion. Artists from India, Austria, U.S.A, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Germany, Turkey, Egypt, and Nepal have mailed their works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artworks-from-nine-countries-on-display/article34015919.ece
08 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DVS: Turnover of Janaushadhi Kendras could touch Rs. 600 cr.||The Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda said on Sunday that the turnover of Janaushadhi Kendras in the country was likely to touch Rs. 600 crore during 2020-21. It was Rs. 7.29 crore back in 2013-14. Speaking at a videoconference meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Brahmavar in Udupi district while celebrating the Pradhan Mantri Janaushadhi Diwas, he said that between 1 crore and 1.25 crore people purchased medicines from Janaushadhi Kendras in the country monthly. The number of kendras stood at 7,500 now, from a mere 86 in 2014, he said. Now all the districts are covered by the scheme. “The scheme has a cascading effect on the citizens,” Mr. Gowda said, before adding that it had led to annual savings of about Rs. 3,600 crore for the common man. “The popularity of the kendras can be judged from the fact that people refer to them as Pradhan Mantri ji ki dukan .” The product basket of the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana(PMBJP) has evolved from a mere 131 products in 2014 to 1,449 medicines and 204 surgical items now, he said. The Minister said the kendras had served the people well during the pandemic. “The sale of medicines has actually increased, with a 60% growth in the first two quarters of 2020-21 when compared to the corresponding period of the last financial year,” he said. K. Padmanabha Kamath, interventional cardiologist and professor and head of the Department of Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, also interacted at the programme. The Cardiology at Doorsteps Foundation, founded by Dr. Kamath, has donated ECG machines to 30 Janaushadhi Kendras in six districts of the State. The trained personnel in those kendras conduct ECG tests for the needy. Later, the personnel at the kendras upload the ECG report to a WhatsApp group called ‘Kayakalpa’, created by the CAD Foundation. If emergency medical treatment is required, after reading the report Dr. Kamath suggests that such persons approach a nearby hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dvs-turnover-of-janaushadhi-kendras-could-touch-rs-600-cr/article34016218.ece
08 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Opportunity for budding artists to showcase their talent||Budding artists will get a huge canvas to showcase their talent soon, with The Hindu Young World and JSW Paints conducting ‘Futurescapes’, a painting competition for students from classes 3 to 12. It is open to students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana, along with the Union Territory of Puducherry. Entries for the preliminary round must be submitted by March 10. The topics for the competition for the sub-junior (classes 3 to 5) category are ‘dream home’, ‘family picnic’, and ‘my favourite animal’. For the junior category (classes 6 to 8), the topics are ‘favourite festival’, ‘fun with family’, and ‘wildlife safari’. The themes for the senior category (classes 9 to 12) are ‘colours of India’, ‘family vacation’, and ‘clean and green India’. Participants may choose one of the three topics in their respective categories and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm in width and 25.5 cm in height) using water colours, crayons, or colour pencils. Markers or sketch pens can be used only for outlining purposes. Go to www.ywc. thehindu.com/jswpaints to complete the online registration and upload a scanned copy of their work. Details A unique registration number will be generated after the upload is completed. The number must be written on the front side of the physical copy along with the topic chosen. On the back, entrants should fill out details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, State, category of participation, parent’s name, e-mail address, and mobile number. Physical copies of the paintings should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process with ‘JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021’ written on the top-left corner of the envelope. The physical copies of the works must reach the respective offices by March 10. Participants from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and neighbouring districts may send their paintings to The Hindu , No.23-9-655/1, Jeppu, Mangaladevi Temple Road, Mangaluru–575001. For details and clarifications, schools, parents, or students may contact Surendra K. Shetty on 94482 79124 or The Hindu office on 0824-2417575-80. They can also call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. (Monday to Saturday). Those who qualify for the finale will be intimated via the registered email address. Each participant can submit only one painting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opportunity-for-budding-artists-to-showcase-their-talent/article34016220.ece
08 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||One arrested for sale of newborn child||Unravelling a racket involving the sale of newborn babies, the Mangaluru City South police, in association with members of a Mysuru-based organisation working to prevent human trafficking, recently arrested a person from Mulky on the charges of selling a five-month-old girl child. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar identified the accused as Rayan alias Rayone, 30, who manages a chicken shop. Mr. Kumar told reporters that the helpline run by the Mysuru-based Odanaadi had received information about Rayan’s reported involvement in the sale of newborns to childless couples. Rayan was charging Rs. 6 lakh for a male child and Rs. 4 lakh for a female child. Siddhanth, a social worker of Odanaadi, and two of his counterparts acted as prospective parents and Rayan sought an advance of Rs. 1.5 lakh from them. A team of Mangaluru South police, led by sub-inspector Sheetal, accompanied the Odanaadi activists and arrested Rayan. On the basis of information divulged by him, the team rescued the five-month-old girl, who had been sold to one Kavitha, who in turn had sold the child to a woman in Karkala of Udupi. The child was sold a few days ago, Mr. Kumar said. The city police chief said that apart from enquiring into who had paid money to Rayan, the police would also question the child’s parents, who are said to be from Hassan. They are on the lookout for other persons allegedly involved in this racket. A case under Section 370 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered, he said. Mr. Siddhanth told reporters that there was suspicion about the involvement of an organised gang in the sale of newborns. The accused was approaching those with unwanted pregnancy and offering them money for delivering the child. The prospective buyers were being assured of getting birth certificates in their name and of getting “Taayi card”, which is issued to lactating mothers. “We suspect the involvement of doctors and government staff in this racket,” Mr. Siddhanth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-arrested-for-sale-of-newborn-child/article34016217.ece
08 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi hails service of cardiologist||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appreciated K. Padmanabha Kamath, interventional cardiologist and professor and head of the Department of Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College, for donating ECG machines to 30 Pradhan Mantri Janaushadhi Kendras in the State. He did so through the Cardiology at Doorsteps (CAD) Foundation, founded by Dr. Kamath to diagnose heart-related issues and save the lives of people at the last possible moment. Interacting via videoconference during the Pradhan Mantri Janaushadhi Diwas programme at Brahmavar in Udupi district, Mr. Modi said that Dr. Kamath had upheld the sanctity of the medical profession as people considered it a gift to serve mankind. “The doctor has inherited service-mindedness.” During the interaction, the doctor told Mr. Modi that over 100 heart attack complications had been averted through the strategic intervention of the ECG machines at the Janaushadhi Kendras in the past three years. Dr. Kamath also said that many people had mocked him when CAD Foundation decided to donate the ECG machines to the kendras. “But we had realised that there was a need for ECG machines in rural and remote areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-hails-service-of-cardiologist/article34016219.ece
08 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||46 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||With 16 new COVID-19 cases reported and 14 patients discharged, the active cases in Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday stood at 225. In Udupi, 30 cases were reported and three patients were discharged. The active cases stood at 101. As many as 2,436 persons aged above 60 and 288 persons aged between 45 and 59 and having comorbidities have so far received the first dose of vaccine in Dakshina Kannada, while 1,981 people aged above 60 and 73 persons aged above 45 have received the jab in Udupi. In all, 31,880 health workers and 5,823 frontline workers have received the first dose, while 14,559 health workers have received the second dose in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/46-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article34016223.ece
08 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP is not concerned about cattle’||The way the Kapila Park goshala was razed, leading to 250-odd head of cattle being stranded, showed the lack of concern that BJP leaders, including Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, have for cattle, said former Mayor Kavita Sanil on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Sanil said it was wrong on the part of the State government to raze the goshala without relocating the cattle. “If the same had been done under the rule of the Congress, then these fake cattle lovers would have created a law and order problem,” she said. Ms. Sanil said that the Congress was not against the Coast Guard Training Academy, which is coming up on that land in Kenjar. “There is a legal way to clear the encroachment of a piece of government land. The cattle should have been relocated before razing the goshala.” The district administration, along with the police, on March 4 razed the cowshed of the goshala, which had operated for more than eight years on 19 cents of land in Kenjar. Meanwhile, Prakash Shetty, the owner of land and trustee of the goshala, and other activists, under the banner of Vandemataram Go Samrakshana Samiti, plan to carry out a protest on March 11 demanding the restoration of the goshala. The protest will be staged near the mini-Vidhana Soudha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-is-not-concerned-about-cattle/article34016222.ece
08 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pilgrims injured||Twelve pilgrims from Arakere in Hassan district were injured after being hit by a tempo traveller near Charmadi on Sunday afternoon. According to the Belthangady traffic police, the pilgrims were walking (on their padayatra) to Dharmasthala as part of their vow for Shivaratri. Near the second turn of the Charmadi Ghat, the driver of the tempo traveller is said to have lost control of the vehicle and hit the retaining wall. The tempo traveller was also bringing pilgrims to Dharmasthala. The 12 pilgrims walking on the roadside and a few persons inside the tempo traveller were injured. One of the pilgrims, who fractured his hand, was taken to a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pilgrims-injured/article34016228.ece
08 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Convocation||Mangalore University has extended the last date to apply for receiving degree certificates at the 39th convocation till March 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/convocation/article34016230.ece
08 March 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Power cut||Power supply to Moodbidri town, Alangar, Kotebagilu, Beluvai, and Mijar will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cut/article34016231.ece
08 March 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fire at Pejawar Mutt||There was anxiety among the residents of Pejawar Mutt in Udupi after a fire broke out in a room at the mutt on Sunday. Fire and Emergency Services personnel rushed to the spot to put it out. According to the personnel, the fire was due to short circuit at an AC. It took about an hour for them to extinguish the fire. There was no damage. Seer Vishwaprasanna Thirtha was not in the mutt when the incident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-at-pejawar-mutt/article34016224.ece
08 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Water supply may not be affected this summer||The scorching heat building up in south Karnataka has brought the focus on drinking water issues and storage levels in major reservoirs in the region. Mysuru and surrounding areas are dependent on the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and Kabini reservoirs to meet their drinking water requirements and the situation is not as precarious compared to the recent past. Back-to-back copious rains for three years and the prolonged monsoon with unseasonal rains as late as in November and December ensured that the storage levels are comfortable. The water level at the KRS near Srirangapatana in Mandya district was 108.68 feet against the full reservoir level of 124.8 feet as on Saturday. Water at the rate of 30.43 tmcft was available for usage as on Saturday and this was more than sufficient to meet the drinking water requirements of the city and the surrounding regions. The water level at the KRS on the same day last year was 110.89 ft. The water level this year is comfortable compared to any of the preceding five years before 2020. It was 102.91 ft on March 7, 2019, 89.22 ft in 2018, 81.20 ft in 2017 and 91.43 ft in 2016. The available quantum in 2016 was at the rate of 16.81 tmcft compared to 30.43 tmcft available this year and hence the authorities are confident of meeting drinking water requirements. Sources in the Vani Vilas Water Works said the State’s obligation to the lower riparian State has already been met and hence there was no pressure to release water in peak summer. But the Irrigation Department has to manage the available water in a manner that does not deplete the level by releasing it from the dams to meet the requirements of the farmers in the region which tends to be the case during February/March. This will ensure that the drinking water crisis will not be an issue in the peak summer, they added. Mysuru receives drinking water from the Cauvery and the Kabini and with two perennial sources of water, supply should not be an issue. But notwithstanding the storage positions in the reservoirs, scarcity of drinking water does affect parts of the city and surrounding regions. This has more to do with the distribution system rather than depletion at source, said the officials.  New facility The city receives around 250 MLD (million litres a day) of water and there are plans for a new facility at Haleunduwadi which will augment the supply by another 150 MLD to cater to the future requirements of the city and also cover areas the Vani Vilas Water Works does not cater to given its infrastructure constraints. But Haleunduwadi located upstream of KRS is a work in progress for almost 10 years and has only received the administrative nod so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-supply-may-not-be-affected-this-summer/article34016009.ece
08 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Plans for Mysuru heli-tourism circuit afoot||Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar held talks with Pramoda Devi Wadiyar of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family on Sunday for setting up helipads at Lalitha Mahal Palace Grounds in Mysuru and Palace Grounds in Bengaluru as part of the State government’s initiative to begin heli-tourism. The State government plans to set up helipads in Mysuru and Bengaluru, besides other places of tourist interest in the State like Hampi, Jog Falls and Mangaluru, as part of its heli-tourism circuit. As the journeys by road or rail are time-consuming for the tourists, the government has proposed setting up helipads to faciliate the tourists to hop from one destination to another. The government has identified Palace Grounds in Bengaluru and Lalitha Mahal grounds in Mysuru for helipads. The meeting between Mr. Yogeshwar and Ms. Wadiyar was held to seek the royal family’s permission for the same. Already, the Lalitha Mahal grounds in Mysuru had been serving as a helipad for successive Chief Ministers and other dignitaries. However, the royal family had claimed ownership of the land on which the Lalitha Mahal helipad was situated following a High Court ruling and had erected a signboard warning trespassers of legal action. Mr. Yogeshwar, however, claimed that Ms. Wadiyar had responded positively to the heli-tourism project. He sought her suggestions to further promote tourism in Mysuru. He was accompanied by actor and chairperson of KSTDC Shruthi. Before meeting Ms. Wadiyar, Mr. Yogeshwar visited Sri Ganapathy Sachchidananda’s Ashram on Nanjangud Road on the outskirts of Mysuru and sought the seer’s blessings. He said Mysuru was known globally for its sandalwood, silk, handicrafts, Mysore Pak, and many other things. He said he would work on promoting ‘Brand Mysuru’ on the global tourism map. The tourism in Mysuru, which had sufferred a setback due to COVID-19, would be brought back on track soon. He added that efforts to celebrate this year’s Dasara festivities on a grand scale will begin months earlier. He said there was a need to have programmes in the evening in the city, which is also known as the cultural capital of Karnataka. Tourists should be offered interesting and engaging options so that they stay on for atleast two to three days in the city, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plans-for-mysuru-heli-tourism-circuit-afoot/article34016008.ece
08 March 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Opportunity for budding artists to showcase talent||Budding artists will get a huge canvas to showcase their talent. The Hindu Young World and JSW Paints are conducting ‘Futurescapes’, a painting competition for school students from Classes 3 to 12. Open for students residing in the southern States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana along with the Union Territory of Puducherry, entries for the preliminary round must be submitted by March 10.  Topics The topics for the competition for the Sub-Junior (Classes 3 to 5) category are ‘Dream Home’, ‘Family Picnic’, and ‘My Favourite Animal’. For the Junior (Classes 6 to 8) category, the topics are ‘Favourite Festival’, ‘Fun with Family’, and ‘Wildlife Safari’. The themes for the Senior (Classes 9 to 12) category are ‘Colours of India’, ‘Family Vacation’, and ‘Clean and Green India’. Participants may choose one of the three topics in their respective categories and paint on a white drawing sheet (32.5 cm width and 25.5 cm height) using water colours, crayons or colour pencils. Markers or sketch pens can be used only for outlining purposes. Participants can go to www.ywc.thehindu.com/jswpaints to complete the online registration and upload a scanned copy of their work. A unique registration number will be generated after the uploading is completed. The number must be written on the front side of the physical copy along with the topic. On the back, entrants should fill details such as name, class, school name (with branch), city, State, category of participation, parent’s name, registered e-mail address, and mobile number.  Submission Physical copies of the paintings with these details should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu as chosen during the online registration process with ‘JSW Futurescapes Painting Competition 2021’ written on the top left corner of the envelope. Participants from Mysuru and neighbouring districts may send their paintings on or before March 10 to The Hindu , No.23-9-655/1, Jeppu, Mangaladevi Temple Road, Mangaluru-575001. For details and clarifications, schools, parents, or students may contact Girish H.J. at 8139900021. They may also call the toll-free number 1800 102 1878 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. (Monday to Saturday). Those who qualify for the finale will be intimated through the registered email address. Each participant may submit only one painting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opportunity-for-budding-artists-to-showcase-talent/article34016005.ece
08 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘No politics behind Mysuru visits’||After his recent visits to Mysuru sparked speculation over his political ambitions, Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar clarified that he was repeatedly visiting the city only to promote ‘Brand Mysuru’ on the tourism map and there was no politics involved. Mr. Yogeshwar, who was in Mysuru on Sunday, his second visit in the last four days, told reporters that he was not eyeing the post of Minister in charge of Mysuru district that was held by Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar. However, he said he sought the post of Minister in charge of Ramanagaram district. But, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had not responded to his request yet, he added. He said the tourists were disappointed with the conditions in Mysuru and reiterated that he was only interested in resolving the situation and conceiving various projects that would help boost tourism in Mysuru. His clarification assumes significance as he was also in the news for the efforts he had made to contest the byelections from Hunsur ssembly constituency in Mysuru as a BJP candidate after former Minister A.H. Vishwanath had vacated the seat with other coalition MLAs in 2019. It may also be recalled here that the Election Commission had seized thousands of sarees bearing Mr. Yogeshwar’s photograph from a godown on the outskirts of Mysuru, weeks before the December 2019 byelections. However, Mr. Yogeshwar’s efforts were stymied by Mr. Vishwanath, who pressed for entering the electoral fray from Hunsur during the byelections. Mr. Yogeshwar had also incurred the wrath of Mr. Vishwanath, who had accused the former of plotting to ensure his defeat in the byelections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-politics-behind-mysuru-visits/article34016011.ece
08 March 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘We are afraid of damage to our reputation’||Justifying the move by six Ministers to seek injunction from the court against publishing or telecasting any defamatory content against them, Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar said the use of technologically advanced graphics to alter digital images posed a threat to their reputation. “We are all afraid of becoming a victims of advanced graphics and losing our respect and reputation,” he told reporters in Mysuru on Sunday.He said technology had made it possible for people to alter visuals, add fake audio, etc., today. “We are afraid of becoming victims of this technology. So, a few have approached the court,” he said. He said the political class was afraid of losing their respect and reputation in society. Hence, they had approached the court to stave off any attempt to tarnish their image in public. Pointing out that falsehoods spread fast, he said it took a long time for anything to be proven a lie. But, when anything appears in the media, people tend to believe it, he stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-afraid-of-damage-to-our-reputation/article34016010.ece
08 March 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Four arrested||The police arrested four persons and seized explosives at Aldal village in Surpur taluk of Yadgir district on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Moulali Mahebubsab, Ravi Sharanappa Biradar, Anand Reddy Sharanagowda Parasanahalli, and Shantagowda Madiwalappagowda. On Friday, the police conducted a raid on a stone-crushing site where there was a vehicle parked with explosives. They found 30 boxes, 25 kg each, of gelatin poster explosives and 150 non-electrical detonators were found. The accused failed to provide documents. The value of the seized explosives was Rs. 28,500. A case under Section 9B (1)(b) of Explosive Act 1884 and Sections 336 and 286 of IPC was registered in Kembhavi Police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested/article34015928.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmikas get recognition as ‘frontline workers’||They were the invisible force that kept the city’s solid waste machinery working – from ensuring that the waste in your house reaches the appropriate destination to clearing the streets of garbage so the ‘IT capital’ keeps up its global image. When the pandemic broke, they suddenly saw recognition, being hailed as ‘frontline workers’. The 18,000-strong pourakarmika workforce in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is constituted of mostly women. Three pourakarmikas died of COVID-19 in July when cases in the city were peaking at 6,000 a day. A month later, the BBMP informed the Karnataka High Court, which was hearing petitions on COVID-19 management, that 816 pourakarmikas, supervisors, drivers and helpers had tested positive. Today, the workforce is back to being inconspicuous. Nirmala from the BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha, pointed out that pourakarmikas worked really hard following the COVID-19 outbreak and struggled with no safety gear. “They were initially given sanitisers and masks. Now, forget sanitisers and masks, they don’t even have push carts for door-to-door collection, and have to spend their own money to buy brooms to clean our city!” she said. When Anjanamma, 45, a pourakarmika in Chokkasandra ward, Dasarahalli zone, contracted COVID-19, she had to take leave. She was assured that her salary would not be cut for the time she took leave to recuperate. More than six months later, she still is waiting for the one month’s salary that was cut. “Despite assurance from officials that our salaries would not be cut, many of us have not received wages for the period we were recuperating,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmikas-get-recognition-as-frontline-workers/article34016107.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Troops on the ground||In January 2020, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) had launched a massive indefinite protest demanding a fixed monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000. But their demands took a back seat when the pandemic started to make its presence felt in the State. Along with doctors and nurses, ASHAs played an important role in tackling COVID-19. Clad in their distinctive pink saris, they went into containment zones and areas where few dared to go. They were the ones knocking on doors, collecting data and surveying people with grim determination and often without adequate protective gear. “We were the first among frontline workers to spread awareness on COVID-19 early in March even before cases were detected,” said D. Nagalakshmi, State secretary, Karnataka Rajya Samyuktha Asha Karyakarteyara Sangha. Once cases started to rise, ASHAs kept track of residents who had a history of international travel. They were also involved in house-to-house surveys to map the vulnerable and elderly population, and screened SSLC and second PU students at examination centres. Sajidha, an ASHA who works in Shakthiganapathi Nagar ward, said their days stretched from three to seven hours. “There were days when we would sit on the roads at 10 p.m. and took on the role of watchmen to ensure that patients who tested positive were put in ambulances and taken to the hospital as many of them were reluctant to get admitted,” she said. Some of them bore the brunt of people’s frustration with the government or unwillingness to share details. But they did their job with dignity and grace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/troops-on-the-ground/article34016106.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Complainant wants to withdraw case||The woman is yet to be traced. Earlier, Mr. Kallahalli, through his advocate Kumar Patil, submitted a five-page petition to the Cubbon Park police requesting them to withdraw the case. “I am being targeted unnecessarily for performing my duties. It is like shooting the messenger. These baseless allegations are casting aspersions on my image. I have done my job and filed a complaint as a responsible citizen. Now, it is up to the police to decide. This does not mean that I have stepped back. I will challenge the allegations levelled against me legally and ensure that the victim will get justice,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Kumaraswamy on Sunday maintained that neither he had named Mr. Kallahalli nor had he accused him of seeking financial favours with respect to the CD scandal. “Have I said that he did it? Have I taken his name? So why should he feel hurt? I had spoken based on the information that I received over the last three months. I do not know why he has withdrawn the case. The government can still continue the probe into the case suo motu ,” Mr. Kumaraswamy told presspersons in Kolar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complainant-wants-to-withdraw-case/article34015937.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Rail to be integrated with other modes of transport’||Non-integration of various modes of transport is one of the major reasons why public transport is avoided by many. However, the proposed suburban rail project seems to address this issue. The Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Limited (K-RIDE) has said that more than 60% of stations coming under the suburban rail project will be linked with existing railway stations or metro stations. The K-RIDE is building a 148-km rail network having four corridors and proposes to construct 57 stations. K-RIDE is planning to build stations, which will be commercial hubs where people can work, park, shop and trade. K-RIDE MD Amit Garg said, “Suburban system will be not the only mode of travel. Our stations will be full of activities that include economy and social activities.” He said that two consultancies are on the job to identify how land parcels in and around proposed stations could be better utilised for commercial purposes. About the status of the project, he said that geo technical investigation has already begun and soon a tender will be floated for construction. The total cost of the project is Rs. 15,767 crore. He added that multilateral financing agencies from Germany and France have shown interest to finance the project. Kannada names The K-RIDE has decided to give Kannada names of flowers for the four corridors under the project: KSR Bengaluru City to Devenahalli will be called ‘Sampige’, Baiyappanahalli Terminal to Chikkabanavara will be called ‘Mallige’, Kengeri to Whitefield as ‘Parijatha’, and Heelalige to Rajankunte as ‘Kanaka’. The K-RIDE has named the entire corridor as Sa-M-Par-Ka (which also means network in Kannada). It will take six years to complete all the four corridors. In the first phase, K-RIDE will take up Corridor 2 and 4 for construction. The agency estimates that the suburban rail network will carry more than 10 lakh passengers every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-to-be-integrated-with-other-modes-of-transport/article34016105.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Former councillor’s employee found dead||A 30-year-old man working in the office of a former BBMP councillor allegedly died under mysterious circumstances in Kalasipalyam on Sunday. The deceased, Prabhu Pandi, was working in the office of Dhanraj, which is situated on the top floor of a residential building in Kalasipalyam. Body was on terrace According to the police, Prabhu was a native of Madurai. He was staying with his family in Kempegowdanagar. He started working in the office of the former councillor four years ago. On Sunday, a neighbour found Prabhu’s body on the terrace of the building and informed the police. The police rushed to the spot, and after a preliminary inquiry, shifted the body for post-mortem. While his family suspect foul play, the police are awaiting the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-councillors-employee-found-dead/article34016111.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Smooth surfer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smooth-surfer/article34016227.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man killed in accident||A 48-year-old businessman was killed and his family suffered injuries when the car they were travelling in overturned near Kodigehalli gate on NICE Road on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Pawan Kumar Jain. The injured are Pushpa Jain, 40, and their children Vinith, 23 and Varsh Jain, 18. According to the police, the family, residing in T. Dasarahalli, was heading to Krishnagiri to visit a temple. Byadarahalli police are awaiting a technical report from experts to ascertain the cause of the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-accident/article34015932.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Woman held for slapping police officer||Upparpet police have arrested a 40-year-old woman who allegedly slapped a traffic Assistant Sub Inspector and created a ruckus at Mysore Bank Circle after being caught for jumping a signal. The accused, Apoorvi Dias, 40, has been charged with assaulting a government servant, voluntary hurt and intentional insult to provoke. She was later produced in court and remanded in judicial custody. The accused is a homemaker and a resident of Nyanappanahalli. On Saturday afternoon, she, along with her family, was travelling by car towards Palace Road. They jumped the signal on K.G. Road. ASI Basavaiah K., who was on duty, stopped the car at the next junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-held-for-slapping-police-officer/article34015933.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Administrative powers seem to be getting more and more concentrated in the hands of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa(in picture). In the latest instance, his nod has been made mandatory for transfer of officials in 2021. Department heads have to move files through the Chief Minister and get approval for transfers. Moreover, officials are to be transferred and posted in places/offices where vacancies exist. This means a stop to mass transfer of officials this year. Principal secretaries and secretaries will be held responsible for transfer orders issued without the consent of the Chief Minister, according to an order issued by  the Additional Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister, E.V. Ramana Reddy.   Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj, who was among the six Ministers who sought and eventually got temporary injunction against publication of defamatory contents against him, was on a temple run in Dakshina Kannada district on Saturday and Sunday. Perhaps the Minister was seeking divine intervention, besides the judicial intervention, to remain safe from CD scandals. After arriving at Mangaluru International Airport on Saturday, Mr. Basavaraj rushed to the famous Naga temple at Kukke Subrahmanya. He then proceeded to the famed Sri Manjunatha temple at Dharmasthala. He visited yet another temple on Sunday before flying back to Bengaluru.   Mahesh Kumathalli(in picture), MLA, is a long-time follower of BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi. When the former Minister left the Congress to join the BJP, Mr. Kumathalli followed him. Mr. Kumathalli is also his strongest defender, even in the worst of times like the present. When Mr. Kumathalli went to see his leader in Bengaluru on Friday, he was mobbed by TV cameramen. Mr. Kumathalli, who is among the few defectors who could not make it to the Ministry, said the video was “fake” and that the featured man was not Mr. Jarkiholi. His reasoning was interesting: a prominent mole on Mr. Jarkiholi’s neck was not visible in the video, he said. Mr. Kumathalli said modern technological tools can plant false evidence against any “innocent man” and make it look real. He, however, remained silent when journalists asked him why the editors who could morph any image had not planted a mole on the neck of the man in the video.    It looks like it is difficult to let go off the resentment when one has been expelled from a party. An example of this is Dalit leader Vijay Guntral, who recently joined the AIMIM after being expelled from the Congress. Last week, Mr. Guntral sought clarification from BJP MLA Arvind Bellad on his statement against Muslim reservation under OBC quota. But soon after, Mr. Guntral spent hours attacking the Congress and wanted an answer from the party on why it was silent over the issue. Mr. Guntral insisted that the Congress should answer for the comment made by the BJP MLA. In his eagerness to criticise the Congress, Mr. Guntral even went to the extent of terming Mr. Bellad’s statement as “personal in nature and not related to the BJP”. When grilled by reporters, he said he would “also” launch an agitation against the BJP for the MLA’s remarks. Nagesh Prabhu Anil Kumar Sastry Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Girish Pattanshetti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34015935.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Sheni Gopalakrishna Charitable Trust: Memorial for the doyen of Yakshagana, the late Sheni Gopalakrishna, Harikathe Seetha Kalyana by Tonse Pushkala Kumar, Sharavu Mahaganapathi Temple, 4.45 p.m. Udupi  Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports: Shobha Karandlaje, MP, launches kayaking by women from Malpe Beach to St. Mary’s Island, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article34016221.ece
08 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Going strong with a never-say-die attitude||People have often proved that failures are stepping stones to success. When R. Jose from Vellarada in Thiruvananthapuram district failed in his Class 10 board exams in 1985, it wasn’t for him to dwell in negativity. He studied privately and cleared the SSLC examination a year after with a third class. He went on to pass pre-degree with a second class and later completed a bachelor’s degree and master’s degree in Political Science from the University of Kerala, securing first rank. At 50, Mr. Jose, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Dy.SP), Chegannur, has added one more feather in his cap by earning a doctorate degree, which he received recently from the University of Kerala for his research on Janamaithri Suraksha project. He says that life was never easy for him, but he confronts obstacles head-on with confidence. “I choose Janamaithri police as my research subject, as I am associated with the police. Although the Janamaithri was launched as a pilot project in 2008, no in-depth studies have been conducted on its impact. It took me six years for the research,” says Mr. Jose who did his PhD under the supervision of Associate Professor C.A. Josukutty, Department of Political Science, University of Kerala. Janamaithri project According to the study, the relationship between the police and the public has improved after introduction of Janamaithri project. “Although there is no decrease in the number of cases registered, violent and serious crimes have fallen. Another major finding is that there is considerable improvement in the conviction rate,” the Dy.SP says. Prior to joining the Kerala police as a sub-inspector in 2003, Mr. Jose, who also holds a bachelor’s degree in Library Science and MPhil in Human Rights, had stints as a clerk in the Rural Development Department and librarian at the University of Kerala. He had worked as a lecturer in a Government College before quitting to continue with the Police Department. The Dy.SP has to his credit 150 Good Service Entry, besides bagging the Chief Minister’s police medal. He has published 15 articles including in academic journals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/going-strong-with-a-never-say-die-attitude/article34015999.ece
08 March 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||4 held on theft charge||The Vallikkunnam police on Sunday arrested four persons, including two women, in connection with a theft in a bakery and attempted burglary in a jewellery shop at Choonad Junction. The arrested have been identified as Nithin, of Karunagappally; Sajilesh, of Elippakulam, Alappuzha; Preetha, of Kumbalangi, Ernakulam; and Anu, of Venjaramoodu in the capital distri ct. The police said the gang tried to open the shutter of Jasmine Jewellery using gas cutters and oxygen cylinders around 2.30 a.m. on Friday, but failed. They later burgled the nearby City Bakery. The accused were arrested from Anchamkutty in Alappuzha by a team led by Vallikkunnam police inspector Mithun D.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-held-on-theft-charge/article34015984.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Duo script success story in aquaculture||Raji George and Smija M.B. have shown exceptional grit to become successful fisheries entrepreneurs. While Raji from Angamaly scripted success in integrated farming, Smija, an engineering diploma holder from Moothakunnam, chose cage fish farming as her profession. The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) will honour them at the Women’s Day celebrations at the institute on Monday, said a communication here. Ms. George started her entrepreneurial initiative by establishing a fish farm named Anna Aqua Farm in a defunct quarry near Angamaly after receiving training from CMFRI and Krishi Vigyan Kendra under the institute. Besides fish farming, she runs Anna Agro Farm, which focuses on organic vegetable cultivation. She also undertakes fodder cultivation and runs an incubator for chicks and a poultry farm for chicks, ducks, and quails. In eight cages in a deep quarry, Ms. George raises fish varieties like gift tilapia, catla, cat fish, rohu, mrigal, and dam gold. She also cultivates vegetables without using chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Ms. Smija started her activity by establishing a cage fish farming unit in the Periyar with technical guidance from CMFRI. She expanded the business through the participation of other women in her locality. She now leads a self-help group named Periyar Activity Group. Her leadership skills helped her popularise cage farming in the locality, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duo-script-success-story-in-aquaculture/article34016208.ece
08 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Decline in candidates filing I-T returns||The number of candidates filing Income Tax (I-T) returns seems to be on the decline in the State. An analysis by the election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms of the compliance with tax filing by candidates reveals that there was a decrease of seven percentage points in 2016 compared with 2011. The data were compiled after analysing the self-sworn affidavits of 473 and 1,112 candidates respectively in 2011 and 2016. Only 286 (26%) filed the returns in 2016 and 143 (33%) in 2011. Fifty-three candidates who filed the returns won in 2016. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress had the highest number of candidates to file their returns in both 2011 and 2016. Nearly 30 candidates each belonging to these parties had filed their returns in 2011. The number went up to nearly 40 and 35 respectively in 2016. Fifteen candidates of the CPI(M) filed the ITRs in 2011 while the figure in 2016 was nearly 20. Nearly 10 candidates of the IUML and the Kerala Congress (M) figured filed their returns in 2011. Six candidates of the CPI filed returns in 2011. In 2016, the number of Independent candidates filing the returns went up to nearly 20 against the five recorded in 2011. Forty-three of the 143 candidates who filed the returns in 2011 declared assets worth over Rs. 1 crore. In 2016, nearly 130 of the 286 candidates who filed the ITR had assets worth over Rs. 1 crore and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/decline-in-candidates-filing-i-t-returns/article34015994.ece
08 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Few farmers, many lawyers in House||Only nine of the MLAs in the 14th Kerala Assembly are ‘farmers’ by occupation while the major chunk are either ‘social, political or trade union workers,’ according to the data compiled by the research wing of the Kerala Assembly Secretariat. The Assembly had nine businessmen and two industrialists. Lawyers were a considerable force, with 33 members practising the profession. Ten MLAs figure in the category of teacher/professor/Principal/Headmaster/educational expert. The categories of actors and journalists had two representatives each in the Assembly. In terms of educational qualification, the 14th Assembly had 16 postgraduates and 17 undergraduates. Twenty-one had SSLC as basic qualification while the corresponding figure of MLAs with pre-degree/higher secondary was 25. Seven members had qualification lower than SSLC. Thirty-eight MLAS had BL/LLB as their educational qualification. Nine members were BEd/TTC-qualified. Three MLAs had secured BTech degree while the number of legislators with postgraduate diploma was two. Four MLAs had secured MPhil while three had PhD. The outgoing Assembly had three MBA graduates while two had not provided information on their educational qualification. The 14th Assembly had only eight women members. Oldest, youngest Nearly 60% of the MLAs in the 14th Assembly were above the age of 55. Of this, 39 were in the age bracket of 65-74 while five were in the 75-84 range. Only three MLAs were in the age group between 25-34 while the corresponding figure in the age group between 35 and 44 was 19. Thirty-four MLAS figured in the age bracket between 45 and 54. Veteran CPI(M) leader and former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan was the senior-most member. Mohammed Mohsin P. of the Communist Party of India was the youngest MLA. G. Krishnakumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/few-farmers-many-lawyers-in-house/article34015995.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Traffic plan works well||With the opening of the rebuilt Palarivattom flyover on Sunday, vehicles moving along Civil Line Road are being diverted through a pair of lanes hewed out beneath the flyover, around 80 metres on either side of the central span. This does away with the need for a signal system at the busy junction on the NH Bypass, while ensuring continuous flow of vehicles on the Palarivattom-Kakkanad stretch and back. This unique method of directing traffic was finalised earlier this year, by officials of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and the city traffic police (East). A pair of height gauges have been set up on either side of the flyover, to prevent vehicles taller than four metres entering the lanes to take a turn. Taller vehicles will have to take a turn at the nearest U-turns available on the northern and southern side of the flyover. “This traffic arrangement has come out well, and sign boards have been erected to direct motorists along the path,” said DMRC Chief Engineer G. Keshava Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-plan-works-well/article34016207.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Students’ Biennale now an online exhibition||Not to be cowed down by the pandemic, the Students’ Biennale, organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation, has materialised as an online exhibition. The website went live on Saturday and hosts 45 art projects by students from institutions across the country. A total of 315 artists are part of the exhibition either individually or as part of collectives. Projects that are part of the online exhibition have been organised into five viewing rooms available as separate tabs on the website — Annals: A Repository, Writings on the Wall, Urban Diaries, Troubled Terrains, and With Grace, the Needle Pierces. The exhibition as a whole is called States of Disarray: Practice as Restitution, and is a “response to an environmental and social crisis of unimaginable proportions.” Online The exhibition will be available online for three months:https://studentsbiennale. online/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-biennale-now-an-online-exhibition/article34016205.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CCRC to function from medical college hospital||The Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) will begin functioning from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Kalamassery from Monday. When MCH was turned into a COVID-19 care centre last year, the cancer centre was moved to the Ernakulam General Hospital, and surgeries had to be done at the Indira Gandhi Co-operative Hospital. Meanwhile, work on the new cancer centre building could pick up pace since a fresh tender process is under way. Construction came to a halt in December last year when the contractor’s agreement was cancelled for delays in executing the work which began in 2018. In addition to structural work, medical equipment for radiation therapy is also being procured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cancer-centre-to-function-from-mch/article34015980.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Palarivattom flyover opened for traffic||The four-lane Palarivattom flyover, which was rebuilt by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in a record time of five months and 10 days, was opened for traffic on Sunday evening. Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran and Chief Engineer of PWD (NH Wing) were among those present on the occasion. There was no official inauguration, as the model code of conduct is in vogue. Mr. Sudhakaran said the flyover could have been completed nine months before, but for contractor bodies approaching the High Court demanding that load test be done to ascertain the strength of the original flyover which developed cracks within two years of its commissioning in 2016. Tension Soon after the flyover was opened, there was tension when LDF and BJP activists converged near the structure, bearing flags. While LDF activists celebrated the opening of the structure, those of the BJP alleged that the State government had failed to give due credit to DMRC Principal Adviser E. Sreedharan who was in charge of the overall supervision of the reconstruction work. A huge posse of police personnel was present. Earlier, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had credited workers who braved rain and shine to complete the reconstruction ahead of schedule in his Facebook page. During his inspection of the structure on Thursday, Mr. Sreedharan had credited Kozhikode-based Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS), the contracting firm to which the metro agency awarded the reconstruction project, for completing it three months ahead of the eight-month deadline. Both DMRC and ULCCS had won applause from Kochiites for completing the work ahead of schedule without inconveniencing motorists and causing sound and air pollution. Post-demolition, the two agencies worked in tandem to clear concrete and steel debris from the busy junction in a prompt manner. Diverting traffic through a pair of new U-turns was well received by motorists. The State government decided to rebuild the flyover, as it would ensure 100-year life span for the structure. This was because structural engineering experts had said that strengthening piers and crack-prone pier caps and girders of the original structure through carbon-fibre wrapping would limit life of the flyover to just 20 years. The structure had dozens of cracks which were beyond the maximum permitted width of 0.03 mm. Experts from IIT-Madras who inspected the structure had said that the cracks had happened due to flaws in design, faulty placement of bearings, and inadequate usage of materials, especially steel. Meanwhile, a probe by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (VACB) is under way into irregularities in the construction of the original structure which cost Rs. 47.70 crore. Former Minister for Public Works V.K. Ibrahim Kunju and then PWD Secretary T.O. Sooraj were among those who were arrayed as accused in the case. Reconstruction The reconstruction of the cracked components cost approximately Rs. 18 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palarivattom-flyover-opened-for-traffic/article34015981.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,KERALA||219 cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 219 new COVID-19 cases and 784 recoveries on Sunday. No new cases were reported among health workers. Eleven people tested positive from Thrikkakara, and eight each from Avoli, Kuttampuzha, and Thuravoor. As many as 115 people contracted infection through contact, and the source could not be identified in 103 cases. A total of 19,224 people are in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/219-cases-in-ernakulam/article34016204.ece
08 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Action against 313 persons||The Ernakulam Rural police have initiated action against 313 history-sheeters in a special drive undertaken as part of election preparedness. The drive will focus on people who went into hiding after committing crimes. Those who had been arrested for abkari offences and drug peddling and those who are out on bail too are being monitored, said District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The police will take out route marches to instill a sense of security among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-313-persons/article34016206.ece
08 March 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court rejects ED’s bid to access Swapna’s confession||The Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) attempt to access the copies of the confessional statements of Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, which were given to the Customs, has failed as a trial court rejected its application. The ED approached the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, seeking certified copies of the statements of Swapna and Sarith, which were recorded under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The revelations made by the Customs Commissioner in an affidavit filed before the High Court quoting Swapna that she smuggled out U.S. dollar at the instance of the Chief Minister and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan created a political furore. Quoting High Court Quoting an office memorandum and a judicial order issued by the Kerala High Court, C. Deepu, the Economic Offences judge, rejected the application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-rejects-eds-bid-to-access-swapnas-confession/article34015996.ece
08 March 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kunnathur has mostly leaned towards the Left||Kovoor Kunjumon, the incumbent Kunnathur legislator, had vowed to protect Sasthamcotta freshwater lake before getting married. As the poll fever hots up, Congress MP Kodikunnil Suresh has promised him a chance to tie the knot by breaching the Left fortress. And for Mr. Kunjumon, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (Leninist) leader who has been representing the Assembly segment for the past two decades, 2021 polls will be very crucial in more ways than one. Kunnathur, the only Assembly segment in the district reserved for the Scheduled Caste community, used to be a two-member constituency till 1965. It includes Sooranad North, Sooranad South, Poruvazhy, Kunnathur, West Kallada, Mynagappally and Sasthamcotta panchayats along with Munroe Thuruthu and East Kallada panchayats in Kollam taluk and Pavithreswaram panchayat in Kottarakara taluk. A land of cashew workers and farmers, Kunnathur has showed an evident Leftward tilt mostly. A bit of history Kunnathur had first chosen Communist Party of India candidates P.R. Madhava Pillai and R. Govindan in 1957 and after three years in 1960 G. Chandrasekharan Pillai of Congress and P.C. Adichan of the CPI were elected. It was T. Krishnan of Kerala Congress in 1965 and Independent candidate K.C.S. Sasthri in 1967. In 1970, Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) entered the fray for the first time and their candidate Sathyapalan emerged victorious. Kallada Narayanan of the RSP was elected from Kunnathur for two consecutive terms in 1977 and 1980, but he could not hit a hat-trick as he lost to UDF candidate Kottakuzhi Sukumaran in 1982. T. Nanu of the RSP retained the seat in the next three elections and Kovoor Kunjumon won the seat defeating Congress candidate Pandalam Sudhakaran in 2001. Mr. Kunjumon was elected as RSP candidate twice more in 2006 and 2011, but in 2016 he won as an Independent candidate. RSP’s crossover Mr. Kunjumon formed RSP (L) after the RSP’s crossover to the UDF and defeated Ullas Kovoor, his cousin and the candidate of the official faction, in 2016. Ullas Kovoor was once again declared as the UDF candidate by the Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala during his Aishwarya Kerala Yatra. Mr. Kovoor has an early bird advantage when it comes to first round campaigning and the lead gained by the UDF candidate in Kunnathur in the last Lok Sabha polls leaves the front hopeful. For the LDF, Mr. Kunjumon, a four-time MLA and one of the most popular leaders of the constituency, is a wise choice considering the bad blood between the front and the official faction of the RSP. Development will be the dominant point here. While both fronts fancy their chances, the National Democratic Alliance is likely to field a strong BJP candidate as the party had recorded an increase in vote share during the local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kunnathur-has-mostly-leaned-towards-the-left/article34015985.ece
08 March 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Free cancer screening camp today||Sankers Hospital, Kollam, is organising a free breast and cervical cancer screening camp as part of International Women’s Day.  From 9 a.m. Senior gynaecologists Swarnamma and Thankamani will be in charge of the camp, which will be held from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Monday. Those who want to take part in the camp may contact: 0474-2743845.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-cancer-screening-camp-today/article34015987.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nadapuram voters may have a déjà vu||In 2016, K. Praveen Kumar of the Congress appeared to buck the trend of the Communist Party of India’s (CPI) four-and-a-half-decades of successive election victories from Nadapuram. But he lost to incumbent MLA E.K. Vijayan by a narrow margin of 4,759 votes. Nadapuram chose a non-CPI candidate only twice in the past 54 years, when Hameedali Shamnad of the Indian Union Muslim League and E.V. Kumaran of the CPI(M) won from here in 1960 and 1965, respectively. Since 1970, only CPI candidates have emerged victorious. They are M. Kumaran, Kandalottu Kunhambu, K.T. Kanaran, Sathyan Mokeri, Benoy Viswam, and Mr. Vijayan. As another poll season arrives, voters of this segment may have a sense of déjà vu with both Mr. Vijayan, who won from here in 2011 as well, and Mr. Kumar being rumoured as the front runners. Though it was earlier reported that the CPI would not give ticket to two-time legislators, the party is learnt to have relaxed the norm to allow one more term to them. This was what increased the probability of Mr. Vijayan’s candidature. A former district secretary of the CPI, Mr. Vijayan is considered to be an amiable and approachable politician. The names of All India Youth Federation leader P. Gavas and National Federation of Indian Women functionary P. Vasantham too are doing the rounds as probable candidates. Mr. Kumar, one of the general secretaries of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, meanwhile, had been active in the socio-political sphere of Nadapuram even after his defeat last time. No other name seems to have figured on the United Democratic Front candidate list. K.P. Vijayalakshmi, K.K. Ranjith, and N.B. Gopinath are in the candidate list of the National Democratic Alliance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nadapuram-voters-may-have-a-dj-vu/article34015945.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A few challenges for the Left in its bastion||Geographically, Elathur Assembly segment is a kind of microcosm of Kerala, with a coastal belt of the Arabian sea in the west, Korapuzha river in the north, and serene backwaters, sandy lowlands, lateritic midland, and hilly portions on its eastern side. Demographically, this suburban rural continuum, carved out of Koduvally, Kunnamangalam and Balussery constituencies after delimitation of Assembly segments a decade ago, has 75% of Hindu population almost equally divided between Thiyya and Nair communities and over 20% belonging to the Muslim community. But politically, the region comprising six divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation — Elathur, Chettikulam, Chelannur, Eranhikkal, Puthur, Mokavur, and Puthiyappa — and Chelannur, Kakkodi, Kakkur, Kuruvattur, Nanmanda and Thalakkulathur grama panchayats is considered to be a Left fortress. In the recent three-tier local body polls, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) won all divisions, except Elathur in Kozhikode Corporation, as well as the grama panchayats, except Chelannur. Unfortunately, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], the key player in the Left front, never got an opportunity to test its electoral strength in the last two elections. As part of the seat-sharing arrangement, the party has been offering the Elathur segment to its minor partner, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), for the last two terms. On both occasions, NCP leader A.K. Saseendran won the poll battle. This time too, the LDF has given the seat to the NCP despite opposition from the local units of the CPI(M). Also, Mr. Saseendran is drawing flak from within his party for running thrice consecutively from Elathur. Besides, the party affiliates, including its women wing, are against the candidature of the 77-year-old leader for multiple reasons including the sensational honey trap case that led to his resignation as Transport Minister in March 2017. Further, the vote share of the NCP has been steadily declining in the constituency as was witnessed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Elathur is underdeveloped when compared to its neighbouring Kozhikode North. Ironically, his opponents of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) were from the same political entity — Socialist Janata (Democratic) and Janata Dal (United) in 2011 and 2016 respectively. However, the subsequent transformation of the party into Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) led it to the Left camp. Now, the Congress, which has decided to take over the seat, is still scouting for a strong candidate. The BJP is making a spirited presence in the segment. In the previous polls, the party candidate received over 29,000 votes, up from 11,900 in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-few-challenges-for-the-left-in-its-bastion/article34015948.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Proudly bearing a reputation of unpredictability||Elections in Kozhikode district have taken abrupt U-turns every now and then. This unpredictability was glaringly evident in the previous Assembly and Lok Sabha polls as well. If the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) won both the parliamentary seats, Kozhikode and Vadakara, in 2009, 2014, and 2019, it was the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M]- led Left Democratic Front that walked away with most of the district’s 13 Assembly seats in the 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections. Incidentally, the last time a Congress nominee won from Kozhikode was nearly two decades ago. The party won two seats in the 2001 Assembly polls. However, its partner in the UDF, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), has had legislators in the district. BJP’s surge The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)- led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has never been a significant electoral player here. But the front is aggressively making inroads especially into the urban and semi-urban segments of Kozhikode North, Kozhikode South, Beypore, Kunnamangalam, and Elathur. In the recent three-tier local body election, the LDF gained an upper-hand winning in 10 segments, leaving the UDF far behind with three. The BJP could increase its vote share in Kozhikode Corporation. New entrants in LDF The induction of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), the Indian National League (INL) and the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) into its fold has been advantageous to the Left front. But the realignment of political forces has left its existing partner, the Janata Dal (Secular), without a seat in the district. This factor will certainly impact the coalition in Vadakara, though its new allies will help improve the front’s prospects in the hill regions of Perambra, Kuttiyadi, and Thiruvambadi. Also the CPI(M) is deftly wooing disgruntled elements of the IUML by fielding incumbent legislators P.T.A. Rahim and Karat Razak from Kunnamangalam and Koduvally, both segments that handsomely rewarded the UDF in the Lok Sabha polls. UDF’s target This time the UDF combine is determined to win at least seven seats from the district. The front hopes to emerge victorious from Kozhikode North with the possible exit of popular CPI(M) legislator A. Pradeepkumar and bounce back in the Koyilandy, Kunnamangalam and Koduvally constituencies. Plans to support the Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) nominee at Vadakara are afoot but the Congress remains indecisive about the electoral battle in this segment held by the socialist parties for a long. Beypore, where the CPI(M) has been maintaining a winning streak since 1987, could witness as tri-cornered contest as in Kozhikode North and Kozhikode South. Yet what worries the Congress is the emergence of the BJP which secured 22.82% of the total votes in the Kozhikode Corporation polls. The UDF polled 31.79% and the LDF, 44.06 % in the December 2020 civic body polls. Already the party leadership, led by K. Muraleedharan and M.K. Raghavan, both MPs, has kick-started the election campaign with issues that currently dominate the political scenario. The poll outcome will largely depend on whether the main adversaries can dominate the tightly contested seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proudly-bearing-a-reputation-of-unpredictability/article34015989.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Unwind for better mental health, women told||“Stop worrying and start living”: Lilly Rajeevan, former Principal, Government Medical College, Thrissur, set the tone for a discussion on ‘Mental well-being of women for a better society’ here on Sunday with a call for women to keep away tensions for better mental health. “Worry is like being on a swing. It does not take us anywhere or earn a result. Instead, so much energy is wasted,” she said. The discussion organised by Friends of Mental Health Action Trust in association with Lions’ Club, Kozhikode, had an active panel consisting of scriptwriter Deedi Damodaran, social activist K.S. Jayasree, and gynaecologist P.N. Ajitha, besides Dr. Lilly, who looked at the issue from four different angles and came up with four different viewpoints.  Earlier, Mayor Beena Philip opened the discussion which was presided over by Friends of MHAT president P.K. Krishnanunni Raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unwind-for-better-mental-health-women-told/article34015943.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for women’s reservation in polls||A seminar on ‘Election and declining representation of women’ here on Sunday called upon women to realise their rights and claim them. The seminar organised by the women’s sub-committee of the Calicut Press Club in association with ‘Saya’, noted that lack of opportunities was behind the poor representation of women in positions of power. “Political parties are complaining about lack of suitable candidates. It is a hoax. They just need to open their eyes,” said government pleader P.M. Athira. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee State secretary P. Ushadevi demanded reservation for women in the Assembly and Parliament. BJP councillor Navya Haridas stressed the need for women to work at the booth level to begin their political careers rather than ask for seats directly. MSF national vice president K. Fathima Thahaliya said patriarchy was exploiting women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-womens-reservation-in-polls/article34015944.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ration dealers to observe shut-down strike||Ration shop owners across the district will observe a shut-down  strike on Monday alleging attempts on the part of Civil Supplies officials to ‘torture ration dealers in the name of stock inspections.’ They also demand action against a few department officials who were allegedly held responsible for the suicide of a ration dealer from Koyilandy taluk. District-level functionaries of the Kerala Ration Dealers Association said the surprise inspections by Civil Supplies Department officials in the name of inspecting stocks were turning out to be a harrowing experience for a majority of traders. They claimed that the reduction in stock reported during inspections was actually the fault of wholesale suppliers at the supply office. A ration shop owner at Koyilandy said the association had taken up stock related complaints several times with the supply office authorities. Ration dealers’ association leaders T. Mohamme Ali and P. Pavithran said they would launch an indefinite strike in front of the Koyilandy Taluk Supply office seeking action against officials who were suspected of abetting the suicide. Meanwhile, Supply Department sources said their findings were true and similar inspections would continue in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ration-dealers-to-observe-shut-down-strike/article34015947.ece
08 March 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||315 COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode||The highest number of fresh COVID-19 cases was reported from Kozhikode district on Sunday when 315 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The District Medical Officer said in a release that 308 of them were locally acquired infections. The source of seven others was not known. Kozhikode district accounted for 95 cases of local transmission, Kunnummal 23 and Thikkodi 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/315-covid-19-cases-in-kozhikode/article34015946.ece
08 March 2021||Mini MuringatheriThrissur,KERALA||Wadakkanchery, a prestige issue for fronts||Victory in the Wadakkanchery constituency is a prestige issue for both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front in the coming Assembly election. The epicentre of the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission housing project controversy, Wadakkanchery is sure to witness a tough battle of allegations and counter allegations. For the UDF, there is a moral responsibility to prove their allegations against the housing project, and the LDF wants to establish that people are not concerned about controversies. The local body election result, which gave an upper hand for the LDF in the constituency, is a morale booster for the front. Anil Akkara, who has been in the forefront of the attack against the LDF in the LIFE Mission controversy, is almost confirmed to be the UDF candidate while the name of Democratic Youth Federation of India leader Xavier Chittilappilly is on the preliminary list of the LDF. Shocking results The constituency has a history of giving shocking climaxes for both fronts in the past elections. Considered as a Congress bastion, Wadakkanchery gave a jolt to Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, the then Electricity Minister, who was defeated by a newcomer A.C. Moideen in 2004. It stood with the LDF in 2006 too and sent Mr. Moideen to the Assembly once again. But in 2011, Congress leader C.N. Balakrishnan defeated N.R. Balan of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and went on to become Minister for Cooperation. Won by 43 votes The UDF heaved a sigh of relief in the 2016 election when Anil Akkara won with a wafer-thin margin of 43 votes against Mary Thomas of the CPI(M). It was the only seat the UDF could win in the district in the 2016 Assembly election. The UDF expects to cash in on the LIFE Mission controversy to improve their victory margin. But with more than 10,893 new voters this time, the LDF thinks it is not very tough to win in the constituency by crossing the thin margin of the UDF. Post-delimitation Wadakkanchery has undergone drastic changes. Now, the constituency comprises Wadakkanchery municipality and Thekkumkara, Mulangunnathukavu, Avanur, Kolazhy, Kaiparambu, Adattu and Tholur gram panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wadakkanchery-a-prestige-issue-for-fronts/article34016258.ece
08 March 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CPI(M) may not field Balan’s wife in Tarur||The CPI(M) is learnt to have decided not to field Minister for Welfare of Backward and Scheduled Communities A.K. Balan’s wife P.K. Jameela in the Tarur Assembly segment in the wake of increasing opposition from the party. Ms. Jameela’s name was strongly suggested for Tarun, although Mr. Balan said there was no such move. A meeting of party district secretariat held here on Sunday echoed the sentiment that Ms. Jameela’s candidature would adversely affect the party’s chances in other constituencies too. Instead of Ms. Jameela, DYFI leader P.P. Sumod’s name has been suggested for the constituency. Other names The meeting discussed the names of candidates for other constituencies in the district as well. Former district panchayat president K. Santhakumari is likely to be the LDF candidate in Kongad. The secretariat has reportedly suggested P. Mammikutty’s name for Shoranur. Mammikutty had contested from Thrithala in 2011. Ottapalam DYFI district secretary Prem Kumar is likely to contest from Ottapalam. However, no candidate was selected for Palakkad. The CPI(M) is reportedly waiting for Congress dissident A.V. Gopinathan to take a final decision. Mr. Gopinathan, in turn, has been waiting for the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC)’s response to his demand for a change in leadership in the district. CPI(M) incumbents K.D. Prasenan and K. Babu are likely to seek re-election from Alathur and Nenmara respectively. CITU leader A. Prabhakaran’s name is suggested for Malampuzha.  To replace VS He will be replacing party veteran V.S. Achuthanandan. Meanwhile, posters appeared at different places in the district against the candidature of Ms. Jameela in Tarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-may-not-field-balans-wife-in-tarur/article34016001.ece
08 March 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||It is no more a battle of faith in temple land||It is not the Sabarimala women’s entry issue or the recent local body elections that is to blame for the uncertainty gripping Pathanamthitta this election. Instead, it is the realisation that the upcoming election may do nothing to settle the twists and turns that the region’s political landscape has witnessed since 2016. During the previous Assembly elections, the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) have taken turns to win majority in the district. Accordingly, the LDF had won all but one of the five seats here during the 2016 Assembly elections. The coalition then made a clean sweep by winning the by-election in Konni. Discerning an overarching election trend solely based on these election outcomes, however, can be quiet misleading. For instance, the UDF had a clear upper hand over the LDF in Pathanamthitta during the Parliament elections held two years ago. Barring the district panchayat where the LDF recorded a huge victory, the two coalitions stood neck and neck in the local body elections last year. And for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) making significant gains over the years, the contest is indeed fascinating. The LDF, emboldened by the entry of the Kerala Congress (M) to its fold, hopes for an encore of the 2016 results. The stellar performance that it staged to capture the district panchayat after a long gap has added to the coalition's confidence. The UDF, on the other hand, looks to cut through the disenchantment of different groups towards the present State government, including the Hindu upper castes and the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. There is, however, a feeling that the BJP has emerged as a formidable political threat in wooing the traditional vote banks, but the coalition hopes to overcome the same through systematic work. A resurgent NDA, at the same time, counts on the sharp increase in its vote shares during the last Parliament elections to open its account in the district in at least one seat.  Sitting MLAs Of the five sitting legislators of LDF, Veena George, K.U. Jenish Kumar and Mathew T. Thomas have almost ensured their tickets, Raju Abraham, the CPI(M) legislator in Konni, is most likely to give way for a KC(M) candidate. The CPI, meanwhile, is yet to confirm whether it will persist with Chittayam Gopakumar in Adoor. In the UDF, the Congress is slated to contest in four seats, while the Kerala Congress (M) led by P.J. Joseph may get the Thiruvalla seat. Meanwhile, the coalition appears to have grappled with some internal issues for the time being as an array of leaders have come up aspiring for a ticket. The NDA list is likely to feature some major names, including BJP State president K. Surendran, who is likely to contest from Konni. It hopes to improve its performance in Adoor, which also comprises the Pandalam municipality, a local body that the coalition single-handedly won during the recent local body elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-is-no-more-a-battle-of-faith-in-temple-land/article34015990.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attingal - a Left citadel with laurels equally shared||Attingal is often known as a Left citadel owing much to its almost complete dominance of the local bodies here and its repeated wins in the Lok Sabha polls. However, when it comes to assembly elections, the laurels have been shared almost equally by the Left as well as the Congress. Since 1957, the Left has won seven times in this constituency while the Congress has won six times, with the Congress's breakaway factions of INC(U) and IC(S) winning twice. But the biggest blow to the Left’s dominance here came in the Lok Sabha election of 2019 with Adoor Prakash’s win over three-time LDF MP, A.Sampath by a margin of more than 40,000 votes. In the Attingal assembly segment too, Mr.Prakash led with 50,045 votes, while Mr.Sampath was a close second with 48,492 votes. An aberration The LDF mostly sees this result as an aberration, as part of a UDF wave which was visible across most constituencies in the 2019 elections, when the voters had national-level concerns in mind. In the local body elections in December 2020, the LDF managed to retain power in Attingal municipality, the Nagaroor and Pazhayakunnummel panchayats, and managed to wrest the Manamboor and Ottoor panchayats from the UDF. But, at the same time, it lost the Vakkom, Cherunniyoor, Kilimanoor and Pulimath panchayats to the UDF and the Karavaram panchayats to the BJP. It is also wary of the slow inroads that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making in the urban areas, after securing seven seats in the Attingal municipality. In the first elections to the Attingal assembly constituency in 1957, R.Prakasam of the CPI had secured a win, but the Congress's N.Kunjuraman wrested the constituency from the Left in the 1960 elections. Congress’s Vakkom Purushothaman started his unbeaten run stretching for four elections, from here in 1970. He continued his winning streak with the breakaway faction of INC (U) in 1980 and as an Independent in 1982. He again won in 2001 as a Congress candidate. CPI (M) leader Anathalavattom Anandan also had three wins from Attingal since 1987, in alternate elections. The CPI (M) has won the past three assembly elections from the constituency, with B.Satyan winning in 2011 and 2016. Post delimitation, the contours of the Attingal assembly constituency changed drastically for the 2011 elections. The only common areas in the current Attingal constituency, compared to the old are the Attingal municipality and Vakkom panchayat regions. Many areas from the former Kilimanoor constituency, which no longer exists, were added to it, making the constituency more favourable to the Left. Religious and caste equations will come into play in a constituency, where the SNDP yogam and the NSS has a strong presence, and several pockets having considerable population of minorities. Coir sector The traditional coir sector has a large presence in some panchayats. The Attingal assembly seat is now reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates. As per the voters' list published by the Election Commission on January 20, Attingal has a total of 1,99,036 voters, with 1,08,263 female voters and 90,771 male voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attingal-a-left-citadel-with-laurels-equally-shared/article34016272.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||175 COVID cases in capital, 205 recover||The district recorded 175 COVID-19 cases and 205 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 2,180 on Sunday. The death toll in Thiruvananthapuram rose to 844 as on Saturday, according to official statistics. Two recent deaths, those of a 75-year old woman and a 74-year man, were attributed to COVID-19 on the day. Quarantine The district administration placed 1,347 people under quarantine, while 1,517 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated self-isolation period without developing any symptom. There were currently 17,040 people who are quarantined in their homes and 45 in various institutions. The City Police initiated legal action against 78 people for violating the pandemic norms on Sunday. Among them, 27 people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, while 49 others were fined Rs. 24,500 cumulatively for failing to wear masks outdoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/175-covid-cases-in-capital-205-recover/article34016273.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Encroachment threat to Thettiyar canal||The Thettiyar canal, which has reduced in size over the past decade, is now facing yet another crisis with destruction of one of its sources near Pothencode. One of the origin streams located in Ayiroorpara ward in the Pothencode panchayat in the outskirts of the capital district has been filled up in recent days. The Thettiyar consists of three separate streams that originate in different parts of the district and converge at Moonattumukku, near Kulathur junction. Residents near a large plot of land which was being filled up brought it to the attention of the panchayat authorities, who halted the work on Friday. “I had gone to the Kallikode area as part of a function, when the issue of revival of the Thenganamkodu pond was brought to my attention. That is when we found that a stream which serves as water source for the pond and for the Thettiyar dowstream, has been filled up. Small hills in this area have been destroyed and a large plot of land of about 5 acres has been filled up by a private party, without taking any permission from the panchayat. We informed the police, who have taken an earth mover into custody. The RDO has also been informed about it. Those responsible will be asked to restore the stream,” said T.R.Anil, Pothencode Panchayat president. According to Natarajan, a resident of the area, the Thenganamcode pond was a source of water for irrigation as well as for washing purposes for the people living in the area for a long time. The pond used to have water even in the heights of summer. In 2018, the Thettiyar Mission was launched to revive the canal, which has in recent years become a pale shadow of its self, with encroachment and dumping of waste by institutions and households. Parts of the stream flows through the Technopark and other IT company campuses near Kazhakuttam, and drains into the Akkulam Lake. As part of the Thettiyar Mission, cleanup drives and works to increase the depth and width of the stream were taken up in some areas. During elections “The Thettiyar's sources have been affected over the years in various parts. In Pothencode now, the source has been completely destroyed. Such large scale filling up happen during elections, when officials will not be noticing it,”says environmentalist S.J.Sanjeev of Environmental Protection And Research .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroachment-threat-to-thettiyar-canal/article34016277.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. issues guidelines on COVID vaccination for public||COVID-19 vaccination will be provided through 61 Government centres and 29 private hospitals in the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa has informed. Vaccination will be provided through spot registration at the Jimmy George stadium from 10 a.m to 3 p.m in three sessions. In the General Hospital, District and Hospitals, facilities have been arranged for vaccination for 200 persons each daily. In Community Health Centres, 150 persons can be vaccinated and in primary health centres, 100 persons can be vaccinated. The Collector said that all necessary steps will be taken to vaccinate those who are above 60 years of age and between the ages of 45 and 59 with comorbidities. Health conditions The district administration has specified health conditions which will be considered for those between 45 and 59 to be eligible for vaccination. These include those who have had a heart attack within one year or was admitted in hospital for a heart-related ailment, or has conditions including post-cardiac transplant/left ventricular assist device, Left ventricular systolic dysfunction, those who have issues with their heart valve, congenital heart diseases, those who have had Coronary artery bypass grafting, those who are undergoing treatment for coronary artery disease, those who have been diabetes patients for more than ten years, diabetes patients undergoing treatment for stroke, patients under treatment for pulmonary artery hypertension, those who have undergone transplant of kidney, liver or Hematopoietic stem cell transplant or those who are in waiting list, those who are undergoing dialysis, those who have been taking immunosuppressants or corticosteroids for a long time, those who have undergone treatment for respiratory diseases within the past two years, Lymphoma, Lukemia or myeloma patients, those who have been diagnosed with cancer conditions after July 1, 2020 or those who are currently under treatment for cancer, those affected with sickle cell disease/ bone marrow failure/Aplastic anemia/Thalassemia major, those who have primary immuno deficiency conditions or or HIV infected, mentally challenged/Muscular dystrophy-affected, those who have respiratory issues due to acid attacks, differently abled requiring a high level of support, visually and aurally challenged persons. They have to produce the Annexure 1(b) certificate provided by a registered medical practitioner. The certificate can be downloaded from the Cowin application. Those who have chosen major hospitals for vaccination through the online process can get vaccinated through centres near their houses through spot registration. The fee for vaccination in private hospitals is Rs. 250. Till March 10 No new vaccination registration can be done till March 10 in the Government Medical College Hospital, General Hospital and Family Health Centre Pangappara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-issues-guidelines-on-covid-vaccination-for-public/article34016279.ece
08 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A constant battle for her to make two ends meet||There are a few moments that stand out in her life, that pushed her to go on even when she was buffeted by ill-fortune. And it is to them that Sreedevi T. of Kattakada clings to as she breaks down gender stereotypes one after another. Today, she is a coconut climber, dog-catcher, farmer, and a snake-catcher. Sreedevi’s life has been a series of struggles. Abandoned by their father, Sreedevi and her sister, and a mentally ill mother were taken care of by their grandmother. At times, her mother would be thrashed up by people. Swamped by feelings of helplessness and isolation, she dropped out of school to take care of her mother. Then, she started working - peeling cashews, weaving palm fronds, doing domestic work, as a shopgirl, and tapped rubber. Slowly, she saved some money. Marriage at the age of 18 followed, but it was not all smooth. With two children and a mother dependent on her, Sreedevi learnt how to use farm machinery, grow coconut saplings, climb coconut trees, and drive autorickshaws. She had to face a lot of barbs, but soldiered on. Just as life seemed to be looking up, she lost sensation on one side below the waist. Six months of treatment followed. When she lost hope, a physician, Suresh, encouraged her to believe in herself. By then, she was deep in debt. Four years ago, Sreedevi heard about the Kudumbashree mission training women to catch stray dogs. She completed the training, became part of an Animal Birth Control (ABC) unit, and earned much-needed money. She also started vegetable farming and animal rearing. Learnt the ropes Last year, she learnt the ropes of snake-catching from Prabhath Saji, Aryankode Suresh, and Zakir Hussain, who died recently. She also applied to the Forest Department for a licence to catch snakes. Early this year, she secured the licence. “I’d been stepping back from responding to calls to catch snakes without a licence. Now, I can go ahead and do it without any worries.” On Monday, Sreedevi will be felicitated at the Kerala Gazetted Officers’ Federation’s International Women’s Day celebrations here for her achievements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-constant-battle-for-her-to-make-two-ends-meet/article34016282.ece
08 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Host of programmes planned on International Women’s Day||A host of programmes are being organised in the city in connection with International Women’s Day on Monday. A week-long creative festival for women artists will get under way at the Kerala Arts and Crafts Village at Vellar, Kovalam, on Monday. Performances by leading artists from various fields from within and outside Kerala will be held as part of the celebration named World of Women. A live composition by more than 50 artists will be held at 11 a.m. A musical night by Sayanora Philip will be held at 7 p.m. The women’s fraternity of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre will honour singer and Padma Bhushan awardee K.S. Chitra on the day. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will deliver the inaugural message. District Collector Navjot Khosa will deliver the special address. VSSC Director S. Somanath will preside over the function. APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University will organise several online programmes on the day. DRDO associate director Latha Christie, VSSC programme director S. Geeta, and Superintendent of Police (Information and Communications Technology) Divya Gopinath will address a special online session at 11 a.m. Ujjaini, a virtual start-up incubation programme, and Udan, a business skills training initiative for women entrepreneurs, will be launched on the occasion. ‘Wings...If i have,’ an ongoing exhibition organised by the Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, in association with the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society, will conclude on Monday. A kite festival was organised on the Veli beach on Sunday in connection with International Women’s Day. Organised by the Trivandrum Kite Team and Trivandrum Women Kite Team, the festival saw inflatable kites sporting pictures of 100 women from various fields who have influenced the world colour the Veli sky. Special educator Tiffany Brar flagged off a women’s day relay cycle rally organised by the Vattiyurkavu youth brigade and the Indus Cycling Embassy on Sunday morning. Twenty-four cyclists took part in the entire 29-km ride. Bank Employees Federation of India State women sub-committee organised an online family meet on Sunday as part of the celebrations. CITU all-India secretary A.R. Sindhu inaugurated the meet. She said women and their organisations had a significant role to play in protests against alleged anti-women and anti-worker policies in banking and other sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/host-of-programmes-planned-on-international-womens-day/article34016283.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Actor Devan merges his party with BJP||Actor Devan was among a number of new entrants to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday when he merged his 17-year-old political outfit, the Kerala People’s Party (KPP), with the BJP State unit. The merger was announced in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah at the valedictory of the Vijay Yatra led by the party’s State president K. Surendran. Others who joined the BJP on Friday included actor Radha and her husband and businessman Rajasekharan Nair, former KPCC secretary Pandalam Prathapan, former bureaucrat K.V. Balakrishnan, and Vinu Kiriyath. Mr. Devan said his decision to merge the KPP with the BJP was taken on advice from various quarters, including sections with the Muslim and Christian communities, that he should not stand alone. “I formed the Kerala People’s Party on March 21, 2004. It has been like a daughter to me. Now that daughter has turned 17,” he said. Losses in two elections had made him aware that a film celebrity stood scant chance in elections in Kerala. This had prompted him to work closely with the minorities, he said. Mr. Devan, who has acted in numerous Malayalam, Tamil, and Telugu movies, said the BJP was assured of a massive public support this time in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-devan-merges-his-party-with-bjp/article34015991.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police officer booked for forgery, impersonation||A Sub Inspector attached to the Kerala Police Headquarters has been booked for document forgery and impersonation. The Crime Branch registered a case against Jacob Simon, Armed Police Sub Inspector and assistant nodal officer at the Janamaithri Directorate in the police headquarters on Friday. The accused officer has been absconding in wake of the police inquiry. The officer allegedly forged documents and created fake seals in the names of DGPs, ADGPs and IGs. He was also purportedly found to have issued good certificates in the names of higher officials, attempted to extort money from junior police personnel and also posed as the public relations officer of the State Police Officer. A preliminary inquiry conducted on the basis on an intelligence report found merit in the allegations. Subsequently, the Crime Branch raided his house in Karunagappally and his office. Forged documents, seals that were made without authorisation and a uniform of a Dy.SP were unearthed in a raid in his house. A photo of the officer donning the uniform worn by Dy.SPs was also found, sparking suspicion that he could have used it for fraud. Official sources said that Mr. Simon had earlier faced departmental action for allegedly assisting in human trafficking while he had been posted at the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-officer-booked-for-forgery-impersonation/article34016275.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stir by bank employees from Mar. 15||The United Forum of Bank Unions, an umbrella organisation of nine forums, is gearing up for the two-day nationwide strike from March 15 against the proposed privatisation of public sector banks. To drum support for the stir, bank employees and officers in the State will report for duty on March 8 and 12 wearing protest masks. Rallies have been organised in the districts and towns on March 12 demanding scrapping of the move to privatise two public sector banks (PSB) announced in the Union Budget. Around 10 lakh employees owing allegiance to the AIBEA, NCBE, AIBOC, AIBOA, BEFI, INBEF, INBOC, NOBW and NOBO will be participating in the strike, according to C.D. Josson, State convenor. General Insurance employees have decided to go on strike on March 17 and LIC employees on March 18 against privatisation and decision to sell equities respectively. Instead of strengthening public sector banking, the present policies are aimed at weakening PSBs, by starving them of the required capital, human resources, through disinvestment and proposed privatisation. In the garb of efficiency, and misconceived policy to shrug off the responsibility, the government has embarked upon privatisation of PSBs, the forum of unions has said. Failed argument Around the world, innumerable private banks have failed. It is a myth to believe that only “privates” are efficient. If private enterprises are epitome of efficiency, there should not have been any NPAs from large private corporate entities at all, the forum says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-by-bank-employees-from-mar-15/article34015997.ece
08 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,100 new cases in State||Kerala reported 2,100 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 51,948 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden of cases rose to 10,77,327 cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) has dropped to the lowest levels reported till date after the cases surged to a peak in October last, at 4.04%. Of the 51,948 tests done, 27,626 were rapid antigen assay, while RT PCR numbered 22,845. The State’s active case pool has been dropping since the past two weeks. With 4,039 recoveries being reported, the active case load dropped further to 40,867 cases. On Sunday, 13 new deaths that took place in the past few days was added to the official list of fatalities. Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha reported two deaths each, while Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kozhikode reported one death each. Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases with 315 cases, Ernakulam 219, Thrissur 213, Malappuram 176, Thiruvananthapuram 175, Kollam 167, Kannur 158, Alappuzha 152, Kottayam 142, Pathanamthitta 115, Kasaragod 97, Palakkad 78, Wayanad 47, and Idukki 46 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2100-new-cases-in-state/article34016000.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for selling drugs||A youth was caught by the City police with alleged possession of synthetic drugs that were intended to be peddled among school students. The Fort police arrested Adil, 23, of Kamaleswaram in a joint operation with District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) led by Narcotics Cell Assistant Commissioner Pradeep Kumar from near the Fort High School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-selling-drugs/article34016274.ece
08 March 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar on AI||A three-day online international seminar on ‘Artificial intelligence in education’ will begin on Monday. Being organised by the State Institute of Educational Technology, in association with the Department of Education of the University of Kerala, the webinar will discuss how artificial intelligence (AI) may have an impact on curriculum design, individualisation of learning, and assessment. The webinar will also discuss the ethical, technical, and pedagogical challenges against the backdrop of education in a digital world. Central Institute of Educational Technology Joint Director Amarendra P. Behara will inaugurate the webinar. SIET Director B. Aburaj will preside over the function, Jintavee Khlisang, Professor in the Department of Educational Technology and Communication, Chulalongkorn University, Thailand, will speak on ‘Hybrid models of teaching and learning process,’ while Kaushal Kumar Bhagat, Assistant Professor, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, will talk about augmented reality. Researchers will present papers on how artificial intelligence can be used in education. Register Those who register on the SIET Kerala website will be sent a link for taking part in the webinar, Mr. Aburaj said in a statement issued here today.  Being organised by the State Institute of Educational Technology in association with University of Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-webinar-on-ai/article34015983.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leopard sighted in Vamanapuram||The Forest and Wildlife Department has intensified surveillance in parts of Vamanapuram following suspected sightings of a leopard that have sparked concerns among the local populace. B. Ajith Kumar, Palode forest range officer, said 3 surveillance cameras have been installed in areas where local residents claimed to have seen the wild cat. He added that there has been no evidence to confirm the sighting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leopard-sighted-in-vamanapuram/article34016276.ece
08 March 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KPCC spokespersons nominated||K.C. Abu and C.V. Balachandran have been nominated as official spokespersons of the KPCC by the president Mulappally Ramachandran, a release from the KPCC here says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-spokespersons-nominated/article34016002.ece
08 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Book throws light on depression among kids||Diya was 13 when she developed some health issues. She found it difficult to cope with studies. Pressure from all quarters to perform well worsened the situation. “I passed through different phases of depression. Mental morbidity and depression in children have often been overlooked by parents and teachers. Their mood swings, depression and attention-deficit disorders are often neglected or considered as unruly behaviour and dealt with punishments,” says Diya of Thrissur whose book A Hope….The Girl in the Island of Depression speaks about the struggles of children who grapple with depression. Children are increasingly becoming victims of anxiety and depression. Suicides or suicide attempts among young people are no more rare, especially during the COVID-19 lockdown. According to recent studies, suicide is one of the top causes for death in the 15-29 age groups. Personal experience In her book, which is already available in Kindle edition in Amazon online, Diya tells her story and how she regained her life from the whirlwind of depression. “I can relate to the trauma of children who take extreme steps at a tender age as I myself have undergone bouts of depression during my childhood and teenage.”  Triggering factors Family conflict, peer pressure and performance pressure in academics and other fields can be some of the factors that push children to stress. Children have become increasingly isolated in the COVID-19 times. They sit at home, away from their friends and sporting activities. Often work stress of parents gets transferred to the children. “Many a time, children may not be able to express their issues. Fear or lack of confidence stops them from revealing their trauma. A patient ear to listen or an expert counselling may help them.” “When I see children who are a bit withdrawn or upset, I could easily recognise their distress. My book A Hope... The Girl in the Island of Depression has been written with the aim of supporting and motivating such children,” she adds. Major roadblock Reluctance of parents to accept the mental health issues of their children is one of the major roadblocks, Diya says. Social stigma blocks them from seeking professional help. With the help of psychiatrists, parents and friends, Diya got through and started a second life. Diya, who has a postgraduate diploma in cosmetology, is working on her second book now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dissecting-depression-among-children/article34015982.ece
08 March 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||213 cases in Thrissur||A total of 213 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday while 462 people recovered. There are 3,169 active cases in the district and 54 persons from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 1,00,390 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 96,536 people have recovered. According to official statistics, 204 people contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. Of them, 31 persons are above the age of 60 and 16 are children below 10. In all, 2,206 people are under home care. A total of 45 persons were admitted to the hospital for treatment of COVID-19 on Sunday. A total of 4,963 samples were collected for the test on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/213-cases-in-thrissur/article34016259.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Aiming high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aiming-high/article34015988.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||No space for walking||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-space-for-walking/article34016281.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Flying high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flying-high/article34015993.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||POCKET Satheesh vellinezhi||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocket-satheesh-vellinezhi/article34015992.ece
08 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fire accidents in Anantapur, property gutted||Properties at two industrial units in different places in the district caught fire and were reduced to ashes on Saturday afternoon. District Fire Officer Uppala Sarath Babu said that the first one happened at Kuderu at the waste material yard of the wind turbine manufacturer, Suzlon, at 1.45 p.m., reducing the entire stack of waste material to ashes despite two fire engines doing their best to put off the fire. The quantum of loss in monetary terms was not yet known, said the DFO. The plastic parts and other material used in the wind power turbines threw up large columns of fire and dark smoke billowed for a long time, but once the fire engines arrived, the entire area was cordoned off to keep away all onlookers. In the second incident, as many as 20 abandoned thatched residential houses, at Gudipalli Industrial Estate, of the workers associated with the SLAP, an ancillary of KIA Motors India Limited, were gutted. Mr. Sarath Babu said that there was no worker staying in them, hence no injury to anyone or personal property loss was reported. Also, the fire was reported at 2.50 p.m., and the fire engines reached within 10 minutes from a location 5 km away from the factory, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-fire-accidents-in-anantapur-property-gutted/article34016243.ece
08 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why did you raise prices of liquor, woman asks MP, MLA||YSR Congress leaders were taken aback on Sunday during their election campaign in Kadiri municipality when a woman asked Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav and Kadiri MLA Pedaballi Venkata Sidda Reddy why the government had raised the prices of liquor. During their campaign, the MP and MLA greeted a woman at her doorstep who then told them that her husband’s liquor addiction was taking a toll on the family’s finances. The MP explained that the government had reduced availability of liquor and increased the prices to control consumption, to which the woman is learnt to have said that she did not see any decline in consumption. “My husband is drinking and our family is getting ruined due to liquor,” she said. The MLA replied that prices of liquor were raised to make it unaffordable for those addicted to it. “Who asked you to increase the prices? It is putting an extreme financial burden on our family, and my husband’s health is also getting badly affected,” the woman is seen questioning them in a video that has gone viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-did-you-raise-prices-of-liquor-woman-asks-mp-mla/article34016244.ece
08 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No power in four mandals due to fire at sub-station||The 100 Mega Volt Ampere power transformer of the APTRANSCO’s 220 KV sub-station at Hindupur caught fire at 9 p.m. on Sunday leading to immediate power outage in Hindupur, Parigi, Chilamathur and Lepakshi mandals of the south-western parts of the district bordering Karnataka. The Southern Distribution Company Limited of A.P. Superintending Engineer S. Varakumar told The Hindu that due to the heating of the elements in the transformer, it caught fire and it took more than half an hour to bring the blaze under control. The fire was still on at the time of reporting. The SPDCLAP has disconnected the substation and started drawing power from the remaining nearby sub-stations and was slowly restoring the power supply to some areas, but the main industrial town in the region, Hindupur, was still in dark and the power could get restored by 1 a.m. or by early morning. “It will not be possible to bear the entire load of the region from the remaining sub-stations, but some emergency and essential establishments will be provided power,” officials said. The restoration work was still on and the normalcy was likely to return by Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-in-sub-station-power-goes-off-in-four-mandals/article34016246.ece
08 March 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP trying to sell Vizag steel plant’s property for low price’||The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) is trying to sell the valuable land assets of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant for a song through the disinvestment route, alleged Communist Party of India(CPI) national secretary K. Narayana here on Sunday. “About Rs. 2.5 lakh crore worth of property of the VSP is being sought to be sold for Rs. 5,000 crore, which is cruelty being unleashed by the Centre on Andhra Pradesh, and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy needs to tell people crystal clear if he wants to save the VSP at all costs or not,” Mr. Narayana said. On a tour of the district for the municipal election campaign in Kadiri and Anantapur, Mr. Narayana addressed meetings with the Telugu Desam Party leaders in the two towns. He said if Mr. Modi was very serious about getting money for the Centre, he need not sell the VSP, he can catch hold of the 27 persons from India who had defrauded the country of Rs. 10 lakh crore and 26 of them were from Gujarat, he said. High time for a ‘Third Front’ He alleged that Mr. Modi was interested only in the interests of Reliance, Adani and the POSCO. “It is unfortunate that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not speaking out against the BJP’s anti-people’s policies,” Mr. Narayana said. The BJP and YSRCP were not fit to rule the State, hence a ‘Third Front” is essential in Andhra Pradesh, he opined. Referring to the coercions being resorted to by the YSRCP in getting candidates of other political parties withdrawn from the contest, he wanted the NOTA to be given constitutional status and introduced even if there was one candidate so that people will decide if they want that candidate or not as the election will be mandatory to save democracy. Party district secretary D. Jagadeesh was also present in the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-trying-to-sell-vizag-steel-plants-property-for-low-price/article34016245.ece
08 March 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC poll campaign hits feverish pitch||Campaigning for the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) polls reached a feverish pitch on Sunday as the candidates made all-out efforts to woo the voters, particularly the undecided ones. The proposal of the Union government to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has become a major issue for all political parties in the elections to target their rivals. The BJP stands singled out on the issue as the State BJP leaders, who initially opposed privatisation of VSP, seem to have been silenced by their central leadership. Its alliance partner Jana Sena Party(JSP) seems to be toeing the line of the State BJP on the issue. The ruling YSR Congress Party(YSRCP) candidates are ahead in the poll campaign with the party finalising the nominees before other parties. Rajya Sabha member and YSRCP general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has taken upon himself the task of campaigning on behalf of the party nominees in all the wards. Ministers Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Kurasala Kannababu were among the other campaigners. The roadshow by Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and campaign by TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh, has rejuvenated the sagging spirit of the party nominees, who seemed to be directionless till then. The TDP in its election manifesto has promised waiver of property tax, stopping privatisation of VSP, holding job melas once in six months, hiking the salaries of sanitation workers and reopening of Anna Canteens. The YSRCP leaders alleged that POSCO Steel representatives had called on Mr. Naidu during his tenure as Chief Minister and held talks with him on investment in the State. They alleged that the TDP president was obsessed with Amaravati and neglecting the rest of the State. The Left parties are optimistic of winning good ground in the industrial areas as they have been fighting for allotment of captive mines to the VSP and against its privatisation for the past few decades. The BJP leaders are highlighting the funds sanctioned to Visakhapatnam under the Smart City project and other schemes and allege that the YSRCP government was claiming the schemes as its own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-poll-campaign-hits-feverish-pitch/article34016306.ece
08 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping impoverished girls stand on their own feet||Till two years ago, Sankarapu Swathi (31), an MA Telugu with PhD in Yoga, was content with training a few impoverished girls in yoga and tailoring, mostly school dropouts, at Madanapalle, her native place. How it all started In January 2019, one of her students did not turn up for the class. A month after her absence, Ms. Swathi learnt that the teenaged orphan had left for Bengaluru to take up a job in the construction sector after her aunt forced her to marry a 40 year-old-man. The girl also took her two younger siblings to Bengaluru, to liberate them from the shackles of child marriage. The reality of the poor girls in rural areas hit Ms. Swathi, and set her to thinking. Realising that more had to be done to help girls living on the brink of poverty, she decided to set up a foundation that empowers girls. Her casual approach of teaching yoga to poor girls had now transformed into an ambition to uplift rural women. Guided by her father, an ex-Army personnel, and the then Madanapalle Sub-Collector Chekuru Keerthi, Ms. Swathi launched her project, Dhaathree Foundation, in Madanapalle on March 8, 2019. Two years after its formation, her foundationhas succeeded in training over 1,000 rural girls in tailoring, fabric painting, embroidery, saree rolling, polishing, handicrafts and beauty therapy to help them stand on their own feet. “I am happy that my students are now spread over a hundred villages in our division, and in Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and other cities as well. Empowerment of poverty-hit women is a big concept, but it’s not a far cry,” Ms. Swathi said. Health camps On every second Saturday, Ms. Swathi organizes a health camp and health awareness meets for the rural poor, particularly women, involving the medical fraternity of government and private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-impoverished-girls-stand-on-their-own-feet/article34016248.ece
08 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking a break from poll campaign, Roja plays kabaddi||Amid hectic campaigns for two municipalities of Nagari and Puttur, Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation(APIIC) chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja squeezed in some time to relive her memories by playing her favourite childhood pastime, kabaddi, at Nindra on Sunday. Ms. Roja, who was here to inaugurate the inter-district Ambedkar Select VII Anniversary Boys’ Tournament, was about to leave the ground at ZP High School to resume the campaign when she was requested by the organisers and the participating teams to watch the opening match. Much to their surprise, Ms. Roja not only stayed back but also joined the Renigunta team to take on the opponent Tiruvalangadu team. In the next round, she played for the latter team. As the actor-turned politician played the game with élan, Ms. Roja turned the cynosure of the event as the participants and spectators watched with delight, amidst whistles and shouts. Residents queue up Knowing that Ms. Roja had entered into action on the ground, residents of Nindra rushed to the venue to have a glimpse of her. Speaking to the media, Ms. Roja said that it was amazing to play kabaddi after several decades. “In my school and college days, I always stood in the forefront to play kabaddi, which is also played as an official game in several states in the North and South ,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-a-break-from-poll-campaign-roja-plays-kabaddi/article34015813.ece
08 March 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor records 49 COVID cases||Chittoor district reported 49 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours ending Sunday morning, in a worrying spike compared to the usual 20-30 cases being reported daily till Saturday. The latest tally includes as many as 17 cases in Tirupati, followed by seven in Madanapalle and five in Kuppam, while the remaining cases were from all over the district. District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said that the task force officials were closely monitoring the spike in the number of cases, and were conducting tracing of the secondary contacts. “We have intensified the campaign for the third phase of vaccination drive for senior citizens and those in the age group of 45-59 with comorbid conditions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-records-49-covid-cases/article34016247.ece
08 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breast clinic to be opened at GGH today||A breast clinic would be opened on the premises of Government General Hospital here on Monday marking the occasion of International Women’s Day. District Collector Vivek Yadav will open the clinic, in the presence of Joint Collector Prasanthi and GGH superintendent Prabhavathy. Plastic surgeon Sumitha Shankar noted that the clinic aims to fill in the gap created by lack of facilities in the government sector where young girls and women could go and express their problems freely. “Because there are limited number of such clinics, breast cancer is invariably detected in advanced stages,” Dr. Shankar said. The clinics would be supervised by Dr. Shankar and a female surgical oncologist on all days except Saturday and Sunday, between 10 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. Now, patients who had opted for mastectomy, a surgery to remove one or both breasts to prevent cancer in high-risk patients, can get their breast(s) reconstructed in government-run hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breast-clinic-to-be-opened-at-ggh-today/article34015814.ece
08 March 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport official awarded||Deputy Transport Commissioner E. Meera Prasad was on Sunday conferred the ViswaGuru International Corona Warrior award. The award is conferred on government officials, NGOs and philanthropists across the State. Mr. Meera Prasad won the award for leading the response to the pandemic and instilling courage among his officers. The RTA, Guntur had arranged 121 vehicles to transport COVID-19 positive patients and their primary, secondary contacts and also arranged 2,554 vehicles for transportation of 79,200 migrant labourers. The DRC had provided partition glasses between the employees desks to prevent spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-official-awarded/article34016293.ece
08 March 2021||JANGAREDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three dead, 24 injured in mishap||Three persons including a toddler died and 24 others suffered injuries in a road accident near Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district on Sunday. The victims, all natives of Chikkavaram village of Gannavaram mandal in Krishna district, were proceeding to Gubbala Mangamma temple in Buttaigudem mandal in the Agency area of West Godavari. Jangareddygudem DSP B. Ravi Kiran said 70 villagers in three tractors were on their way for a darshan of the deity in the early hours. One of the tractors, stopped on the side of a road, overturned when a lorry rammed into it. Two of the deceased were identified as Bolla Sahasra (2), and Vemireddy Ravi Babu (50). The condition of four other persons is critical, said Ravi Kiran, a doctor who treated the victims at the spot. The injured were shifted to Jangareddygudem area hospital and later sent to Eluru and other hospitals for better treatment, said the DSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-24-injured-in-west-godavari-accident/article34016202.ece
08 March 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die in separate accidents in Kurnool||Two persons died in separate incidents in Kurnool district on Sunday. While a 15-year-old girl died and another person was injured in a road accident on the Srisailam Ghat Road, near Chintala, in Nallamala forest, one person drowned in the Tungabhadra river at Mantralayam, while taking bath along with three others. The deceased in the road accident was identified as Divya, hailing from Nandikotkur. The Dornala Police said the accident occurred when an unidentified four-wheeler hit an autorickshaw that the girl was travelling in from behind. The injured person was identified as Manjula, who was also in the auto and was shifted to Dornala government hospital for treatment. In the Mantralayam incident, the police said while one person died, locals rescued three others when they drowned in the river. The deceased was identified as Sunil Kumar(28), a Bengaluru-based employee, Mantralayam Circle Inspector Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-in-separate-accidents-in-kurnool/article34015812.ece
08 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaigning peaks for civic elections in Ongole||The campaigning reached a feverish pitch in the city with the candidates trying their best to woo the electorate as only three days are left for the maiden elections after its upgradation into a Municipal Corporation. Over 222 candidates are in the fray for elections to 50 divisions in the city, represented by Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy in the State Assembly. Only YSRCP has fielded candidates in all the divisions and one of its nominees, U.Saroja, has won unanimously from the 28th division. The ruling party is banking heavily on the Navaratnalu schemes of the government and charisma of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to pay dividends. Trouble for the YSRCP comes more from within than outside the party, as rebels are in the fray in six divisions despite the efforts of Minister and his son B. Praneeth Reddy to persuade them to withdraw from contest. TDP’s promises The Telugu Desam Party is contesting in 45 divisions, leaving one division to its poll ally Communist Party of India(CPI). The candidates, led by former TDP MLA D. Janardhana Rao, exposed the “failures” the ruling party and promised to reopen Anna canteens and reduce the hiked property tax. 93 independents The candidates of the Jana Sena Party are in the fray in 14 divisions. By holding group meetings, they sought one chance to the untested JSP-BJP combine. The nominees of the Congress party are trying their electoral fortunes in five divisions. So is the CPI(M). Ninety three independents have also thrown their hat in the ring. Leading the CPI(M)’s campaign, party Central Secretariat member V. Srinivasa Rao underscored the need for rejecting both the YSRCP and TDP, which had been backing the Centre on every issue. The Marxist party activists led by party Prakasam district assistant secretary G.V. Konda Reddy highlighted during their door-to-door campaign the salient features of the city manifesto brought out for making the city better place to live in and ward-level manifesto on civic problems specific to the divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaigning-peaks-for-civic-elections-in-ongole/article34015815.ece
08 March 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Empowerment of women still a distant dream’||Despite the best efforts of governments, empowerment of women continued to be a distant dream, felt women from different walks of life at a meeting organised on the eve of the International Women’s Day. It was a double whammy for women who were economically poor, said Mahila Abyudhaya Samiti State president T.Aruna while Women and Child Welfare Department head Lakshmi Devi lamented that the benefits of welfare schemes did not reach the targeted women. Awareness needed The situation called for stepping up awareness on the schemes to improve the lot of women and children, said State Women’s Commission member T. Ramadevi. Prakasam District Child Welfare Committee chairperson Ch. Bharathi noted that child marriages continued unabated despite the persistent efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/empowerment-of-women-still-a-distant-dream/article34015816.ece
08 March 2021||PITHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh promises tax relief||TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Sunday claimed that the party would roll back the proposed increase in property tax and water tax in municipal corporation limits if the party is voted to power in the forthcoming Urban Local Body (ULB) elections. Accompanied by former Home Minister and Peddapuram MLA Nimmakayala Chinna Rajappa, former Pithapuram MLA S.V.V.S.N. Varma and Kakinada leader Jyothula Naveen, Mr. Lokesh conducted a roadshow, covering 20 wards in Gollaprolu nagar panchayat and 30 wards in Pithapuram municipality. Addressing a gathering at the 18th ward here, Mr. Lokesh lamented that the YSRCP-led government has failed to improve sanitary conditions and the drainage and road infrastructure facilities in the civic bodies in the last one-and-a-half years. “The TDP will strive to drop the proposed hike in property tax and cancel the water tax in the civic bodies if it is voted to power,” said Mr. Lokesh. He also said that Pithapuram MLA Pendem Dorababu’s contribution in the urban bodies would be insignificant in the coming three years. “If voted to power in the urban local bodies, the TDP would claim the benefits of the State programmes including housing and welfare pension, without relying upon the local MLA. The Anna Canteens in the urban areas will be reopened,” said Mr. Lokesh. A huge gathering of supporters joined the roadshow in the areas including Thatiparthi Road, EBC Colony, Devi Nagar and Market Centre in the Gollaprolu nagar panchayat. In Pithapuram, Pedagaya, Adithya School road, Mangayyammaraopeta, Dhoolla Santha area, State Bank road, Uppada Centre witnessed an outpouring of support for Mr. Lokesh during the roadshow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-promises-tax-relief-if-voted-to-power-in-ulb-polls/article34016249.ece
08 March 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘murders’ siblings||A man was arrested for allegedly killing his brother and sister, at Kovvada village in Ranasthalam mandal of Srikakulam district, on Sunday. Police said G. Ramakrishna killed his elder sister Jayamma and elder brother Sanyasi Rao using a sharp-edged weapon as he was vexed over not being paid his share of the compensation amount that was given by the government in lieu of their land that was acquired for the proposed Kovvada nuclear power plant. Ramakrishna allegedly attacked Sanyasi Rao first and later killed his sister when she tried to come to the latter’s defence. Srikakulam DSP M. Mahendra and other police officials sent the bodies for post-mortem. Ramakrishna was arrested and would be produced in court, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-murders-siblings/article34016250.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Enrolment spike led to shortage of textbooks’||Owing to the slew of initiatives taken up in the school education sector, over six lakh students have enrolled themselves in the government and government-aided schools this year, and this overwhelming response has resulted in the shortage of textbooks that are printed based on the 2019-20 data with 5% buffer, Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, has said. Addressing the media on Sunday, Mr. Rajasekhar appealed to the students and parents not to buy the textbooks from outside, as they would be ready in 15 days. He said the welfare schemes and incentives introduced as part of reforms in school education had resulted in a drastic increase in the number of students migrating from private to the government schools. The shifting had started in November and continued through February, even after schools reopened, he said. Mr. Rajasekhar said the printing of textbooks and workbooks was completed by April last with a 5% buffer. “But the spike in the number of students joining government schools has surpassed all expectations,” he added. Following a recent meeting of the representatives of the School Education Department and officials of the government printing section, Rs. 7 crore was sanctioned for printing of the required number of textbooks and workbooks to be supplied to 4,11,427 students who shifted to the government schools after November. The indent for printing of textbooks for the academic year 2020-21 was prepared based on the Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE) data related to the academic year 2019-20. As per the data on September 30, 2019, a total of 38,97,156 students had enrolled in the government and government-aided schools. Books were printed for 40,92,014 students with a 5% buffer stock, he said. Printing was done by April last, and the books were sent to the district depots by May 31. But schools could not be started till November 2. The 40,84,983 admissions as on November 3 jumped to 43,89,952 by December 19, which was 2,97,938 more than the expected. The number of enrolments went up to 45,03,441 as on March 6, said Mr. Rajasekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enrolment-spike-led-to-shortage-of-textbooks/article34016253.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candlelight rallies taken out on eve of Women’s Day||Thousands of women took out candlelight rallies on the eve of International Women’s Day (March 8) on Sunday at several places in Krishna and West Godavari districts. Women employees, police, Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (GMSKs), students, anganwadi staff, ANMs, and doctors participated in the celebrations. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan conveyed his greetings to women on the occasion. He said that women were playing a vital role in the development of the country. Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu participated in the rally at PWD Grounds. Balloons released He released balloons and pigeons into the air. Representatives of various NGOs, women and child rights organisations took part. Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu participated in the candlelight rally at Gudivada and other places, and greeted the women on the occasion. Rallies were also taken out at Machilipatnam, Nuzvid, Avanigadda, Nandigama, and Jaggaiahpet in the district. In West Godavari district, in-charge Collector Himanshu Shukla and Additional Joint Collector Tej Bharat flagged off the rally in Eluru. RDO Panabaka Rachana, District Education Officer C.V. Renuka, District Medical and Health Officer V. Sunanda, Women Development and Child Welfare Department Project Director K. Vijaya Kumari, and District Child Protection Officer Ch. Surya Chakraveni were among those who participated. Speaking on the occasion, the in-charge Collector said women were serving in various sectors on a par with men. Health camp Doctors of various hospitals organised free health camps for women and conducted awareness programmes on various ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/candlelight-rallies-taken-out-on-eve-of-womens-day/article34016297.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A vote for YSRCP means extending support to three capitals: Naidu||TDP national President N. Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday said that a vote for the YSRCP would mean extending support to the government’s move to establish three capitals. “People of Vijayawada are prudent. They know the implications of the YSRCP’s game plan. They will have to teach a befitting lesson to the YSRCP in the municipal elections,” Mr. Naidu said while participating in a roadshow in the city. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna accompanied Mr. Naidu during the election campaign. Addressing the people, Mr. Naidu said thousands of farmers had parted with their lands for the construction of a dream capital. “The move to set up three capitals is an evil design of the YSRCP. The government is stoking regional feelings among people in order to derive electoral and political benefits. Everyone in the State has a duty to strengthen the agitation to save Amaravati,” Mr. Naidu said. “Post bifurcation, the people of Andhra origin, having nothing to call their own, had to shift. Despite deficit budget, the TDP government had dared to construct the dream capital,” Mr. Naidu said. ‘The one chance trap’ People had fallen into the trap of voting the YSRCP to power in 2019 following an appeal made by its president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to give him “one chance,” Mr. Naidu said, and added, “The Chief Minister is showing his true colours after assuming power.” “The need of the hour is to counter the chaotic and oppressive regime,” Mr. Naidu said, and urged people to elect TDP candidates to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation to put a full stop to the “atrocities of the ruling party leaders in the city.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-vote-for-ysrcp-means-extending-support-to-three-capitals-naidu/article34015776.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thuthiya a shining example of an effective change-maker||Thuthiya and her husband Kuppaiah Raghu knew they would regret their decision. But the couple had no option. Raghu’s mother was sick, and he needed money to pay the hospital bills. So the couple borrowed Rs. 30,000 from the owner of a brick kiln in Chittoor district and walked into a “debt bondage” at the kiln. This was in 2006. Hard times Life as bonded labourers was difficult. “A day of rest or sickness meant abuses from the owner. We were sleep-deprived and stressed out, and it began to show on our health. After slogging from dawn to dusk, we were paid Rs. 50 per day and, at times, even this meagre sum was denied. Money was paid irregularly and the debt never reduced,” she recounts the trauma. Thuthiya buried deep inside her heart a persisting desire to visit her family after she saw how a fellow-labourer, who visited his family in Tamil Nadu without informing the owner, was brutally beaten up and locked up in a room. The next thing she knew was about his death. “I shuddered at the thought of seeking freedom and gave up all hope in life,” she says, speaking to The Hindu . Even as she struggled to come to terms with the possibility of leading a slave’s life for as long as she would be alive, a miracle happened in 2009. The turning point The local authorities, with the support of an NGO, International Justice Mission (IJM), raided the brick kiln and rescued Thuthiya and others. After the release, Thuthiya testified in front of the government officials and the NGO members about the horror tales of bonded labourers and the wretched life she and her co-workers lived at the kiln. Realising the importance of freedom, Thuthiya began to contribute her bit by helping the NGO in saving the lives of people in bondage. In 2019, she was elected president of Jeevana Jwala, an association of survivors of bonded labour in the State. “I was very nervous thinking if I was qualified to lead so many people, but I wanted to help in whatever way I could,” she says. Besides working as a tailor to supplement the income of her husband Raghu, who works as an auto-rickshaw driver, Thuthiya now leads by example some 800 members of Jeevana Jwala across the State. She is known for her enormous patience and diligence that help her to reach out to people in bondage and need help. During the lockdown, Thuthiya, along with other members of the Jeevana Jwala, distributed dry ration and other essentials to families rescued from bondage. She also stitched hundreds of face masks that were used by the police officials, hospital workers and Jeevana Jwala members for their safety from coronavirus. “Thuthiya is a shining example of how women can be effective change-makers,” says Samson Daniel, Senior Associate, Zonal Interventions, A.P. and Kerala, IJM, that works on issues of human trafficking and bonded labour, and partners with local governments to combat these social menaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thuthiya-a-shining-example-of-an-effective-change-maker/article34016256.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: active cases getting closer to 1,000||The State reported one more COVID-19 death and 136 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The lone death occurred in Chittoor district. The daily tally was the highest in the last 40 days. Chittoor alone reported 49 new infections, the highest single-day tally in weeks. The toll rose to 7,174 and the tally reached 8,90,692. The number of active cases inched closer to 1,000 and stood at 998. Only 58 patients recovered in the past one day. The number of recoveries was 8,82,520 so far, and the recovery rate decreased to 99.08%. In the 24-hour period, 45,702 samples were tested and 0.30% of them turned positive. A total of 1.42 crore samples with a positivity rate of 6.26% were tested so far. The State witnessed 776 new cases in the last one week, and Chittoor reported 211 of them while Vizianagaram reported only six. The district-wise tally of new cases was as follows: Chittoor (49), Guntur (15), Anantapur (14), Visakhapatnam (12), Krishna (11), Kadapa (11), Prakasam (9), Nellore (4), East Godavari (3), Srikakulam (3), Kurnool (2), West Godavari (2) and Vizianagaram (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-active-cases-getting-closer-to-1000/article34016252.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD draws up plan to save 8.68 MU per annum||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is embarking on a major energy efficiency drive to save 8.68 Million Units (MU) per annum by replacing the existing ceiling fans and air-conditioners with five-star rated equipment. As per an action plan drawn on the basis of a preliminary audit conducted by the A.P. State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM), the TTD is preparing to install energy-efficient appliances on a large-scale. According to official sources, the TTD consumes 68 MU per annum for lighting, cooking and other needs, and pays approximately Rs. 40 crore towards electricity charges as per applicable tariff. Keeping this in view, the TTD is taking steps to reduce energy consumption and energy costs, and improve quality of lighting. Energy audit The SECM is all set to conduct a detailed energy audit to pave the way for launching the drive on all the premises of the TTD in Tirumala and Tirupati with the cooperation of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE). TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has instructed the officials that steps be taken for adopting the energy efficiency measures once the SECM comes up with its findings. He has thanked BEE Director General Abhay Bakre and State Energy Secretary N. Srikant for initiating the project. Of the 68 MU per annum consumed, around 36% is being met from solar and wind power generation, and the remaining 64% (435 lakh units) from thermal sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-draws-up-plan-to-save-868-mu-per-annum/article34015777.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling booth details available online||Eighty-five percent of the voter slips have been distributed to the electors in the city, according to civic officials. In a release, it was stated there are 7,81,886 voters in the city under 788 polling stations and slips have been given to 85% of them. Those who are yet to receive them can obtain copies from various government websites. Officials said that voters can visit vmc.ap.gov.in, cmda.ap.gov.in or sec.ap.gov.in websites and click the ‘Know Your Polling Station’ link and get polling booth details by entering voter ID or names. Also, voters can dial 0866-2422400, 0866-2422515 or send Whatsapp message to 81819 60909 for details, which will also be available at Ward Secretariats. Voters can produce the voter card, driving licence or any of the 18 other photo identity cards along with the voter slip to cast their ballot on the polling day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-booth-details-available-online/article34016292.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five new ticket counters at Kavali station||A new booking office has been opened near the east entrance of the Kavali railway station in Nellore district on Sunday. It will have five counters for Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS), Passenger Reservation System (PRS) and platform tickets. One counter is exclusively for Divyang Jan. The PRS counters will function between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on regular days and 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Sundays, authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-new-ticket-counters-at-kavali-station/article34016251.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vote for development agenda of BJP, says GVL||The reforms ushered in by the Modi government at the Centre have played an instrumental role in the development of municipal corporations and municipalities, BJP MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao has said. Participating in the municipal election campaign in various wards in the city on Sunday, Mr. Narasimha Rao said that the Swachh Bharat Mission had helped a lot in giving the cities and towns the much-needed uplift. People should vote for the BJP and it’s ally the Jana Sena Party with the realisation that they were committed to welfare as well as development of urban local bodies, whereas the YSRCP and the TDP were “family-based parties bent on promoting self-interests.” Mr. Narasimha Rao said the BJP had a clear vision for development of the country, and it needed the people’s mandate to implement its agenda. ‘YSRCP’s policies retrograde’ The MP canvassed for candidates of the BJP-JSP combine in 21st, 23rd and 33rd divisions. The leader also criticised the YSRCP government for its alleged “retrograde policies and the Chief Minister’s dictatorial attitude.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vote-for-development-agenda-of-bjp-says-gvl/article34016295.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu has no right to seek votes: Minister||I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Sunday said that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu had no moral right to seek votes from the people of Vijayawada and Guntur as he “cheated them by promising development in the name of Amaravati, but committed massive irregularities on that pretext.” Addressing the media, he said the TDP government had spent Rs. 3,000 crore on temporary buildings in Amaravati. The Minister said that Mr. Naidu should have learnt his lessons from the TDP’s debacle in 2019, but he continued to daydream about staging a comeback. People gave Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy the chance to rule in 2019, and were prepared to elect the YSRCP in the municipal elections too due to good governance, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-has-no-right-to-seek-votes-minister/article34016255.ece
08 March 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. fared better than T.N., TS on investment front: Mekapati||Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said Andhra Pradesh had been at the forefront of economic development and performed significantly better than Tamil Nadu (TN) and Telangana in 2019-20 as per the Industrial Entrepreneur Memorandum (IEM) data published by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. He stated in a press release that A.P. had investment commitments amounting to Rs. 18,823 crore in 2019 and Rs. 9,727 crore in 2020 (up to December) compared to T.N.’s Rs. 8,562 crore and Rs. 6,807 crore in 2019 and 2020 respectively. Telangana had a total investment commitment of Rs. 5,432 crore and Rs. 7,392 crore in 2019 and 2020. When it comes to grounded investments, A.P. performed far better than T.N. and Telangana, he said. Investments totalling Rs. 34,696 crore were grounded in A.P. in 2019 and Rs. 9,840 crore in 2020. Telangana had grounded investments of Rs. 7,364 crore and Rs. 6,057 crore, followed by T.N. with Rs. 2,860 crore and Rs. 1,184 crore in 2019 and 2020 respectively. Mr. Goutham Reddy stated that there was a rumour that KIA Motors was thinking of making an exit from the State, but it had, in fact, announced its plans to expand at a cost of Rs. 400 crore. The Adani Group is investing about Rs. 14,635 crore in an IT Park and data centres. Besides, the Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited officially disclosed its plan to buy out Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd.’s 31.50% stake in Gangavaram port for about Rs. 1,955 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-fared-better-than-tn-ts-on-investment-front-mekapati/article34016254.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law and order a key issue in Arilova||Residents of Arilova, which comes under Ward Nos. 12 and 13 of Zone II (Madhurawada Zone), are worried about the law and order problems. The area has been witnessing murders, gang rivalries, ganja cases and other offences quite often. In the last two-and-a-half months, murder of a rowdy-sheeter and an attempted murder were report in the Arilova Police Station limits. Congested roads According to police, about 10% of the total rowdy-sheeters are from Arilova area. Though many of them are inactive and have started to lead peaceful lives, some incidents of drunken brawls and old rivalries keep surfacing, the police said. The residents complain that some people have been consuming alcohol in open places during nights. “Consuming ganja among the youth, even minors, is also very high in a few colonies here. Some consume in isolated places and road in the streets,” said N. Satyam, a resident of Chinnagaddali. Locals appeal to the officials to solve the law and order problems.  Residents complain about congested roads. Locals say that roads have not been developed for a long time. Adding to the traffic woes, many auto-rickshaw drivers park their vehicles on the road. During the peak hours, the traffic has been very heavy, the residents complain. They also alleged that a number of vendors had encroached the roads and set up stalls at many areas. Mosquito menace “Some fast food stalls, tiffin shops and some meat shops do not observe cleanliness. In some areas, drains are not cleared properly, leading to mosquito menace,” said a resident from Mustafa Colony. The locals complain that many people leave their cattle on roads in the evening leading to traffic accidents. Those living on hillock region complain about drinking water supply issues, especially during summer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/law-and-order-a-key-issue-in-arilova/article34016299.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Install Disha app, women urged||About 500 women police officials, staff and students of Andhra University, Mahila Mithra volunteers took part in a candle rally, organised by the city and rural police on the eve of International Women’s Day at Rama Krishna Beach here on Sunday. The rally was flagged off by Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, L.K.V. Ranga Rao, Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao and Commissioner of Police, Visakhapatnam city, Manish Kumar Sinha, near Kali Matha temple. The women police officials and students raised slogans seeking protection of the girl child and also stressed that protecting women was the responsibility of every citizen. Mr. Manish Kumar Sinha appealed to all the women to install Disha app, which could be used in times of emergency or danger. He said that a series of programmes have been planned by the police on Monday. Cancer hospital authorities would conduct a special medical camp for women police staff at the AR Grounds. He said that short film contests and a few other competitions would be conducted on women security and other aspects. Mr. Sinha also said that women could avail about 10 % discount in a few malls, if they show Disha app installed in their mobile phone on Women’s Day. He also said that various programmes would be conducted to create awareness about Disha app. ADCP (Admin) M. Rajini, ACP (Disha police station) Prem Kajal, ACP (East) Harshita and ACP (Harbour) S. Sireesha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/install-disha-app-women-urged/article34016302.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling party candidates trying to woo voters with liquor, alleges BJP||BJP leader and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has alleged that the ruling party candidates were trying to woo the voters with liquor. Addressing the media here on Sunday, the BJP leader alleged that ruling party stickers were being pasted on government vehicles and liquor was being distributed to voters. He said that a vehicle, belonging to a member of the ruling party was seized by the police in the district for transporting liquor bottles. The party symbol on the pamphlet of BJP-JSP nominee Parasurama Raju for the 14th Ward in the GVMC was changed and it was posted on social media to give the impression to the citizens that Mr. Parasurama Raju has defected to the YSRCP. He was also being prevented from campaigning in the ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruling-party-candidates-trying-to-woo-voters-with-liquor-alleges-bjp/article34016304.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals stage protest against murder of former militia member||A day after the brutal murder of former militia member Korra Pilku (35) by a group of Maoists, suspecting him to be a police informer, a large number of tribals staged a protest condemning the incident at G.K. Veedhi mandal headquarters, in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The tribals also expressed solidarity with the family of the deceased. Youths gathered in large numbers and formed a human chain on the main road at G.K. Veedhi on Sunday. They also burnt an effigy of the Maoists. The tribals raised slogans against the Maoists and alleged that the latter were neither letting them live peacefully nor allowing the area to be developed. The family members of the deceased, including Pilku’s wife and two children, also participated in the protest. The tribals expressed their grief to the family members and demanded that the government take strong action against the Maoists and also warned the rebels against entering their villages. They said that the people of the entire Agency area were watching their (Maoist’s) atrocities and the day was not far off, when they revolt against them, the locals stated during the dharna. About 15 Maoists, reportedly led by Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan of Galikonda area committee, came to the village late on Friday night and asked Korra Pilku to accompany them. His family members and other villages urged the Maoists to spare him. Though they promised to release him after questioning, they killed him with sticks and axes. Police said that Pilku was an active militia member about a year ago. However, for the last six months, he kept himself away from the Maoists. “As he stopped working for the Maoists, the rebels grew suspicious that he turned a police informer and killed him,” the police said. The G.K Veedhi police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-stage-protest-against-murder-of-former-militia-member/article34016176.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to privatise VSP brought rival parties on one platform: CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu has said that the Centre’s move to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), which was achieved after prolonged struggles, has brought rival political parties on the same platform in the fight against the BJP government. Describing it as a positive development, Mr. Madhu said that the VSP issue would influence the decision of voters in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) polls. He said that the CPI(M) was contesting on its own in 19 wards in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporationand expressed confidence that the party nominees would win a good number of seats and give a tough fight to others. He alleged that the Union government has hastened the process of privatisation after coming to power for the second consecutive time. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to hold a meeting on Niti Aayog on February 9 on the privatisation of the remaining public sector units (PSUs) in different States. The CPI(M) would oppose it tooth and nail and called upon all parties to stand united against privatisation of PSUs as they had done in the case of the VSP, Mr. Madhu said. He said that the BJP government has done grave injustice to the State by failing to fulfil the assurances made in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. Special Category Status These include failure to implement Special Category Status (SCS), special package to the backward districts in north Andhra and Rayalaseema, operationalisation of the new railway zone and the Kadapa Steel Plant.  ‘Inducements’ Mr. Madhu alleged that the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) leaders were forcing the candidates of other parties to withdraw from contest with threats and inducements. He warned that it would backfire on the YSRCP as sympathisers of that party were also not happy as it deprives them of the chance to vote. Party leader V.S. Padmanabha Raju was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-privatise-vsp-brought-rival-parties-on-one-platform-cpim/article34016300.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AAPI to hold global summit on May 1, 2||The American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPI) will be holding a global summit here on May 1 and 2. About 100 doctors from the USA will be interacting with 300 doctors from India on various subjects. The American delegation will be led by Dr. Sudhakar Jonnalagadda and Dr. Prasad Chalasani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aapi-to-hold-global-summit-on-may-1-2/article34016305.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu making baseless allegations against YSRCP leaders, alleges Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana has said that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu made baseless allegations against the YSR Congress Party leaders during his election campaign in the city. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, the Minister alleged that under the leadership of Mr. Naidu, the TDP leaders had looted public money and grabbed government lands. The Minister claimed that Visakhapatnam was developed during the reign of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy, during whose time the foundation for pharmacy SEZ was laid with the objective of development of North Andhra region. He alleged that the TDP was involved in large-scale corruption in TIDCO housing. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has promised to provide 300 sqft TIDCO houses free of cost to the poor, but the TDP leaders went to court stalling the house site distribution programme, he said. Drainage project The Minister said that the underground drainage project, which was proposed during the previous TDP government at a cost of Rs. 900 crore, had left a debt of Rs. 400 crore to the State government putting GVMC assets at stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-making-baseless-allegations-against-ysrcp-leaders-alleges-botcha/article34016309.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women should take care of their health: expert||Walkers Club, Visakhapatnam, felicitated Leela Digumarthi, gynaecological oncologist, and Lakshmi Mukkavalli, MD of Patra India BPO Services, and presented them the ‘Women Achievement award’ on the eve of Women’s Day, here on Sunday. Addressing the participants, Dr. Leela said that women should take care of their health, and suggested that Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination to girls and screening to their mothers will help in preventing cervical cancer. Ms. Lakshmi said that women’s empowerment should begin at home. Club president Kamal Baid spoke. Club secretary Somasekhar, joint secretary D.V. Varma, International Walkers Club and past president A.S.N. Prasad attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-should-take-care-of-their-health-expert/article34016301.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 65 new COVID cases in 5 days||The district reported 12 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 60,637 on Sunday. The district has reported 65 new infections since March 2. In the recent days, the 23 cases reported on March 3 is said to be highest single-day tally, since February 2. The number of recoveries is 60,025 and the death toll stood at 539 on Sunday. The number of active cases, which was 30 on March 2, increased to 73 on Sunday (March 7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-65-new-covid-cases-in-5-days/article34016307.ece
08 March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City comes under security blanket||With municipal elections round the corner, the city has been brought under security blanket. The city police are conducting extensive searches at various lodges, hotels and dormitories, apart from conducting awareness programmes at various places to ensure peaceful elections. Teams of the city police have been checking various hotels and enquiring about the visitors on the instructions of Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha. The police have also informed the management of lodges and other accommodation houses to contact them in case of movement of any suspicious persons. The police were also conducting checks to check money/liquor movement ahead of polls. The Station House Officers have also been holding meetings members of various political parties to explain about election code of conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-comes-under-security-blanket/article34016308.ece
08 March 2021||VIZIAIANGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP, MLA campaign for YSRCP nominees||Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar on Sunday said that the welfare schemes being implemented by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government would ensure a massive victory for all YSRCP candidates in the municipal corporation elections. Along with local MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy, he campaigned for the YSRCP candidates in places like Gajularega, Babametta and Phoolbagh Colony. He said speedy development of Fort City would be possible if the party won the Mayor seat. Mr.Veerabhadra Swamy alleged that the TDP had no right to seek votes since it had not helped people when they were facing troubles during the lockdown and coronavirus pandemic. “Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and TDP leaders locked their offices and homes. But YSRCP extended its helping hand to victims,” he claimed. Meanwhile, BJP and Jana Sena leaders jointly campaigned for the victory of alliance candidates in the town. BJP Assembly in-charge Kusumanchi Subba Rao said that the party was gaining the support of public as they were fed up with the ruling YSRCP and TDP. He said that Narendra Modi’s clean administration was helping the party get strong support at the grassroot level. BJP leader Reddi Pavani and Jana Sena leader Tyda Ramakrishna Rao campaigned for Jana Sena candidate Kanakamahalakshmi in Kalighat area of 42nd division. Both parties are contesting 33 divisions out of 50 in the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-mla-campaign-for-ysrcp-nominees/article34016266.ece
08 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Go for cancer screening tests’||Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari on Sunday urged middle-aged women to go for cancer screening tests immediately without any hesitation since the dreaded disease was curable when it was in early stages. She formally launched a two-day cancer screening camp organised by the Rotary Club Central-Vizianagaram. She urged the club to conduct such camps in rural and semi-urban areas also. The club president Poosarla Sunitha said that changes in lifestyle were leading to many cancers. She said that screening for cervical and breast cancers would continue World Women’s Day on Monday. The club secretary Ajay Mehata, Rotary Health Center chairman G.S. Gupta and other members were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-for-cancer-screening-tests/article34016265.ece
08 March 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dentists felicitated||YSRCP MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu on Sunday lauded the services of dentists during the lockdown period in spite of the threat from coronavirus pandemic. On behalf of the Indian Dental Association-Vizianagaram chapter, he felicitated doctors M. Nagasekhar, M. Tejaswi, Mallikarjuna Rao, Ayyagari Kameswara Rao and Dinesh who extended their services to patients despite personal risk during the pandemic period. IMA representatives Gorantla Satish and Vamsi Pavani said the risk of catching infection was high for dentists as they needed to maintain close contact with patients while providing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dentists-felicitated/article34016267.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||73 candidates in fray for Nuzvid municipal polls||Candidates contesting the municipal elections in Nuzvid are fanning out across the town, busy meeting voters with only 24 hours left for campaigning to end. All candidates are promising to ‘develop the town’ in their campaign speeches. Of the 32 wards in the town, candidates for two wards (24 and 30) were elected unanimously while elections will be held for the other 30 wards. YSR Congress Party chairperson candidate Ramisetti Triveni Durga made door-to-door visits in the wards on Sunday. She appealed to voters to see for themselves the development and the welfare schemes introduced by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and vote for the YSRCP in the municipal elections. The TDP, BJP, Jana Sena, CPI, CPI(M) and independents, on the other hand, highlighted the ‘failures’ of the government, and urged the public to vote for their candidates instead. In all, 30 contestants of the YSRCP, 29 from the TDP, five from BJP, three from Jana Sena, two from CPI(M), one CPI candidate and three independents are in the fray in the town. Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao, along with Nandigama DSP G. Nageswara Reddy, visited the hypersensitive polling stations in the division on Sunday. He directed the police to take measures for peaceful conduct of municipal elections. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu visited the sensitive and hypersensitive polling stations located in M.R. Appa Rao Colony and R.R. Peta areas. The SP, along with Nuzvid Municipal Commissioner Syed Abdul Rasheed, special officer B. Moses Paul and other officers, inspected the strong rooms and counting centres arranged at Saradhi Institute of Engineering and Technology in the town. Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu explained that polling will be conducted in 52 polling stations in the town. Security has been arranged at Tiruvuru major nagar panchayat, in which polling will be conducted for 20 wards on March 10, the DSP said. “Vigil has been intensified at 52 border checkposts to check flow of liquor from Telangana. Flag marches have been conducted,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/73-candidates-in-fray-for-nuzvid-municipal-polls/article34016296.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YHAI organises trekking for women||The Vijayawada chapter of the Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) on Sunday organised trekking in the Kondapalli forest area, followed by games played on a hill top, exclusively for women as part of International Women’s Day celebrations. Girls and women of all age groups participated in the trekking and competed in games and sports competitions. Led by the YHAI Chairman Nandam Vishnuwardhan, the participants started at the Kondapalli Fort at 6 a.m. and from there, they went trekking on a hill where a series of fun activities awaited them. Besides games, a Kuchipudi dance was presented by K. Sudheer. Mr. Vishnuwardhan said the purpose of organising the event was not just to provide a platform to women for amusement and excitement on this special occasion, but also to teach them how to channelise their energy in a positive and healthy way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yhai-organises-trekking-for-women/article34016294.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Face of empowerment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/face-of-empowerment/article34016257.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drumming up support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drumming-up-support/article34016303.ece
08 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Chiranjeevi adds glitz to coal town||Sunday turned out to be a day of excitement and glitter for the denizens of Yellandu town as the shoot of upcoming Telugu film Acharya starring Tollywood actors Chiranjeevi and his son Ram Charan began in the coal town. The surroundings of Jawahar Khani 5 Open Cast Project (JK-5 OCP) here came alive with scores of film lovers and fans thronging the venue of the film shoot to catch a glimpse of of the star father-son duo. Local police, along with the security personnel of the government-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited, made elaborate security arrangements for the film shoot. Some exciting sequences, including fighting scenes of the upcoming movie, directed by Koratala Siva, are expected to be shot at the JK-5 OCP as well as the 21 incline underground coal mine, one of the oldest coal mines of the only State-owned coal mining company in south India, till March 13, sources said. Later, Mr Chiranjeevi and his son Mr Ram Charan visited the residence of Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar in Khammam late on Sunday evening. They are expected to stay at the Minister’s residence in the town during the period of film shoot till this weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chiranjeevi-adds-glitz-to-coal-town/article34015917.ece
08 March 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bhatti launches cycle yatra to protest fuel price hike||The BJP-led Central government is pulling the country to the days of commuting by cycles, prevalent around four to five decades ago, burdening the common man with record high petrol and diesel prices, said Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. Both the Central and State governments are responsible for the spiralling prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders as they continue to levy excessive taxes and cess on petrol and diesel, he charged, deploring that the soaring prices of fuel hit the common man the hardest. Mr Vikramarka on Sunday kick-started his six-day cycle yatra from Bhadrachalam to Khammam as part of the campaign to drum up support for the party candidate Ramulu Naik, who is in the fray for the Legislative Council election to the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ Constituency slated for March 14. The cycle yatra will conclude in Khammam on March 12. Earlier in the day, the CLP leader offered prayers at the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple before embarking on the cycle yatra. A host of senior Congress leaders including Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah, MLC T Jeevan Reddy, former Union Minister P Balram Naik and others were present. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Vikramarka charged both the Central and State governments with levying around Rs. 58 taxes per litre of petrol posing unbearable burden on consumers. During the Congress-led UPA regime the fuel taxes used to be low at Rs. 12 per litre despite the high international crude oil prices that ranged between $105-$130 per barrel at that time, he said, criticising the persons at the helm for imposing huge burden on fuel consumers by levying exorbitant taxes in spite of sharp fall in the international crude oil price to around $48 per barrel at present. The BJP regime at the Centre is hell-bent on privatising PSUs set up during the Congress regime as part of its pro-corporate policies, he alleged, accusing the TRS dispensation of promoting private universities by undermining the State universities depriving underprivileged students of higher educational opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-launches-cycle-yatra-to-protest-fuel-price-hike/article34016191.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Luring home-buyers with low prices bait||Just when everything seemed to be going well for the real estate industry post the COVID-19 lockdown with construction workers returning, demand picking up and the government initiating online approval process, a new kind of scheme is causing jitters. Aggressive marketing Prospective buyers are apparently being lured with prices almost half of the prevailing market rates for highrise apartments with enticing images of the architectural imagery and attractive locations in the suburbs in the past few months. These are being marketed through WhatsApp forwards and crores of rupees are allegedly being collected from customers even though none of the projects plans has been cleared by the municipal regulatory authorities. Any real estate developer has to obtain building plan permissions from the municipal authorities and other departments like fire safety, etc., besides, the final approval of the TS-Real Estate Development Authority (TS-RERA) before advertisement of any form is put out for the project and money is collected from prospective buyers. “There is an outright subversion of the existing rules and regulations by collecting money from prospective customers without even getting the requisite permissions. We fear this is another Ponzi scheme and could affect the entire industry besides causing tremendous financial loss to the general public,” claims Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI)-Hyderabad president P. Rama Krishna Rao. Every day, fellow registered members have been bringing to his notice such projects being marketed online, mainly through WhatsApp and about newbie developers registering ‘undivided share of land’ in small parcels to customers. ‘Worse than loan scam’ “Any registration of land should go ahead only with the sale deed or sale agreement, but we are worried that these basic tenets are being given a go-by. This could be worse than the online loan scam,” says Shiv Raj, a prominent developer. Even with the online building permissions systems and especially after the TS-RERA has come into effect, it takes up to a year to get permissions for multi-storey buildings. TS-RERA regulations have also clearly stated that the real estate developer can start selling the units only after all necessary permissions are obtained and the funds collected should not be used for any other project. “While we, as registered members, have to wait for TS-RERA approval before we can start selling, the new operators are doing things in the reverse — selling without a single permission and the money collected is being used to purchase more land. We are not only worried as an industry but feel the city’s image will take a beating as these projects can go bust,” says Mr. Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/luring-home-buyers-with-low-prices-bait/article34016196.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccine acceptance higher among senior citizens||The number of people 60 years or above, and those who are between 45 and 59 years with-morbidities, in Telangana who took COVID-19 vaccine will cross the number of beneficiaries among Front Line Workers (FLW). In six days (March 1-6), 95,903 senior citizens and 45-59 years with co-morbidities took the jab. And in 28 days (February 6 to March 6), 99,826 of FLWs took the vaccine. The COVID-19 vaccination in the State has begun on January 16. After Health Care Workers (HCW), vaccination for FLWs started on February 6, and from March 1 for people from the two age groups. The State Health Department targeted to administer the vaccine to 3,31,097 HCWs, and 25,7,239 FLWs from Municipality, Police, Panchayat Raj and Revenue Departments. It is estimated that there are over 50 lakh people who are 60 years or above, and 45-59 years with co-morbidities. The number of beneficiaries among the two age groups is far higher than the HCWs and FLWs. A few days after the immunisation for FLWs began, officials noted that less number of Front Line Workers are coming forward to take the jab. The Health officials appealed them not to hesitate from taking the vaccine. However, only 39% of the FLWs took the shot till Sunday. The Health Department continues to conduct mop-up rounds for the HCWs and FLWs who did not take the vaccine yet. In case of vaccination for the people 60 years or above, and those who are 45-59 years with co-morbidities, the response was high - right from March 1. Comparatively, the number of senior citizens who are 60 years or above who are stepping forward is higher than 45-59 years age group with co-morbidities. People above 60 years said that they have been restricted to home for close to a year and now want to build immunity against the vaccine so that they can resume relatively normal life. Senior officials from the Health Department said that since the target among the two age groups is over 50 lakh, the number of people who will take it will be higher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccine-acceptance-higher-among-senior-citizens/article34016178.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coaching centres facing tough times||The pain of the lockdown is continuing for the teachers of hundreds of coaching and training centres that dot the city. While schools and colleges have been allowed to re-open with social distancing and staggered timings, there are no clear instructions for coaching centres. The result: Many coaching centres have shut down while others are conducting classes surreptitiously. “Offline coaching is not allowed. We are conducting online classes but a large number of students are not habituated to online classes that’s why the number of students studying with us has declined,” says Y.V. Gopala Krishna of Ace Engineering Academy. He estimates that the income of coaching centres to have dipped to 20% as only 30-40% students signed up and the fee is lower for online classes. Many other coaching institutions that used to dot Vidyanagar, Ashoknagar, Chikkedpally and other areas of the city have gone under unable to bear the overhead costs, rentals, electricity bills and other expenses. “I cannot run my coaching centre online as the students pay for the individual attention they get. Before COVID-19 pandemic hit, I had 45 students -- now there are 26 students and their classes have to be conducted in a staggered way,” says R. Badrinath, a math tutor who has managed to keep his centre in Ameerpet running. “The lockdown has meant that we only have old students. We are not getting new students. I had 45 students, now I have eight students as there is no fresh intake,” says Shaikh Muhammad Fazal who teaches physics at a coaching centre in Ameerpet. Students of Class IX and Class XI start their coaching for Class X and Class XII exams. But this year, only the Class X and Class XII students have opted for coaching. The impact of the lockdown triggered by COVID-19 pandemic is being understood only now beyond the hoo-ha of online classes. The educational crisis has led to creation of a new art installation in New York. It has 168 empty desks. 168 unused backpacks to signify 168 million futures hanging in the balance. This classroom installation at the United Nations in New York reflects the depth of the global education crisis. "The desks and backpacks represent the 168 million children whose schools have been completely closed for nearly a year due to COVID-19. Our message to world leaders is clear: no effort should be spared to reopen schools,” said UNICEF in a message. A message that is all too real for hundreds of thousands of children in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coaching-centres-facing-tough-times/article34016180.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSNPDCL artisan ends life over better service rules||An artisan employed as an operator at the Polasa sub-station of the Telangana State Northern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSNPDCL) in Jagitial district, ended his life by hanging himself from a tree branch on the premises of the sub-station on Sunday morning. A brief note apparently written by Ankam Buchi Raju, 43, was found at the spot in which he demanded “implementation of APSEB Rules for all the 23,000 artisans working for the power utilities in the State”. ‘False rumours’ The incident happened a day after suspension of another artisan, G. Nagaraj, by the management of Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) on Saturday on charges of “indulging in spreading false rumours about the managements and instigating workers to strike”. Mr. Nagaraj, who is also the president of Telangana Vidyut Workers’ Union, had been demanding implementation of APSEB Rules for all artisans working in the four power utilities in the State. Notice to managements His union gave a notice to the managements for regularisation of artisans by extending the APSEB Rules. Several electricity employees’ unions have appealed to artisans not to resort to the extreme step in a fit of emotion, assuring them that all the unions were ready to fight in support of the main demand of regularisation of artisans. Secretary general of Telangana State Electricity Employees’ Union-327 affiliated to INTUC E. Sridhar, who participated in the funeral of Buchi Raju along with other employees, demanded that the managements and government regularise the service of artisans. Another strike Appealing the managements not to resort to coercive measures against artisans demanding implementation of at least APSEB Rules, Mr. Sridhar said they would not hesitate to go on a lightning strike if the demand was not met. Telangana Electricity SC and ST Employees’ Union secretary general M. Ramesh said it was with the united struggle by all employees. President of Telangana Backward Classes Employees’ Federation D. Sammaiah urged the artisan community not to act in haste and requested the union leaders and managements of the power utilities to maintain restraint. Over 23,000 artisans, who were working on an outsourcing basis till then, were ‘absorbed’ into the utilities as artisans in four grades based on their skills following an assurance given by the State government in July 2018. Their remuneration was enhanced as a consolidated amount without any role of outsourcing agencies, who used to have a cut in the wages. The managements had issued service rules for artisans in December last without the acceptance of the unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsnpdcl-artisan-ends-life-over-better-service-rules/article34015915.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stop projects without TS-RERA nod, CREDAI urges government||Alarmed at the sale of residential/commercial units being sold on social media before requisite permissions, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI)-Hyderabad has appealed to the TS Stamps & Registration department not to take up registration of undivided share of property for real estate projects as it goes against its own established rules. Undivided share of land Association president P. Rama Krishna Rao and general secretary V. Rajashekar Reddy pointed out that various builders and individuals are offering mainly ‘undivided share’ (UDS) of land in projects to be launched/constructed at discounted prices by structuring the purchase of the apartment/unit in residential or commercial space as a purchase of the UDS of land over which the real estate project is being or is to be constructed. Explaining the ‘modus-operandi’ in a memorandum submitted to the Commissioner and Inspector General of Stamps & Registration, they said a piece of land is identified for building a residential or a commercial project, money is raised by selling apartments at a discounted rate to buyers, the builder concerned enters into an agreement on time period for delivery of apartment but instead of executing an agreement of sale in relation for the sale of the apartment, all the apartment owners are pooled together to form a group of buyers for UDS. Sale consideration for the apartment is shown as sale consideration for the UDS purchased by the customer and is paid to the owner of the land, following which the apartment buyer is made to execute a ‘Development agreement-cum-general power of attorney’ in favour of the builder to take up the project. “The throw-away price at which the UDS of land is being sold is disturbing market dynamics because of wrongful methods being adopted as huge amounts of money is being diverted for other projects,” they claimed. No legal remedy Further, since the customers are ‘land owners’, they cannot approach any forum if the project is delayed or not launched at all as it is outside the TS-RERA purview. Under C&I.G. Memo No.MV1/8541/96 dated: 15-09-1997, any sale of undivided share in any form before the project is commenced and without construction shall attract the appropriate stamp duty and registration fee. Hence, selling the UDS of land, directly or indirectly, through unregistered documents amounts to circumventing the existing laws. Appropriate steps should be taken as the process being adopted has no registration of documents under Stamps and Registration Act, and is also causing loss of revenue to the government, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-projects-without-ts-rera-nod-credai-urges-government/article34016197.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two cell phone snatchers nabbed||The sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (Central Zone) apprehended a 25-year-old cell phone snatcher on Saturday. The accused, Ashok Arjugonda, an auto driver from Vittalwadi crossroads, Narayanaguda, hails from Bidar in Karnataka. In another case, Mohammed Amer Ali, who was accused of kidnap and a mobile phone snatching incident in Saifabad was also detained by the Task Force sleuths. The 27-year-old auto trolley driver is a resident of Kacheguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-cell-phone-snatchers-nabbed/article34016183.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Information panel faults Waqf Board||Coming down heavily on the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), the Telangana State information Commission directed the Muslim endowments panel to issue specific guidelines so as to curb the menace of charging exorbitant fee for burials. The Commission also directed TSWB Chief Executive Officer look into the issue personally. The Commission was dealing with an appeal filed by city-based activist Kareem Ansari, who is associated with YouRTI.in, a portal which assists applicants in filing RTI queries. Mr Ansari, in a list of five questions, had also sought information on the Daira Mir Momin, a graveyard in Sultan Shahi in old city. The information requested included whether a managing committee of the graveyard has been constituted. In another query, the activist reiterated that TSWB Chairman Mohammed Saleem had directed caretakers of graveyards to provide grave space free of charge even as he sought an order copy. During the hearing, State Information Commissioner Mohd Ameer noted the reply of the TSWB Public Information Officer indicated that no written order in connection with providing free burial spaces exists. TSWB Chairman Mohammed Saleem’s oral instructions are available on social media, he noted. It opined that there is ‘no proper supervision by Waqf officials in all Muslim graveyards in the State and the local people are taking advantage of the situation to collect huge amounts’ for burials. Describing the situation as ‘alarming’ the Commission observed that there is merit in Mr Ansari’s allegation of large sums being charged for burial. “The commission is of the view that there must be specific guidelines/procedure laid down by the Government or by the Chief Executive Officer, Waqf Board fixing a nominal charges for allotting the graves (sic),” an excerpt reads. “Since the welfare of general public and interest of the government involved, the CEO, Waqf Board is also directed to look into the whole matter personally and ensure proper action in the matter and apprise the same to the Commission at the earliest, (sic)” the order reads. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Ansari said that while oral instructions free burials are important, they cannot be enforced as a board resolution or guidelines are required to enforce such initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/info-panel-faults-waqf-board/article34016177.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS has no moral right to seek votes’||Senior BJP leader and National OBC Morcha president K. Laxman alleged on Sunday that the TRS leadership has “no ethical or moral right” to seek votes from educated people when scores of vacancies in the government have not been filled up yet and the unemployment rate is at an all time high in Telangana. “Minister K.T. Rama Rao has been making all kinds of comments without explaining what his government has done for the sake of educated voters like unemployed youth, teachers, employees and pensioners in the last six years,” he said at a press conference. The unemployment rate among graduates and post graduates has only sky-rocketed ever since the TRS came to power from 7.3% in 2014 to 27.7% and 31.3%, respectively. “Teachers’ salaries are being delayed,” the BJP leader accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-has-no-moral-right-to-seek-votes/article34016188.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||158 COVID-19 cases on Saturday||Telangana recorded 158 COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total to 2,99,900. While 40,616 people were tested, results of 628 are awaited. Meanwhile, one more COVID-19 patient died. The new 158 cases include 30 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 15 from Rangareddy and 10 from Medchal Malkajgiri. No cases were recorded in Wanaparthy, Kamareddy, Jogulamba Gadwal. From March 2, 2020 to March 6 of this year, a total of 89,64,623 samples were put to test and 2,99,900 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 1,886 were active cases, 2,96,373 have recovered while 1,641 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/158-covid-19-cases-on-saturday/article34016179.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Traffic Farishtey’ man two juctions||Hyderabad City Security Council along with their traffic volunteers, Traffic Farishtey, manned Rethibowli and Nanalnagar junctions here on Sunday. Around 30 volunteers educated commuters on the importance of road safety like wearing a helmet, seatbelt, lane maintenance, stopping before the white line and other traffic norms. The principal agenda of HCSC is to bridge the gap between community and police for which we will need more volunteers from the community to come forward, said Piyush Agarwal, joint secretary (traffic forum) of HCSC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-farishtey-man-two-junctions/article34016182.ece
08 March 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Women as partners in economic development||Dalit Stree Shakti organised a meeting on the theme ‘Dalit women’s share in economic resources’ to ahead of International Women’s Day on Monday (March 8). Speaking on the occasion, the organisation’s national convenor Jhani Geddam said Women’s Day was initially observed to mark the role of working class women in Russian revolution of February 1917. She said Dalit women were denied their due in economic resources though they struggled in all fields. She advised them to take a micro view in starting business and pursue it aggressively to achieve success. Discussing aspirations Activists of the organisation from Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad and Medchal participated in the programme. Some of them spoke about their entrepreneurial aspirations in chosen fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/women-as-partners-in-economic-development/article34016200.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nominated to psychiatric society||A neuro psychiatrist from Nizamabad, Dr. Vishal Akula, has been nominated as assistant general secretary of the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS). The society consists of psychiatrists from all over the country. Dr Vishal Akula said that he intends to raise awareness about mental health issues, effects of illicit substances, and challenge superstitions through awareness programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nominated-to-psychiatric-society/article34016187.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Man booked for ‘rape’||The Banjara Hills police on Saturday registered a case against a 50-year-old man from Filmnagar after his maid servant accused him of inappropriate sexual advances. The 38-year-old woman, a native of Rajahmundry, came to Hyderabad a few days ago, and started working at the alleged accused’s house for the past two weeks. She approached Golconda police who alerted their counterparts of Banjara Hills due to jurisdictional issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-man-booked-for-rape/article34016181.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man found dead||A 27-year-old man was found dead in his residence at Sriram Colony of Uppal here on Sunday. The victim, Voriganti Sairam, a private employee, ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling hook in his bedroom, police said. A note purportedly left behind by the victim cited that he was suffering from a severe headache, as a result he resorted to the extreme step, they said. Meanwhile, the police registered a case and are investigating into the incident.  (There is always someone to listen to at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead-in-uppal/article34016184.ece
08 March 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mogilicheruvu villagers refuse to vacate||Residents of Mogilicheruvu tanda, a hamlet attached to Etigaddakishtapur village in Toguta mandal, had an unpleasant experience on Sunday, when Revenue and Irrigation officials failed to give them the promised compensation for vacating their houses. The tanda, with about 60 houses, has a population of 200 people. For the last two days, revenue and irrigation officers have been visiting the village with huge police security and asking them to vacate the village. A majority of the villagers told the officials that they would not vacate till compensation is paid completely and keys to houses at Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony at Mutrajpally are given. Still, some of them hired vehicles to move their goods. However, the amount offered to them was not acceptable and hence those who got their goods packed and loaded in vehicles withdrew them. “The residents are under tremendous pressure to vacate, with officials frequently visiting the village with the police. They are afraid of revealing their names. The videos and photos were taken using concealed cellphones,” said a person from a neighbouring village. “The experience of the oustees at Kondapochamma and Anantagiri villages is worse. These villagers were forcibly vacated from their villages in the middle of the night using police force. The fate of oustees from Mallannasagar villages may not be much different,” he commented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mogilicheruvu-villagers-refuse-to-vacate/article34016193.ece
08 March 2021||YEDDUMaiLARAM (SANGAREDDY),TELANGANA||Accounts for girl children||In an inspiring move, the panchayat opened Sukanya Samrudhi Yojana (SSY) accounts for as many as 72 girl children in Yeddumailaram village located in Kandi mandal. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao handed over the SSY passbooks to the beneficiaries in a programme held in the village on Sunday. The Postal department opened a special counter to hand over the passbooks to their parents. Sarpanch Kasala Malla Reddy was inspired by a similar drive at Haridaspur in Kondapur mandal, initiated about a year ago, where the birth of a girl child is literally celebrated. The Collector said that this village would also be a role model for the nation. He said that Finance Minister T. Harish Rao will visit the village shortly. He urged mothers to create confidence in their children. He also appreciated the initiative taken up by Haridaspur Sarpanch Shafi and suggested people to get girls educated as they will take care of the family and society at large. District Rural Development Officer Ch. Srinivas Rao also said that Yeddumailaram would become a role model for other villages across the State. District Jail Superintendent Shiva Kumar said that women were not being treated as equals, and the number of harassment cases against them were increasing. He said that respecting a woman should start from the family first. He questioned the item song culture in cinemas and suggested control over social media and consumption of liquor. Additional GM, ODF, Sujatha, on Sunday, asked women to get their daughters educated and pave their way to future. She spoke of her experiences as an engineering student more than three decades ago. A similar programme will be organised on Women’s Day at Nizampet village near Narayanakhed and all the villages in Gummadidala mandal on Wednesday. District Welfare Officer Padmavathi, Zilla Parishad Chairperson P. Manjushree and others participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-accounts-for-girl-children/article34016192.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||An ode to the women staff in postal services||The joy of young couple K. Mallesh and K. Nandini after being blessed with a baby last month in Nagarkurnool was tinged with anxiety as their efforts to avail benefits under the KCR Kit scheme came to a naught. Nandini did not have a bank account, mandatory to onboard oneself as a beneficiary in the official KCR Kit portal. But then the staff at Nagarkurnool India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) came to their rescue. IPBP personnel and the local Dak Sevak visited the hospital where Nandini was recuperating after delivery. From the bedside, she not only got an account opened but also the QR card mandatory for accessing benefits. Selfless services Selfless services rendered by women employees of India Posts have endeared them to customers. On the occasion of International Women’s Day on March 8, The Hindu spoke to a number of women employees and beneficiaries about the services. Timely help rendered by Burghampahad sub post office under Khammam postal division to 24-year-old Shaik Sana of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district is etched in her memory. Sana’s father paid a premium of Rs. 330 annually to register for Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana giving him a cover of Rs. 2 lakh. His untimely death caught Sana unawares. Her mother, being the nominee, got all help from the local postal staff who processed the file. The family received Rs. 2 lakh insurance in the quickest possible time. Kunsoth Karuna (35) of Itikyala tanda of Pembi mandal in Nirmal district would have missed her monthly ration through public distribution system (PDS) had local postal authorities not helped her link her mobile number to her Aadhaar Card. Karuna learnt that Nirmal postal staff was organising an Aadhaar camp. Her details were updated and she is now ready to access PDS benefits by merely showing the OTP number every time she visits the local ration dealer. Anusha Yadav, postal assistant, Hanamkonda Head Post Office, said she helped 1,161 persons open accounts with the post office. Her concern and warm approach made that possible, senior officials maintain. Similarly, K. Ankitha Reddy of Karimnagar HO Post Office was actively involved in conducting 15 Aadhaar camps in rural areas where enrolment and updations besides 1,262 other transactions were successfully completed. G.Vinatha, postal assistant in Regional Office, Hyderabad, is credited with processing 190 cases of compassionate appointments in respect of Gramin Dak Sevaks in record time. Special mentions Pasupuleti Rajeshwari, postal assistant, Khammam Division, who is also a corona warrior, has, so far, ensured foolproof processing of 3,850 applications at Post Office Passport Seva Kendra, Khammam. K. Srilatha, Gramin Dak Sevak Branch Postmaster, Sirpur Branch Post office under Nizamabad Division, as her efforts ensured that 116 pensioners in her village were able to get Digital Life Certificates while Y. Surekha, assistant superintendent-Posts, Armoor Sub Division under Nizamabad Division, got 15,121 Sukanya Samruddhi accounts opened. In all, 2,167 women are working in different cadres in Hyderabad Region representing managerial and administrative cadres. All praise P.V.S. Reddy, Post Master General, Hyderabad region, says he appreciates the “multi-faceted roles” women play as they render outdoor duties like postwomen, branch postmasters and counter clerks. “Their ability to communicate pleasantly with customers, giving relevant information in local language and manner of persuading to become one among the many beneficiaries is laudable. In a way, they win customers with good conduct,” he said, terming their patience in handling stressful situations across counters as “amazing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-ode-to-the-women-staff-in-postal-services/article34016198.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Talk on role of graduates||An apt expectation It’s quite common that the electorate would have many expectations from the contestants, particularly those from the party in power, in any election, but Union Minister for Environment and Forest Prakash Javadekar thought the other way round recently, and said he too has an expectation from the electorate in the elections to the two MLC seats. Delivering a talk on the role of graduates at a meeting organised by BJP, he said the problem of invalid votes became a thing of the past with the introduction of electronic voting machines (EVMs). However, the election to Graduates’ constituencies in the Legislative Council would have only graduates as the electorate but, unfortunately, the election held with physical ballot papers would have invalid votes. It’s an issue that reflects on graduates badly. “That’s why I expect from the electorate for the March 14 polling that they give no scope for any invalid vote by registering their preference properly,” Mr. Javadekar said. Communication gap There appears to be a huge communication gap between the Central government and opposition leaders of Telangana. Opposition parties, BJP in particular, upped their ante against the government for its alleged failures in the implementation of Central schemes. The BJP was critical of the State’s ‘inaction’ that led to its much-publicised ITIR loss. Criticism by the opposition parties notwithstanding, several senior secretaries of the Union government praised the State in leading the others in the implementation of Central schemes. The latest in the block is Union Housing and Urban Affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra, who showered praises on the TS government for effectively implementing schemes like PM Street Vendors’ Atma Nirbhar Nidhi and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. The Union secretary’s assertion raised questions on whether there is truth in the criticism indicating that the latter should make charges with sufficient proof. KTR perfecting an art Minister K.T. Rama Rao is perfecting the art of giving political lectures these days. The tech-savvy politician took a jibe at the BJP for its charges against the TRS government at a meeting of the TRS students’ wing the other day. He said while students were pursuing their education in universities like Osmania and Kakatiya, the BJP leaders were mastering the art of “lies and falsehood” from the WhatsApp university. Mr. Rama Rao made sarcastic reference to the promises made by the BJP like creation of 2 crore jobs a year and deposition of Rs. 15 lakh each in the accounts of the common man. He said he could not take the challenge by BJP’s N. Ramachandra Rao for an open debate on the jobs provided since the TRS took over the reins as he was still searching the finer details of the implementation of these promises.  (B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talk-on-role-of-graduates/article34016189.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Femme focus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/femme-focus/article34016201.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||SCR, please mention train timings on tickets||Recently, I booked a ticket for Train No. 02737 to travel from Rajahmundry to Secunderabad. The ticket only mentioned ‘check timings’ but not of departure. The earlier Gowthami Express departed from Rajahmundry at 9.15 p.m. and expecting the same timings, I came to the station at around 8.30 p.m. only to know that the train had left at 8.20 p.m. I had to take a private bus spending around Rs. 950, which could have been avoided had the train timings being conveyed at through through SMS. K. Durga Prasad Rao, Srinagar Colony    Some of the poles of the street lights in our Public Sector Employees Colony in New Bowenpally, Secunderabad, have have improper switch boards. The switch boards are at low level and are hanging. There is a worry that children playing in the evenings could inadvertently touch the ‘live’ power lines. Therefore, I request the municipal/electricity authorities concerned to fix them properly before any untoward incident happens. G Murali Mohan Rao, Umanagar   Commuters using the Neredmet road in Secunderabad continue to face inconvenience due to delayed construction of the Road Under Bridge (RUB). The work was supposed to have started in 2010-11, but has not taken off due to apathy of the railways and municipal authorities. Whenever a freight train moves, commuters have to wait for over half hour to pass through and many emergency vehicles are caught in this jam. I appeal to the government to take up this project on priority. Robin Zaccheus, Neredmet   The existing old bus stop at Lakadawala in Secunderabad Cantonment Board jurisdiction towards Trimulgherry is totally damaged and water gets stagnated there. I request the authorities concerned to lay good-quality concrete flooring and extend the roof of the bus stop for the convenience of commuters during harsh weather conditions. N. Ramalakshmi, Macha Bolarum   (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns.They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-please-mention-train-timings-on-tickets/article34016199.ece
08 March 2021||Agartala,||IPFT declares first list for Tripura tribal polls||The Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) on Sunday evening declared its first list of 18 candidates for the elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) slated for April 4. The party which snapped its agreement with newly-floated Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance (TIPRA) on jointly contesting all elections in the State, said it would soon announce the second list for the remaining 10 seats. Sources said top leaders of the IPFT were still negotiating with its alliance partner BJP over seat sharing and declaration of the first list of 18 candidates was a ploy to put pressure on the saffron party. IPFT has been demanding 22 seats in 28-member TTAADC which was repeatedly rejected by the BJP. IPFT is the second political party to announce list of candidates after the CPI(M)-led Left Front. The BJP and the Congress are two major parties that have not declared candidates yet. IPFT chief N.C. Debbarma and general secretary Mevar Kumar Jamatia announced the first list of 18 candidates at a press conference, but avoided tough questions from newsmen. Mevar Kumar Jamatia only said that the demand for Tipraland or a separate State for indigenous people remained their main political plank. Mr. Jamatia’s spouse Geeta Debbarma figured in IPFT’s first list.  Limited authority The TTAADC was constituted in 1982 under Sixth Schedule of the Constitution and it has limited authority over 68% of the State’s total geographical area. Its 28 members are elected through popular franchises and two members are nominated by the State Governor.  Demand for a separate State for indigenous people remains our main political plank Mevar Kumar JamatiaIPFT general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ipft-declares-first-list-for-tripura-tribal-polls/article34016018.ece
08 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Gram Sabhas can oppose opening of liquor vends in villages: Dushyant||Any Gram Sabha in Haryana that does not want liquor vends to open in its village, can pass the resolution and send it to the State government through its Deputy Commissioner by March 15, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said. Stating this here on Sunday, he said that at present all the Gram Panchayats of the State have been dissolved, so those who don’t want liquor vends to open in their villages can pass their resolution in the Gram Sabha by March 15 and send it to the government through the Deputy Commissioner . While sharing the details of the last two years, Mr. Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of Excise and Taxation Department, told reporters that 3,048 proposals were sent to the government by panchayats for the closure of liquor vends in 2019-20, out of which only 57 proposals were accepted and 48 proposals were rejected, while the remainder were left out due to some objections. The Jannayak Janta Party, which had independently contested the 2019 Haryana Assembly elections and later forged a post-poll alliance with the BJP, had earlier said the panchayats, which do not want any liquor vend in villages under their jurisdiction should pass a resolution to this effect and submit it to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gram-sabhas-can-oppose-opening-of-liquor-vends-in-villages-dushyant/article34016017.ece
08 March 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmer found hanging in Haryana||A 49-year-old farmer from Haryana’s Hisar district on Sunday allegedly hanged himself from a tree, about seven kilometres from the Tikri border protest site, police said. The farmer, who supported the agitation against Centre’s new farm laws, has purportedly left a suicide note, they said. “The victim, Rajbir, hailed from a village in Hisar district. He was found hanging from a tree,” Bahadurgarh City police station SHO, Vijay Kumar said. His body was found hanging by some farmers who informed the police. In the suicide note purportedly left behind by Rajbir, it is mentioned that the three farm laws were responsible for him to take the extreme step.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-found-hanging-in-haryana/article34016020.ece
08 March 2021||Ghaziabad,||Government laying red carpet for business houses, says Jayant||Continuing with his attack on the BJP government, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary said on Sunday the government was laying carpet for Ambani and Adani while inserting nails in the path of farmers. Quoting figures, he wondered how the rich became richer during the lockdown. ‘Dividing people’ Invoking the poetry of Sahir Ludhianvi, Mr. Chaudhary once again urged farmers to damage the political prospects of the ruling party in all the upcoming elections. He reminded them, “you are up against people who are expert at dividing you.” Mr. Chaudhary was addressing a kisan panchayat organised by RLD in Dhikoli village of Baghpat. Taking the name of a local farmer who allegedly ended his life because of bank loan and hike in electricity charges, he charged, on one hand farmers of Baghpat owe Rs. 1,342 crore to government banks but on the other at least their Rs. 900 crore of payment is pending with sugar mills. “The three farm laws will act as the last nail in the coffin of farmers,” Mr. Chaudhary remarked. Taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said “the PM could sell comb to a bald person. He has time to hold rallies in Bengal, but he could not visit farmers protesting at Delhi borders.” ‘PM bigger than nation?’ When you are in politics, he said, one should be keen to listen to his critics. “But here a cult is being created around the PM that whoever criticises him is called anti-national. Has the PM become bigger than the country,” Mr. Chaudhary asked. The RLD leader urged the youth to put the symbols of farmers in social media. “Dhoti-kurta clad farmers are with us. Now we have to win over the ones who wear jeans. They are being misled in the name of Digital India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/government-laying-red-carpet-for-business-houses-says-jayant/article34016019.ece
08 March 2021||GUWAHATI,||BJP, allies face vote share challenge in Assam polls||Numbers can be deceiving. But if one goes by the vote share of parties in the 2016 Assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies approach mandate 2021 behind the Congress-led Mahajot or grand alliance. The BJP had ahead of the three-phase polls announced its “Mission 100”, targeting at least 100 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats. The party and its two regional allies – the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) – had achieved two more seats than its “Mission 84” in the 2016 polls. The BJP has replaced the BPF with its rival United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), which hardly had any presence in the last elections. The BPF has joined the mahajot this time. State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass had in an interview to The Hindu calculated the “winnability” his party and allies have targeted, right down to the neighbourhood level, to justify the confidence of achieving “Mission 100”. The calculation was based on the feedback from an army of 4 lakh ‘prishtha pramukhs’ (BJP worker in charge of a page of the electoral roll containing 60 voters). Proven poll strategy The confidence has also come from the proven poll strategy of Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, whose seat prediction has been near-perfect in four Assembly polls till 2016, three of them when he was with Congress. But the BJP faces more challenges than the Congress this time. Apart from the BPF, the Congress has teamed up with the minority-based All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the CPI, CPI(Marxist) and CPI(Marxist-Leninist) to take on the BJP. The newly-floated Assam Jatiya Parishad and jailed rights activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal have also forged a regional front to prevent the BJP from retaining power. Theirs is avowedly a forum against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which the Mahajot is also opposing. State Congress president Ripun Bora said the groundswell of sentiments against the CAA, price rise and misrule of the BJP has made the Mahajot upbeat about getting “100+ seats”. “Let’s see who gets how many this time, but one must remember our alliance partners had more vote share than the BJP and its allies in 2016, and there is no Modi wave this time,” AIUDF president Maulana Badruddin Ajmal said. The BJP had won 60 of the 89 seats it contested in 2016, while the Congress won 26 of 122 seats. But the BJP’s vote share was 1.45% less than the 30.96% of the Congress. The combined vote share of the BJP, AGP and BPF in 2016 was 41.59%. Minus that of the BPF, the vote share works out to 37.65%. Adding the vote share of UPPL, which was negligible in 2016, would hardly make any difference for the BJP-led alliance. If one adds the 2016 vote share of the BPF, the CPI, CPI(M) and CPI(ML), the Mahajot heads to the polls with a combined vote share of 48.81%. This includes the 13.05% mustered by the AIUDF, which had won 13 of the 74 seats it had contested. A deeper analysis reveals that the Congress-AIUDF vote share was higher in 17 seats the BJP had won in 2016. The combined vote share of the Congress and the AIUDF was also higher in two seats the AGP had won.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-allies-face-vote-share-challenge-in-assam-polls/article34015969.ece
08 March 2021||Guwahati,||Denied ticket, Assam BJP Minister returns to Congress||Snubbed by the Bharatiya Janata Party, Assam Minister Sum Ronghang returned to the Congress on Sunday. Mr. Ronghang, who held the portfolios of Hill Areas Development, besides Mines and Minerals, was one of 11 MLAs to whom the BJP denied a ticket. He joined the Congress in the presence of party general secretary Jitendra Singh and other senior leaders. The Congress is likely to field the out-of-favour Minister from Diphu, the Assembly constituency in the hill district of Karbi Anglong that he represents. On March 5, another BJP leader and a former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) member, Bitupon Saikia joined the Congress. Leader joins Raijor Dal Azizur Rahman, advisor to the influential All Assam Minority Students’ Union, became the Raijor Dal candidate for the Naoboicha seat soon after joining the new regional party on Sunday. The announcement of his candidature followed the second list of 50 candidates that ally Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) released. Among these seats is Naoboicha, where the AJP nominated retired teacher Putali Kayastha. The AJP also nominated Alok Ghosh, a former BJP leader, for the Mariani seat. On Sunday, the Asom Gana Parishad too declared its first list of candidates. Among the eight names declared are party president and Agriculture Minister Atul Bora (Bokakhat seat) and Water Resources Minister Keshab Mahanta (Kaliabor).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/denied-ticket-assam-bjp-minister-returns-to-congress/article34016168.ece
08 March 2021||Lucknow,||BJP regime wants to impose ‘company rule’, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday equated the BJP regime with the British rule, alleging that the party wanted to impose a “company rule” in the country. “There is no possibility that income of farmers is going to double. The truth is that whatever income farmers had also ended. The BJP wants to force a company rule in the country the way British captured India with the East India Company,” Mr. Yadav said in a statement here.  ‘Laws forced on farmers’ Mentioning the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, he said, “When thousands of farmers are raising an issue, the government should resolve it but the BJP government has forced its laws against farmers’ will.” Farmers are apprehensive that they will turn labourers after the new laws are implemented, the SP chief said. Due to stubborn attitude of the BJP, social workers of various countries have also supported the farmers’ agitation in the country, he said.  Women farmers “Time magazine has devoted its cover page to women farmers, who are participating in the agitation fearlessly,” Mr. Yadav added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-regime-wants-to-impose-company-rule-says-akhilesh/article34016021.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||Cannot afford to lose Nanar oil refinery project: Raj to Uddhav||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to ensure that the oil refinery project proposed to be set up at Nanar village in Ratnagiri district does not go out of the State. Mr. Raj Thackeray and the Shiv Sena had earlier opposed this project and supported the local villagers who were against it. “Some time ago, I read that a major international project was passed on to Bengaluru and the Maharashtra government was trying its best to get it back. The other States are in a cut-throat game of snatching projects from Maharashtra. In such trying times, Maharashtra should not let go of the Ratnagiri Rajapur refinery project,” the MNS chief said in his letter. “This is a massive project of nearly Rs. 3 lakh crore. We surely cannot afford to lose this project to another State,” he added. Mr. Raj Thackeray also sent similar letters to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. In March 2019, the BJP-led Maharashtra government, in which the Sena was a partner, had made it clear that the project will not come up at Nanar. The State government signed a proposal to denotify the land which was to be acquired. It was announced at that time that the project would be shifted. ‘Dearth of jobs for youth’ Scrapping project was one of the conditions of the Sena for a tie-up ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha and Assembly polls. The MNS chief said though Konkan region is so gifted, the Konkani youths find themselves lost and in a dismal state of mind. For jobs and their daily livelihood, they have to turn towards Mumbai and Pune.  He said, “The COVID-19 backdrop has altered our perspective. There is a serious contest to get investments into the States.” The MNS chief said the situation is such that Maharashtra cannot afford to let go of any new project or a project that can bring in foreign investment. If we let this happen, we will lose our status of being a pioneer State in the industrial growth of our country. He said, “The state of affairs has undergone a huge change. So many youths are unemployed. Our system and governance is facing a tremendous financial strain. Now is the time to safeguard our State, we need to change our perspective and look at the industrial sector and projects in a new light.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cannot-afford-to-lose-nanar-oil-refinery-project-raj-to-uddhav/article34015966.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||Mansukh Hiren death probe: ATS registers case of murder||Two days after the body of Mansukh Hiren (46), the purported owner of the car with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month, was found in a creek, the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Sunday registered a case of murder against unidentified people, an official said. The formal orders to hand over the probe into the death to the ATS were issued on Saturday late night. The ATS registered the FIR on the order of the State Home Department under sections of the Indian Penal Code, including murder, disappearance of evidence, and a criminal conspiracy. The Mumbra Police have handed over all the documents related to the case to the ATS. Earlier, family members of the deceased had demanded registration of a murder case and refused to take possession of his body. They finally agreed to claim the body on Saturday on the intervention of senior police officers in Thane. Vimla Hiren, wife of the deceased, had filed a police complaint. ‘Treated like an accused’ Hiren, an automobile accessories dealer, had purportedly written a letter on March 2 to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and police commissioners of Thane and Mumbai, alleging that he was being harassed by the police and media since the vehicle was found outside Mr. Ambani’s house. He had also claimed that despite being a victim, he was treated like an accused. A Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks was found on February 25 and the police said it was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. In the letter, Hiren said that he was being harassed despite not having any knowledge about the culprits, who not only “stole his vehicle but also misused it”. Hiren had gone missing after he left his shop at 8.30 p.m. on March 4. His family lodged a missing person’s report on Friday after he did not return home and a case was filed at Naupada police station. By that time, a body was found at Mumbra and it was later confirmed that the deceased was Mansukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mansukh-hiren-death-probe-ats-registers-case-of-murder/article34015968.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||‘1975 Emergency better than current situation’||Terming the 1975 Emergency an outdated issue that needs to be permanently “buried”, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut targeted the Centre saying that the prevailing situation in the country is such that one can say the Emergency period was better. In his weekly column Rokhthok published in the party mouthpiece Saamana , Mr. Raut who is the executive editor of the Marathi daily, questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s move of expressing regret over the Emergency imposed by his grandmother and ex-Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. He said, “People of India punished Indira Gandhi for her decision. They taught her a lesson, but later forgave her by bringing her back to power. Emergency is an outdated issue. Why rake it up again and again?” Mr. Raut said the Income Tax Department’s raids on filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and actor Taapsee Pannu came when they spoke against the Central government’s policies. He said the Washington Post had raised question marks over the “undeclared Emergency” under the Modi government as it talked about the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi on sedition charges. “Political control over media houses, political strategies to win elections and break the Opposition, defying constitutional norms: all these things are just as what happened in 1975. Indira Gandhi’s place has been taken by Narendra Modi,” Mr. Raut wrote in his column. The Sena MP added that Indira Gandhi had expressed regret over the excesses committed and promised there will be no Emergency in future. “She was firm that the step had to be taken against the prevailing backdrop where provocation was done in an attempt to create anarchy. She was of the view that Emergency was imposed because democracy was derailed,” Mr. Raut said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/1975-emergency-better-than-current-situation/article34015965.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao released on medical bail||Poet-activist Varavara Rao (82), an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, was discharged from Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai on Saturday night after the Bombay High Court granted him medical bail for six months on February 22. Mr. Rao was admitted to the hospital in November last year due to ill health. The high court had directed that he be released on bail after being discharged from hospital. The court had asked Mr. Rao to furnish a personal bond of Rs. 50,000 and two solvent sureties of the like amount. Mr. Rao later requested the court that he be allowed to furnish a cash surety as the process of submitting solvent sureties was taking time. The high court last Monday allowed Mr. Rao to furnish a cash surety of Rs. 50,000 and gave him time till April 5 to submit the two solvent sureties of the same amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/varavara-rao-released-on-medical-bail/article34015967.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||Mamata asks Jharkhand CM to campaign for her in Bengal polls||Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee has requested Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren to campaign for her in the West Bengal Assembly elections. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha will take a decision on this soon, keeping in mind the objective of giving a pushback to the BJP’s poll prospects, a senior JMM leader said on Sunday. The development assumes significance as the JMM is in an alliance government with the Congress in Jharkhand and the Sonia Gandhi-led party has tied up with the Left and the Indian Secular Front in West Bengal against the BJP and the Trinamool Congress. After the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Samajwadi Party and the Shiv Sena, Ms. Banerjee had said last week that the TMC has received support from the JMM and the Nationalist Congress Party for the Assembly polls. “In West Bengal, communication keeps happening with Mamata Banerjee as being in neighbouring States, issues are regularly discussed,” a senior JMM leader said on condition of anonymity. The TMC chief has asked the Jharkhand Chief Minister to campaign for her, the JMM leader said, adding that party chief Shibu Soren has been informed about the request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mamata-asks-jharkhand-cm-to-campaign-for-her-in-bengal-polls/article34015970.ece
08 March 2021||Noida,||10 new COVID-19 cases recorded in a day in Noida||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 10 new cases of COVID-19 in a day that pushed the district’s infection tally to 25,602 on Sunday, official data showed. Fifteen more patients got discharged following treatment during the same period bringing the number of active cases in the district to 79 on Sunday from 84 the previous day, according to U.P. Health Department data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/10-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-a-day-in-noida/article34015962.ece
08 March 2021||patna,||Bihar opposition slams Minister’s call to ‘beat up’ unresponsive officials||A day after Union Minister and senior Bihar BJP leader Giriraj Singh advised people of his constituency in Begusarai to “beat up public representatives and officials if they don’t listen to you”, the opposition asked why the Centre had not taken any action against him. “If they (MPs, MLAs, village heads, government officials) don’t listen to you, beat them up. Neither do we ask them to do anything wrong, nor will we tolerate their nanga naach (open wrong doing),” the Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairy Farming had said at an event organised by an agricultural science centre at Khodawanpur in Begusarai district on Saturday. He went on to say that he “frequently receives complaints from people that officials concerned often pay little attention to their grievances and I ask them why they come to me for such small things. MPs, MLAs, village mukhias (heads), DMs, SDMs, BDOs all are under obligation to serve you people… They’re there because of you, you’re not because of them and if they do not listen to you beat them up.” On Sunday, when media persons sought a response from Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is in an alliance with the BJP in Bihar, to Mr. Singh’s remark, he said, “ Aap unhi se puchiye (you should ask him)”. The RJD in a tweet in Hindi said “Are these two parties [BJP-JD(U)] running a government or a mahajungle raj in the State?” The BSP asked why has the Centre not taken any action against the Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bihar-opposition-slams-ministers-call-to-beat-up-unresponsive-officials/article34016169.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating womanhood||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/celebrating-womanhood/article34016209.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Hands-on training||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hands-on-training/article34015971.ece
08 March 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi-led coalition jets pound Sana’a||A Saudi-led military coalition mounted air strikes on Yemen’s Houthi-controlled capital Sana’a on Sunday after it intercepted 10 drones launched by the Iran-backed rebels, state media reported. “The military operation targets Houthi military capabilities in Sana’a and a number of other provinces,” the coalition was quoted as saying by the official Saudi Press Agency. The strikes triggered huge explosions in Sana’a and sent plumes of smoke rising in the sky, according to an AFP correspondent and photographer at the scene. The rebels reported seven air strikes on Sana’a. The raids come after the coalition said it intercepted 10 drones launched by the rebels on Sunday, in a sharp escalation in cross-border attacks on the kingdom. The coalition — fighting in Yemen alongside the internationally recognised government against the insurgents — said the drones were aimed at “civilian” targets in Saudi Arabia, SPA reported, without specifying locations. Targeting civilians in the kingdom was a “red line”, the coalition said after the retaliatory strikes on Sana’a. Spate of attacks The Houthis have stepped up attacks on Saudi Arabia in recent weeks, while they escalate an offensive in Yemen to seize the government’s last northern stronghold of Marib. The escalation comes even after the U.S. last month delisted the Houthis as terrorists and stepped up efforts to de-escalate the six-year conflict. “The removal of the Houthis from the list of terrorist groups has been interpreted in a hostile way by the militia,” SPA cited the coalition as saying. The coalition added that their “victories” in Marib had prompted the rebels to step up attacks on the kingdom. On Saturday, Yemeni government sources said fierce fighting between pro-government forces and the rebels in oil-rich Marib had left at least 90 combatants on the two sides dead over the span of 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-led-coalition-jets-pound-sanaa/article34015762.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||India, China need ‘enabling conditions’ to settle dispute||China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday said India and China needed “to create enabling conditions for the settlement” of the boundary dispute, even as he reiterated China’s view that “the rights and wrongs” of last year’s crisis were clear. His comments came at his annual press meet along the sidelines of the on-going convening in Beijing of the National People’s Congress (NPC), the ceremonial Communist Party-controlled legislature. Mr. Wang addressed China’s relations with the United States, the EU, Japan and India, among other issues. “The China-India relationship is essentially about how the world’s two largest developing countries get along and pursue development and rejuvenation together,” he said in response to a question on the on-going disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Mr. Wang reiterated the statement he made during a February 25 call with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar that “the boundary dispute, an issue left from history, is not whole story of the China-India relationship.” “It is important that two sides manage disputes properly and, at the same time, expand and enhance cooperation to create enabling conditions for the settlement of the issue,” he told reporters. “The rights and wrongs of what happened in the border area last year are clear, so are the stakes involved. It again proves that initiating confrontation will not solve the problem. Returning to peaceful negotiation is the right way forward. China’s position is very clear. We are committed to settling the boundary dispute through dialogue and consultation. At the same time, we are resolved to safeguard our sovereign rights and interests.” India’s stand India has conveyed a different message, underlining that without full disengagement along the LAC, and then de-escalation, restoring normalcy in the relationship would not be possible. The Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday complete disengagement “would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in Eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquility and provide conditions for progress in our bilateral relationship.” Since a February 20 meeting of military commanders that followed disengagement being completed on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake, there has been no official word on the progress in the Gogra-Hot Springs area and in Demchok. There are also long-running tensions involving the blocking of patrols in Depsang, which officials said pre-dated the current crisis. De-escalation also remains, with troops still present in large numbers in depth areas beyond the LAC. Mr. Wang said “it falls on both sides to solidify the existing consensus, strengthen dialogue and communication, and improve various management mechanisms to jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area.” “In the year ahead, we hope India will work with China to truly deliver on the important common understanding reached by our leaders that both are not threats to each other, but opportunities for each other’s development,” he said. The Chinese Foreign Minister said “on many important issues, our positions are the same or close, due to similar national realities.” “Therefore, China and India are each other’s friends and partners , not threats or rivals,” he said. “The two sides need to help each other succeed instead of undercutting each other. We should intensify cooperation instead of harbouring suspicions of each other.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-china-need-enabling-conditions-to-settle-dispute/article34015757.ece
08 March 2021||QARAQOSH,||At ruined Iraq church, Pope calls on Christians to forgive||Pope Francis called on Iraq’s Christians to forgive the injustices committed against them by Muslim extremists and to rebuild as he visited the wrecked shells of churches and met ecstatic crowds in the community’s historic heartland, which was nearly erased by the Islamic State group’s horrific reign. At each stop in northern Iraq, the remnants of its Christian population turned out, jubilant, ululating, decked out in colorful dress, though heavy security prevented Francis from plunging into the crowd as he would normally do. Nonetheless, they seemed simply overjoyed that they had not been forgotten. Displaced people It was a sign of the desperation for support among an ancient community uncertain whether it can hold on. Traditionally Christian towns dotting the Nineveh Plains of the north were emptied as Christians — as well as many Muslims — fled the Islamic State group’s onslaught in 2014. Only a few have returned to their homes since the defeat of IS in Iraq declared four years ago, and the rest remain scattered elsewhere in Iraq or abroad. Bells rang out in the town of Qaraqosh as the Pope arrived. Speaking to a packed Church of the Immaculate Conception, Pope Francis said “forgiveness” is a key word for Christians. “The road to a full recovery may still be long, but I ask you, please, not to grow discouraged. What is needed is the ability to forgive, but also the courage not to give up.” The Qaraqosh church has been extensively renovated after being vandalized by IS militants during their takeover of the town, making it a symbol of recovery efforts. Pope Francis, dressed in white, took to a red carpet stage in a square in the north’s main city, Mosul, surrounded by the grey hollowed-out shells of four churches, nearly destroyed in the war to oust the Islamic State group from the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-ruined-iraq-church-pope-calls-on-christians-to-forgive/article34015766.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal Supreme Court scraps ruling NCP||The Supreme Court of Nepal on Sunday scrapped the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) and revived the two original parties that had joined hands in 2018 to form the ruling party. With this decision, the original ruling alliance between the Communist Party of Nepal (UML) and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist-Centre) has been re-established. Prime Minister Oli’s faction has welcomed the decision. A joint bench of Justices Kumar Regmi and Bam Kumar Shrestha took away the name of the ruling NCP because of a case filed by Rishi Kattel, leader of the Communist Party of Nepal. Mr. Kattel had filed a writ petition arguing that the “Nepal Communist Party” formed following the merger of the CPN (UML) and the CPN (Maoist Centre) in 2018 had copied his party’s name. The surprising development came in the backdrop of the first session of the reinstated House of Representatives which witnessed stormy scenes as the faction led by Co-Chair of the NCP Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and former PM Madhav Kumar Nepal walked out soon after the Lower House met. They were protesting against the tabling of a controversial ordinance by the Oli government. The judicial intervention is being interpreted as a move that will strengthen Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli who was dealt a blow when the Supreme Court reinstated the House of Representatives two months after President BD Bhandari had dissolved it on Cabinet recommendation. “We respect the decision given by the honourable Supreme Court. The joint bench has quashed our 2018 alliance and restored the previous political parties. So as of now Prime Minister Oli as the leader of CPN-UML is the leader of the largest political formation in Parliament with 121 members. Mr. Prachanda as the leader of the CPN (Maoist-Centre) will have 53 members,” said Dr. Rajan Bhattarai, Foreign Affairs Adviser to PM Oli. Mr. Oli was sworn in in February 2018 after he won the election as the Chairperson of the CPN-UML in alliance with other parties including the CPN-Maoist Centre. Other challenges Following the victory, the two major Left wing parties came together and formed a single outfit — Nepal Communist Party which had its nine-member Secretariat, 45-member Standing Committee and a Central Committee with 441 members. The verdict has scrapped the party but the fate of the three internal organs — Secretariat, Standing Committee and the Central Committee — is not yet clear as several members of the two alliance partners had amalgamated and thrown a challenge to Mr. Oli’s authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-supreme-court-scraps-ruling-ncp/article34015755.ece
08 March 2021||Berlin,||Swiss narrowly back proposal to ban face coverings in public||Swiss voters appeared on course on Sunday to narrowly approve a proposal to ban face coverings, both the niqabs and burqas worn by a few Muslim women in the country and the ski masks and bandannas used by protesters. The measure would outlaw covering one’s face in public places like restaurants, sports stadiums, public transport or simply walking in the street. There would be exceptions at religious sites and for security or health reasons, such as face masks people are wearing now to protect against COVID-19, as well as for traditional Carnival celebrations. Authorities would have two years to draw up detailed legislation. Govt. opposed measure The Swiss government opposed the measure, arguing that the measure could harm tourism as most Muslim women who wear such veils in Switzerland are visitors from well-heeled Persian Gulf states. It backed instead requiring people to show their faces if requested to do so by authorities. Supporters of the proposal, which came to a vote five years after it was launched and came to be known colloquially as the “burqa ban,” argued that the full-face coverings symbolise the repression of women and said the measure is needed to uphold a basic principle that faces should be shown in a free society like Switzerland’s. A projection for national public broadcaster SRG nearly two hours after polls closed put support for the proposal at 52%, with a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. Lukas Golder of polling agency gfs.bern told SRG’s SRF television channel that a defeat was “practically almost ruled out.”  Backers included the nationalist Swiss People’s Party, which is the strongest in parliament. The committee that launched the proposal is led by a lawmaker from the party and also initiated a ban on the construction of new minarets that voters approved in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/swiss-look-set-to-approve-ban-on-facial-coverings/article34015764.ece
08 March 2021||Karachi,||2 Navy men killed in attack in Pak.||Unidentified gunmen attacked a vehicle carrying security forces, killing two personnel of the Pakistan Navy and injuring another in the coastal district of Gwadar in the restive Baluchistan province. The Pakistan Navy vehicle came under indiscriminate firing on Saturday while travelling from Ganz to Jewni in Gwadar district. As a result of the firing, two personnel of the Naval personnel were killed and another man was injured, an official said.  The attack comes just two days after a roadside bomb killed five labourers and injured four others in the Tandori area near Sibi in the province.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-navy-men-killed-in-attack-in-pakistan/article34015761.ece
08 March 2021||Washington,||Biden to sign order to make voting easier||U.S. President Joe Biden will sign an executive order to make it easier for Americans to vote to commemorate the 56th anniversary of the “Bloody Sunday” civil rights march when peaceful activists were attacked by police in Selma, Alabama. Mr. Biden’s move comes as several Republican-controlled state legislatures push to curtail voting access in response to Donald Trump’s election loss and his repeated false claims of election fraud. It also directs the federal chief information officer to improve or modernise federal websites that provide voting information. “Today, on the anniversary of Bloody Sunday, I am signing an executive order to make it easier for eligible voters to register to vote and improve access to voting,” Mr. Biden will say in pre-taped remarks to be made at the Martin and Coretta King unity breakfast on Sunday. “Every eligible voter should be able to vote and have that vote counted. If you have the best ideas, you have nothing to hide. Let the people vote.” The breakfast marks the anniversary of the 1965 march in Selma when hundreds of peaceful protesters were beaten and tear-gassed by police and state troopers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-sign-order-to-make-voting-easier/article34015758.ece
08 March 2021||Beijing,||China warns U.S. over its Taiwan stand||China’s Foreign Minister warned the Biden administration on Sunday to roll back former President Donald Trump’s “dangerous practice” of showing support for Taiwan, the island democracy claimed by Beijing as its own territory. “We urge the new U.S. administration to... completely change the previous administration’s dangerous practices of ‘crossing the line’ and ‘playing with fire,’” Mr. Wang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-warns-us-over-its-taiwan-stand/article34015759.ece
08 March 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lankan Catholics mark ‘Black Sunday’||Sri Lankan Roman Catholics attended Mass dressed in black on Sunday, with prayers and protests calling for justice for those killed in coordinated suicide bomb attacks on Easter Sunday two years ago. Church bells tolled and prayers were chanted at 8:45 a.m., the time when bombs were detonated almost simultaneously at two Roman Catholic churches and a Protestant church during Easter services on April 21, 2019. More than 260 people, including 171 from the two Catholic churches, were killed in the attacks, which were blamed on two local Islamic extremist groups that had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group. The archbishop of Colombo, Cardinal Malcolm Ranjith, said the inquiry commission’s report had concentrated more on the failures of the then-government in preventing the attacks despite early warnings, rather than finding out the handlers of the groups accused of carrying out the bombings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-catholics-mark-black-sunday/article34015763.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Railways and a question of transparency||A surprising feature of the post-Budget discourse in Parliament and in the media these past few weeks has been the total absence of one topic: Railways. Apparently, the understated objective of doing away with a separate Budget for the Railways, namely, shifting the spotlight away from it, has been handsomely achieved. However, sweeping under the carpet the serious problems of viability facing the country’s largest and most crucial transport organisation, by taking cover behind the diversions provided by other, more topical issues thrown up by the Union Budget, will not make them disappear. Finances are out of whack Recent public statements about the performance of the Railways on the freight front seem to suggest that all is well with the Railways. In a recent interview, the CEO and Chairman of the Railway Board highlighted the fact that freight loading in January 2021 was the highest ever. A recent press report says that the freight earnings in 2020-21 are likely to be more than in 2019-20 despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Both these achievements are commendable by themselves but need to be seen in proper perspective. About the record-breaking loading in January 2021, what is relevant is the freight earnings, which during the entire year are projected to be Rs. 1,24,184.00 crore in the Revised Estimates for 2020-21. This is, in fact, lower than what was achieved in 2018-19 (Rs. 1,27,432.72 crore). As for the freight revenues going past that of the last financial year, that was only to be expected, with freight traffic having a relatively free run due to cancellation of most regular passenger services due to COVID-19. Meanwhile, an important financial performance index has been airbrushed to project a picture totally removed from reality. The Operating Ratio (OR), which is broadly the ratio of working expenses to revenues, has been artificially kept below 100% by making less-than-required provision for pension payments during 2019-20 and 2020-21. While the official figures of OR are 98.36% for 2019-20 and 96.96% for 2020-21, the actual OR works out to 114.19% and 131.49%, respectively, if the required provision is made for pension payments. The purpose of indulging in this self- delusional exercise is not clear. Technically, the Indian Railways are well and truly in the red. Tinkering with statistics cannot alter that reality. Perhaps for the first time ever, the Indian Railways were unable to adequately provide for the Pension Fund, both for 2019-20 and 2020-21, totalling Rs. 78,119 crore. The Railway Ministry has reportedly sought a loan from the Central Exchequer to meet this shortfall. While the under-provisioning for 2020-21 can be explained by the shortfall in revenues due to the pandemic, the shortfall amounting to Rs. 27,642 crore even during 2019-20 (when there was no COVID-19) should be a cause for serious concern. In fact, the passenger and freight earnings in 2019-20 were less than in 2018-19, indicating that a downslide had started even before the outbreak of COVID-19, probably due to the economic slowdown. Railway finances are out of whack. And COVID-19 has nothing to do with it. Immediate challenges It is not as though all this has happened suddenly. The fact is, over the years, traffic revenues have been unable to keep pace with the increase in staff costs and pension payments. While the passenger and freight revenues increased by 84.8 % from 2010-11 to 2019-20, the staff and pension costs raced ahead at almost double that rate, by 157%, in the same period. Further, while in 2010-11, the staff plus pension costs formed 55.7% of the traffic earnings, by 2019-20, they had shot up to 77.5% of the traffic earnings. This, despite the fact that there has been a reduction of about one lakh staff on roll during this period. The spike in the staff and pension costs is largely attributable to the implementation of the Central Pay Commission recommendations, a 10-yearly feature. Being a Ministry of the Government of India, the Indian Railway’s finances are bound to be subjected to another fatal body blow by the next (Eighth) Pay Commission around 2025-26. Therefore, the immediate challenges are achieving a quantum jump in the revenues, particularly on the freight front, and a drastic reduction in the number of employees, there being no way to reduce the number of pensioners in the short run. It is in this context that the full commissioning of the two Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFCs), slated to be operational by 2022, assumes great urgency and importance. A related aspect is the product mix of freight that will be carried in the near future. A disturbing feature of freight traffic is the overwhelming dependence on one commodity: coal. Despite all the marketing efforts over the years, almost 50% of freight earnings are contributed by the transport of coal. With the availability of alternative sources of renewable energy such as solar at competitive prices, the dependence on coal-based thermal power plants is bound to reduce to meet the incremental energy needs. Even these are likely to be set up at the pitheads, requiring no substantial movement over the Railways system. Also, India is a signatory to the 2015 Paris Agreement, committed to achieving targeted reductions in carbon emissions in a time-bound manner. The Railways have to therefore think seriously of a life after coal. An option that merits consideration is the adoption of the roll-on roll-off model of transporting loaded trucks on rail on the DFCs, which apart from boosting revenues has the added advantage of reducing the overall carbon footprint. The other major challenge facing the Railways is the burgeoning staff costs including pension. At this juncture, the reported move to go in for recruitment of 1.5 lakh staff is simply baffling. There have been suggestions to corporatise the Railways’s Production Units and outsource the medical services. The government needs to firm up its policies on these crucial issues after discussions with all stakeholders. More than a year ago, a grand proposal to merge all cadres and have a single Indian Railways management cadre was announced to eliminate “departmentalism”. This implies that the existing organisational set up will continue, because it will take at least 25-30 years for any beneficial impact to be felt. On the other hand, moves are afoot to invite private players to operate passenger and freight services. These are conflicting moves, akin to driving a car with one foot on the accelerator and the other on the brakes. Need for public scrutiny A separate Railway Budget has passed irrevocably into history. However, the need for a detailed public scrutiny of the affairs of one of the largest undertakings in the country, public or private, at least once a year has not gone away. As suggested earlier by this writer in these columns, an annual report called ‘Indian Railways Report’ on the lines of the annual Economic Survey should be placed in Parliament every year detailing the physical and financial performance of the Railways, identifying the challenges and plans for the future to meet the country’s rail transport needs. The Railways are in the midst of an unprecedented financial distress and are faced with fundamental organisational issues. This is no time for evasiveness and obfuscation but for clarity and transparency. It is also time to confront reality. K. Balakesari is former Member Staff, Railway Board. Email: balakesari_k@hotmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/railways-and-a-question-of-transparency/article34015752.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Now, an expanded horizon of surveillance||This year, the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C), under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), launched the Cyber Crime Volunteers Program with the aim to allow citizens to register themselves as “Cyber Crime Volunteers’’ in the role of “Unlawful Content Flaggers”. As per the official website of the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal (https://bit.ly/2O2yaq6), the programme will help law enforcement agencies in identifying, reporting and in the removal of illegal/unlawful online content. The programme, which will be launched all over the country, is going to have its test run in Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura. An explainer This form of surveillance, which enables citizens to “watch over” one another is called lateral surveillance. The conventional understanding of the term, surveillance, is its use in the hierarchical sense, i.e. the vertical relationship between the person watching and the person being watched, which is usually the state and its citizenry. Lateral or social or peer-to-peer surveillance differs from typical surveillance. While surveillance of any kind shows an imbalance of power between the person who surveils, and the one under surveillance, lateral surveillance specifically ensures that the imbalance of power no longer exists. Informal watching of communities by their members has been an age-old part of society, and its members view it as a harmless activity. The problem arises when it is organised and state-sponsored. In the 1970s, the United States had the neighborhood watch schemes which increased community policing. With the introduction of technology and development of applications such as Citizen and Nextdoor, monitoring of people and their behaviour has become easier. Further, government and private sector institutions alike collect swathes of data for supposedly ‘public functions’. Specifically in the sphere of crime prevention, much like the cyber crime prevention programme, there has been a transition in the outlook from a ‘punishing state’ to a ‘preventive state’. Its extent in India This is not the first time state-sponsored lateral surveillance has been implemented in India. For example, the C-Plan App in Uttar Pradesh launched for keeping a tab on anti-social elements, is designed to receive inputs from certain identified individuals in villages across the State. These individuals have been given the responsibility to solve local problems such as providing information about simmering communal tensions or land disputes taking place in their respective villages through the mobile application. The scope of lateral surveillance was greatly expanded during the pandemic lockdown, both with and without the introduction of technology. The Karnataka government released a PDF with the names and addresses of around 19,000 international passengers who were quarantined in Bengaluru while in the North, a woman was harassed and boycotted by her neighbours after the Delhi government marked her house with a quarantine sticker. Tool for exclusion, suspicion If a pattern were to be drawn, one notices that lateral surveillance is used to further emotional objectives such as community building and strengthening relationships with neighbours where emotional and social factors act as a driving force, thus creating a situation where privacy may be undermined for the betterment of the community. However, surveillance technologies not only act as a tool for social control but also as a tool for social exclusion. Lateral surveillance thus makes it easier to discriminate between those who conform to the social norms of the majority. For example, the LGBT community in South Korea came under the scanner after a cluster of novel coronavirus cases were reported from a particular area which had resulted in large-scale circulation of homophobic content and comments against the patients who tested positive from the community. This not only made it difficult for authorities to collect information but also increased troubles for the people belonging to the sexual minority in getting themselves tested. State-sponsored lateral surveillance is harmful as it creates a culture of ‘hate’, ‘fear’ and ‘constant suspicion’ against an ‘enemy’. Wherever the state identifies that it “cannot be everywhere”, it deploys this mechanism. This culture places a duty on people to ‘keep an eye out’ for ‘their own safety’ and this heightens the fear of crime in society. Such perceived threats have a tendency to increase intolerance, prejudice, xenophobia and casteism in our society, while also violating the fundamental right to privacy, and, consequently, the unfettered expression of free speech and behaviour. In policy Despite the potential harm, the government, on February 25, notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (https://bit.ly/3kRdwoC) which intends to expand “due diligence” obligations by intermediaries. However, this not only substantially increases surveillance but also promotes lateral surveillance. For example provisions pertaining to user directed take downs of non-consensual sexually explicit content or ‘any other matters’ and even the harsh content take down/data sharing timelines will enable intermediaries to remove or disable access to information within a short period of time of being notified by users, circumventing the “actual knowledge” doctrine given in Shreya Singhal vs Union of India . This will further create an incentive to take down content and share user data without sufficient due process safeguards, violating the fundamental right to privacy and freedom of expression. One wonders how long it would be before a neighbour with a “passion to serve the nation on a single platform and contribute in [the] fight against cybercrime in the country” reports you or me on a social media platform or otherwise. Mira Swaminathan is a public policy lawyer based in Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/now-an-expanded-horizon-of-surveillance/article34015748.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Commemorating change, changing commemoration||Among the many “international days” initiated by the United Nations, the best known is the one for women. Given its widespread institutionalisation by nation-states as well as private corporations targeting the woman consumer, many may now know something about its history. It began over a century ago as a commemoration of the struggles of women factory workers and was first organised by socialist movements as “international women’s day”. From the 1920s onwards, it began to be celebrated annually by communist parties, first in the Soviet Union and then in China. Much later, the United Nations “established” International Women’s Day in 1977 in the wake of the International Women’s Year in 1975. In India, as elsewhere, movement-led campaigns and gatherings on March 8 spread from the 1980s. Savitribai Phule’s legacy In the last few years, Dalit and Bahujan feminists in India have been issuing a call to use this occasion to celebrate a different legacy, that of Savitribai Phule, long ignored by upper caste histories of women’s rights. Savitribai’s own biography is now being gradually recovered, rescuing her from being restricted to the role of the intrepid wife of Jyotiba Phule, who is himself celebrated for his dedication to the cause of “social justice” against women’s caste-differentiated enslavement. Born in 1831, Savitribai was colonial India’s first woman teacher. Her death on March 10, 1897 has made it possible to commemorate her life and legacy as “our” International Women’s Day. The Bahujan-feminist perspective emphasises the central importance of access to a non-Brahmin form of education for the larger agenda of transforming the gender, caste and labour structures in our society. Shaheen Bagh, the lockdown As we educate ourselves about alternate histories of struggle, we must also ask what it is we would want to celebrate in 2021, whether on March 8 or March 10? What has the last year given us? A year ago, the city of Delhi (where I live) was witness to horrific riots mainly targeting Muslim property and lives. Its purpose was to bring months of peaceful protests against the discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) to a violent end, protests that had been led by Muslim women. A series of sit-ins in parks and public places in several cities, most famously on the highway abutting Shaheen Bagh, during the cold winter months from December 2019 to February 2020, were brought to a sudden halt. This was followed by the even more shocking spate of arrests of those alleged to have been the leaders of these peaceful protests, many of them young women and students, on the charges of having incited the very riots that ended the protests. Then in March came the state’s policy response to the COVID-19 pandemic — the world’s largest and strictest country-wide lockdown announced with four hours’ notice. The planet was eerily drawn together by the very isolation created by efforts to control the pandemic’s spread. We were treated to silent, empty streets, images of sparkling blue rivers, the smell of clean air, loud birdsong, and animals emerging from their hidden habitats. Indians glued to their screens soon received another shock as they witnessed hitherto invisible city-dwellers — migrant workers and their families — forced to walk hundreds of kilometres to their rural homes in search of food, shelter and care. Videos of women carrying bundles and small children along deserted highways and railway tracks were headline material. Everyday life became unviable for vast numbers and relief workers were hard pressed to meet their basic survival needs. The home in focus In the months that have elapsed since, there has been an unprecedented outpouring of writings about the effects of the pandemic and lockdown across the world. Much has been said about the “inequality virus”, even though its worst victims have been elderly men living in some of the richest countries of the world. One sphere in particular has come into sharp focus in these pandemic discourses, that of the home. Being “locked down” meant being “locked in” — workers who could do so had to work from home, children had to study from home, and even people who had lost their jobs had to stay at home. Overnight, the home became the centre of attention — the very sphere that feminists have long been struggling to make visible. In “normal” times, the home silently houses the labour, work and care responsible for the reproduction of society without due recognition. Many men forced to work from home by the pandemic were seeing for the first time the other kinds of “home work” that they had always taken for granted. Some were more ready to condemn domestic violence — another kind of “home work” that had been going on for ages. Women figured prominently in the attention the home was now receiving. New questions were being asked: Would the absence of paid domestic workers in middle-class families make the men of these families more willing to take on domestic responsibilities? Would the institutions of the state finally give care work and housework the recognition due to them? Unfortunately, as life limps back to a strange new “normal”, the answer appears to be no. Although women took on the greatest burdens when life was in crisis, they should not expect recognition of any kind. But violence against women was not confined to women’s homes even during the pandemic. New movements From the State of Uttar Pradesh in particular, came many reports of extreme sexual assaults on, and even the murder of, Dalit girls who stepped out to work. The accounts are numbing, regardless of whether they also include information about the arrest of perpetrators. The only silver lining here (as with the Hathras rape case) has been the leadership of a new generation of Dalit women demanding accountability from the state. This winter also witnessed the birth of a new social movement near the borders of Delhi, as farmers brushed aside pandemic protocols and arrived en masse to protest against the new farm laws. While media images focused on the weather-beaten faces of older men, there were also women who spoke out about their rights as women farmers. These protests are showing no sign of abating while they offer new lessons about the worlds that make possible the food we eat. We cannot know what Savitribai would have said on March 10, 2021 to the Shaheen Bagh dadis , to students, mothers and farmers, to the families of the victims of violation. But we do know that nothing stopped her and her comrades — not being thrown out of the family home for breaking caste codes, nor the widespread enmity they encountered — from working for the new Satyashodhak Samaj of their dreams. Mary E. John is at the Centre for Women’s Development Studies. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/commemorating-change-changing-commemoration/article34015747.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Silence is a lie||Two disturbing reports were published last week. One emerged from Washington, D.C. and the other from New Delhi. Both vividly describe the thin ice on which journalists and news organisations, for whom public interest remains the core value, are treading, and the determined state apparatus which expects journalists to behave like a choir. Shrinking democratic space In its annual report, Freedom House, a U.S.-based think tank which produces periodic reports on issues related to democracy, political rights and civil liberties, has downgraded India’s status from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’ based on several indicators. In the Freedom House ranking system, where 100 represents a near perfect democracy, India has fallen by four points from 71 last year to 67. It would be a missed opportunity if we were to read the report as western propaganda. It is not wise to wear a narrow governmental lens that reduces patriotism to parroting the official line. The report points out the shrinking democratic spaces in some of the major western democracies. It clearly documents how various “authoritarian actors grew bolder during 2020 as major democracies turned inward, contributing to the 15th consecutive year of decline in global freedom”. The report also indicates areas for course correction. It is high time the Government of India realises that its fervent rejection of the report rings hollow. It cannot invoke federal arrangement, where ‘public order’ and ‘police’ are State subjects, to shift the onus of specific excesses onto the State governments. It is a fact that various State governments have been in the forefront of muzzling the media over the last five decades. For instance, journalists in Tamil Nadu are familiar with the breach of legislative privilege cases against journalists, where journalists and media houses got penalised for an uncodified privilege. The spate of criminal and civil defamation cases filed by governments against journalists has been well documented. But this does not mean that the Union government has become a vanguard of freedoms. Indeed, most restrictions are created by the Union government and its desire to undermine the federal balance. From rampant Internet shutdowns to subtle warnings, the method adopted by the Government of India is more layered, more varied and more chilling in its effect than those adopted by the State governments. Revealing the character of the state Hence, its loud rejection of the Freedom House report fails to impress anyone — more so because the influential Group of Ministers (GoM) has suggested draconian steps to stem ‘negative narratives’ on the government. Let us examine the nature of the language used by the GoM. It is certainly not the language that is used by people who believe in dialogue, debate and dissent, the three integral elements of democracy. In my considered opinion, the language adopted by the GoM shows the character of the new Indian state. The desire of those in power is to ensure that the writ of the government, which is monochromatic and homogenising, prevails over the polyphony of democratic voices. The question before us is to examine, critique and confront the GoM’s report thoroughly. It would be futile to get into an argument about the intent of the journalists who participated in the deliberations held by the government. The divided journalistic cohort diverts our attention from the principle challenge before us: a government that wants only its voice to be heard, and is prepared to tweak rules and create new laws to ‘neutralise’ the negative narrative. While rejecting the Freedom House report, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s assertion had two interesting elements. One, it said: “Discussion, debate and dissent are part of Indian democracy. The Government of India attaches highest importance to the safety and security of all residents of the country, including journalists.” It did not provide answers to any of the specific charges listed by the American organisation. Second, on the question of Internet shutdowns, the Ministry said that such shutdowns were “only temporary”. Is it fair to call a 213-day shutdown in Jammu and Kashmir a temporary measure? At this juncture, to defend our hard-won rights and freedoms, we need to collectively raise our voice, call out the excess of the executive, the complicity of the judiciary, and avoid the unwarranted internecine attritions among journalists and journalist organisations that is hurting public interest. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/silence-is-a-lie/article34015751.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Health first, fiscal prudence later||Subsidised LPG prices have increased by a massive 50% in this financial year alone, consistently capturing headlines. What would be the impact of this in sustaining the gains of the government’s flagship scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY)? Since 2016, PMUY has provided LPG connections to 8 million poor households to reduce women’s drudgery and indoor air pollution. Providing an upfront connection subsidy of Rs. 1,600, PMUY helped expand LPG coverage to more than 85% of households. In comparison, less than a third of Indian households used LPG as their main cooking fuel in 2011. However, multiple studies assessing PMUY concluded that while access has increased, many new beneficiaries are not consuming LPG in a sustained manner. Large-scale primary surveys by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) suggest that, on average, recent PMUY beneficiaries consumed only about half the LPG compared to long-standing regular consumers. Limited uptake of LPG among poor households has two main reasons. First, the effective price of LPG is not affordable for such households, despite the subsidy. Second, many rural consumers have access to freely available biomass, making it difficult for LPG to displace it. Beyond causing indoor air pollution, biomass use for cooking contributes up to 30% to the ambient PM2.5 at the national level, more than the contribution of transport, crop residue or coal burning. Changing prices The recent increases in the subsidised LPG price have made it more difficult for the poor to sustain LPG use. India determines domestic LPG prices based on imported LPG price (we import more than 50% of our consumption). As the pandemic set in, the LPG subsidised price began to rise, even when global LPG prices plummeted, contributing to the refiners’ margins and government finances. However, now with LPG prices rising globally, a 50% reduction in the LPG subsidy budget for FY22 (versus FY21) does not bode well. The government is either banking on low global prices (wishful thinking) or reducing its subsidy burden significantly, even while offering 1 crore new connections under Ujjwala 2.0 in FY22. The government’s lack of transparency in the pricing of subsidised LPG adds further to the citizen's plight. The information about LPG price build-up and subsidy has become more difficult to obtain in recent years. As a consumer, one is no more aware of whether the subsidy reduction or global price changes are changing the subsidised LPG prices. Better targeting So, can the Central government tread a tight rope to balance LPG subsidies and ensure sustained clean fuel consumption in poorer households? The answer lies in better targeting of subsidy. Currently, the government provides a uniform subsidy per cylinder to all LPG consumers (PMUY or otherwise). Many long-term LPG users, who are also middle- and higher-income households, will continue to use LPG even at a (higher) unsubsidised price. In contrast, economically poor households need a greater subsidy to make it affordable for them to use LPG as their main cooking fuel. One approach for such targeting is to rely on the existing LPG consumption patterns of consumers. Provide households exhibiting low consumption or a decline in LPG consumption over time with greater subsidy per cylinder to sustain health gains. Further, the subsidy levels could be dynamic with different slabs reflecting the previous year’s consumption. Alongside, the de-duplication efforts to weed out households with multiple LPG connections must continue to avoid subsidy leakages. In the post-pandemic rebuilding, the continued support to the economically poor for sustaining LPG use is not merely a fiscal subsidy but also a social investment to free-up women’s productive time and reduce India’s public health burden. This social investment will yield rich dividends in the years ahead through a healthier and productive population. Karthik Ganesan and Abhishek Jain are Fellows at CEEW||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/health-first-fiscal-prudence-later/article34015753.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Misplaced concern||It is a matter of concern that the Supreme Court chose to convert a routine hearing on a petition for anticipatory bail from an executive of the Amazon Prime Video into an occasion to call for tightening the regulatory norms for over-the-top streaming services in the country. Aparna Purohit, India Commercial Head of the content streaming platform, sought advance bail after the Allahabad High Court denied her the relief with a sweeping declaration that some offending scenes on a new series, now deleted, constituted punishable offences. Accused of hurting religious sentiments by allowing the streaming of Tandav , Ms. Purohit did get protection from arrest, but what is disconcerting is that the Court went through the recently notified rules for digital media and intermediaries and observed that these lacked teeth. It is quite unusual and, in fact, gratuitous, that a constitutional court should push for more stringent rules after finding that the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, did not provide for punishment and fine. The Court’s very approach is way out of line. The new rules are essentially restrictions on free speech and expression through digital media. Courts generally examine the validity of such curbs on free speech and decide whether they are reasonable or too restrictive. It is unusual that the apex court should seek to go beyond what the executive describes as ‘soft-touch monitoring’, and press for inclusion of punishment clauses. The Court seems to be concerned about obscenity and uncensored content on streaming services, the ostensible reason for its incursion into regulatory territory, when there was no challenge to the new rules before it. When the matter is taken up again, the Court should bestow attention on the High Court order that gave rise to the proceedings, an order that shows extraordinary zeal to protect religious sentiment. While refusing pre-arrest bail, the High Court has made an unusual claim that the title ‘ Tandav’ itself could hurt the sentiments of a majority of Indians because it is associated with Lord Shiva. It has observed that alluding to Lord Ram gaining popularity on social media is a reference to the Ayodhya dispute, and, therefore, offensive. It has a sweeping claim that the Hindi film industry, in contrast to its southern counterparts, was generally disrespectful to the Hindu religion. It would be unfortunate if the judiciary lets itself be seen as departing from its record of protecting individuals harassed by those claiming that their religious or cultural sentiments have been hurt by some work of art, or even remarks or gestures by celebrities. The new norms for regulation of online content have their origin in the Supreme Court voicing concern about child pornography and content that could provoke sectarian violence. While that was a justified concern, the tendency to allow anyone professing a sense of hurt to prosecute anyone anywhere in the country should not be encouraged. The higher judiciary is expected to clamp down on the ‘marketplace of outrage’, not join it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/misplaced-concern/article34015744.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Slow and steady||It was back to the tried and tested methods as India’s practitioners of the slow-art, especially R. Ashwin and debutant Axar Patel, helped Virat Kohli’s men clinch a 3-1 Test series triumph over England. India’s innings and 25-run victory in the fourth Test at Ahmedabad, concluded a series that was largely one-sided barring England’s win in the opening encounter at Chennai. Like it did in Australia, India shrugged aside the early loss and turned around its fortunes in riveting fashion. The pitches on offer, especially for the third game, may not have been ideal, tending to age faster besides providing the obvious impetus to spin. Despite the surface-tension, the strips were in no way diabolical like some of the 22-yards offered in the past, especially in the 1980s when a few pitches made batting arduous. In the latest series, after skipper Joe Root’s double ton in Chennai set the stage for an England ambush, a stung India mounted a fiery comeback and ensured that the Englishmen never repeated their heroics of 1984 and 2012, when they humbled the host. This was not just another success at home as the four Tests were invested with the larger goal of qualifying for the World Test Championship final in England from June 18 to 22. Originally scheduled to be held at Lord’s, there seems to be some ambiguity as England is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic’s second-wave and there is a push to have it at Southampton’s bio-secure Ageas Bowl, which also has a hotel within the premises. Lord’s may still conduct the premier clash but India’s rival is certain — Kane Williamson’s New Zealand, an opponent that stunned Kohli’s men in the 2019 World Cup semifinal at Manchester. Meanwhile, it is time for limited-overs cricket to take centre-stage. India and England will play five Twenty20Is and three ODIs before the Indian Premier League commences on April 9. For now, Kohli and company besides the coaching staff led by Ravi Shastri deserve credit for a splendid performance. The flowering of Rishabh Pant, Axar, Washington Sundar and Mohammed Siraj reflects a solid bench-strength. The excellence of youth and the terrific form of Ashwin and Rohit Sharma, papered over the modest returns from Kohli, Ajinkya Rahane and Shubman Gill. India has topped the ICC Test rankings but in June under low-slung clouds and on an English pitch laced with grass and against crafty New Zealand seamers, a tougher scrutiny awaits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/slow-and-steady/article34015745.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian situation||London, March 4: Lord Reading was last night entertained to dinner by the Royal Colonial Institute at Hotel Victoria. Mr. Montagu, who presided, said he was looking forward with confidence to working with Lord Reading. He said there was no future for India except as a member of the British Empire. Lord Reading’s political task was to maintain and consolidate the understanding between the Government of India and the Princes of India and to lead the proud peoples of India with their racial and national consciousness to the highest destiny that awaits any country, namely, partnerships in the British Empire. Lord Reading had undertaken this task with the complete confidence of every part of the British Empire. Lord Reading, who was accorded a tremendous reception, replied briefly. He paid tribute to the interests of India. He expressed the opinion that the reason for his appointment was that he might represent the justice of Britain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indian-situation/article34015749.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||E Pakistanis defy Yahya||Within half an hour of the Pakistan President, Gen. Yahya Khan’s broadcast yesterday [March 7] in which he threatened to use his full martial law powers to “ensure the country’s absolute integrity”, East Pakistanis marched in procession through the streets. Carrying a black flag, the marchers shouted “we oppose President’s declaration”. Yesterday was the sixth day of a strike touched off by the President’s postponement of the inauguration of the Assembly which is to write the country’s Constitution. According to UNI several Dacca residents evacuated on Saturday because of the dwindling food supply to the city. Food supply from villages in the east wing had stopped since Monday. Over 300 prisoners bolted from the Central Jail in Dacca and joined the protest marches in the city. Police opened fire on the escaping prisoners, killing three. Reports from Rawalpindi quoted prison authorities having said that seven prisoners were killed out of the 325 who broke out. Prison authorities said that 30 prisoners were injured in the firing and another 16 were recaptured. Seven warders were also injured in the break-out, prison officials said. The Associated Press of Pakistan alleged that Awami League members, on the orders of Sheikh Mujibur, stormed the jail to help the prisoners escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/e-pakistanis-defy-yahya/article34015750.ece
08 March 2021||LUCKNOW,||SA women begin well||Laura Wolvaardt did everything except win the Player-of-the-Match award, as South Africa women posted a resounding eight-wicket victory over India in the first One-Day International here on Sunday.  Even though 10% of tickets was put on sale, spectators were few in the massive structure. That did not deter the teams, as they engaged in spells of lively play, with South Africa having the last laugh, in the warmth of the afternoon sun, when the Indian enthusiasm looked to have waned. Captain Sune Luus said she was proud of her team for beating India in India by such a big margin, and setting the tempo for the five-match series. Opting to bowl, South Africa turned the tide after India had reached 101 for three in 25 overs. Skipper Mithali Raj anchored the Indian innings nicely with 50 off 85 balls. Harmanpreet Kaur was in good form, making 40 off 41 balls. She looked good for more before an ambitious off-drive saw her getting caught on the boundary. The Indians rued the inability to build on the good knocks. Naturally, India could muster only 177. South Africa rolled on effortlessly, with Lizelle Lee (83 not out) and Laura Wolvaardt putting on 169 for the opening wicket. Jhulan Goswami claimed two wickets as a face-saving exercise.  Given her brilliant work on the field — three catches, including that of Mithali, and one direct-hit run out — not to forget her elegant batting — 80 off 110 balls — the 21-year-old Wolvaardt was the stand-out performer. However, for her nippy bowling that fetched her three wickets, medium-pacer Shabnim Ismail was adjudged Player-of-the-Match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sa-women-begin-well/article34015820.ece
08 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Shastri takes a dig at ICC for rule change||A day after India set up a World Test Championship final versus New Zealand after an innings win against England in the fourth Test, India head coach Ravi Shastri strongly criticised the ICC’s change of qualification rules in the middle of the pandemic. “I cannot say how proud I am of my Indian cricket team going through this tough period and qualifying for the WTC final against all odds,” Shastri said on Sunday. “You go from No. 1 to No. 3 sitting in your bedroom, not playing cricket and then qualify as No. 1 in every department — top of the table, ICC rankings, percentage rankings. Tomorrow there might be some other workings that come and I think we'll be No. 1 in that also.” “Please don’t shift the goalposts,” Shastri said. “We’re sitting on top of the table with 360 points. In the percentage points system, you’ve got to go to Australia and beat Australia. If you don’t beat Australia, you come back home and beat England 4-0, you get to 500 points and you still don't qualify. Hard work “We have had to dig deep. We've had to go down every hole to find water. We found it and earned our stripes to be in the final of the WTC — the biggest trophy in the world — with 520 points. So don’t ask me about the next cycle, first address this cycle.” Teams being a close-knit unit in cricket’s 21st century avatar has become a rarity. Over the last five months, though, with the Indian team being confined to a biosecure bubble due to COVID-19 preventive measures, many Indian players have admitted it has helped them get to know each other better. Shastri said that has been one of the biggest positives of the life in a bubble. “When you meet more often, somewhere down the line there will be conversations regarding the game, which used to happen in our time. “When you finish the game, you will still be sitting in the dressing room a good hour after the game, talking cricket,” Shastri said. “They have understood each other’s background, mental state, where they come from, where they are in life... it allowed them to open themselves up to their colleagues a lot more, discuss personal issues more freely, win more trust from the team members.”  I'm going to give a lot of credit to the Indians. They came back hard after the first Test Chris Silverwood England coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shastri-takes-a-dig-at-icc-for-rule-change/article34015804.ece
08 March 2021||Wellington,||Guptill stars as New Zealand claims T20 series||A century opening stand by Martin Guptill and Devon Conway saw New Zealand clinch the Twenty20 series against Australia here on Sunday. Set 143 for victory in the fifth and final match, New Zealand won by seven wickets with 27 balls to spare and took the series 3-2. After being comprehensively outplayed in games three and four when batting second, New Zealand captain Kane Williamson knew he had to be innovative to win the series after he lost the toss and was told to bowl first. He put an emphasis on spin with his slow bowlers sending down 12 overs, the most for New Zealand in a Twenty20 match, and they took four of the eight wickets. Of the spin brigade, Ish Sodhi finished with three for 24 in his four overs, Hong Kong-born Mark Chapman, bowling for the first time for New Zealand, took one for 9 in two overs and Mitchell Santner conceded only 21 runs from his four. Guptill, who had been out of form going into the series, silenced his critics with a masterful 71, including seven 4s and four 6s, while Conway contributed 36 with the pair putting on 106 for the first wicket. New Zealand stumbled slightly when Kane Williamson went first ball but a Guptill single denied Riley Meredith the hat-trick. Glenn Phillips blasted New Zealand home with five fours and two sixes to be unbeaten on 34. Although a COVID-19 outbreak in Auckland forced the last three matches to be played on the same wicket in Wellington in the space of five days, Australia captain Aaron Finch said it was his side's batting and not a worn pitch that cost the tourists. "We probably weren't aggressive enough with the bat, myself led that at the top," he said. "We didn’t get enough runs, we kept losing wickets at regular intervals. I thought (the pitch) played pretty well and Mitch Santner bowled beautifully with the new ball and didn't allow us to get away to a flyer." Matthew Wade top scored for the tourists with 44 while Finch contributed 36 and Marcus Stoinis made 26.  The scores: Australia 142/8 in 20 overs (A. Finch 36, M. Wade 44, M. Stoinis 26; I. Sodhi 3/24) lost to New Zealand 143/3 in 15.3 overs (D. Conway 36, M. Guptill 71, G. Phillips 34).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/guptill-stars-as-new-zealand-claims-t20-series/article34015821.ece
08 March 2021||BASEL,||Marin too good for Sindhu||Carolina Marin outplayed P.V. Sindhu 21-12, 21-5 in a lop-sided women’s final of the Swiss Open Super 300 tournament on Sunday. In a match that lasted just 35 minutes, the Spaniard dictated terms right from the start. The 25-year-old Indian couldn’t handle the speed and accuracy of her opponent and went down rather tamely. It was Sindhu’s third successive loss to Marin. Sindhu will next compete at the $850,000 All England Championships, a Super 1000 event, from March 17 to 21.  The results (finals):   Women: Carolina Marin (Esp) bt P.V. Sindhu 21-12, 21-5.   Men: Viktor Axelsen (Den) bt Kunlavut Vitidsarn (Tha) 21-16, 21-6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marin-too-good-for-sindhu/article34015803.ece
08 March 2021||Madrid,||Real salvages draw at Atletico||Karim Benzema struck an 88th-minute equaliser as Real Madrid snatched a 1-1 draw at LaLiga leader Atletico Madrid on Sunday. Luis Suarez had put the hosts ahead in the 15th minute. Manchester United brought Manchester City’s winning run to a shuddering halt with a 2-0 win in the Premier League. Mario Lemina condemned troubled Liverpool to a sixth successive home defeat as Fulham earned a shock 1-0 win. Earlier on Saturday, champion Bayern Munich came from two goals down to beat Borussia Dortmund 4-2, with a hat-trick from Robert Lewandowski, to remain two points clear at the top of the Bundesliga.  Important results: Premier League: Man City 0 lost to Man United 2 (Fernandes 2-pen, Shaw 50); Liverpool 0 lost to Fulham 1 (Lemina 45).   LaLiga : Atletico 1 (Suarez 15) drew with Real 1 (Benzema 88).   Serie A: Hellas Verona 0 lost to AC Milan 2 (Krunic 27, Dalot 50).   Saturday: Premier League: Aston Villa 0 drew with Wolves 0; Brighton 1 (Lallana 10) lost to Leicester 2 (Iheanacho 62, Amartey 87).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 4 (Lewandowski 26, 44-pen, 90, Goretzka 88) bt Borussia Dortmund 2 (Haaland 2, 9).   LaLiga: Osasuna 0 lost to Barcelona 2 (Alba 30, Moriba 83); Elche 2 (Guti 70, Carrillo 76) bt Sevilla 1 (L. de Jong 90).   Serie A: Juventus 3 (Rabiot 39, Morata 57, 60-pen) bt Lazio 1 (Correa 14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-salvages-draw-at-atletico/article34015806.ece
08 March 2021||Kochi,||Mar Athanasius stuns KSEB||The Mar Athanasius Football Academy pulled off a stunning 1-0 victory over former champion KSEB in the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Sunday. M.M. Visakh scored the match winner in the 39th minute. It all began with a move on the left from Vipul Velayudhan who fed S. Fajil. And as Fajil moved near the box, the KSEB goalkeeper S. Hajmal rushed out sensing danger. But that turned out to be a horrible move as an alert Fajil quickly sent a cross to M.M. Visakh, who sent it home with a sliding shot. The KSEB was returning to the KPL after a four-year break and the last time it played the league, it had won the title. But its comeback turned out to be a very disappointing one. The young Mar Athanasius is virtually the MA College team and its coach Haary Benny said his boys were under pressure early in the game. “My boys panicked a bit initially, they were under pressure because KSEB had many senior players,” Benny told The Hindu after the commendable victory. “And we were playing the KSEB for the first time.” Later, Gokulam Kerala FC blanked SAT, Tirur, 3-0 in a Group ‘A’ match at Thrissur’s Corporation Stadium. Matches in the KPL, held in a single-leg format this time, are only played during weekends in this edition.  The results: Group A (Thrissur): Gokulam Kerala FC 3 (K. Abhijith 23, Ganesan 47, Saliou Guindo 67) bt SAT, Tirur, 0.   Group B (Kochi): Mar Athanasius FA, Kothamangalam 1 (M.M. Visakh 39) bt KSEB, Tvm 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mar-athanasius-stuns-kseb/article34015973.ece
08 March 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Pandey and Gowtham’s inclusion a huge bonus’||The inclusion of star players Manish Pandey and K. Gowtham gives Karnataka the edge in the knockout rounds of the Vijay Hazare Trophy, skipper R. Samarth stated. Batsman Pandey and all-rounder Gowtham, who make a return to the State side from injury and India nets duty respectively, will be available for Karnataka’s quarterfinal clash against Kerala at Delhi on Monday. "They have won almost all the tournaments in the BCCI calendar, so their inclusion is a huge bonus. They bring in huge experience. That’s a good thing for us, especially in the knockouts where experience matters a lot,” Samarth said on Sunday. The form of Karnataka openers Samarth and Devdutt Padikkal has been a huge positive. While Padikkal tops the tournament run charts, Samarth is third on the list. “It is important for us to carry that form forward. If the opening partnership is good, then the team will be in a good position to get the most runs possible,” Samarth said. Devdutt, with scores of 145 n.o., 126 n.o., 152, 97 and 52, has been unstoppable. “Padikkal is smashing every bowler. His runs speak for itself. His hunger is mindblowing. I hope that the Indian team selectors keep tabs on him, because he has some unreal numbers,” Samarth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pandey-and-gowthams-inclusion-a-huge-bonus/article34016103.ece
08 March 2021||Chennai,||Vinayak and Shakthi rule the roost||V. Vinayak won the men’s title in the 74th State Senior aquatic championship that concluded at the Aquatic Complex here on Sunday. He also set a new meet record in the 50m butterfly event. B. Shakthi won the women’s title, while TDSA Tirunelveli won the overall team championship.  The results (winners only):   Men: 50m butterfly: V. Vinayak (00:25.55, SDAT Velachery, NMR); 100m butterfly: Vinayak (00:58.28); 200m breaststroke: B. Benedicton Rohith (02:31.72, TDSA Tirunelveli); 200m backstroke: H. Nithik (02:20.96, Turtles); 1500m freestyle: Sarvapalli Krishna Pranav (17:54.47, ORCA); 4x100m freestyle: TDSA, Tirunelveli (03:57.12).   Women: 1500m freestyle: V. Varsha (19:52.84, SDAT Velachery); 200m breaststroke: Shriya Ishwar Prasad (03:03.08, Vels); 100m butterfly: B. Shakthi (01:08.36, ANSA Dubai); 200m backstroke: Madhumitha Sriram (02:38.62, Vels); 4x100m freestyle: 1. SDAT Velachery (04:39.46);   Individual champions: Men: V. Vinayak (SDAT, Velachery, 35 points). Women: B. Shakthi (ANSA, Dubai, 35 points).   Overall championship: TDSA, Tirunelveli (213 points). Men: TDSA, Tirunelveli (115 points). Women: TDSA Tirunelveli (92 points).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinayak-and-shakthi-rule-the-roost/article34016118.ece
08 March 2021||Mumbai:,||Immortality wins the Villoo Poonawalla Indian Oaks||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s classic filly Immortality ridden by P. S. Chouhan won the Villoo Poonawalla Indian Oaks (Gr. 1), the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Mar. 7) races here. The winner is owned by Ms. Ameeta Mehra rep. Mehra Stud and Agricultural Farms Pvt Ltd. Jockey Pradeep Chouhan confidently kept this daughter of Multidimensional out of Psychic Light fourth last till the 800m, thereafter as the field entered the straight Immortality made her way on the wide outside and fought out a strong battle with Forest Flame to win the race in a photo finish by a short head.  1. THANKSGIVING PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: THEODORA (K. Bhagat) 1, Gusty Girl (Ayyar) 2, William Wallace (Srinath) 3 and Aira (Bhawani) 4. Not run: Sufiyah. 4-1/2, 3/4 and Sh. 1m 11. 50s. Rs. 32 (w), 14, 22 and 16 (p). SHP: 48, FP: 250, Q: 154, Tanala: 880 and 240. Favourite: Theodora. Owners: Mr. Jamshed Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt Ltd & Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  2. TRICUMDAS DWARKADAS TROPHY (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: GOLD CREST (Peter) 1, Northern Singer (Dashrath) 2, Myrcella (Zeeshan) 3 and Safdar (S. J. Sunil) 4. 3/4, Snk and 2-1/4. 1m 12. 28s. Rs. 55 (w), 18, 15 and 17 (p). SHP: 37, FP: 242, Q: 50, Tanala: 856 and 367. Favourite: Northern Singer. Owners: Mrs. Kirti S. Joshi & Mr. Kunal N. Sharma. Trainer: Sangramsinh N. Joshi.  3. P D AVASIA TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: STORM BREAKER (Akshay Kumar) 1, Golden Guest (Sandesh) 2, Hidden Gold (Trevor) 3 and Sharareh (Parmar) 4. Sh, 2 and 4-1/2. 57. 70s. Rs. 22 (w), 12 and 19 (p). SHP: 28, FP: 58, Q: 24, Tanala: 59 and 26. Favourite: Storm Breaker. Owners: Mrs. B. E. Saldhana, Mr. Mark Saldhana, Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole rep. Poonawalla Racing & Brdg Pvt Ltd & Mr. Jamshed Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  4. R R BYRAMJI TROPHY (2,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: JUSTIFIED (Sandesh) 1, Brazos (Parmar) 2, Socrates (Chouhan) 3 and Cabo Da Roca (Trevor) 4. Not run: Guinevere. 2-3/4, 3-3/4 and 5-1/4. 2m 33. 40s. Rs. 162 (w), 39 and 46 (p). SHP: 96, FP: 306, Q: 1,979, Tanala: 2,377and 436. Favourite: Socrates. Owners: M/s. Homi Mehta, Jehangir Mehta, Mrs. Homi Mehta, Mr. Milan Luthria & Mrs. Liane Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  5. TRICUMDAS DWARKADAS TROPHY (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: STEPPENWOLF (Nazil) 1, Oui Sauvage (Neeraj) 2, Arc Shine (Merchant) 3 and Goshawk (Parmar) 4. Nose, 3/4 and 2. 1m 11. 28s. Rs. 245 (w), 43, 14 and 29 (p). SHP: 38, FP: 433, Q: 713, Tanala: 17,564. Favourite: Beemer. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J. M. Livestock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Haresh N. Mehta and Mr. Manav H. Mehta rep. Rohan Bloodstock Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Nosher Cama.  6. RAMNIWAS RAMNARAIN RUIA GOLD CUP (Gr. 3) (2,000m), (Terms) 4-y-o only: LAGARDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Nisus (S. John) 2, North Star (Chouhan) 3 and Roaring Tiger (Srinath) 4. 1/2,1 and Lnk. 2m 2. 62s. Rs. 17 (w), 14, 26 and 39 (p). SHP: 81, FP: 176, Q: 245, Tanala: 793 and 736. Favourite: Lagarde. Owners: M/s. Rama Seshu Eyunni, P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd. Trainer: S. S. Attaollahi.  7. ROCHESTER TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: KAMILAH (Sandesh) 1, Alfayiz (Zervan) 2, Ahead Of His Time (Parmar) 3 and Felcidad (C. S. Jodha) 4. Not run: Count Of Savoy. 1-3/4, Nose and 2-1/2. 1m 25. 57s. Rs. 99 (w), 18, 15 and 18 (p). SHP: 39, FP: 442, Q: 43, Tanala: 620 and 304. Favourite: Alfayiz. Owners: Mr. Geoffrey B. Nagpal & Mrs. Charonne Nagpal. Trainer: S. K. Sunderji.  8. VILLOO POONAWALLA INDIAN OAKS (Gr. 1) (2,400m), (Terms) Indian Fillies, 4-y-o only: IMMORTALITY (Multidimensional – Psychic Light) (Chouhan) 1, Forest Flame (Letir Mor – Memory Bay) (Trevor) 2, Alluring Silver (Letir Mor – Personal Allure) (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Arcadia (Kingda Ka – Shane) (T. S. Jodha) 4. Sh, 3 and 1-3/4. 2m 31. 01s. Rs. 63 (w), 13, 14 and 22 (p). SHP: 32, FP: 101, Q: 86, Tanala: 828 and 452. Favourite: Born Queen. Owner: Ms. Ameeta Mehra rep. Mehra Stud and Agricultural Farms Pvt Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  9. M N NAZIR TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: LEOPARD ROCK (Srinath) 1, Costa Rica (Akshay Kumar) 2, Sky Fall (Trevor) 3 and Market King (Sandesh) 4. 2-1/2, 1-1/4 and 1. 1m 10. 38s. Rs. 41 (w), 21, 13 and 19 (p). SHP: 49, FP: 86, Q: 38, Tanala: 490 and 346. Favourite: Costa Rica. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J. M. Livestock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Dilip G. Jhangiani, Mr. Sunil G. Jhangiani & Mr. Milan J. Patel rep. Equest (India) Pvt Ltd. Trainer: M. Narredu.  10. THANKSGIVING PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: ON VA DANSER (Kaviraj) 1, Trinket (Bhawani) 2, Titanium (Ajinkya) 3 and Who Dares Wins (Nirmal) 4. Not run: Stars For You. 1-1/4, Nk and 3/4. 1m 12. 18s. Rs. 183 (w), 38, 16 and 15 (p). SHP: 52, FP: 600, Q: 232, Tanala: 1,034 and 1,330. Owners: Begum Shaherbanoo Husain Lagad rep. Chetak Horse Racing Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Narendra Lagad. Jackpot: (i) 70 per cent: Rs. 21,419 (9 tkts), 30 per cent: Rs. 1,921 (43 tkts). (ii) 70 per cent: Rs. 36,988 (14 tkts), 30 per cent: Rs. 513 (433 tkts). Treble: (i) Rs. 2,835 (2 tkts), (ii) Rs. 3,644 (1 tkt), (iii) 4,391 (5 tkts). Super Jackpot: 100 per cent: C/F.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/immortality-wins-the-villoo-poonawalla-indian-oaks/article34016117.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||Virus hits Indian boxers||The Indian men’s boxing team’s final campaign at the 35th Boxam International tournament in Castellon, Spain was derailed by a positive COVID-19 case, resulting in three withdrawals from summit clashes. Olympics-bound Ashish Kumar (75kg) tested positive and consequently his roommates Mohammed Hussamuddin (57kg) and Sumit Sangwan (81kg) were forced to withdraw from their finals on Saturday. All three ended with silver medals.  Also unable to compete in the final was Satish Kumar (+91kg) due to “illness”. Manish Kaushik (63kg) ended up being the sole gold winner, beating Denmark’s Nikolai Terteryan. Among women, Simranjit Kaur (60kg) was forced out of her final after her semifinal opponent — Kiria Tapia of Puerto Rico — tested positive for the virus.  Vikas Krishan (69kg) lost a gruelling contest to Spain’s Youba Sissokho. In the women’s draw, Pooja Rani (75kg) and Jasmine (57kg) also signed off with silvers after being beaten by superior opponents in American Melissa Graham and Italian Irma Testa respectively. India ended with one gold, eight silver and one bronze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/virus-hits-indian-boxers/article34015818.ece
08 March 2021||Hyderabad:,||Paso Robles should score in Royal Lancer Plate||Trainer L D’Silva’s mare Paso Robles should score over her rivals in the Royal Lancer Plate, the chief event of Monday’s (Mar. 8) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the first race.  LUCKY SCOT PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II) — 1.45 p.m.: 1. Be Crimson (8) Ashad Asbar 56, 2. Cosmico (10) Mukesh Kumar 56, 3. Indian Glory (4) Arshad Alam 56, 4. Mosset (2) B.R. Kumar 56, 5. Paladino (3) Afroz Khan 56, 6. Quality Warrior (6) G. Naresh 56, 7. Sharp Mind (13) Surya Prakash 56, 8. Special Effort (1) P. Gaddam 56, 9. Star Cruise (14) A.A. Vikrant 56, 10. Bold Bidding (11) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 11. Fatuma (9) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 12. Garnet (7) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 13. Icicle (5) R. Manish 54.5 and 14. Secret Idea (12) Gaurav Singh 54.5.  1. BOLD BIDDING,   2. FATUMA,   3. STAR CRUISE   MADANTE PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.20: 1. Just Incredible (5) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Star Racer (4) Ajeeth Kumar 57.5, 3. Aibak (7) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 4. N R I Sun (6) Akshay Kumar 55, 5. Balma (3) Abhay Singh 54.5, 6. Win Vision (2) Chouhan 54, 7. Belle Springs (8) G. Naresh 53.5, 8. Viking Sun (1) Koushik 53.5, 9. Shivalik Bright (12) Md. Ismail 53, 10. Amaretto (9) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 11. Due Diligence (11) Surya Prakash 52.5, 12. That’s My Star (10) Arshad Alam 52.5, 13. India Gate (13) R. Manish 51 and 14. Acadian Angel (14) Santosh Raj N R 50.5.  1. N R I SUN, 2. BALMA, 3. JUST INCREDIBLE   ROYAL REVIVE PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 2.55: 1. Spicy Star (5) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Ashwa Yashobali (6) Surya Prakash 58, 3. Blazer (7) N.B. Kuldeep 58, 4. Crazy Horse (2) Arshad Alam 57.5, 5. Kesariya Balam (12) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 6. City Of Wisdom (10) Gaurav Singh 56, 7. Ayur Shakti (3) Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 8. Maxwell (13) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 9. Vijays Simha (1) Chouhan 54, 10. Mark My Day (8) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 11. N R I Vision (11) Abhay Singh 52.5, 12. Rhythm Selection (9) P. Sai Kumar 52 and 13. Beyond Limits (4) Gopal Singh 51.5.  1. KESARIYA BALAM,   2. VIJAYS SIMHA,   3. N R I VISION   ROYAL LANCER PLATE (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 3.30: 1. Yours Forever (10) P. Gaddam 62, 2. Paso Robles (9) N.B. Kuldeep 61, 3. Pontius Pilate (11) Gaurav Singh 61, 4. Havelock Cruise (1) Deepak Singh 58, 5. Prince Valiant (8) Surya Prakash 57.5, 6. Staridar (5) Koushik 57, 7. N R I Power (3) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 8. Artistryy (4) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 9. British Empress (2) Abhay Singh 55.5, 10. Southern Legacy (6) Gopal Singh 52 and 11. Wah Ms Zara (7) Afroz Khan 50.  1. PASO ROBLES,   2. HAVELOCK CRUISE,   3. N R I POWER   RAZIA SULTANA PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.05: 1. Angel Tesoro (12) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Mr. Shanghai (4) A.A. Vikrant 60, 3. Ashwa Arjun (1) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. Alliston (10) N.B. Kuldeep 58.5, 5. Dancing Doll (9) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 6. Flamingo Fame (8) Santosh Raj N R 57, 7. Blickfang (6) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Tiger Of The Sea (3) Surya Prakash 54.5, 9. Silver Set (7) Md. Ismail 54, 10. Story Teller (5) Nakhat Singh 54, 11. Platinum Claasz (11) Afroz Khan 51.5 and 12. Sun Dancer (2) G. Naresh 51.  1. BLICKFANG,   2. SUN DANCER,   3. ANGEL TESORO   MADANTE PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Maiden, 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.40: 1. Flying Jet (Ex: Beautiful Luv) (7) N.B. Kuldeep 60, 2. Star Dancer (8) Kiran Naidu 57.5, 3. Southern Lady (2) Santosh Raj N R 56, 4. Castlerock (3) Ashad Asbar 55.5, 5. Sea Wolf (9) Mukesh Kumar 55, 6. One For All (1) R.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Battle Ready (10) B.R. Kumar 53.5, 8. Golden Forza (4) P. Sai Kumar 53.5, 9. Paree (12) Koushik 53, 10. Berkeley (14) Afroz Khan 52.5, 11. City Of Fusion (5) R. Manish 52.5, 12. Lifetime (6) P. Gaddam 52.5, 13. Fleur (11) Arshad Alam 51 and 14. That’s My Speed (13) Surya Prakash 51.  1. FLYING JET, 2. CASTLEROCK, 3. SOUTHERN LADY   RAZIA SULTANA PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 5.15: 1. Lockhart (8) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 2. Soul Empress (11) A. A. Vikrant 59.5, 3. Four One Four (5) Kuldeep Singh 59, 4. Linewiler (7) N. B. Kuldeep 58, 5. Solo Winner (3) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 6. Green Turf (4) Arshad Alam 56.5, 7. Starwalker (9) Akshay Kumar 55, 8. Crackershow (2) P. Gaddam 54, 9. Rhine (12) B. R. Kumar 54, 10. Augenstern (1) Afroz Khan 53.5, 11. Sublime (6) Chouhan 51.5 and 12. Super Act (10) Abhay Singh 51.  1. AUGENSTERN,   2. SUBLIME,   3. SOUL EMPRESS   HEARTBREAKER PLATE (1,600m), 5-y-o & upward, rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 5.50: 1. Red River (6) Abhay Singh 61, 2. Let It Be Me (13) Deepak Singh 60.5, 3. N R I Gift (4) A. A. Vikrant 60.5, 4. N R I Flame (12) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 5. Jo Malone (3) Afroz Khan 59.5, 6. Bedazzled (7) Mukesh Kumar 58, 7. Minnelli (1) Surya Prakash 58, 8. Diesis Dream (9) Md. Ismail 57.5, 9. A Hundred Echoes (2) Akshay Kumar 57, 10. Kintsugi (10) B. R. Kumar 57, 11. Princess Shana (5) P. Gaddam 57, 12. Sheldon (14) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 13. Royal Avenger (8) G. Naresh 54 and 14. Moment Of Silence (11) P. Sai Kumar 50.  1. A HUNDRED ECHOES,   2. RED RIVER, 3. BEDAZZLED  Day’s Best: KESARIYA BALAM  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paso-robles-should-score-in-royal-lancer-plate/article34015819.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s advantage Mumbai||With the tie well-poised at 2-2, Mumbai City FC will square off against FC Goa in the second-leg of the 2020-21 Indian Super League's first semifinal in Bambolim on Monday. The team coming out on top at the GMC Stadium will book a place in the ISL 2020-21 final and has the chance to compete for an AFC Cup 2022 qualifiers spot, which is awarded to the winner of the playoffs.  MCFC came from behind twice to deny Goa the advantage in the tie with a draw on Friday. Despite his side not starting the previous match like he would have wanted, manager Sergio Lobera isn't too concerned, especially with Mumbai claiming a close league title just a few days back. “I don't feel any pressure, neither do the players. It has been a big season and we have achieved something very important. We want to enjoy the playoffs and win another trophy,” he said in a virtual media conference. Short on Indian options Meanwhile, Lobera's counterpart Juan Ferrando has several injury concerns. Seriton Fernandes and Princeton Rebello were both stretchered off in the last outing. With Brandon Fernandes already out, the Gaurs might be a bit short on Indian options.  Mumbai finally has a full squad available after the return of the suspended Amey Ranawade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-advantage-mumbai/article34015822.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rawat, Sangwan script sensational turnaround||Just when Uttarakhand had reasons to believe it had done enough to seal the last quarterfinal spot in Vijay Hazare Trophy, Delhi’s seventh-wicket pair of Anuj Rawat and skipper Pradeep Sangwan produced an electrifying unbeaten 143-run stand to snatch it away on Sunday. Looking down and almost out, Delhi owed its dramatic revival to Rawat (95 not out, 85b, 7x4, 6x6) and Sangwan (58 not out, 49b, 6x4, 2x6) who turned the match on its head in the space of 16 overs and took the host home with nine deliveries to spare at the Ferozeshah Kotla. The victory gave Delhi a place in the quarterfinals against Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. Staring at defeat After being reduced to 146 for six in 32.3 overs in its chase of 288 — with Nitish Rana out for 81 (88b, 10x4, 1x6) — Delhi was staring at defeat. Till this stage, Uttarakhand appeared a worthy winner. Barring the last 16 overs, Uttarakhand proved that it was neither intimidated by Delhi’s reputation nor the quality of its resources. The visiting team started the innings with flair and ended with a flourish. Left-handed Kamal Singh (77, 83b, 11x4, 1x6) and Jay Bista (31, 29b, 4x4) gave a 88-run start in 13.5 overs by taking on new-ball bowlers Kulwant Khejrolia and Simarjeet Singh. Mid-innings solidity Kunal Chandela (62, 83b, 6x4), who played a stellar role in Delhi reaching the Ranji Trophy final in the 2017-18 season, punished his former teammates while providing mid-innings solidity. After Delhi pulled Uttarakhand back through Nitish Rana (2/40) and Lalit Yadav (2/27), it was Saurabh Rawat (44, 23b, 4x4, 3x6) who provided the last-over flourish for Uttarakhand. Off left-arm medium-pacer Sangwan, Rawat hit 24 runs off five deliveries — 6, 6, 4, 6, 2 — before being yorked.  The scores: Uttarakhand 287/8 in 50 overs (Kamal Singh 77, Kunal Chandela 62, Saurabh Rawat 44) lost to Delhi 289 for six in 48.3 overs (Anuj Rawat 95 n.o., Nitish Rana 81, Pradeep Sangwan 58 n.o.).   Monday’s fixtures (quarterfinals): Gujarat v Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka v Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rawat-sangwan-script-sensational-turnaround/article34015823.ece
08 March 2021||Rome,||Vinesh wins gold||Star Indian wrestler Vinesh Phogat claimed her second gold medal in as many weeks with a dominant win in the Matteo Pellicone ranking series event here on Sunday and reclaimed the top rank in her category. The 26-year-old World bronze medallist and only Indian woman wrestler to qualifiy for Tokyo Games, Vinesh blanked Canada's Diana Mary Helen Weicker 4-0 in the 53kg title clash. Vinesh scored all her points in the first period and held on to her lead in the second to ensure a top-of-the-podium finish. Vinesh had won a gold in Kiev last week. The Indian had entered the event as World No. 3, but is back to No. 1 having collected 14 points. The Canadian was ranked 40 before the tournament but is now at No. 2. Vinesh did not concede a single point at this tournament, winning two of her three bouts by pinning her rivals while getting injury walkouts in the other two in the eight-woman field. Sarita Mor had won a silver in the 57kg on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinesh-wins-gold/article34015836.ece
08 March 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Coach all praise for the young guns||Shastri’s take on the youngsters who stood out during the Test series against England.  Rishabh Pant  There is no greater sight in cricket than seeing a naturally brilliant match-winner playing to potential. I think in the last two months what he has done, to win matches for India, there will be players who won’t do it in a lifetime and wouldn’t have done it in a lifetime.  Washington Sundar  He has unbelievable composure and temperament. He was an opening batsman in under-19, but to see that kind of body language, unfazed by the best bowlers in the world in the toughest situations in Brisbane, Chennai and Ahmedabad was unreal. This was an even better innings than the one in Brisbane. He should be batting in the top-4 for Tamil Nadu. I would like to have a word with the selectors or DK (captain Dinesh Karthik).  Axar Patel  Seasoned campaigner. I won’t call him a youngster. He has been around with the Indian team for years. He has been very unlucky with injuries. When Ashwin, Jadeja and Axar play together, it’ll be some fun, especially in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coach-all-praise-for-the-young-guns/article34015805.ece
08 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Tanish, Suvana and Ridhima end on a high||Tanish Geroge Mathew, Suvana C. Baskar and Ridhima V. Kumar kept up their fine form and finished on a high, with each of them setting a new meet record, as the State senior and junior swimming championships drew to a close at the Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence on Sunday. In all, six meet records were set.  The results (winners all):   Men: Freestyle: 100m: Srihari Nataraj (51.76); Backstroke: 50m: Srihari Nataraj (26.04); 4x100m medley: BAC (4:29.59).   Women: Freestyle: 100m: V. Malavika (1:00.54); Backstroke: 50m: Janhavi Girish (38.11); Butterfly: 200m: Vibha Aparna Bhounsale (2:56.03); 4x100m medley: BAC (5:40.46).   Boys: Group I: Freestyle: 100m: Tanish George Mathew (52.50, NMR; OR: Aaron D'Souza, 53.80, 2009).   Backstroke: 50m: V. Ghruthan (29.69); Butterfly: 200m: Tanish George Mathew (2:06.61); 4x100m medley: BAC-A (4:03.81, NMR; OR: BSRC, 4:04.17, 2018).   Group II: Freestyle: 100m: Sankarshana Bahadur Raghubanshi (57.80).   Backstroke: 50m: M.C. Manan (30.84); Butterfly: 200m: V. Amogh (2:20.08); 4x100m medley: Dolphin Aquatics 1 (4:27.32).   Girls: Group I: Freestyle: 100m: Suvana C. Baskar (59.30); Backstroke: 50m: Suvana C. Baskar (30.67, NMR; OR: Suvana Baskar, 31.20, 2019).   Butterfly: 200m: Anvesha Girish (2:30.85); 4x100m medley: Dolphin Aquatics 1 (4:40.51, NMR; OR: BAC, 4:44.17, 2015).   Group II: Freestyle: 100m: Lakshmi Thrivikram Nikam (1:04.69); Backstroke: 50m: Ridhima V. Kumar (30.98, NMR; OR: Ridhima Kumar, 31.70, 2019).   Butterfly: 200m: R. Hashika (2:41.44); 4x100m medley: Dolphin Aquatics 1 (4:48.57, NMR; OR: Dolphin, 4:48.99, 2019) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanish-suvana-and-ridhima-end-on-a-high/article34016104.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A unique honour||Hanuman fits into the description of the jnani who is also a great devotee that Krishna extols in the Gita as one very dear to Him, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Hanuman successfully completes the mission entrusted to him. He sees Sita and allays her fears. He even gains audience with Ravana and advises him. He returns to Rama to give Him the good news about Sita’s whereabouts. Rama is overwhelmed to hear about Sita and at Hanuman’s achievements. Feeling indebted to Hanuman and filled with extreme gratitude, He starts thinking about how to reward Hanuman. With these feelings Rama then embraces Hanuman, a gesture that is not for many a devotee. In addition, He addresses Hanuman as a Mahatma in this context. This is a term of honour reserved for only great souls. Later, at the end of Rama avatar, when Rama takes all the people of Ayodhya to Vaikunta, and also wishes that Hanuman should accompany Him, Hanuman declines this offer. Hanuman does not wish for any other Purushartha, except the honour to sing Rama’s glories. What a great fortune for Hanuman to have served the Lord thus? This sentiment is also expressed by azhwars in their hymns. By His grace, they should never ever forget His sacred feet. Nammazhwar is explicit in stating that Vaikunta does not appeal to him as much as delighting in the worship of the Lord's archa form. Nothing could be more enjoyable than revelling in His gunas that have a sweetness that increases with meditation. Andal's strong involvement with the Lord is a sure guide to the jivatmas about what to seek and how to seek from the Lord. He should accept their sole desire to serve Him and to sing His glories at all times. No other desire should remain in their thoughts. This is their only Parama Purushartha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-unique-honour/article34015801.ece
08 March 2021||KOLKATA,||Gagandeep stars for East Bengal||Gagandeep Singh scored a brace as East Bengal defeated Calcutta Port Trust 4-2 in a premier division match of the Calcutta Hockey League at the East Bengal ground here on Saturday. In another match, Punjab Sports Club beat BNR Recreation Club 2-1.  The results: East Bengal 4 (Gagandeep Singh 2, Manpreet Singh, Abhishek) bt Calcutta Port Trust 2 (Akhilesh Santra, Deepak John Kerketta).   Punjab SC 2 (Ramandeep Singh, Parampreet Singh) bt BNR RC 1 (Sunil Ekka).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gagandeep-stars-for-east-bengal/article34016013.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Audit triumphs||Vijay Sharma and Rajeev Sharma helped Delhi Audit down Ministry of Defence 3-0 in the final of the inter-Ministry badminton tournament at the AIIMS Gymkhana here on Sunday.  The results (final):   Delhi Audit bt Ministry of Finance 3-0 (Vijay Sharma bt Somveer Singh 21-10, 16-21, 21-6; Rajeev Sharma bt Amit Yadav 21-10, 21-13; Vijay Sharma & Rajeev Sharma bt Somveer Singh & Vikram 21-12, 21-14).   Third place:   Ministry of Finance bt Ministry of Communication & IT 3-0 (Sachin Rawat bt Amit Sharma 21-11, 21-11; Saurabh bt Abhinav Prakash 21-9, 21-10; Sachin & Saurabh bt Amit & Abhinav 21-12, 21-7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-audit-triumphs/article34016166.ece
08 March 2021||Guadalajara (Mexico),||Ankita shocks Errani; Ramkumar in main draw||Ankita Raina beat former World No. 5 Sara Errani 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 in the first qualifying round of the WTA 250 Abierto Zapopan event in Guadalajara, Mexico. In the ATP 250 Qatar Open in Doha, Ramkumar Ramanathan beat second seed and the 95th ranked Norbert Gambos of Slovakia 6-3, 6-1 to make the main draw.  The results: ATP 250, Qatar Open, Doha: Qualifying (second and final round): Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Norbert Gombos (Svk) 6-3, 6-1.   WTA 250 Abierto Zapopan: Guadalajara, Mexico: Qualifying (first round): Ankita Raina bt Sara Errani (Ita) 2-6, 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-shocks-errani-ramkumar-in-main-draw/article34016003.ece
08 March 2021||LUCKNOW:,||Promising juniors to take part in Haryana Open||Top seed Saketh Myneni lost to 844th ranked Zane Khan 7-6(3), 6-3 in the final of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Vijayant Khand tennis arena on Sunday. It was an anti-climax for an otherwise fine run for the 461st-ranked Myneni, who did not drop a set till the final and had won the doubles title with Yuki Bhambri. Zane Khan had won all his matches in straight sets.  The results (final):   Zane Khan (USA) bt Saketh Myneni 7-6(3), 6-3.    Seventh seed Pia Lovric of Slovenia beat fifth seed Irina Khromacheva of Russia 6-3, 6-4 in the final of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Sunday. Lovric did not drop a set in the tournament, except for the one against Jennifer Luikham in the quarterfinals, when she won the nerve-racking contest 7-5, 5-7, 7-5 in three hours and 13 minutes.  The results (final): Pia Lovric (Slo) bt Irina Khromacheva (Rus) 6-3, 6-4 .    V.M. Ranjeet beat Ajay Malik 6-3, 6-1 in the final of the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA men’s tennis tournament at the International Tennis Academy in Sector-62. Ranjeet will follow up with one more AITA ranking tournament before competing in the National in Gurugram. He will then get into the international circuit with the events in Pune and Delhi.  With the women’s international circuit becoming stronger with the $25,000 event in Pune, a lot of good players and promising juniors have opted to compete in the Rs. 5,00,000 Haryana Open women’s event next week. Yubarani Banerjee, four-time national champion Prerna Bhambri, Sai Samhitha, Reshma Maruri and Kashish Bhatia will be vying for the honours. Another prominent player Rishika Sunkara came through three rounds of qualification, beating the top seed Anaam Almas for the loss of three games in the final round. It will also be an excellent preparation for the players before the National hard court championship scheduled at the venue the following week.  The results: Qualifying (third and final round): Rishika Sunkara bt Anaam Almas 6-3, 6-0; Gayathri Singdha bt Himaanshika Singh 1-6, 6-3, 6-4; Priyanshi Bhandari bt Nandini Dixit 6-3, 1-6, 6-1; Kundali Majgaine bt Bunty Chongtham 6-2, 3-6, 6-4; Shanu Agarwal bt Preeti Koli 6-0, 6-1; Jannat Kaur bt Isha Budwal 5-7, 6-3, 7-5; Gayatri Menon bt Chandana Potugari 7-5, 7-5; Harsshal Mandavkar bt Suhani Gaur 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/promising-juniors-to-take-part-in-haryana-open/article34015831.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: Pavit Singh Nayar memorial inter-collegiate T20 tournament, inauguration, Vijay Shankar, Indian cricketer, chief guest, Guru Nanak College, 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34016116.ece
08 March 2021||BENGALURU,||Independents, Eagles in goalless draw||Bangalore Independents FC and Bangalore Eagles played out a goalless draw in the Citrus Ventures BDFA Super Division League on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/independents-eagles-in-goalless-draw/article34016102.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Building blocks to a new future||Infrastructure continues to be one of the biggest contributors to our country’s economy and, with the launch of the National Infrastructure Pipeline in 2019, the sector is seeing a massive push from the government and its subsidiaries. What does one need for a successful career in this field? Options aplenty Professionals need to be open to technological innovations as well as a formal project management policy framework. There have been several innovations such as aerial surveys, building information modelling (BIM), and radio frequency identification (RFID), which are changing how construction is carried out. Terms such as big data, analytics, and Artificial Intelligence (AI) are finding applications in the construction sector. With a rapidly-changing landscape of products and methods available, students need to stay updated on topics such as Lean Plan Do (LPD), Critical Chain Project Management (CCPM), Bentley systems digital construction software suite, software CALCON, and so on. With regard to the formal policy framework, the Quality Council of India is creating a standard handbook on infrastructure project management knowledge and practices called the Indian Infrastructure Book of Knowledge (InBoK) under the aegis of the NITI Aayog. This will help in creating a certified programme, and allow project managers well-versed with the latest practices to tackle various risks that may arise during different phases of a project. Teaching these methods and policies in construction management degree programmes will enable students to consider the whole life cycle of a project and incorporate these learnings in the projects they undertake, allowing them to produce sturdy, long-lasting, and sustainable constructions. Institutes offering such courses focus on topics such as project, site and contracts management, business development, software implementation, quality assurance and control and valuation among many others. Students have many programmes to choose from such as Real Estate and Urban Infrastructure Management (REUIM), Infrastructure Finance, Health, Safety and Environment Management (HSEM), and Contemporary Smart City Development and Management (CSCDM). After pursuing studies in this field, options such as site managers, sustainability consultants, building services engineers, to name a few, are available.  The writer is the Director General of the National Institute of Construction Management and Research (NICMAR )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/building-blocks-to-a-new-future/article34016024.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Humanities in the era of coding||Should Social Science embrace data or should Science embrace qualitative theories? In India, the quest for academic excellence, evidenced through quantitative exam scores, has deepened the divide between data and theory. The continuing existence of this notion confirms that our academia and industry are operating in silos and, in some verticals, are drifting farther apart. The problems of today and the complex world of tomorrow need to be viewed from multiple lenses — of the past and future. Interestingly, Social Science and Science are distinct areas that need to come together, as one lies in the past and other in the future. In the words of Steve Jobs, “Technology alone is not enough. It is technology married with liberal arts, married with the humanities, that yields us the results that make our hearts sing.” For years, Jobs repeatedly emphasised that, to create a better world, the focus needs to be both on humans and technology; in other words both humanities and sciences. In today’s complex global setting, critical thinking and creativity is imperative for technological advancements that also uphold pillars of equity, inclusiveness and diversity. To cite an example, as more and more countries embrace facial recognition technologies to maintain law and order, it is increasingly being discovered that some of these facilities are not designed to accommodate diverse facial features. This makes such technologies discriminatory and entire populations of diverse races are possibly at risk of wrongful action by law enforcement agencies. While the future of the world heavily relies on the merit of technology, humanities bring in empathy and ethics, which lead to a seamless integration of technology into lifestyles. The interdisciplinary aspect of humanities and technology paves the way for education of the future. Perfect marriage Scott Hartley, a venture capitalist and author of The Fuzzy and the Techie , calls for an urgent marriage between those who study social science and the techies. This 2017 book cites success stories of those who obtained social science degrees and then went on to create history in Silicon Valley and other fields. Among the few examples Hartley mentions are Peter Thiel, the co-founder of PayPal who studied philosophy and law, and Alex Karp, co-founder and CEO of Palantir, who has a law degree and a doctorate in neoclassical social theory. He suggests that, while techies will be in demand, a specific advantage that social science graduates had was their differentiation. According to Hartley, the humanities involves a study of human nature and larger societies and that this allows students to develop a diverse toolkit to analyse and decode most of the fundamental problems plaguing our societies. Thus, innovation in science and technology must be accompanied by an understanding of the human condition. In India, the hiring trends are in favour of an interdisciplinary approach to learning. In one of his talks, Dr. Manish Gupta, Director of Google Research India, once said, “For all the tough problems that arise as we apply AI in the real world, we will need a lot of help from the ethicists, philosophers, economists, lawyers and psychologists.” Hence, while STEM jobs will only gain momentum, investing in an education that only teaches computing languages and not the depth of science may not be useful in the long run. In 2021, as the world emerges from the unprecedented challenges, problem solving will need to be viewed through an interwoven lens where innovations are anchored firmly within a framework of liberal education values. Both the social and technical bugs within discriminatory algorithms will need to be fixed. Sciences and social sciences will need to work in harmony for the world of the future, as one is incomplete without the other. The writer is Director, Career Services, at Krea University  The interdisciplinary aspect of humanities and technology paves the way for education of the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/humanities-in-the-era-of-coding/article34016023.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi nearing end of pandemic phase: Jain||Despite the number of daily cases witnessing an upward trend over the past week, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said COVID-19 was nearing an “endemic” phase in the Capital. He said the positivity rate has been below 1% for over two months and not been fluctuating, which is a good sign. “The positivity rate in November 2020 was at a high of 10-15%,” he said. “COVID-19 is nearing an endemic phase in Delhi. Experts say some cases will continue to occur in the endemic phase over the next few years, but it will not spread like it was in the pandemic phase. Delhi witnessed a swine flu outbreak around 10 years ago but still some cases are reported every year. COVID-19 is not going to end completely. We will have to learn to live with it,” Mr. Jain said. ‘Testing at all-time high’ He added that less than 10% of beds reserved for COVID-19 patients are occupied in the hospitals here and testing was at an all-time high. The health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday said over 91,614 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.31%. The number of new cases was 286 and two patients died due to the virus, it said. In the same period, 260 people recovered. The number of active cases in the Capital now stands at 1,803 with 937 under home isolation. Out of the total tests conducted, 71,250 were RT-PCR and 20,364 were rapid antigen. This was the highest number of tests conducted in a single day since the pandemic began. The total cases now stand at 6,41,101 with the death toll touching 10,921 with cumulative positivity ratio of 5% and case fatality rate of 1.70%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-nearing-end-of-pandemic-phase-jain/article34015961.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Art and science of resource management||Indians have historically referred to economics as arthashastra ; a combination of the Sanskrit words artha , meaning the acquisition of material wealth, pursuit of career and a home life and shastra meaning treatise or book. The English term economics, on the other hand, is derived from the ancient Greek word Oikonomia and was defined by Greek philosopher Aristotle as a science of household management. The fourth century BCE work, Arthashastra , attributed to Chanakya, is a treatise on economics, politics, military strategy, statecraft and social organisation. This internationally acclaimed text is often compared to and also studied in conjunction with The Prince , a 16th century BCE political treatise by Italian philosopher Niccolò Machiavelli. These two ingenious minds belonging to the east and the west and separated by centuries of existence and different social, religious, economic and political environments continue to be studied by those who wish to enlighten themselves with the principles on which successful states function. Multidisciplinary In an earlier time, when India was considered the education capital of the world, Indian universities and ashrams followed a multi-disciplinary approach to teaching and learning. At the time, Arthashastra was studied in combination with politics, mathematics, human behaviour and policy making. In contrast, modern-day economics courses concern themselves only with the phenomenon of production and consumption of goods and services. In the fourth century BCE, when Arthashastra was written, the economics of nations was largely agrarian. Many centuries later, economist Adam Smith, in his 1776 book The Wealth of Nations, identified land, labour, and capital as the three factors of production and the major contributors to a nation’s wealth, a distinct departure from the earlier idea that only agriculture was productive. The mind of an economics student, when trained in the principles such as those enshrined in the Arthashastra , becomes increasingly observant to the facts and truths of any phenomenon. Therefore, the study of economics — which is based on logic, reason, problem solving, circumstantial awareness and evidence — equips one to not only comprehend human behaviour, decisions and reactions, but also be able to recognise resources as scarce in relation to human needs. As a result, a successful economics student, in her role as consumer, producer, citizen or householder will be effective at resource allocation, resource management and at establishing resource self-sufficiency. Students can be assisted to understand basic economic concepts such as limited resources, money, goods, services, transactions, labour time, leisure time, collaborative work, individual contributions, planning, and savings by involving them in simple tasks linked to the management of the household affairs, even early in childhood. In school, under most education boards, economics is introduced as an independent subject in class IX. At the undergraduate level, students are not necessarily required to have studied economics at school but are certainly required to have studied Maths, since economics is considered both an art and a science. A post-graduate in Economics can apply the skill sets acquired to many fields such as banking, finance, insurance, stock markets, sales, marketing, policy making, research, government, NGOs, journalism and in teaching. Those who have a keen interest in higher studies and research can also pursue an M.Phil. and Ph.D. after their Master’s. The writer is an independent educationist currently working on documenting her observations on children's play and learning experiences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/art-and-science-of-resource-management/article34016022.ece
08 March 2021||KASAN,||Worker cluster in Kasan back to life after a year||A large cluster of rows of single-room accommodations, mostly inhabited by unskilled workers, on the outskirts of Kasan village adjoining the Manesar Industrial Model Township buzzed again with activitities almost a year after the COVID-19-induced lockdown. In sharp contrast to its deserted look in April last year, the place has now come alive with children playing football on the streets, all shops in the neighbourhood open and rooms freshly painted in pink. Also, the mask and social distancing seem to be things of the past. Most of the workers are back to their previous jobs and rooms are occupied. Manoj Kumar and his wife Gayatri, a couple from Uttar Pradesh, had gone home for Holi last year only to return in June after a call from their company. Manoj, working at a home furnishing company, earns around Rs. 9,000 per month with the wages having marginally increased by Rs. 250 in January. “We soon expect the rent to hike by Rs. 100 like the previous years,” said Manoj. Ganga (52) had stayed back during the lockdown. She also got her job back in the same company in June last year. Their companies had paid them Rs. 5,000 for two months during the lockdown. Though too little, any money was welcome, they said. ‘No more overtime’ The jobs are back, but the fall in production means no overtime for the poor workers. Pushpendra (23), a helper at an auto components factory, would make an additional Rs. 2,000-2,500 per month working for extra hours earlier. However, the company’s production has gone down since lockdown and there is little chance of earning from overtime now. Jeetu, from Uttar Pradesh’s Etah, said the number of workers in his company has gone down from 80 earlier to just 50. “The workers sit idle even during the routine eight-hour shift. So there is no chance of an overtime,” he said. “There is not enough work back home. So all those who left during the lockdown are back. In fact, more people have come than had gone,” added Jeetu. Ranjan (28) had earlier worked at a plywood company in Yamuna Nagar, but came to Manesar with his younger brother after the lockdown. “My earlier employer did not pay me around Rs. 10,000 for the month of March. Besides, the months that I spent without work left me debt-ridden. The lockdown has left me shattered,” he said. He added that he walked around a 1,000 km to his village in Bihar during the lockdown, with his friends. “It took us a week. We mostly walked at night,” he recalled. A “ chawl ” in the village, locally identified as “ pili [yellow] building ”, with around 90 rooms, is also fully occupied again. Rajiv, who hails from Allahabad and is one of the inhabitants of the building, returned in November last year to find out that his earlier job in an electrical gadgets manufacturing company was gone. “It took me around a month to find a new job,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/worker-cluster-in-kasan-back-to-life-after-a-year/article34015955.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oppn. ready to take on Kejriwal govt. in budget session today||The Delhi Assembly’s budget session is scheduled to begin on Monday. An address by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal will be followed by the tabling of economic survey report and outcome budget of the government by Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minster. The Delhi Budget 2021-22, is scheduled to be presented on March 9, the second day of the session. Sources in the Delhi government said that the focus of the budget is likely to be on education and health with a special allocation for free COVID-19 vaccination at government hospitals. On the education front, the government is likely to announce the opening of a Sainik School in the city and take measures to promote yoga in the Capital. “The government wants to increase Delhi’s per capita income to the level of Singapore by 2047. The budget will focus on economic reforms and policies that will help take steps in that direction,” the source said. No question hour Ahead of the budget session, Leader of the Opposition, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said that the BJP had decided to adopt an aggressive strategy to take up issues during the seven-day long session. Budget session will, for the first time, witness question hour being terminated for no valid reasons. “We have resolved to hold the Kejriwal government accountable for its failure to fulfill its promises to the people of Delhi,” Mr. Bidhuri said. He added that it was unfortunate that the AAP government was overlooking all constitutional and legislative norms during the budget session. It would be the first time in the history of the House that question hour will not be held, which clearly indicates that the government was running away from answering questions being raised on its functioning and policies.  We have resolved to hold the Kejriwal government accountable for its failure to fulfill its promises to the people of Delhi Ramvir Singh Bidhuri Leader of the Opposition in Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oppn-ready-to-take-on-kejriwal-govt-in-budget-session-today/article34015956.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man dies after water tanker hits his two-wheeler||A 30-year-old man died after his two-wheeler was hit allegedly by a water tanker near the Delhi Jal Board office in south Delhi, the police said on Sunday. The victim, Vinod Kumar, who lived with his family in Faridabad, worked at a private firm, they said. The accident took place on March 4 at 5.30 p.m.when Kumar was returning from Gole market on a scooter along with his brother-in-law, Promod. Vinod was riding the vehicle and as they reached near the DJB office, a water tanker hit their two-wheeler, an officer said. The victim was declared brought dead at Safdarjung hospital. DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said based on Promod’s complaint, a case was registered under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of other) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. Tank owner gets notice The owner of the tanker, identified as Sant Raj, has been served notice under the Motor Vehicles Act. The driver driver of the offending vehicle will be produced on Monday. On Sunday, Pramod told the media that the water tanker that hit them belonged to Delhi Jal Board. The police are verifying the claims. He said soon after the tanker hit them, they fell on the ground and Vinod sustained severe injuries on his head. “With the help of an autorickshaw driver, I rushed him to Safdarjung Hospital,” he said. Sole breadwinner Vinod was the sole breadwinner of his family. He is survived by his wife and children, aged three and two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-dies-after-water-tanker-hits-his-two-wheeler/article34015964.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||NCDRC directs refund of homebuyers’ money||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) has ordered the developers of ‘Gold Souk Golf Links’ housing project in Sector-17, Sohna, Haryana, to fully refund the payments made by 20 homebuyers as it failed to complete the construction despite the promise of possession in June 2019. The consumer court noted that the developers has not given any material to establish that the completion of construction and offer of possession was delayed due to force majeure or reasons beyond their control. “There is no justification for the delay in completing the construction and handing over the possession,” the consumer court said, directing the developers to refund full amount to the homebuyers with compensation in the form of simple interest at 8% per annum from the respective dates of deposit. The 20 homebuyers, represented by advocate Aditya Parolia, argued that they had booked apartments ranging from 2 to 4 BHK having area from 1,350 sqft. to 2,350 sqft. in the project between 2012 and 2013. As per the apartment buyer agreements, possession of the booked apartment was to be delivered within 48 months with a grace period of six months. Advocate Parolia contended that his clients had deposited 30% to 70% of the total sale consideration with the developers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ncdrc-directs-refund-of-homebuyers-money/article34015953.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||HC sets up panel to find ways to treat patients with rare diseases||The Delhi High Court has set up a special committee to find a time-bound solution on ways to provide treatment and therapy options to patients suffering from rare diseases. Justice Prathiba M. Singh ordered the committee to also give “immediate concrete proposals for crowdfunding of the costs of treatment for children with rare diseases”. The nine-member committee includes Renu Swarup, Secretary of Department of Biotechnology; Prof. Madhulika Kabra, AIIMS; I.C. Verma Director, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; and Arun Shastry, Dystrophy Annihilation Research Trust (DART).  Exorbitant cost The High Court’s direction came while hearing a bunch of petitions filed by patients suffering from rare diseases such as Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Hunter’s syndromes seeking direction to the government to provide them uninterrupted free treatment in view of the exorbitant cost of treatment. DMD is a condition that causes progressive muscle degeneration and weakness in the victim. Hunter’s syndromes is a rare disease that is passed on in families. It mostly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons, and other tissues. The High Court, in its order, also noted that Dr. Shastry from DART and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, has indicated that clinical trials are already under way in India for drugs/therapies for the treatment of DMD. “In view of the fact that there are various therapies for DMD which are already being researched upon in India and there are several children suffering from these diseases, the feasibility of accelerated approval processes ought to be examined,” the High Court said. Justice Singh asked the committee to look into this aspect and also steps to be taken to indigenise the development of the therapies in India, and reasonable timelines required to be followed. Other members of the committee include P. Ramesh Menon, Associate Professor, Department of Paediatrics, AIIMS; Apurba Ghosh, Institute of Child Health; Angamuthu Meena Kanikannan, Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences; V, Viswanathan, Kanchi Karnakoti, CHILDS Trust Hospital, and Pulkesh Kumar, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-sets-up-panel-to-find-ways-to-treat-patients-with-rare-diseases/article34015954.ece
08 March 2021||New Delhi,||Chadha blames Haryana for water supply shortage||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha on Sunday said the national capital was reeling under water shortage as “Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to the city”. He requested Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to intervene and direct the Haryana government to release Delhi’s share of raw water. “Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, as a result we are facing a shortage in water production. Currently, Haryana through Carrier Lined Channel [CLC] canal is supplying only 549.16 cusecs [against 683 cusecs]and Delhi Sub-Branch canal is supplying 306.63 cusecs [against 330 cusecs],” Mr. Chadha tweeted. The treatment capacity at Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants has dipped by 30%. The same has reduced by 15% at Okhla WTP, he said. “Further, Haryana govt.’s lackadaisical attitude has led to unchecked dumping of sewage into Yamuna. Samples picked up by our quality lab show high contamination/ammonia,” Mr. Chadha claimed in another tweet. According to officials, the DJB’s water treatment plants can treat up to 0.9 parts per million ammonia concentration in the river water. If the ammonia content is higher than this, the raw water is diluted with fresh water from the Upper Ganga Canal or the Munak Canal. If enough fresh water for dilution is not available, the production capacity of plants is reduced or they are temporarily shut. At times, ammonia concentration in the river water at Wazirabad and Chandrawal increases up to 7 ppm (parts per million). Mr. Chadha said the DJB has repeatedly requested the Haryana government to address these issues on war-footing, but to no avail.  Haryana has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, as a result we are facing a shortage in water production. Further, Haryana Govt’s lackadaisical attitude has led to unchecked dumping of sewage into Yamuna. Raghav Chadha DJB V-C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chadha-blames-haryana-for-water-supply-shortage/article34015960.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||12 Delhi Metro stations on Red Line renovated||The Delhi Metro on Sunday said that it had completed the renovation of 12 metro stations on the Red Line which is its oldest line to keep pace with changing time. The DMRC said that it had started a massive renovation exercise in July 2019 to renovate 21 of its stations between Dilshad Garden and Rithala section of the Red Line. It has completed the renovation of 12 stations. “These stations of the metro network opened under its Phase-I/II. The exercise was aimed at giving an enhanced aesthetic look and upgradation of various infrastructure to keep pace with changing times and ensuring an enhanced commuting experience to its customers,” the DMRC said. It added that renovation works include replacement of exterior façade with contemporary easy to maintain material, relaying dilapidated granite flooring, retroplating of platforms, new signages as per latest specifications, replacement of analogue CCTV cameras with digital version for enhanced clarity among other works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/12-delhi-metro-stations-on-red-line-renovated/article34015959.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mothers who delivered in PCR vans to be Women’s Day guests at police HQ||Nine women, who delivered babies inside PCR vans during the lockdown, have been invited as guests to police headquarters on the occasion of International Women’s Day, said officials on Sunday. “The nine mothers have been invited by Delhi Police Commissioner as guests to our Women’s Day programme tomorrow [Monday] to celebrate our association with them and the pride we got by helping them,” said Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal. The police said its PCR unit took 997 pregnant women to various hospitals during the lockdown period. In nine such sensitive cases, deliveries took place in PCR vans. During the lockdown, when all modes of transports were suspended and ambulance services were unavailable, PCR van staffers provided invaluable service to these women. The police said on March 4, 2020, the PCR Mobile Patrol Van staff (MPVs) received a call that a woman, Pooja, was in labour pain and needed immediate medical assistance at Panchvati near Mandi Park, Palam. The team rushed to the spot where they found the woman along with her three children. They immediately called a woman, who ran a tea-stall nearby, for assistance. She checked the pregnant woman and said the delivery was imminent as the baby was half out of the mother’s womb. The staff made the necessary arrangements, and a girl child was born. The baby, Sonia, is about one year old now, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (PCR) Isha Pandey, said: “The MPVs displayed exemplary conviction and commitment to duty by helping the women deliver their babies in PCR van though they are untrained for the same, thus taking the services of PCR to a higher level.”  The PCR unit took 997 pregnant women to various hospitals during the lockdown period. In nine such sensitive cases, deliveries took place in PCR vans Delhi Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mothers-who-delivered-in-pcr-vans-to-be-womens-day-guests-at-police-hq/article34015963.ece
08 March 2021||NEW DELHI,||18-year-old labourer dies after falling from building||An 18-year-old labourer died and another was injured after they fell from the third floor of an under construction building in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas, police said on Sunday. The two were under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident on Saturday, they said. Inderjeet (18) and Santosh (22) were working as labourers at the under construction building site where the accident took place, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, adding that the duo hailed from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Another injured The duo fell off the balcony of the third floor of the building, which is under con struction. While Inderjeet died on the spot, Santosh was shifted to a hospital, the DCP said. The accident site has been inspected by the crime team and further factors are being verified, Mr. Thakur added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/18-year-old-labourer-dies-after-falling-from-building/article34015958.ece
08 March 2021||March 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Dirty picture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dirty-picture/article34015957.ece
